22 British Empire Securities and General Trust plc Annual Report & Accounts 2010 Report of the Directors The Directors present their report and the audited financial statements for Reviews of the Companys NAV performance during the year in the year ended 30 September 2010. comparison to the benchmark the Companys key performance indicator, are contained in the Chairmans Statement on pages 04 to 05 and the Status Investment Managers Review on pages 08 to 15.
The Company is registered as a public limited company under the Companies Acts and is an investment company under Section 833 of the Principal risks Companies Act 2006.
It is a member of the Association of Investment The principal risks facing the Company are market risk and foreign Companies.
Market risk arises from uncertainty about future movements in, principally, equity and bond markets, which are themselves influenced The Company has been approved as an investment trust company under by a number of factors including economic conditions and interest rates.
Section 842 of the Income and Corporation Taxes Act 1988 for the year There is a further risk that the performance of the Companys portfolio fails ended 30 September 2009.
The Directors are of the opinion, under advice, to match the performance of the markets generally, and its benchmark that the Company has conducted its affairs for the year ended specifically.
Foreign exchange risk arises if there are falls against sterling in 30 September 2010 so as to be able to obtain approval as an investment the currencies in which the Companys investments are denominated.
trust under Section 1159 of the Corporation Tax Act 2010 for that year.
These risks are managed by the Board and the Manager mainly by way of portfolio diversification, regular investment review, strategic discussion, and The Company is a qualifying trust for the purposes of Stocks & Shares consideration of currency exposures.
The principal risks are examined in more detail in note 19 in the Notes to Investment Objective, Policy, Restrictions and Business Review the Accounts on pages 47 to 52.
The objective of the Company is to achieve capital growth through a focused portfolio of investments, particularly in companies whose shares Further risks which can impact on performance are a loss of key personnel stand at a discount to estimated underlying net asset value.
especially within the investment management team : regulatory principally breaches of either UKLA Listing Rules or Section 1159 of the Corporation Investments are principally in companies listed on recognised stock Tax Act 2010 formerly Section 842 ICTA 1988 and failure of systems or exchanges in the UK and or overseas, which may include investment controls.
In managing these risks the Company reviews staffing and activity holding companies, investment trusts and other companies, the share levels of the Investment Manager and Administrator at least annually to price of which is assessed to be below their estimated net asset value or ensure there are adequate qualified staff capacity available, and in intrinsic worth.
Although listed assets make up the bulk of the portfolio the particular requires the Investment Manager to promptly notify the Board of Company may also invest in unlisted assets with the prior approval of the any changes in senior staff.
The Company also reviews the systems of the Board.
Investment Manager and Administrator as part of its half yearly compliance checks: which is additionally reported on by the Companys independent The Company generally invests on a long-only basis but may hedge auditor as part of the annual audit.
exposures through the use of derivative instruments and may also hedge its foreign currency exposures.
The shares of Investment Trusts frequently trade at a discount to their published net asset value.
The Board seeks to manage the risk of any There are no geographic limits on exposure as the Company invests widening of the discount by regularly reviewing the level of discount at wherever it considers there are opportunities for capital growth.
Risk is which the Companys shares trade, and it will, if necessary and spread by investing in a number of holdings, many of which themselves are appropriate, limit any significant widening through measured buybacks diversified companies.
The Company will not invest in any holding that would represent more The value of the Companys shares will additionally be subject to the than 15% of the value of its total investments at the time of investment.
interaction of supply and demand, prevailing net asset values and the general perceptions of investors.
The share price will accordingly be Potential investments falling within the scope of the Companys investment subject to unpredictable fluctuations and the Company cannot guarantee objective will differ over the course of market cycles.
The number of that the share price will appreciate in value.
holdings in the portfolio will vary depending upon circumstances and opportunities within equity markets at any particular time.
The Company may gear its assets through borrowings which may vary substantially over time according to market conditions but which will not exceed twice the nominal capital and reserves of the Company.
23 British Empire Securities and General Trust plc Annual Report & Accounts 2010 Results and Dividends Group profit for the year was 106,087,000 which included a profit of 12,712,000 attributable to revenue 2009: profit of 113,017,000 which included a profit of 12,774,000 attributable to revenue.
The profit for the year attributable to revenue has been applied as follows: Company Group 000 000 Revenue available for dividends 12,715 12,712 Interim dividend of 1.80p per Ordinary Share paid on 11 June 2010 2,881 2,881 Recommended final dividend payable on 7 January 2011 to Shareholders on the Register as at 10 December 2010 ex dividend 8 December 2010 : Final dividend of 5.7p per Ordinary share 9,125 9,125 709 706 Directors The Directors of the Company, all of whom were in office throughout the The beneficial interests of the current Directors and their connected year under review, are listed on pages 20 and 21. persons in the securities of the Company as at 30 September 2010 are set out below: Mr May retires by rotation in accordance with Article 93 of the Companys Articles of Association and the Board recommends that shareholders vote in favour of the re-election of Mr May.
Ordinary Shares Ordinary Shares Loan Stock Loan Stock 30 9 10 1 10 09 30 9 10 1 10 09 PSS Macpherson 40,000 40,000 SAR Bates 20,000 20,000 RE Blomfield-Smith 3,100 3,100 JM May 6,900 6,900 AS Robson 1,800 1,800 Includes a non-beneficial interest in 5,000 Ordinary Shares held in a Trust, of which Mr JM May is a Trustee, for the benefit of his children.
There were no changes to the above interests between the year end and Subsidiary Companies the date of this report.
Mr May is a Director of Caledonia Investments plc The Company owns one active dealing subsidiary, BEST Securities which owned at 1 November 2010 16.95 per cent of the Ordinary Shares Limited.
In the year to 30 September 2010, BEST Securities Limited made of the Company.
Except as noted, no Director was a party to or had an a loss after taxation of 2,538 2009: loss 3,348. interest in any contract or arrangement with the Company.
Information on the appointment of Directors and their compensation for loss of office, as required by the Takeover Directive, is given on page 53.
24 British Empire Securities and General Trust plc Annual Report & Accounts 2010 Report of the Directors continued The Investment Manager outperformance in excess of the cap is carried forward for use in the next Asset Value Investors Limited is the Companys appointed Investment 3 years fee calculations.
Manager Manager, engaged under the terms of an Investment Management Agreement IMA effective from 1 October 2003 and varied The Company has adopted the Morningstar Investment Trust Global with effect from 1 October 2008.
The IMA is terminable by one years Growth Index as the benchmark against which the Companys notice from either party, other than for cause.
The Manager has complied performance is measured.
with the terms of the IMA throughout the year to 30 September 2010.
Interests in Share Capital Under the IMA the Manager is entitled to a base management fee of Information on the structure, rights and restrictions relating to share capital, 0.60% of the net assets of the Company at the end of the preceding as required by the Takeover Directive, is given on pages 18 and 19. financial period.
A performance fee at 6% is also payable for any outperformance in the net asset value on a total return basis over the At 30 September 2010 and 31 October 2010 the following holdings benchmark at the year end, with a cap on aggregate fees of 1% of net representing more than 3 per cent of the Companys issued share capital assets of the Company per annum.
Any underperformance or had been reported to the Company: Number held at Percentage held at Number held at 30 September 2010 30 September 2010 31 October 2010 Caledonia Investments plc 27,133,979 16.95 25,708,979 Funds managed by Brewin Dolphin Securities Ltd 10,026,196 6.26 9,979,406 Alliance Trust Plc 7,000,574 4.37 6,996,872 Legal and General Group Plc 5,944,768 3.71 5,894,547 Brown Shipley & Company Limited 5,522,124 3.45 5,502,709 Axa Group 4,818,573 3.01 4,818,573 Auditor Ernst & Young LLP have indicated their willingness to continue in office and a Resolution will be proposed at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting to re-appoint them as Auditor and authorise the Directors to determine the Auditors remuneration for the ensuing year.
25 British Empire Securities and General Trust plc Annual Report & Accounts 2010 Special Business at the Annual General Meeting The Board notes the publication in October 2010 by the AIC of its updated Corporate Governance Guide for Investment Companies, incorporating the Resolution 6 - Authority to allot Shares FRCs UK Corporate Governance Code issued in June 2010, the AIC Code The Directors seek to renew the general and unconditional authority to allot of Corporate Governance and certain requirements of the Listing Rules.
up to 23,996,005 Ordinary Shares of 10p each, representing approximately The UK Corporate Governance Code replaces the FRCs Combined Code 15 per cent of the issued Ordinary Share capital.
The Directors would only and is applicable for reporting periods commencing after 29 June 2010. exercise this authority if they considered it to be in the best interests of the The Board will therefore report under the revised AIC Code for the Company generally.
Companys financial year commencing 1 October 2010.
Resolution 7 - Authority to issue Shares outside of The Board considers that reporting against the principles and pre-emption rights recommendations of the AIC Code, and by reference to the AIC Guide The Directors seek to renew the authority to allot, other than on a prewhich incorporates the Combined Code, will provide better information to emptive basis, new Ordinary Shares up to an aggregate nominal amount of shareholders.
800,400, being approximately 5 per cent of the Ordinary Share capital currently in issue, and to transfer or sell Shares held in treasury.
The The Combined Code includes provisions relating to the role of the chief Directors would only exercise this authority if they consider it to be executive and of the executive directors remuneration.
However, as all the advantageous to the Company.
Directors are non-executive, these provisions are not applicable.
The Combined Code also sets out the case for establishing an internal audit Resolution 8 - Share Buy-Back Facility function.
For the reasons set out in the AIC Guide, and in the preamble to This Directors seek to renew the authority to make market purchases of up the Combined Code, the Board considers that an internal audit function is to 23,996,005 Ordinary Shares in accordance with the provisions of the not relevant to the Company, being an externally managed investment Companies Act and Listing Rules representing approximately 14.99 per company.
cent of the issued Ordinary Share capital at the date of this Report.
Ordinary Shares bought back may be held in treasury, up to a maximum of 10 per cent of the Ordinary Share capital then in issue, for cancellation or Throughout the year ended 30 September 2010 the Company complied sale at a future date rather than being cancelled upon purchase.
The with the provisions of the AIC Guide and Code other than for the following Directors would not exercise the authority granted under this Resolution matters and any exceptions detailed in the schedule below reporting on unless they consider it to be in the best interests of Shareholders the Companys compliance with the AIC Codes Principles: e. g. resulting in an increase in net asset value per Share.
the Board has elected not to designate a senior independent non-executive Director, as it considers that each Director has different Corporate Governance strengths and qualities on which they may provide leadership: The UK Listing Authoritys Disclosure Rules and Transparency Rules owing to the short timeframe between the Companys financial year end Disclosure Rules require listed companies to disclose how they have and the publication of this Report, the Company is not able to meet the applied the principles and complied with the provisions of the Combined Combined Codes provision D. 2.4 that the Notice of the AGM and Code on Corporate Governance Combined Code, as issued by the related papers be sent to shareholders at least 20 working days before Financial Reporting Council FRC.
The provisions of the Combined Code the meeting.
issued by the FRC in June 2008 are applicable to the year under review.
The related AIC Code of Corporate Governance the AIC Code issued by the Association of the Investment Companies AIC provides specific corporate governance guidelines to investment trusts.
The Board has considered the principles and recommendations of the AIC Code by reference to the AIC Corporate Governance Guide for investment Companies AIC Guide.
The FRC has confirmed that AIC member companies who report against the AIC Code and who follow the AIC Guide for Investment Companies will be meeting obligations in relation to the Combined Code and associated disclosure requirements of the Disclosure Rules.
The AIC Code can be viewed at: www.
pdf The FRCs Combined Code 2008 can be viewed at: www.
cfm 26 British Empire Securities and General Trust plc Annual Report & Accounts 2010 Report of the Directors continued The Principles of the AIC Code The AIC Code is made up of twenty-one principles split into three sections covering: - The Board - Board Meetings and relations with the Investment Manager - Shareholder Communications The Board AIC Code Principle Compliance Statement 1.
The Chairman should be The Chairman, Mr PSS Macpherson, was independent of the Investment Manager at the time of his appointment independent.
There is a clear division of responsibility between the Chairman, the Directors, the Investment Manager and the Companys other third party service providers.
The Chairman is responsible for leading the Board, ensuring its effectiveness in all aspects of its role and is responsible for ensuring that all Directors receive accurate, timely and clear information.
Mr AS Robson, the chairman of the Audit Committee, and any of the other independent Directors, are available to shareholders if they have concerns that cannot be resolved through discussions with the Chairman.
A majority of the board should be The Board consists of five non-executive Directors, each of whom is regarded as independent of the Investment independent of the manager Manager.
No member of the Board has been an employee of the Company, its Manager or any of its service providers.
Mr Macpherson is Chairman of Close Brothers Group plc, the ultimate parent of Winterflood Securities Limited which acts as the Companys Corporate Broker for a retainer of 25,000 per annum paid by the Company.
Mr Macpherson and Mr Robson are both non-executive directors of JPMorgan Smaller Companies Investment Trust plc.
Mr JM May is an executive director of Caledonia Investments plc a listed investment trust which has a large shareholding in the Company.
The Board does not consider that these appointments compromise their ability or judgement as Directors of the Company.
Each Director is independent in character and judgement and there are no relationships or circumstances relating to the Company that are likely to affect their judgement.
A procedure is in place for Directors, in the furtherance of their duties, to take independent professional advice at the expense of the Company.
There has been no professional advice taken by the Directors during the year which has incurred expense to the Company.
Directors should be elected for a Under the Companys Articles of Association Directors are appointed until the first AGM following their fixed term of no more than three appointment when it is required that they be elected by the Companys members.
Thereafter all Directors submit years.
Nomination for re-election themselves for re-election at least every three years.
should not be assumed but be based on disclosed procedures.
The individual performance of those Directors standing for re-election are evaluated by the remaining members of the Board before a recommendation is put to the shareholders to vote in favour of their re-election.
The Board, through the Nomination Committee, considers the structure of the Board and recognises the need for progressive refreshing of the Board.
The board should have a policy The terms and conditions of the Directors appointments are set out in letters of engagement which are available on tenure, which is disclosed in the for inspection on request at the registered office of the Company and at the AGM.
The Board acknowledges the annual report.
Code provisions relating to tenure but considers that a long association with the Company and experience of a number of investment cycles can be valuable to its deliberations and does not compromise a Directors independence.
Directors serving longer than nine years are subject to annual re-election following rigorous review.
There should be full disclosure of The biographical details of each Director can be found on pages 20 and 21 of this Report.
The Board has elected information about the board not to designate a senior independent non-executive Director, as it considers that each Director has different strengths and qualities on which they may provide leadership.
27 British Empire Securities and General Trust plc Annual Report & Accounts 2010 6.
The board should aim to have a During the annual review and evaluation of the performance of the Board as a whole and of each Director, balance of skills, experience, ages a review of the composition and balance of the Board is also undertaken to ascertain the range of skills and and length of service.
experience attributable to the Board members.
When considering the appointment of a new Director the Board factors in the existing skills and seeks to engage persons with complementary skills and experience.
The experience of the current Directors is detailed in the biographies of the Directors.
The board should undertake a The Nomination Committee is comprised of the whole Board which has a majority of independent directors and, formal and rigorous annual subject to there being no conflicts of interest, all members of the Committee are entitled to vote on candidates evaluation of its own performance for the appointment of new Directors and on recommending for shareholders approval those Directors seeking and that of its committees and re-election at the AGM.
The Board, meeting as the Nomination Committee, has formalised a process to evaluate its own performance and that of its Chairman on an annual basis.
Board evaluation questionnaires are completed by each Director.
The Chairman leads the assessment which covers the functioning of the Board as a whole and the effectiveness of the Board Committees and where necessary discusses the responses with each Director individually.
The Chairman absents himself from the Boards review of his effectiveness as the Chairman.
The Board is satisfied from the results of the evaluation that the structure, mix of skills and operation of the Board continue to be satisfactory and appropriate for the Company.
Director remuneration should The Board considers its size to be such that it would be unnecessarily burdensome to establish a separate reflect their duties, responsibilities remuneration committee.
The Board periodically reviews the fees paid to the Directors and compares these with and the value of their time spent.
the fees paid by the Companys peer group and the investment trust industry generally, taking into account the level of commitment and responsibility of each Board member.
Details on the remuneration arrangements for the Directors of the Company can be found in the Directors Remuneration Report on page 53 and in note 3 to the Accounts.
As all the directors are non-executive, the Board considers that it is acceptable for the Chairman of the Company to chair meetings when discussing Directors' fees.
The Chairmans remuneration is determined by the Board in his absence and takes into consideration advice from external independent advisors.
The independent directors should The Board plans for its own succession.
The Nomination Committee which is comprised of the whole Board, take the lead in the appointment of considers the criteria for future Board appointments and the methods of recruitment, selection and appointment.
new directors and the process When seeking a suitable candidate, the Committee will seek assistance from the Boards own contacts, its should be disclosed in the annual professional advisors and specialist recruitment consultants.
All Directors participate in the discussions at report.
Nomination Committee meetings and, subject to there being no conflicts of interest, are entitled to vote on candidates for the appointment of new Directors.
Directors should be offered New appointees to the Board are provided with a full induction programme.
The programme covers the relevant training and induction.
Companys investment strategy, policies and practices.
The Directors are also given key information on the Companys regulatory and statutory requirements as they arise including information on the role of the Board, matters reserved for its decision, the terms of reference for the Board Committees, the Companys corporate governance practices and procedures and the latest financial information.
It is the Chairmans responsibility to ensure that the Directors have sufficient knowledge to fulfil their role and Directors are encouraged to participate in training courses where appropriate.
The chairman and the board Not applicable.
should be brought into the process of structuring a new launch at an early stage.
28 British Empire Securities and General Trust plc Annual Report & Accounts 2010 Report of the Directors continued Board Meetings and relations with the Investment Manager AIC Code Principle Compliance Statement 12.
Boards and managers should The Board meets at least eight times per year and a representative of the Investment Manager is in attendance at operate in a supportive, coeach meeting and most Committee meetings.
The Chairman encourages open debate to foster a supportive and operative and open environment.
co-operative approach for all participants.
The primary focus at regular The Board has agreed a schedule of matters specifically reserved for decision by the Board.
This includes: board meetings should be a review investment objectives, strategy and benchmarks: permitted investment types: gearing and borrowings allowable: of investment performance and treasury policy and the approval of the Companys financial statements and published reports.
associated matters, such as gearing, asset allocation, marketing Prior to each meeting, Directors are provided with a comprehensive set of papers giving detailed information on investor relations, peer group the Companys transactions and financial position and all Directors have timely access to all relevant information and industry issues.
management, financial and regulatory information.
A representative of the Investment Manager attends each Board meeting enabling the Board to seek clarification on specific investment issues.
Boards should give sufficient The Board is responsible for strategy and has established a predetermined annual programme of agenda items attention to overall strategy.
under which it reviews the objectives and strategy for the Company at each meeting.
In addition to the regular board meetings the Board meets specifically on one additional day each year to focus on strategy and any other issues that require in-depth attention.
The board should regularly The Management Engagement Committee meets twice a year to review the performance of the Investment review both the performance of, Manager and particularly its performance against that of the benchmark, the Morningstar Investment Trust Global and contractual arrangements with, Growth Index.
The Committee considers the quality and cost of the service provided by the Investment Manager the manager.
against its contractual obligations and the Board receives regular reports on compliance with the Investment Restrictions set by the Board.
The Audit Committee reviews the Managers compliance and control systems in operation insofar as they relate to the affairs of the Company.
The board should agree policies The Board has agreed detailed investment guidelines with the manager which are considered at Board meetings.
with the manager covering key A representative of the Manager will also attend each meeting of the Board to address questions on specific operational issues.
The Board has delegated discretion to the Investment Manager to exercise voting powers on its behalf, other than for contentious or sensitive matters which are to be referred to the Board for instructions.
The Board has reviewed the Investment Managers Stewardship Policy, which includes its Corporate Governance and Voting Guidelines, and is published on the Investment Managers web-site: www.
The Management Agreement between the Company and the Manager sets out the limits of the Managers authority beyond which Board approval is required.
Boards should monitor the level The Board considers any imbalances in the supply of and the demand for the Companys shares within the of the share price discount or market and takes appropriate action when considered necessary.
premium if any and, if desirable, take action to reduce it.
The board should monitor and The Management Engagement Committee reviews, at least annually, the performance of all the Companys third evaluate other service providers.
party providers including the level and structure of fees payable and the length of the notice period, to ensure that they remain competitive and in the best interests of shareholders.
The Audit Committee reviews reports from the service providers on compliance and the internal and financial control systems in operation and relevant independent audit reports thereon.
Annual inspection visits are undertaken at the offices of the Companys Administrator, the Registrars and the Share Purchase Scheme Administrators.
29 British Empire Securities and General Trust plc Annual Report & Accounts 2010 Shareholder Communications AIC Code Principle Compliance Statement 19.
The board should regularly A detailed analysis of the substantial shareholders of the Company is provided to the Directors at each board monitor the shareholder profile of meeting.
Representatives of the Manager regularly meet with institutional shareholders and private client asset the company and put in place a managers.
Shareholders wishing to communicate with the Chairman, or any other member of the Board may do system for canvassing shareholder so by writing to the Company, for the attention of the Company Secretary at the Registered Office.
All views and for communicating the shareholders are encouraged to attend the AGM, where they are given the opportunity to question the Chairman, boards view to shareholders.
the Board and representatives of the Investment Manager.
The Directors welcome the views of all Shareholders and place considerable importance on communications with Shareholders.
Board representatives and the Investment Manager meet with the Companys major Shareholders throughout the year.
At the Annual General Meeting the Investment Manager will make a brief presentation to Shareholders covering the investment performance and strategy of the Company.
The board should normally take All substantive communications regarding major corporate issues are discussed by the Board taking into account responsibility for, and have direct representations from the Manager, the Auditor, legal advisors, stockbroker and the Company Secretary.
involvement in, the content of communications regarding major corporate issues even if the manager is asked to act as spokesman.
The board should ensure that The Chairman is responsible for ensuring that there is effective communication with shareholders.
The Manager shareholders are provided with reports on its marketing strategy for the Company and on any communications with its shareholders.
The sufficient information for them to Company places great importance on communication with shareholders and aims to provide them with a full understand the risk: reward balance understanding of the Companys activities, performance and principle risks by means of informative Annual and to which they are exposed by Half Year reports and the Interim Management Statement.
This is supplemented by the daily publication, through holding the shares.
the London Stock Exchange, of the net asset value of the Companys shares and by regular updating of the Companys website.
30 British Empire Securities and General Trust plc Annual Report & Accounts 2010 Report of the Directors continued Board Committees To consider whether there is a need for the Company to have its own The Board has agreed a schedule of matters specifically reserved for internal audit function: decision by the full Board subject to which the Board has delegated To monitor the integrity of the half-year and annual financial statements specific duties to Committees of the Board which operate within written of the Company by reviewing and challenging, where necessary, the terms of reference.
Phoenix Administration Services Limited acts as actions and judgements of the Investment Manager: Company Secretary to each Committee.
No persons other than the To meet with the independent Auditor the Company to review their Committee members are entitled to attend at Committee meetings unless proposed audit programme of work and the subsequent Audit Report formally invited by the Committee.
Copies of the terms of reference for and to assess the effectiveness of the Audit process and the levels of Board Committees are available from the Company Secretary.
fees paid in respect of both audit and non-audit work: To make recommendations to the Board in relation to the appointment, Management Engagement Committee re-appointment or removal of the Auditor, and to negotiate their The Management Engagement Committee meets at least twice each year remuneration and terms of engagement on audit and non-audit work: and comprises the independent Directors, Mr PSS Macpherson To monitor and review annually the external Auditors independence, Chairman, Mrs RE Blomfield-Smith, Mr SAR Bates and Mr AS Robson.
objectivity, effectiveness, resources and qualification.
The main functions of the Committee are to define the terms of the Investment Management Agreement, ensuring that they follow good The Audit Committee has approved and implemented a policy on the industry practice, are competitive and in the best interests of shareholders: engagement of the auditors to supply non-audit services, taking into and to monitor the Managers compliance with the terms of the account the recommendations of the Accounting Practices Board and Management Agreement and its investment performance.
The Committee does not believe there to be any impediment to the auditors objectivity also reviews the services and performance of the Companys other thirdand independence.
The Committee confirms that the Companys party service providers.
A review of the Investment Manager and the other independent Auditor satisfies the tests of independence, objectivity, service providers undertaken in November 2010, concluded that the effectiveness, resources and qualification.
services provided to the Company were satisfactory and that the Agreements entered into with them were operating in the best interests of The Committee is responsible for ensuring that suitable internal control the shareholders.
systems are designed and implemented by the third party service providers to the Company to prevent and detect fraud and error and is also Nomination Committee responsible for reviewing the effectiveness of such controls.
The Board The Nomination Committee comprises the whole Board and convenes to confirms that there is an ongoing process for identifying, evaluating and undertake the annual appraisal of the performance of the Board, its managing the significant risks faced by the Company in line with the Committees and the Directors and to propose the re-election of those Financial Reporting Councils Internal Control: Revised Guidance for Directors required to retire every three years at the Annual General Directors on the Combined Code.
This process has been in place for the Meeting.
It also meets to consider the appointment of new Directors to the year under review and up to the date of approval of this Report, and accords Board.
Candidates for nomination may be sourced from outside of the with the guidance.
In particular, it has reviewed and updated the process for Company using third party search and selection services as well as identifying and evaluating the significant risks affecting the Company and potential candidates known to Directors through their extensive knowledge policies by which these risks are managed.
The risks of any failure of such of the industry.
controls are identified in a Risk Matrix which is regularly reviewed by the Board and which identifies the likelihood and severity of the impact of such At a recent meeting, the Board, meeting as the Nomination Committee, risks and the controls in place to minimise such risks occurring.
considered the requirement for Mr May to retire at the forthcoming AGM by rotation pursuant to Article 93 and Principle 3 of the AIC Code Mr May The following are the key components which the Company has in place to having confirmed his intention to seek re-election at the AGM.
The Board provide effective internal control: reviewed Mr Mays performance and his contribution to the Boards The Board has agreed clearly defined investment criteria, which specifies deliberations and concluded that as a result of his extensive experience levels of authority and exposure limits and reports on compliance with within the investment company sector he had made a significant these criteria are regularly reviewed by the Board: contribution to Board and its management of the Company.
The Board The Investment Manager and Administrator prepare forecasts and therefore proposes to put a resolution to shareholders at the AGM that, management accounts which allow the Board to assess the being eligible, Mr J May be re-elected as a Director of the Company, and Companys activities and review its performance: recommends that shareholders vote in favour of the resolution.
The contractual agreements with the Investment Manager and other third party service providers, and adherence to them are regularly Audit Committee reviewed: The Audit Committee meets at least twice each year and comprises the The Investment Managers Compliance Officer continually reviews the independent Directors, Mr AS Robson Committee Chairman, Mr SAR Investment Managers operations.
Bates, Mrs RE Blomfield-Smith and Mr PSS Macpherson.
All members of the Committee have recent and relevant financial experience.
Internal control systems are designed to meet the Companys particular needs and the risks to which it is exposed.
They do not eliminate the risk The Audit Committees main functions are: of failure to achieve business objectives and, by their nature, can only To monitor the internal financial control and risk management systems provide reasonable and not absolute assurance against mis-statement on which the Company is reliant: or loss.
31 British Empire Securities and General Trust plc Annual Report & Accounts 2010 As neither the Company nor the Group has any employees, the Company provide additional disclosures where compliance with the specific does not have a whistleblowing policy and procedure in place.
The requirements of IFRS are considered to be insufficient to enable users to Company delegates its main functions to third party providers each of understand the impact of particular transactions, events and conditions whom report on their policies and procedures to the Audit Committee.
on the financial position and performance: and prepare financial statements on a going concern basis unless it is Environmental, Social and Community Issues inappropriate to presume that the Group or Company will continue in As the Company has no employees, accordingly it has no direct impact on business.
social matters and invests in a variety of regions with varying degrees of political and corporate governance standards.
As such it is impractical for Financial statements of the Company are published on the Companys investment trusts in general to adopt a policy on environmental, social and website at www.
The Directors are responsible for community issues.
However, where the Board deems an issue to be of ensuring the maintenance and integrity of the information relating to the importance or sensitivity it may, through the Investment Manager, use its Company published on this website.
Legislation in the United Kingdom voting rights and contact with senior executives of an investee company to governing the preparation and dissemination of financial statements may make its views known.
differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
Stewardship Policy Disclosure of information to the Auditor In principle, the Board delegates investee company communication and The Directors who held office at the date of approval of the Report of the voting to the Investment Manager, to be managed as part of the Directors confirm that, so far as they are aware, there is no relevant audit investment management process.
The Board has reviewed the Investment information of which the Companys Auditor is unaware: and each Director Managers Stewardship Policy, which includes its Corporate Governance has taken all of the steps that he ought to have taken as a Director to and Voting Guidelines, and is published on the Investment Managers make himself aware of any relevant audit information and establish that the web-site: www.
Companys Auditor is aware of that information.
Creditor Payment Policy Going Concern The Companys payment policy is to settle investment transactions in The Directors have carefully reviewed the Companys current financial accordance with market practice and to ensure settlement of supplier resources and the projected expenses of the Group for the financial year invoices in accordance with stated terms.
The Company did not have any ending 30 September 2011, including the repayment on 2 July 2011 of the 3 trade creditors at the year end.
On the basis of that review and as 8 the majority of net assets are securities which are traded on recognised Statement of Directors Responsibilities stock exchanges, the Directors are satisfied that the Companys resources The Directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Report and the are adequate for continuing in business for the foreseeable future and that Group and Company financial statements in accordance with applicable it is appropriate to prepare the Groups financial statements on a going United Kingdom law and regulations.
Company law requires the Directors concern basis.
to prepare Group and Company financial statements for each financial year.
Under that law they are required to prepare Group financial Declaration statements in accordance with those International Financial Reporting The non-executive Directors listed on pages 20 and 21, being the persons Standards which have been adopted by the EU IFRS and have elected responsible, hereby confirm to the best of their knowledge: to prepare the parent Company financial statements on the same basis.
that the financial statements have been prepared in accordance with They are also responsible for ensuring that the Annual Report includes applicable accounting standards and give a true and fair view of the information required by the Rules of the UK Listing Authority.
assets, liabilities, financial position and profit or loss of the Group: and the Management Report which comprises the Chairmans Statement The Group and Company financial statements are required by law and and the Investment Managers Review includes a fair review of the IFRS to present fairly the financial position of the Group and Company and development and performance of the business and the position of the the financial performance and cash-flows of the Group and Company for Group together with a description of the principal risks and uncertainties the relevant period.
The Companies Act 2006 Act provides, in relation to that the Group faces.
such financial statements that, references in the relevant part of that Act to financial statements giving a true and fair view are references to their By Order of the Board achieving a fair presentation.
In preparing the Group and Company financial statements the Directors are required to: TR Smith select suitable accounting policies and apply them consistently: for and on behalf of make judgements and estimates which are reasonable and prudent: Phoenix Administration Services Limited state whether the financial statements have been prepared in Secretary compliance with IFRS, subject to any material departures disclosed and 15 November 2010 explained therein: Registered Office: Springfield Lodge Colchester Road Chelmsford, Essex CM2 5PW
