REPORT OF THE DIRECTORS STATUTORY INFORMATION The directors submit their report and the audited financial system can provide only reasonable and not absolute assurance statements of the company, British Telecommunications plc, and against material misstatement or loss.
The process in place for the group, which includes its subsidiary undertakings, for the 2010 reviewing BTs systems of internal control includes procedures financial year.
designed to identify and evaluate failings and weaknesses, and, in the case of any categorised as significant, procedures exist to ensure Introduction that necessary action is taken to remedy the failings.
The Business review and Financial review on pages 2 to 27 form BT Group plc has enterprise-wide risk management processes for part of this report.
The audited financial statements are presented identifying, evaluating and managing the significant risks faced by on pages 33 to 85 and 103. the group.
These processes have been in place for the whole of the During the year no dividends have been paid to the parent 2010 financial year and have continued up to the date on which company, BT Group Investments Limited 2009: 925m.
Risk assessment and evaluation takes place as an integral part of Principal activity BT Group plcs annual strategic planning cycle.
A detailed risk The company is the principal trading company of the BT group.
management process, culminating in a BT Group plc Board review, Our main activities are the provision of xed lines, broadband, which identies the key risks facing the group and each business mobile and TV products and services as well as networked IT unit.
This information is reviewed by senior management as part of services.
Our current key risks are summarised in In the UK we are the largest communications services provider, Business review Principal risks and uncertainties.
serving the consumer, business and public sector markets.
Globally, The key features of the enterprise wide risk management process we supply networked IT services to multinational corporations, comprise the following procedures: domestic businesses and government departments.
We also provide senior executives collectively review the groups key risks and access to our network and services to more than 1,000 other have created a group risk register describing the risks, owners communications providers in the UK and others worldwide.
This is reviewed by the BT Group plc Operating Committee before being reviewed and approved by Directors the BT Group plc Board: The directors at 31 March 2010 were Ian Livingston, Tony the lines of business carry out risk assessments of their Chanmugam and Glyn Parry who all served throughout the 2010 operations, create risk registers relating to those operations, and financial year.
ensure that the key risks are addressed: senior executives with responsibilities for major group operations Financial statements report quarterly with their opinion on the effectiveness of the A statement by the directors of their responsibilities for preparing operation of internal controls in their area of responsibility: the financial statements is included in the Statement of directors the internal auditors carry out continuing assessments of the responsibilities.
quality of risk management and control, report to management So far as each of the directors is aware, there is no relevant and the BT Group plc Audit Committee on the status of specic information that has not been disclosed to the companys auditors areas identied for improvement and promote effective risk and each of the directors believes that all steps have been taken management in the lines of business operations: and that ought to have been taken to make them aware of any relevant the BT Group plc Audit Committee, on behalf of the BT Group plc audit information and to establish that the companys auditors have Board, considers the effectiveness of the operation of internal been made aware of that information.
control procedures in the group during the financial year.
It reviews reports from the internal and external auditors and Financial instruments reports its conclusions to the BT Group plc Board.
The BT Group Details of the financial risk management objectives and policies of plc Audit Committee has carried out these actions for the 2010 the group and exposure to interest risk, credit risk, liquidity risk and financial year.
price risk are given in note 31 on pages 77 to 85.
US Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 Auditors BT has debt securities registered with the US Securities and A resolution to reappoint  LLP as BTs Exchange Commission SEC.
As a result, we must comply with those auditors and to authorise the directors to agree their remuneration provisions of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act applicable to foreign issuers.
will also be proposed at the AGM.
We comply with the legal and regulatory requirements introduced  have been the companys auditiors for pursuant to this legislation, in so far as they are applicable.
Having reviewed the independence and effectiveness of the external auditors, the BT Group plc Audit Committee has not Disclosure controls and procedures considered it necessary to date to require them to tender for the The principal executive officer and the principal financial officer, audit.
The external auditors are required to rotate the lead partner after evaluating the effectiveness of BTs disclosure controls and every 5 years and other partners every 7 years that are responsible procedures as of the end of the period covered by this Annual for the group and subsidiary audits.
The partner currently Report & Form 20-F, have concluded that, as of such date, BTs responsible for BTs audit is completing his first year.
disclosure controls and procedures were effective to ensure that material information relating to BT was made known to them by Internal control and risk management others within the group.
The principal executive officer and the The Board of BT Group plc, the companys ultimate parent, is principal financial officer have also provided the certications responsible for the groups systems of internal control and risk required by the Sarbanes-Oxley Act.
management and for reviewing each year the effectiveness of those systems.
Such systems are designed to manage, rather than Internal control over financial reporting eliminate, the risk of failure to achieve business objectives: any BTs management is responsible for establishing and maintaining 28 British Telecommunications plc Annual Report and Form 20-F 2010 Report of the Directors Statutory information adequate internal control over financial reporting for the group including the consolidation process.
Internal control over financial reporting is designed to provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of financial statements for external reporting purposes in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles.
Management conducted an assessment of the effectiveness of internal control over financial reporting based on the framework for internal control evaluation contained in the Turnbull Guidance.
Based on this assessment, management has concluded that as at 31 March 2010, BTs internal control over financial reporting was effective.
There were no changes in BTs internal control over financial reporting that occurred during the 2010 financial year that have materially affected, or are reasonably likely to have materially affected, BTs internal control over financial reporting.
Any significant deficiency, as dened by the US Public Company Accounting Oversight Board PCAOB, in internal control over financial reporting is reported to the Audit Committee of the ultimate parent company.
 LLP, which has audited the consolidated financial statements of the group for the 2010 financial year, has also audited the effectiveness of the groups internal control over financial reporting under Auditing Standard No.
By order of the Board Heather Brierley Secretary 18 May 2010 Registered Office: 81 Newgate Street, London EC1A 7AJ Registered in England and Wales No.
1800000 Report of the Directors Statutory information British Telecommunications plc Annual Report and Form 20-F 2010 29
