24 Caledonia Investments plc Annual report 2010 Directors reports Directors report The directors present their report and accounts for the year ended On 12 April 2010, Mr Ingrams bene cial interests increased by 31 March 2010.
The directors remuneration report and the corporate 27 shares as a result of the automatic reinvestment of the companys governance report form part of this report.
second interim dividend received on shares held in his and his wifes Caledonia ISAs.
There have been no other changes in the directors Principal activities and results interests shown above noti ed up to the date of approval of Caledonia is an investment trust company.
A review of the activities these accounts.
of the company, together with the results for the year, is given in the Details of the directors options to acquire ordinary shares business review, which should be regarded as part of this report.
in the company and awards over ordinary shares under the companys There have been no signi cant changes in the activities of its operating deferred bonus plan as at 31 March 2010 are set out in the directors subsidiaries.
remuneration report on pages 52 to 59.
The company has been approved by Her Majestys Revenue and Customs HMRC as an investment trust for its relevant financial years Directors indemnity up to 31 March 2007 and continues to manage its affairs so as to comply Each of the directors has the bene t, under the companys articles with the requirements for investment trust status.
Con rmation of of association, of an indemnity, to the extent permitted by the investment trust status is granted retrospectively by HMRC for each Companies Act 2006, against any liability incurred by him for financial year.
Applications for approval for the years ended 31 March negligence, default, breach of duty or breach of trust in relation 2008 and 2009 have been made to HMRC and an application for to the affairs of the company.
approval for the year ended 31 March 2010 will be made subsequent Share capital structure to the approval of these accounts by shareholders of the company.
The company has two classes of share capital ordinary shares Dividends of 5p each and deferred ordinary shares of 5p each.
On 30 March 2010, the company paid a second interim dividend of The holders of the ordinary shares are entitled to receive 24.7p per share 2009 final dividend of 23.5p, which, together with dividends as declared from time to time and are entitled to one vote the interim dividend of 10.6p per share 2009 10.3p, resulted in total per share at meetings of the company.
All voting rights are however dividends for the year of 34.3p per share 2009 33.8p.
The directors suspended in respect of the companys shares that are held in treasury do not recommend the payment of a final dividend.
The deferred ordinary shares carry no voting rights and are not Annual general meeting redeemable.
They carry the right to a xed cumulative preference The eightyfirst annual general meeting of the company will be dividend of 1% per annum exclusive of any associated tax credit of the held at Cayzer House, 30 Buckingham Gate, London SW1E 6NN on nominal value of such deferred ordinary shares, being 0.05p per share, Wednesday, 21 July 2010 at 11.30 am.
The notice of the annual general or 4,000 in aggregate, for all such shares currently in issue.
The meeting and details of all of the resolutions to be put to shareholders company is required to pay the dividend to the extent that it has are set out in a separate circular which accompanies this annual report.
On a winding-up or other return of capital, the deferred ordinary shares carry the right to the payment of the amount Directors and their interests paid up on such shares only after holders of the ordinary shares have The directors of the company are shown on pages 22 and 23.
All of received the sum of 100,000 in respect of each such ordinary share.
the directors served throughout the year other than Mr C H Gregson All of the deferred ordinary shares are held by Sterling Industries PLC, and Mr S A King, who were appointed on 16 September 2009 and a wholly owned subsidiary of Caledonia.
Mr J H Cartwright also served as a At 31 March 2010, 58,794,781 ordinary shares and 8,000,000 director of the company until his resignation on 8 December 2009. deferred ordinary shares were in issue.
The ordinary shares therefore The interests of the directors and their families in the ordinary share represented approximately 88%, and the deferred ordinary shares capital of the company as at 31 March 2010 were as follows: approximately 12%, of the total issued share capital.
Of the ordinary shares in issue at 31 March 2010, 563,230 shares were held in treasury Bene cial Non-bene cial 1 1 2010 2009 2010 2009 and 3,000 shares held by a group company.
As stated above, all voting No No No No rights are suspended on these shares.
J R H Loudon 13,564 13,564 9,930 9,930 2 T C W Ingram 140,805 108,510 Restrictions on the transfer of shares S A King There are no speci c restrictions on the transfer of the companys 2,3 The Hon C W Cayzer 40,892 50,555 47,527 28,505 shares, although the articles of association contain provisions whereby 2 J M B Cayzer-Colvin 408,498 385,771 7,053 7,053 the directors may refuse to register a transfer of a certi cated share 2 J M May 48,218 16,793 which is not fully paid, provided that such refusal does not prevent 2,4 W P Wyatt 117,940 99,724 19,093 17,093 dealings in the share from taking place on an open and proper basis.
C M Allen-Jones 7,500 7,500 The directors may also refuse to register the transfer of a certi cated M E T Davies 2,500 2,500 share unless it is i lodged, duly stamped, at the registered of ce or at such other place as the directors may appoint, accompanied by the R Goblet dAlviella certi cate for the shares to which it relates and such other evidence as C H Gregson 610 the directors may reasonably require to show the right of the transferor D G F Thompson 3,000 3,000 3,000 3,000 to make the transfer: ii in respect of only one class of shares: and iii in 1.
Or date of appointment if later.
Included in the bene cial interests of Messrs Cayzer, Cayzer-Colvin, Ingram, May and Wyatt favour of not more than four transferees.
are vested restricted shares granted following the waiver by them on 30 March 2010 of certain The directors may refuse to register a transfer of shares if a deferred bonus awards granted in May 2007 and June 2008.
Further details of these vested shareholder has not supplied information to the company in default of restricted shares are given in the directors remuneration report on page 56.
The Hon C W Cayzers non-bene cial interests included 12,500 shares in which Mr Wyatt also a request duly served under section 793 of the Companies Act 2006 had a non-bene cial interest 2009 The Hon C W Cayzers bene cial interests included and such shares represent at least 0.25% of the class of shares 17,093 shares in which Mr Wyatt had a non-bene cial interest.
Mr Wyatts bene cial interests included 35,027 shares in which The Hon C W Cayzer had concerned.
Directors reports Caledonia Investments plc Annual report 2010 25 Substantial interests Authority to allot and purchase shares As at 18 May 2010, being the latest practicable date prior to the date At the annual general meeting of the company held on 23 July 2009, of this report, the following had noti ed the company that they held shareholders granted to the directors authority to allot ordinary 3% or more of the voting rights of the company: shares up to a nominal amount of 971,375, representing approximately one-third of the ordinary share capital then in issue, Number of Percentage of voting rights voting rights excluding ordinary shares held in treasury, with authority to allot The Cayzer Trust Company Ltd 19,593,072 33.7% additional ordinary shares up to a nominal value of 971,376, So na sa 2,746,777 4.7% representing approximately a further one-third of the issued ordinary share capital then in issue, excluding ordinary shares then held in treasury, by way of pre-emptive rights issues only, in accordance with Employee share schemes guidance issued by the Association of British Insurers.
The directors The Caledonia Investments plc Employee Share Trust acquires and were further authorised to issue ordinary shares up to a nominal holds ordinary shares in the company for subsequent transfer to amount of 145,706 other than pro rata to existing ordinary employees exercising options under the companys executive share shareholders.
These authorities last until the next annual general option schemes or calling for awards vesting under the companys meeting or 23 October 2010, if earlier.
The voting rights of shares held by the trust are At the annual general meeting held on 23 July 2009, exercisable by the independent trustee.
The trustee has also waived shareholders also granted authority for the company to make all dividends payable in respect of the ordinary shares held by the trust, market purchases of up to 5,828,255 of its own ordinary shares, except to the extent of 0.0001% of such dividends.
At 31 March 2010, being approximately 10% of the ordinary share capital then in issue, the trust held 350,293 ordinary shares.
excluding ordinary shares held in treasury, at a price not more than the higher of: a 5% greater than the average of the middle market Restrictions on voting rights quotations for such ordinary shares during the five business days The directors may direct that a shareholder shall not be entitled to preceding any such purchase: and b the higher of: i the price of the attend and vote either personally or by proxy or exercise any other last independent trade in such ordinary shares: and ii the highest right conferred by membership in relation to general meetings of the current independent bid relating thereto on the trading venue where company in respect of some or all of the shares held by him, if he or the purchase is carried out, nor at a price less than 5p, being the any person with an interest in such shares has been duly served with nominal value of an ordinary share.
This authority lasts until 1 January a notice under section 793 of the Companies Act 2006 and is in default 2011 or, if earlier, the conclusion of the next annual general meeting.
for the prescribed period in supplying to the company the information At the same time, shareholders who were not members of the Cayzer required or, in purported compliance with such a notice, has made family concert party Cayzer Concert Party gave their approval for a statement which is false or inadequate in a material particular.
a waiver by the Panel on Takeovers and Mergers of the obligation that Agreements which may restrict the transfer of shares or could arise on the Cayzer Concert Party under Rule 9 of the City Code exercise of voting rights on Takeovers and Mergers to make a general offer for Caledonia on Certain directors and employees have been awarded vested restricted the implementation by the company of the above authority to shares following the waiver of certain deferred bonus awards granted purchase its own shares.
The approval was subject to the maximum in 2007 and 2008.
These shares must be retained until the end of the percentage of voting rights in which the Cayzer Concert Party is relevant three year retention period of the original deferred share interested not exceeding 49.9% as a result of purchases by the awards to which they relate.
This waiver expires on 1 January 2011 or, if earlier, the The company is not aware of any other arrangements which conclusion at the next annual general meeting.
may restrict the transfer of any of its shares or the exercise of any Change of control agreements voting rights.
There are no special control rights in relation to the companys shares.
Appointment and replacement of directors Options granted under the companys executive share option and articles of association schemes and awards made under the companys deferred bonus plan The appointment and replacement of directors is governed by the may become exercisable or vest as a result of a change of control, companys articles of association and prevailing company law.
although the number of shares comprised in those options or awards The articles of association provide that at every annual general may be reduced.
The service contracts of certain directors and meeting one-third of the directors, or if not a multiple of three, the associate directors also contain provisions whereby a liquidated sum number nearest to one-third, shall retire by rotation and therefore be is payable by the company in the event of termination within one year required to seek re-election by shareholders.
In addition, in accordance following a change of control.
Any such liquidated sum would be with the recommendations of the Combined Code, the company equivalent to no more than one years total emoluments.
requires that any non-executive director who has served on the board for over nine years retires and seeks re-election annually.
New directors Customers and suppliers may be appointed by the board, but are subject to election by The groups policy in relation to all of its suppliers is to settle the shareholders at the next annual general meeting of the company terms of payment when agreeing the terms of the transaction.
Shareholders may also appoint new group will abide by those terms on condition that it is satis ed that directors by ordinary resolution.
The articles of association limit the the supplier has provided the goods or services in accordance with number of directors to not less than two and not more than twelve, the agreed terms and conditions.
The group does not follow any code unless the shareholders resolve otherwise.
or statement on payment practice and Caledonia itself does not have A director may be removed from of ce if requested to resign by any trade payables.
not less than three-quarters of the other directors or by an ordinary resolution of the shareholders.
Any amendment of the articles of association requires the approval of shareholders by a special resolution.
26 Caledonia Investments plc Annual report 2010 Directors reports Directors report Corporate responsibility financial statements, International Accounting Standard 1 requires Caledonia considers the impact of its business in the following areas: that directors: properly select and apply accounting policies Workplace present information, including accounting policies, in a manner Caledonia has in place a set of polices intended to protect employees that provides relevant, reliable, comparable and understandable from unlawful discrimination, offer them a working environment information where they have a right to be treated fairly, with consideration and respect, and support high standards of conduct and performance.
provide additional disclosures when compliance with the speci c These policies assist in ensuring that the company meets applicable requirements in IFRSs are insuf cient to enable users to understand health and safety standards and treats disabled employees in the impact of particular transactions, other events and conditions accordance with its statutory obligations.
These policies are on the entitys financial position and financial performance communicated to employees by way of a staff handbook provided make an assessment of the companys ability to continue as a at the time of joining and periodically thereafter.
In addition to a grievance procedure, which allows employees to raise concerns either formally or informally, there are formal The directors are responsible for keeping adequate accounting whistleblowing arrangements in place, which enable members records that are suf cient to show and explain the companys of staff to raise any issue of concern regarding possible impropriety transactions and disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the in the conduct of the companys business con dentially and financial position of the company and enable them to ensure that the independently of line management.
financial statements comply with the Companies Act 2006.
They are A formal performance appraisal process, through which also responsible for safeguarding the assets of the company and employees may be set objectives on an annual basis and their hence for taking reasonable steps for the prevention and detection achievement against those objectives assessed at the end of the of fraud and other irregularities.
period, is intended to ensure that employees have a clear view of their The directors are responsible for the maintenance and integrity performance and the ability to develop their potential within the of the corporate and financial information included on the companys company through additional training where necessary.
Legislation in the United Kingdom governing the with team meetings and companywide brie ngs, this provides the preparation and dissemination of financial statements may differ employees with the opportunity to be closely involved in the success from legislation in other jurisdictions.
Going concern Community and political donations The companys business activities, together with the factors likely to Caledonia encourages employees to support local voluntary affect its future development, performance and position are set out organisations and charitable causes and provides matched in the Chief Executives report on pages 4 to 6.
The financial position sponsorship to their fundraising activities.
This and other charitable of the company, its cash ows, liquidity position and borrowing donations in the year amounted to 43,000. facilities are described in the financial review on pages 16 to 19.
In The company also supports the work of the Royal Horticultural addition, note 22 to the financial statements includes the companys Society and contributions to the RHSs campaigns to promote objectives, policies and processes for managing its capital: its gardening through sponsorship of the RHS Chelsea Flower Show financial risk management objectives: details of its financial Charity Gala Preview amounted to 85,000 in the year.
instruments and hedging activities: and its exposures to currency Political donations totalling 75,000 were made to the risk, interest rate risk, price risk, credit risk and liquidity risk.
Conservative Party during the year.
The company has cash resources and committed bank facilities available to meet existing and new investment commitments.
As a Environment consequence, the directors believe that the company is well placed Caledonias environmental impact is limited.
However, any to manage its business risks successfully.
measures taken to reduce this impact demonstrate the companys After making enquiries, the directors have a reasonable commitment to improve the environment and can have direct expectation that the company and the group have adequate bene ts through reductions in costs for energy and consumables.
resources to continue in operational existence for the foreseeable A number of measures have been and will be taken in this area: future.
Accordingly, they continue to adopt the going concern basis encouragement of the use of electronic communications to save in preparing the annual report and accounts.
paper, printing consumables and energy Auditors usage of video-conferencing and telephone conference calls Resolutions will be proposed at the annual general meeting to rather than travelling to meetings re-appoint Deloitte LLP as auditors of the company and to authorise recycling of of ce waste, used paper and other consumables.
the directors to agree their remuneration.
A description of how the Audit Committee ensures the objectivity and independence of the Statement of directors responsibilities auditors is set out on page 61 within the corporate governance report.
The directors are responsible for preparing the annual report and The directors who held of ce at the date of approval of this the financial statements in accordance with applicable law and directors report con rm that, so far as each is aware, there is no regulations.
relevant audit information of which the companys auditors are Company law requires the directors to prepare financial unaware and each director has taken all the steps that he ought to statements for each financial year.
Under that law the directors are have taken as a director to make himself aware of any relevant audit required to prepare the group financial statements in accordance information and to establish that the companys auditors are aware with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs as adopted of that information.
by the European Union and Article 4 of the IAS Regulation and have also chosen to prepare the parent company financial statements By order of the board under IFRSs as adopted by the EU.
Under company law the directors must not approve the accounts unless they are satis ed that they give Graeme Denison a true and fair view of the state of affairs of the company and of the Secretary pro t or loss of the company for that period.
