Business review Caledonia Investments plc Annual report 2010 15 Valuation methodology Investments are measured at the directors estimate of fair The earnings multiple used is determined by reference to marketvalue at the reporting date, in accordance with IAS 39 Financial based multiples appropriate for the business and correlating to the Instruments: Recognition and Measurement.
Fair value is the period and calculation of earnings of the company being valued.
amount for which an asset could be exchanged between The aim is to identify companies that are similar in terms of risk and knowledgeable, willing parties in an arms length transaction.
growth prospects to the company being valued, which is more likely to be the case where there are similarities of business activities, Publicly traded securities markets served, size, geography and applicable tax rate.
Earnings Investments quoted in an active market are valued at their bid multiples are adjusted for points of difference between the price on the reporting date.
When a bid price is unavailable, the comparator and the company being valued where appropriate, price of the most recent transaction will normally be used.
including the ability of Caledonia to effect change in the company and risks associated with holding an unquoted share.
In determining Unquoted companies an appropriate earnings multiple, reference may be made to a Unquoted company investments are valued by applying an single comparator company or a number of companies or the appropriate valuation technique, which makes maximum use earnings multiple of a quoted stock market sector or sub-sector.
of market-based information, is consistent with models generally Maintainable earnings should balance reliability and used by market participants and is applied consistently from period relevance.
Generally, the latest historical accounts are used to period, except where a change would result in a better unless reliable forecast results for the current year are available.
Earnings are adjusted where appropriate for exceptional or The value of an unquoted company investment is generally non-recurring items.
crystallised through the sale or otation of the entire business, rather than the sale of an individual instrument.
Therefore, the Net assets estimation of fair value is based on the assumed realisation of The net assets methodology involves deriving the value of a the underlying business at the reporting date, based on the business by reference to the fair value of its net assets.
This is likely International Private Equity and Venture Capital Valuation to be appropriate for a business whose value derives mainly from Guidelines September 2009, using the following model: the underlying value of its assets rather than its earnings, such as a property holding company and an investment business.
It may also Determine the enterprise value using an appropriate be appropriate for a business that is not making an adequate return valuation methodology.
on assets and for which a greater value can be realised by liquidating Adjust for surplus assets, excess or unrecorded liabilities the business and selling its assets.
A third party valuation may be and other relevant factors.
used to give the fair value of a certain asset or group of assets.
Deduct any financial instruments ranking ahead of the highest ranking instrument held by the company.
Fund interests Fund interests refer to participations in arrangements to create a Apportion the attributable enterprise value between the designated pool of capital to invest in a wider range of assets than is relevant financial instruments according to their rankings.
feasible for an individual investor and to share the costs and bene ts.
Allocate to the companys holding in each of these Open-ended funds, including investment companies with financial instruments.
variable capital, typically report regular net asset values, which usually provide a reliable basis to estimate the fair value.
If the price Recognition is given to the uncertainties inherent in estimating the reported by the fund is not available at the reporting date, the fair value of unquoted companies and appropriate caution is applied latest available price is used and may be adjusted to take account in exercising judgments and making the necessary estimates.
of changes or events to the reporting date.
Enterprise value is normally determined using one of the Closed-ended funds include unquoted investment companies following valuation methodologies: and limited partnerships.
For these investments, the fair value Price of recent investment estimate is based on a summation of the estimated fair value of the Where the investment being valued was made recently, its cost underlying investments.
Fund manager valuation reports may be will generally provide a good indication of fair value.
Where there used where there is evidence that the valuation is derived using fair has been any recent investment in the investee company, the value principles and may be adjusted to take account of changes or price of that investment will provide a basis of the valuation.
This events to the reporting date.
Adjustment may also be necessary for methodology is likely to be appropriate only for a limited period features of the fund agreement not captured in the valuation after the date of the relevant transaction.
report, such as performance fees or carried interest.
Multiples Other investments This methodology involves the application of an earnings multiple Other investments include preference shares, loan notes or to the maintainable earnings of the business and is likely to be facilities, options, warrants and treasury instruments that are not appropriate for an investment in an established business with an publicly traded and do not form part of an investment in an identi able stream of continuing earnings that can be considered unquoted company.
For such investments, appropriate valuation to be maintainable.
techniques are adopted and used consistently.
