14 The City of London Investment Trust plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2010 Report of the Directors The directors present the audited financial statements of the The Company has a portfolio invested predominantly in Company and their report for the year ended 30 June 2010. larger companies.
Typically at least 60% of the portfolio by value will be invested in companies in the FTSE 100 Index.
Business Review The remainder of the portfolio will be invested in a The following business review is designed to provide combination of UK listed medium sized and small information primarily about the Companys business and results companies and up to 20% in overseas listed companies.
The Business Review should There are no set limits on sector exposures, although the be read in conjunction with the Portfolio Managers Report on Board regularly monitors the Companys investments and pages 6 to 9, which gives a detailed review of the investment the Managers investment activity.
The Manager primarily activities for the year and an outlook for the future.
employs a bottom-up value-based investment process to a Status identify suitable opportunities and pays particular regard to The Company is an investment company as defined in Section cash generation and dividends.
833 of the Companies Act 2006 and operates as an investment The portfolio yield will usually be between 10% and 30% trust in accordance with Section 1158 of the Corporation Tax Act above the average dividend yield for the UK equity market.
2010 formerly Section 842 of the Income and Corporation Taxes There may be some holdings, selected for their above Act 1988.
It is required to seek approval from HM Revenue & average growth potential, which have a dividend yield Customs HMRC of its status as an investment trust under the lower than the market.
above-mentioned Section every year, and this approval will continue to be sought.
HMRC approval of the Companys status Gearing as an investment trust has been received in respect of the year The Company will at times utilise limited gearing, both ended 30 June 2009, although this approval is subject to there short and long term, in order to enhance performance.
being no subsequent enquiries under Corporation Tax Self Other than in exceptional market conditions, gearing will Assessment.
The directors are of the opinion that the Company not exceed 20% of net asset value at the time of draw has continued to conduct its affairs in a manner that will enable it down of the relevant borrowings.
Up to 10% of the net to continue to gain such approval.
assets can be held in cash.
The Company intends to continue to manage its affairs so Selling traded options where the underlying share is held in that its investments fully qualify for a stocks and shares the portfolio can be used for the purposes of efficient component of an ISA.
Buying and selling FTSE 100 Index Futures can be used to increase or reduce gearing.
b Investment objective and policy Objective Diversification The Companys objective is to provide long term growth in The Company achieves an appropriate spread of income and capital, principally by investment in UK equities.
investment risk principally through a broadly diversified The Board continues to recognise the importance of dividend portfolio, which at 30 June 2010 contained 90 individual income to shareholders.
At 30 June 2010, the largest single investment was British American Tobacco, which accounted Policy for 6.5% of total investments, while the top 20 holdings Asset allocation totalled 61.9%.
While the Company will mainly invest in equities, there is the flexibility to invest in debt securities, such as The Company will not invest more than 15% of its convertibles, corporate bonds or government debt, if it is portfolio in any single investment on acquisition, nor will it deemed that these will, at a particular time or for a invest more than 15% of the portfolio in any other UK particular period, enhance the performance of the listed investment trusts or investment companies.
Company in the pursuit of its objective.
