The City of London Investment Trust plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2010 13 Directors Simon fide Zoete David Brief is currently Richard Hextall is the Sir Keith Stuart Chairman Chairman was Deputy Chief Investment Officer Group Finance Director of of the Audit Committee and Chairman of Credit Suisse of BAE Systems Pension Amlin plc and a director Senior Independent Director First Boston Europe Funds Investment of the Lloyds Market is an adviser to The Gas & Limited until June 2001.
Prior to Electricity Markets Authority, is an adviser to BAE Systems He is also a non-executive joining Amlin, he was having been a Member of the 2000 Pension Plan.
He is an director of Henderson TR employed by Deloitte & Authority from 2000 to 2006. investment banker Pacific Investment Trust Touche.
He joined the He was Chairman of specialising in the equity plc.
He joined the Board Board in 2007.
Associated British Ports market and was Vice on 1 January 2009.
Holdings plc from 1983 to Chairman of Barclays fide 2002 and he has also served Zoete Wedd prior to its sale as non-executive Chairman of to Credit Suisse First Boston SEEBOARD plc and as a nonin 1998.
He joined the executive Director of BAA plc Board in 2000. and RMC Group plc.
All directors are independent of the Investment Manager except Mr Brief who is a director of Henderson TR Pacific Investment Trust plc, which is also managed by Henderson Global Investors.
All directors are members of the Nominations Committee, which is chaired by Simon fide Zoete.
The Audit Committee consists of Sir Keith Stuart, Richard Hextall and David Brief.
Management Job Curtis has been the Portfolio Manager since 1 July 1991.
He is an executive of Henderson Global Investors Limited.
Job is assisted in the management of the portfolio by Alex Crooke and James Henderson.
Deborah Trickett acts as Company Secretary on behalf of Henderson Secretarial Services Limited.
From left to right: front row Deborah Trickett, Job Curtis back row Alex Crooke, James Henderson
