Close Brothers Group plc Annual Report 2010 Corporate Overview Board of Directors 08 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 U09509 pp01-pp10.
Bruce Carnegie-Brown Chairman Senior Independent Director Appointed a director in March 2003, Appointed a director in June 2006 and senior independent director in senior independent director in June September 2004, deputy chairman in 2008.
He is chairman of the November 2006 and chairman in Remuneration Committee.
He is chairman of the He is chairman of Conduit Capital Nomination and Governance Markets Limited, senior independent Committee.
He is chairman of British director of Catlin Group Limited and Empire Securities and General Trust plc a non-executive director of and JP Morgan Smaller Companies Moneysupermarket.
Formerly a director Formerly with 3i Group, Marsh & of Flemings, chairman of Tribal Group McLennan and JP Morgan.
plc, executive deputy chairman of Misys plc and nonexecutive director of AXA 6.
Ray Greenshields UK plc and Kleinwort Benson Private Non-executive Director Bank Limited.
He is senior advisor to Standard Life 2.
Previously he was chairman Chief Executive of Bestinvest Group, director of Standard Joined Close Brothers as chief executive Life Assurance Limited, managing in April 2009 having spent his career director of Barclays Wealth Management, in a number of senior positions at CEO of Zurich Financial Services UK JP Morgan over 23 years, as well as and International Life, and managing being chief executive of Wellington director of AMP Financial Services.
Underwriting plc between 2004 to 2006, and then chief investment offi cer and a 7.
Douglas Paterson member of the group executive Non-executive Director committee at Catlin Group Limited.
Appointed a director in July 2004 and is chairman of the Audit Committee.
Jonathan Howell Within the Goldman Sachs Group he Finance Director is a director of Goldman Sachs Joined Close Brothers as fi finance International Bank, Montague Place director in February 2008 having Custody Services and of Rothesay Life previously held the same role at the Limited and is a non-executive offi cer of London Stock Exchange Group plc Generation Investment Management since 1999.
Prior to that he was at LLP.
Formerly he was a senior partner in Price Waterhouse.
the banking and capital markets division of .
Stephen Hodges Managing Director and 8.
Jamie Cayzer-Colvin Banking Chief Executive Non-executive Director Joined the Banking division of Close Appointed a director in January 2008.
Brothers in 1985, following eight years at He is a director of Caledonia Hambros.
He was appointed a director Investments plc and a non-executive in August 1995 with responsibility for the director of Polar Capital Holdings plc Banking division.
He was appointed and India Capital Growth Fund.
Previously with Whitbread and GEC and a former director of Rathbone Brothers plc.
