Close Brothers Group plc Annual Report 2010 Governance Report of the Directors 27 The directors present their report and the audited financial changes in the Companys ordinary share capital during the statements for the year ended 31 July 2010. year are given in note 23 on page 82 of the Financial Statements.
On a show of hands, each member has the right Business Review and Principal Activities to one vote at general meetings of the Company.
On a poll, Close Brothers Group plc the Company is the parent each member is entitled to one vote for every share held.
The company of a group of specialist banking, securities and asset shares carry no rights to fixed income.
No person has any management companies.
special rights of control over the Companys share capital and all shares are fully paid.
The principal subsidiary undertakings as at 31 July 2010 and their principal activities are listed in note 26 on page 84 of the During the year the Company issued 194,157 ordinary shares Financial Statements.
of 25.0p each in satisfaction of option exercises.
Full details of the options exercised, the weighted average option exercise The information that fulfils the requirements of the Business price and the weighted average market price at the date of Review can be found in the following sections of the Annual exercise can be found in note 31 on pages 88 and 89 of the Report, each of which are incorporated by reference into, and Financial Statements.
form part of, this Report of the Directors: Restrictions on the transfer of shares Pages There are no specific restrictions on the transfer of the Chairmans and Chief Executives Statement 2 to 5 Companys shares which are governed by the general provisions of the articles of association and prevailing Board of Directors 8 to 9 legislation.
Business Review 11 to 21 Principal Risks and Uncertainties 22 to 26 The Company is unaware of any arrangements between its Corporate Governance 29 to 35 shareholders that may result in restrictions on the transfer of Corporate Responsibility 36 to 37 shares and or voting rights.
Report of the Board on Directors Remuneration 38 to 48 Financial Statements 49 to 99 New issues of share capital Under the Companies Acts, the directors of a company are, Results and Dividends within certain exceptions, unable to allot any equity securities The consolidated results for the year are shown on page 50. without express authorisation, which may be contained in a The directors recommend a final dividend for the 2010 financial companys articles of association or given by its shareholders year of 25.5p 2009: 25.5p on each ordinary share which, in general meeting, but which in either event cannot last more together with the interim dividend of 13.5p 2009: 13.5p, than five years.
Under the Companies Acts, the board may makes an ordinary distribution for the year of 39.0p 2009: also not allot shares for cash otherwise than pursuant to an 39.0p per share.
The final dividend, if approved by employee share scheme without first making an offer to shareholders at the 2010 Annual General Meeting AGM, will existing shareholders to allot such shares to them on the same be paid on 19 November 2010 to shareholders on the register or more favourable terms in proportion to their respective as at 8 October 2010. shareholdings, unless this requirement is waived by a special resolution of the shareholders.
Directors The current directors of the Company at the date of this report Purchase of Own Shares appear on pages 8 and 9.
All the directors held office The existing authority given to the Company at the last AGM to throughout the year ended 31 July 2010. make market purchases of up to 10% of its issued share capital will expire at the conclusion of the next AGM.
Directors interests The directors interests in the share capital of the Company as The board considers it would be appropriate to renew this at 31 July 2010 are set out on page 44. authority and intends to seek shareholder approval to make market purchases of up to 10% of its issued share capital at Appointment of directors and powers of directors the forthcoming AGM in line with current investor sentiment.
Details on the appointment of directors and the powers of Details of the resolution renewing the authority are included in directors are set out on page 30. the Notice of AGM.
Directors indemnity During the year ended 31 July 2010, the Company made no The Company has granted indemnities to all of its directors on market purchases of its own shares Treasury Shares.
terms consistent with the applicable statutory provisions.
Qualifying third party indemnity provisions for the purposes of The Company holds Treasury Shares for the purpose of section 234 of the Companies Act 2006 were accordingly in satisfying option grants and share awards under the force during the course of the financial year ended 31 July Companys employee share plans.
During the year ended 2010, and remain in force at the date of this report.
31 July 2010, 705,411 Treasury Shares were transferred out to satisfy share option awards, for a total consideration of Share Capital 4.0 million.
The maximum number of Treasury Shares held at As at 31 July 2010 the Company had 149.7 million ordinary any time during the year was 5.5 million with a nominal value of shares in issue with a nominal value of 25.0p each.
indd 27 29 9 10 20:50:37 Close Brothers Group plc Annual Report 2010 Governance Report of the Directors continued 28 Employee Share Trust Charitable and Political Donations Bedell Trustees Limited is the trustee of the Close Brothers The group made charitable donations in the year amounting to Group Employee Share Trust, an independent trust, which 281,000 2009: 154,000.
Further details are set out in the holds shares for the benefit of employees and former Corporate Responsibility section on pages 36 and 37.
No employees of the group.
The trustee has agreed to satisfy a political donations were made during the year 2009: nil.
number of awards under the employee share plans.
As part of these arrangements the Company funds the trust, from time to Resolutions at the Annual General Meeting time, to enable the trustee to acquire shares to satisfy these The Companys AGM will be held on 18 November 2010. awards, details of which are set out in note 31 on pages 88 Resolutions to be proposed at the AGM include the renewal of the directors authority to allot shares, the disapplication of and 89. pre-emption rights, authority for the Company to purchase its own shares and the re-election of all the directors.
Substantial Shareholdings Details on substantial shareholdings in the Company are set out on page 34.
The full text of the resolutions is set out in the Notice of AGM sent to the Companys shareholders.
A letter from the Significant Contracts chairman which explains the purpose of the resolutions will A change of control of the Company following a takeover bid accompany the Notice of AGM.
may cause a number of agreements to which the Company is party to take effect, alter or terminate.
These include the Auditors Company bonds due 2017, certain insurance policies, bank Resolutions to reappoint Deloitte LLP as the Companys facility agreements and employee share plans.
auditor and to give the directors the authority to determine the auditors remuneration will be proposed at the forthcoming AGM.
The group had committed facilities totalling 1.5 billion as at 31 July 2010 which contain clauses which require lender Disclosure of Information to Auditors consent for any change of control.
Should consent not be Each of the persons who are directors at the date of approval given, a change of control would trigger mandatory of this Annual Report confirms that: prepayment of the facilities.
So far as the director is aware, there is no relevant audit All of the Companys employee share plans contain provisions information of which the Companys auditor is unaware: and relating to a change of control.
Outstanding awards and He has taken all the steps that he ought to have taken as a options may vest and become exercisable on a change of director in order to make himself aware of any relevant audit control, subject where appropriate to the satisfaction of any information and to establish that the Companys auditor is performance conditions at that time and pro-rating of awards.
In the context of the Company as a whole, these agreements are not considered to be significant.
This confirmation is given and should be interpreted in accordance with the provisions of section 418 of the Companies Act 2006.
Risk Management The group has procedures in place to identify, monitor and By order of the board evaluate the significant risks it faces.
The groups risk management objectives and policies are set out on pages 33 Elizabeth Lee in note 33 on pages 91 to 99 to the Financial and 34 and Company Secretary Statements.
28 September 2010 Supplier Payment Policy All banking, securities and investment transactions are settled in accordance with applicable terms and conditions of business agreed with the counterparty.
Average creditor days for all other approved expenses was 22 2009: 21.
