pa our Ge G title lobal in networ Here [delete K iF not required] [paGe title line 2 iF required] aerospace & defence power Generation oil & Gas automotive Civil eng, agriculture, rail & Marine overview as the only truly global provider of subcontract thermal processing services, bodycote is able to offer a significant advantage to its customers.
through an international network of plants, bodycote can effectively utilise a wealth of knowledge, experience and specialist expertise to deliver quality service when and where it is needed.
the network operates from 173 facilities, with customers able to benefit from bodycotes comprehensive range of services from multiple locations.
Customers know that if their business expands, bodycote will have the capability to meet their needs.
they know that if they were to broaden their manufacturing footprint, bodycote would be able to assist them.
they know that they can obtain the same process to the same quality standards from multiple locations.
north ameriCa such a large network brings economies of scale, with technology bodycote has 39 facilities in north america, concentrated where developed at one location being available globally if the market manufacturing and technical industries are located.
the network includes five specialist operations, four offering Hip, the bodycote network has a wealth of technical accreditations, and the other offering surface technology.
Hip capacity has recently some industry or customer specific, others more general.
individual been expanded to ensure that bodycote is best positioned to satisfy operations concentrate on the accreditations suited to their market.
its customers needs as the economic climate continues to improve.
although bodycote is headquartered in the uK, 89% of the Groups low pressure carburising capability has been similarly expanded.
revenue is derived outside the uK.
with facilities in 26 countries, this energy efficient technology can, for example, enable automotive bodycote is truly global.
manufacturers to produce 7- and 8-speed automatic transmissions of modest weight and compact dimensions, which assist in the quest for lower emissions.
group revenue By market seCtor revenue By market seCtor north ameriCa aerospace & defence aerospace & defence energy energy automotive automotive Civil eng, agriculture, rail & Marine Civil eng, agriculture, rail & Marine other General industrial other General industrial 6 bodyCote annual report 2010 business review : Corporate GovernanCe : aCCounts paGe title in Here [delete iF not required] [paGe title line 2 iF required] tooling Consumer product electronics & telecoms Medical & environmental Mining western europe emerging markets bodycote has 104 facilities in western europe including seven bodycote has 30 facilities in emerging geographies including Hip plants and seven dedicated surface technology facilities.
two dedicated surface technology plants, one each in singapore the important French, German and scandinavian markets are and dubai.
bodycote is the number one thermal processing provider particularly well served with 28, 19 and 18 facilities respectively.
in both brazil and eastern europe and is number two in China.
recent capacity extensions include expanded facilities aimed at these markets have a special emphasis in the Groups growth the needs of the wind energy market.
Hip capacity has been significantly enhanced to meet customers growing needs for this service.
revenue By market seCtor western europe revenue By market seCtor emerging markets aerospace & defence aerospace & defence energy energy automotive automotive Civil eng, agriculture, rail & Marine Civil eng, agriculture, rail & Marine other General industrial other General industrial business review : Corporate GovernanCe : aCCounts bodyCote annual report 2010 7
