direCtors report the directors are pleased to submit their report and the audited Capital struCture financial statements for the year ended 31 december 2010. details of the authorised and issued share capital are shown in note 25. the Company has one class of ordinary shares, which carry no right the Chairmans statement, the Chief executives review, the to fixed income.
each share carries the right to one vote at general Finance directors report, and all the information contained on pages meetings of the Company.
there are no specific restrictions on the 8 to 45 together comprise the directors report for the year ended size of a holding nor on the transfer of shares, both of which are 31 december 2010. governed by the general provisions of the articles of association prinCipal aCtivities and prevailing legislation.
the directors are not aware of any the Company is a holding company with subsidiaries carrying on agreements between holders of the Companys shares that may business in the provision of thermal processing services.
the activities result in restrictions on the transfer of securities or on voting rights.
and locations of the principal subsidiary undertakings are set out on details of employee share schemes are set out in note 28 and pages 99 and 100. shares held by the bodycote employee benefit trust abstain from voting and waive dividend.
no person has any special rights of group review control over the Companys share capital and all issued shares the Group review, which encompasses: are fully paid.
the appointment and replacement of directors strategy and objectives: is governed by the Companys articles of association, the uK Key performance indicators: Corporate Governance Code, the Companies act and related legislation.
the articles of association may be amended by Chairmans statement: a special resolution of shareholders.
the powers of the directors Chief executives review: are described in the Corporate Governance statement on page 34. business performance: under the articles of association the Company has authority to issue ordinary shares with a nominal value of 3,250,168. there are business overview: also a number of other agreements that take effect, alter, crystallise business review: or terminate upon a change of control of the Company following a Finance directors report: and takeover bid such as commercial contracts, bank loan agreements, Corporate responsibility and sustainability property lease agreements, employment contracts and employee share plans.
none of these are considered to be significant in terms is provided on pages 8 to 31 of this annual report.
this is a review of their likely impact on the business of the Group as a whole, and of the development of the businesses of the Group, the financial the directors are not aware of any agreements between the Company performance during the year ended 31 december 2010, key and themselves or employees that provide for compensation for loss performance indicators, a description of the principal risks and of office or employment that occurs because of a takeover bid.
uncertainties facing the Group and information about the use of DireCtors financial instruments.
the Group review has been prepared solely the current directors and their biographical details are listed on to assist the shareholders in assessing the Groups strategies and page 45 and all served throughout the year.
under the articles of the potential of those strategies.
it should not be relied on by any association of the Company each director must retire from office other party for any other purpose.
Forward-looking statements have and stand for re-election by shareholders as a minimum at every been made by the directors in good faith using information available third annual general meeting in order to continue to serve as a up to the date of this report and such statements should be regarded director.
However in view of the newly introduced uK Corporate with caution because of the inherent uncertainties in economic Governance Code and to further increase accountability, this year trends and business risks.
since the end of the financial year no all directors will retire at the annual General Meeting and stand for important events affecting the business of the Group have occurred.
re-election by the shareholders if they wish to continue to serve DiviDenDs as directors of the Company.
accordingly, those directors retiring the board is recommending a final dividend of 5.75p per ordinary and offering themselves for re-election at the 2011 annual General share making a total for the year of 8.7p per share 2009: 8.3p.
Meeting are Messrs a. M. thomson, s. C. Harris, d. F. landless, the final dividend, if approved, will be paid on 6 May 2011 to j. vogelsang, j. a. biles and dr K. rajagopal.
the re-elections shareholders on the register at the close of business on 8 april 2011. of Messrs thomson and vogelsang are in accordance with the retirement provisions of the articles of association.
the service share Capital the Companys issued ordinary share capital as at 31 december 2010 agreements for Messrs Harris and landless are terminable by 12 months notice.
the remaining directors do not have a service was 32.8m and during the year was increased by the issue of 1,714,205 ordinary shares between 12 March and 22 december agreement with the Company and their appointments are terminable by six months notice or in the case of the Chairman, Mr thomson 2010 for a total consideration of 618,471 in connection with the Companys executive share incentive schemes.
at the annual by 12 months notice.
General Meeting on 28 april 2010 the shareholders authorised the Company to purchase up to 18,816,771 of its own shares.
this authority expires at the conclusion of the forthcoming annual General Meeting to be held on 27 april 2011, at which time a further authority will be sought from shareholders.
32 bodyCote annual report 2010 business review : Corporate GovernanCe : aCCounts DireCtors interests in ContraCts & shares researCh anD Development details of the executive directors service contracts and details of product development and quality improvement at all Group companies the directors interests in the Companys shares and share incentive is a continuous process.
the Group has a policy of deploying the plans are shown in the board report on remuneration on pages best technology available and actively seeking improvements.
it also 39 to 43. no director has had any dealings in any shares or options conducts research programmes with its customers.
in the Company since 31 december 2010. qualifying third party Donations indemnity provision as defined by section 234 of the Companies act Charitable donations during the year net of income tax amounted 2006 has remained in force for the directors for the year ended 31 to 6,000 2009: 2,750. there were no political contributions in december 2010 and, as at the date of this report, remains in force for 2009 or 2010. the benefit of the current directors in relation to certain losses and CreDitors poliCy liabilities which they may incur or have incurred to third parties in the Group operating companies are responsible for agreeing the terms course of their duties.
apart from these exceptions, none of the and conditions under which business transactions are conducted.
directors had a material interest in any contract of significance in it is Group policy that payments to suppliers are made in accordance relation to the Company and its subsidiaries at any time during the with the terms agreed, provided that these suppliers have also financial year.
complied with applicable terms and conditions.
Creditor days at potential ConfliCts of interest the year end for the Group were 46 days 2009: 46 days.
during 2008 the duties owed by directors to a company were codified shareholDers and extended by the Companies act 2006 so that directors not only an analysis of the Companys shareholders and the shares in issue at had to declare actual conflicts of interests in transactions as they 18 February 2011 and details of the interests of major shareholders arose but also had a duty to avoid such conflicts whether real or in voting shares notified to the Company pursuant to chapter 5 of the potential.
potential conflicts of interest could arise where a single disclosure and transparency rules are given on page 101. director owes a fiduciary duty to more than one organisation a situational Conflict which typically will be the case where a auDitors director holds directorships in more than one company.
in order to in accordance with the provisions of section 489 of the Companies ensure that each director was complying with the new duties, each act 2006, a resolution for the reappointment of deloitte llp as director provided the Company with a formal declaration to disclose auditors is to be proposed at the forthcoming annual General what situational Conflicts affected him.
the board reviewed the Meeting.
each person who is a director at the date of approval declarations and approved the existence of each declared situational of this annual report confirms that:- Conflict until october 2011 and permitted each affected director to so far as each director is aware, there is no relevant audit attend and vote at bodycote directors meetings, on the basis that each information of which the Companys auditors are unaware: and such director continued to keep bodycotes information confidential, and provided overall that such authorisation remained appropriate each director has taken all the steps that he ought to have and in the interests of shareholders.
where such authorisation taken as a director to make himself aware of any relevant audit becomes inappropriate or not in the interests of bodycote shareholders, information and to establish that the Companys auditors are the Chairman or the nomination Committee, can revoke an authorisation.
no such revocations have been made.
this statement is given and should be interpreted in accordance employment with the provisions of section 418 of the Companies act 2006. the Group recognises the value that can be added to its future annual general meeting profitability and strength by the efforts of employees.
the commitment the 2011 annual General Meeting will be held on 27 april 2011 in of employees to excel is key to the Groups continued success.
accordance with the notice being sent to shareholders with this report.
through their attendance at, or participation in strategy, production, safety and health meetings at site level, employees are kept up to date by order of the board with the performance and progress of the Group, the contribution to the Group made by their site and are advised of safety and health issues.
the Group publishes in 11 languages, via the Group intranet, an electronic magazine for all staff detailing the Groups activities, performance and some of its personalities and has also featured springwood Court the Groups open door policy under which employee concerns can springwood Close be voiced on a confidential basis.
approximately 1,600 bodycote tytherington business park employees are connected to the bodycote intranet, which improves J. r. grime Macclesfield knowledge of Group activities, and assists greatly with technology secretary Cheshire exchange and co-ordination.
it is the Groups policy to give full and 24 February 2011 sK10 2xF fair consideration to applications for employment from disabled persons, having regard to their particular aptitudes and abilities, and to encourage the training and career development of all personnel employed by the Group, including disabled persons.
should an employee become disabled the Group, where practicable, will seek to continue the employment and arrange appropriate training.
an equal opportunities policy is in operation in the Group.
business review : Corporate GovernanCe : aCCounts bodyCote annual report 2010 33
