tHe outsourCinG prinCiple the partner of ChoiCe bodycote has a long history bodycote has become the partner of choice for the worlds most respected and innovative engineering companies by providing highly of successful outsourcing efficient, cost-effective services to the highest quality standards through strategic investment in people and the latest technology, partnerships, from global to equipment and quality systems.
local manufacturers... by outsourcing non-core but vitally important thermal processing requirements to bodycote, customers are able to concentrate their business resources where they are needed most.
bodycotes services offer tangible benefits to customers such as reduced equipment maintenance, capital expenditure, energy costs, people costs and a major reduction in Co emissions.
2 bodycote has a long history of successful outsourcing partnerships, from global to local manufacturers.
in many cases, subcontracting relationships lead to component and service-specific long-term agreements, or strategic partnering arrangements, which embody protection and freedom from risk for the customer and bodycote.
these are often exclusive in character and provide the basis for mutual business development, with both companies freed to concentrate capital and other resources on core competencies.
making innovations possiBle bodycotes extensive facilities and expertise mean development projects can expand far beyond customers in-house capabilities, helping to realise goals more quickly and more cost-effectively.
around the globe, bodycote has dedicated teams working on a variety of projects.
when required, this may include the development of specific processes and equipment for a customer or verification of materials or designs, prior to their application.
in-house development and improvement of standard processes has led to bodycote offering a range of proprietary processes such as Kolsterising, Corr-i-dur and sheraCote, which far outperform their standard counterparts.
4 bodyCote annual report 2010 business review : Corporate GovernanCe : aCCounts
