DEXION ABSOLUTE LIMITED 2010 REPOR T & ACCOUNTS DIRECTORS REPORT The Directors present their report and audited financial requirements and place stringent restrictions on the number statements for the year to 31 December 2010. of investors whose money they will manage.
By investing with these and other portfolio managers, the Company seeks Principal Activity to provide investors with access to the varied skills and expertise of such portfolio managers which may not Dexion Absolute Limited the Company is a Guernsey authorised closed-ended investment company listed on the otherwise be available to such investors, while at the same time attempting to lessen the risks and volatility associated London Stock Exchange.
The Companys Shares are classified as a premium listing.
Trading in the Companys with investing through any single hedge fund or portfolio manager.
The Company also enables investors to avoid, to a ordinary shares since reclassified as Shares commenced on 19 December 2002. significant extent, the high minimum investment requirements typically imposed on individual investors investing in hedge funds directly.
Company Law These financial statements have been prepared under The Although the Investment Adviser allocates the Companys Companies Guernsey Law, 2008. assets among underlying portfolio managers employing one or more of the strategies described on page 51, the Investment Objective Investment Adviser does not follow a rigid policy and, subject The Companys investment objective is to generate consistent to maintaining an appropriate spread of funds and investment long-term capital appreciation with low volatility and little strategies, the Companys assets may be deployed in correlation with the general equity and bond markets through whatever funds and investment strategies the Investment a portfolio having a diversified risk profile.
The Companys Adviser deems appropriate.
The Company is not restricted investment objective is consistent with that of Aurora LP from participating in any market, strategy or investment, and Aurora, which is the Investment Advisers flagship fund.
the Investment Adviser may alter or modify some or all of the Companys underlying investment strategies in light of Although not forming part of the Companys investment available investment opportunities and prevailing economic objective, the Companys investment rationale, methodology and market conditions if the Investment Adviser determines and portfolio management is consistent with that of Aurora.
that such alterations or modifications are consistent with the Companys investment objective, subject to what the However, it has not been, and may continue not to be possible Investment Adviser considers an acceptable level of risk.
The for the Company always to invest in the same underlying Company will invest and manage its assets in a way which is funds that Aurora is invested in to the same extent or at all consistent with its objective of spreading investment risk.
and the fees and expenses payable by Aurora may differ materially from those payable by the Company.
Accordingly, The initial allocation of assets to a fund managed by a the Companys performance will not mirror that of Aurora.
particular portfolio manager may be based, in part, on the Investment Advisers contact and experience with the portfolio Investment Policy manager.
Allocations are also a function of the degree of risk The Companys investment policy is to invest in an actively that the Investment Adviser seeks i to include funds managed managed portfolio of hedge funds which is diversified by by at least two portfolio managers utilising a particular investment strategy, style and manager, to achieve attractive investment strategy, ii not to invest more than 10% of the risk-adjusted returns with low correlation to equity and fixed Companys total assets in any one fund, and iii not to invest interest benchmarks.
The Investment Adviser seeks to more than 40% of the Companys total assets in any single achieve this by allocating the Companys assets among strategy, although it may deviate from any such guidelines professionally selected hedge funds that are managed by from time to time and or for sustained periods, subject always experienced portfolio managers employing, as a group, a to the investment restrictions set out below.
variety of investment techniques and strategies.
The portfolio managers selected by the Investment Adviser There are a number of portfolio managers implementing have complete discretion to purchase and sell securities for alternative investment strategies whose services are not their respective hedge funds consistent with the relevant generally available to the investing public.
Such portfolio investment advisory agreements, partnership agreements or managers often impose high minimum investment 13 DEXION ABSOLUTE LIMITED 2010 REPOR T & ACCOUNTS other governing documents.
Such agreements and value ascribed to them which is difficult to verify.
Accordingly, governing documents generally allow the portfolio managers the realisation value will only be known once they are realised.
to change the kinds of investments they make and their techniques for making investments if they believe that such The Company started 2010 with a secured variable funding changes are appropriate in view of the then current or note from Credit Suisse which provides for a maximum of expected, market, business or economic conditions.
200 million or 25% of net assets whichever is the lower.
This secured variable funding note matured on 30 August Although it does not currently do so, the Investment Adviser 2010.
The Company delivered an extension request to roll may allocate part of the Companys assets to portfolio the secured variable funding note for a further 12 months managers affiliated with the Investment Adviser provided with effect from 30 August 2010. that such allocations are permitted by applicable law.
Such allocations, if any, will generally not, in the aggregate, exceed In March of 2011 the Board performed a review of potential 10% of the Companys total net assets as of the date any credit providers that resulted in a further request to Credit such allocation is made although the Investment Adviser Suisse to roll the facility for another 12 months with effect from may deviate from the foregoing policy under unusual 30 August 2011.
The Board expects the facility will have been circumstances.
The Company would pay such affiliated rolled over by this date.
portfolio managers management and performance fees on terms no more favourable than the terms generally offered The variable funding note is used for short-term or temporary liquidity purposes as may be necessary to to unaffiliated investors.
facilitate investment and withdrawals from underlying funds The hedge funds in which the Company invests are or may or to meet ongoing expenses, and to implement the be permitted to borrow and invest in long and short positions Companys currency hedging strategy.
in equities, fixed income securities, options, warrants, The Board may exercise all the powers of the Company to futures, commodities, currency forwards, over-the-counter derivative instruments such as swaps, securities that lack borrow money and to give guarantees, mortgage, active public markets, repurchase and reverse repurchase hypothecate, pledge or charge all or part of its undertaking, property or assets and uncalled capital and to issue agreements, preferred stocks, convertible bonds and other debentures and other securities whether outright or as financial instruments as well as cash and cash equivalents.
collateral security for any liability or obligation of the It is the intention of the Company to be substantially fully Company or of any third party.
The Companys Articles do not invested at all times, although the Investment Adviser may specify a borrowing limit.
use its discretion to hold cash or equivalent investments from time to time.
The Company does not have any long-term or fixed structural gearing and, whilst it is not intended that it should The valuations of the Companys investments as set out in its have, the introduction of any such gearing would be subject weekly and monthly NAV releases assume a present value of to the prior approval of Shareholders.
The Company may be those investments based on estimates received from indirectly exposed to gearing to the extent that investee underlying funds or their managers or administrators and funds or portfolio managers are themselves geared.
The assuming no settlement obstructions rather than the amount Investment Adviser expects such underlying gearing to be in which those investments might realise were they to be the range 1.5:1 to 2.5:1. redeemed.
Such redemptions may be subject to 3, 6 or 12 months or even longer notice periods and some investments Investment Restrictions may be incapable of redemption at the present time or in the The Company has adopted the following investment future, by which time the value of such investments may have restrictions which include certain restrictions set out in the changed up or down.
Accordingly, the realisation value of Listing Rules: those investments will only be known once they are redeemed.
Not more than 20% of the total assets of the Company Certain irredeemable or side-pocket investments or will be invested in any one fund at the time the investments that have suspended realisations may have a investment is made.
14 DEXION ABSOLUTE LIMITED 2010 REPOR T & ACCOUNTS DIRECTORS REPORT CONTINUED The Company will not make further investment s in any Results single investment strategy where, immediately The results for the year are set out in the Statement of following such further investment s, that investment Comprehensive Income.
The Directors do not propose a strategy represents 60% or more of the total assets of dividend for the year nor was one declared for 2009. the Company.
The Company will not borrow more than 40% of its net Significant Events assets for short term or temporary liquidity purposes, The Companys rolling 12 month discount floor was triggered including as may be necessary to facilitate investment at the beginning of 2010 requiring continuation votes to be and withdrawals from underlying funds or to meet proposed for each class of Shares by way of ordinary class ongoing expenses and to implement the Companys resolution.
Pursuant to the Companys articles of association, currency hedging strategy.
on 15 January 2010 a Circular containing notices of each of The Company will avoid cross-financing between the class meetings was sent to Shareholders.
On 12 February businesses forming part of its investment portfolio.
2010, following the separate class meetings the Board was The Company will avoid the operation of common pleased to announce that all three Share classes of the treasury functions as between the Company and Company passed the continuation resolutions with 100% of investee companies.
the votes cast at the and US$ class meetings being voted Any material change in the investment policies of the in favour of continuation and 98.89% of the Share class Company will only be made with the approval of votes cast being voted in favour.
Not more than 10% of the total assets of the Company The Board put forward a voluntary reverse auction in aggregate will be invested in other closed-ended redemption offer in January 2010 of an amount up to the investment funds except for those which themselves equivalent of 10% of the Companys NAV at that time.
The have stated investment policies to invest no more than redemption price for Shares was determined by an auction 15% of their gross assets in other closed-ended process which established a single discount level to NAV of investment fund.
3% which was applied across all Share classes by reference Dividends will not normally be paid and in any event will to the Companys final NAV as at 31 December 2009.
As a only be paid if they are covered by income received result of this offer, 61,915,828 Shares, 1,275,463 from underlying investments.
Shares and 1,833,867 US$ Shares were redeemed.
The distribution as dividend of surpluses arising from Settlement of this offer was made on 24 February 2010. the realisation of investments is prohibited.
At the beginning of 2011, the Companys rolling 12 month In the event of any breach of these investment restrictions, discount floor was again triggered, resulting in class the Board will make an announcement on a regulatory meetings of all Share classes being convened to consider information service provider as soon as practicable and the 2011 Continuation Resolutions, as set out in a Circular subsequently write to Shareholders if appropriate.
issued to Shareholders on 2 March 2011.
On 28 March 2011, the Board announced that the resolutions in respect Shareholder Information of the and $ Share classes had been passed, whilst the The Company announces its NAV on a monthly basis together resolution of the Share class had not been passed.
The with a commentary on its investment performance.
Estimated Board expects to put forward Redemption Proposals to NAVs are normally provided weekly.
Share price, NAV and Shareholders shortly.
performance information can also be found by eligible Shareholders on the Companys website page which can be 2010 saw the continued implementation of Share buybacks accessed via www.
However information by the Company designed both to reduce the Share price on that website does not form part of, nor is it incorporated discount and also to address the liquidity of the Shares.
by reference into this document and that information is not available to certain overseas Shareholders.
Shareholder web During the year the Company repurchased 10,550,000 conferences also take place and are announced via RNS.
28,893,771 Shares were held in treasury as at 31 December 2010.
15 DEXION ABSOLUTE LIMITED 2010 REPOR T & ACCOUNTS The Directors still have a Treasury Share Policy whereby any Substantial Interests shares held in treasury after a period of 12 months are Disclosure and Transparency Rules are now comprised in the cancelled.
Such rules require substantial Shareholders to make relevant holding Under The Companies Guernsey Law, 2008, the number of notifications to the Company and the UK Financial Services shares of any class held as treasury shares must not at any Authority.
The Company must then disseminate this time exceed 10% of the total number of issued shares of information to the wider market.
There were no immediate Corporate Governance cancellations in 2010.
Introduction The Board recognises the importance of a strong corporate Management Arrangements governance culture that meets the listing requirements.
All The Company has an agreement with Dexion Capital Directors contribute to Board discussions and debates.
The Guernsey Limited for the provision of investment Board believes in providing as much transparency for management services.
The Manager attends every quarterly investors as is reasonably possible and the monthly portfolio Board meeting and maintains open dialogue with the report continues to be well received by investors.
Directors on an ongoing basis.
Management fees as disclosed in note 10 are based on an annual amount of 1.5% The new Board structure composition at the end of of the total assets of the Company plus a performance fee as November 2010 as described under The Board has outlined in note 10.
The Management Engagement allowed for new impetus to prevail as the Board develops Committee has reviewed the performance of the Manager in and Directors settle into their new roles and scrutinise the managing the portfolio.
That Committee has also reviewed various Terms of Reference and Reserved Powers of the the appropriateness of the terms of the investment Board.
management agreement, in particular, the length of the AIC notice period and the fees payable to the Manager.
The Company is a member of the Association of Investment Companies the AIC and has carefully considered the Following their review, it is in the opinion of the Directors that principles and recommendations of the AIC Code of the continuing appointment of the Manager on the terms Corporate Governance the AIC Code and has decided to agreed is in the interest of Shareholders as a whole.
follow the AICs Corporate Governance Guide for Investment Companies the AIC Guide.
The AIC Code and Guide were During 2010 the Management Engagement Committee updated in October 2010 to take into account the newly reviewed all key service provider performance and requested issued UK Corporate Governance Code.
a self-certification from each such provider demonstrating how key performance indicators had been achieved.
Although the new standards of governance and reporting came into effect for reporting periods commencing on or after Directors Interests 29 June 2010 the Board has decided to report against the The Directors, as stated on page 12, all served during the highest standard and so this year the annual corporate year under review.
The Directors had no beneficial interest in governance review was undertaken against the updated AIC the Company other than as shown below: Guide.
31 December 2010 On 30 September 2010, the Financial Reporting Council shares provided the AIC with an updated endorsement letter to cover TC Ash Nil the fifth edition of the AIC Code.
The endorsement confirms that R M J Bowie 102,626 Robin Bowie Childrens Trust 14,700 by following the AIC Code investment company boards should S A Farnon Nil fully meet their obligations in relation to the UK Corporate J E Hallam 22,906 Governance Code and paragraph LR 9.8.
P Sharman 62,280 W N Collins Nil 16 DEXION ABSOLUTE LIMITED 2010 REPOR T & ACCOUNTS DIRECTORS REPORT CONTINUED The Company Secretary has undertaken a review of the by Mr Hallam.
Being non-executive Directors, no Director has a corporate governance principles of the Board and Committees service contract with the Company.
of the Board of the Company.
The Directors confirm The Articles of Association provide that one third of the compliance to the updated AIC Code without exception.
Directors retire by rotation at each annual general meeting.
If their number is not three or a multiple of three, the number Guernsey Regulatory Environment nearest to but not exceeding one third, shall retire from During 2009 there were a number of changes to the office.
However, the Board has now adopted a policy regulatory regime for Guernsey funds.
A number of whereby each Director will retire and offer themselves for provisions which were contained in the Control of Borrowing re-election at each Annual General Meeting.
By adopting this Bailiwick of Guernsey Ordinance, 1959 to 2003 COBO policy the Directors recognise that more than one third of which governed closed-ended funds were consolidated into their number retire each year.
The Board believes that long the Protection of Investors Bailiwick of Guernsey Law, serving Directors should not be prevented from forming part 1987, as amended the POI Law which governed of an independent majority of the Board and propose that open-ended funds and licensees so that the POI Law now upon reaching nine years service the Board will document governs both open-ended and closed-ended funds as well continuing independence discussions in relation to such as licensees.
Directors as part of the annual Board self evaluation and will disclose its conclusions in future Directors Reports.
As the Closed-ended funds are now Category 1 controlled investments under the POI Law.
The changes have also Company was formed in 2002 no Director has yet served for codified in the POI Law a number of standard conditions and nine years or more although Messrs Hallam, Bowie and Ash ongoing notification requirements imposed on the licensees will all have served for nine years by November 2011.
A of funds which were listed on the funds COBO consent, but Director who retires at an annual general meeting may, if were not explicitly set out in COBO.
It is intended that the willing to act, be reappointed.
The Directors are not subject changes will simplify Guernseys investment fund regime by to automatic re-appointment.
categorising all funds whether open-ended or closedOther than arising from the initial re-election of the first ended as either registered schemes or authorised schemes.
directors of the Company, this is the first year that all of the The Directors have determined that the Company will Directors are to retire and offer themselves for re-election.
continue as an Authorised Closed-Ended Investment In the absence of each retiring Director, the remaining Scheme.
Directors discussed and appraised each other.
The Board believes that the balance of skills, experience, knowledge of The Board the Company and mixed length of service on the Board Disclosure under Principle 5 of the AIC Code provides for a solid base in which the interest of investors will The Board currently consists of six non-executive Directors.
In be served to a high standard.
The Board recommends the reaccordance with Principle 2 of the AIC Code four of the nonelection of each Director and supporting biographies, executives the majority are independent of the Investment including length of service, are disclosed on page 12 of this Adviser and Manager.
Mr Bowie and Mr Sharman are not annual report.
A full list of other public company directorships independent of the Manager or the Investment Consultant.
The for each Director is disclosed on page 50.
Chairman, Mr Hallam, met the independence criteria of the AIC Code Principle 1 upon appointment and has continued to meet The Board meets at least four times a year and between this condition throughout his term of service.
Although not a these formal meetings there is regular contact with the requirement of the AIC Code, in accordance with guidance in Manager, the Secretary and the Companys Broker.
The Principle 1, the Board has a Senior Independent Director.
Directors are kept fully informed of investment and financial Mr Ash was appointed as Senior Independent Director on controls, and other matters that are relevant to the business 30 November 2010, this role having previously been occupied of the Company that should be brought to the attention of the Directors.
The Directors also have access where necessary 17 DEXION ABSOLUTE LIMITED 2010 REPOR T & ACCOUNTS in the furtherance of their duties, to independent professional advice at the expense of the Company.
The attendance record of Directors is set out below: Quarterly Management board Audit Engagement Remuneration Nomination meetings Committee Committee Committee Committee Number of meetings 4 3 1 2 1 Meetings attended: P P Walsh 4 N A 1 2 1 T C Ash 3 2 1 N A 1 R M J Bowie 4 N A N A N A N A J E Hallam 4 2 1 2 1 P Sharman 4 2 N A 2 N A S A Farnon N A 1 N A N A N A W N Collins N A 1 N A N A N A Retired 30 November 2010 Appointed 30 November 2010 Ceased to be members of the Audit Committee during the year During the year a further 15 ad-hoc Committee meetings were restrictions of the Company.
held to deal with matters substantially of an administrative nature and these were attended by those directors available at The primary focus at Board meetings is a review of investment the time.
performance and associated matters such as asset allocation, marketing investor relations, risk management, gearing, As previously mentioned, the Board has a breadth of general administration and compliance, peer group information experience relevant to the Company, and the Directors believe and industry issues.
that any changes to the Boards composition can be managed without undue disruption.
With any new Director appointment The Board evaluates its performance and considers the tenure to the Board an induction process is tailored to ensure that it and independence of each Director on an annual basis, and would be appropriate for the appointee.
Upon any such believes that the mix of skills, experience and length of service appointment the new Director would be available to meet are appropriate to the requirements of the Company.
To enable this evaluation to take place the Secretary circulates The Board considers agenda items laid out in the notice and a detailed questionnaire plus a separate questionnaire for the agenda of meeting which are formally circulated to the Board evaluation of the Chairman.
The questionnaires once in advance of the meeting as part of the Board papers.
completed are returned to the Secretary who collates Directors may request any agenda items to be added that they responses, prepares a summary and discusses the Board consider appropriate for Board discussion.
Additionally, each evaluation with the Chairman prior to circulation to the Director is required to inform the Board of any potential or remaining Board members.
For the evaluation of the Chairman, actual conflicts of interest prior to Board discussion.
the results are discussed with the Senior Independent Director who then discusses them with the Chairman prior to further The Board constantly considers strategy to address continuing distribution to the remaining Directors.
market conditions and feedback from Shareholders wishing to achieve certain liquidity.
The investment strategy, which is set In 2013 the Directors will make arrangements for an out in the Companys latest prospectus, is reviewed regularly independent third party to carry out this evaluation in and the Investment Adviser advises on the adoption of accordance with Principle 7 of the AIC Code.
appropriate strategies to employ under prevailing market conditions at any particular time within the overall investment 18 DEXION ABSOLUTE LIMITED 2010 REPOR T & ACCOUNTS DIRECTORS REPORT CONTINUED Directors of the Company.
The Remuneration Committee meets Directors Duties and Responsibilities at least once in every financial calendar year to review the The Directors have adopted a set of Reserved Powers, which remuneration policy, although such review may not result in establish the key purpose of the Board and detail its major changes.
The Remuneration Committee may seek independent duties.
These duties cover the following areas of responsibility: professional services as required.
The Remuneration Committee Statutory obligations and public disclosure: has no executive powers with regard to its findings and Strategic matters and financial reporting: recommendations.
The chairman of the Remuneration Oversight of management and personnel matters: Committee or a member thereof will always be available to The establishment, terms of reference, and reporting answer questions about the work of the Remuneration arrangements for all subcommittees acting on behalf of Committee at the annual general meeting of the Company.
the authority of the Board: Risk assessment and management, including reporting, Remuneration Policy monitoring, governance and control: and The Remuneration Committee has received independent Other matters having a material effect on the Company.
professional research in respect of their roles and responsibilities.
These Reserved Powers of the Board have been adopted by the Directors to demonstrate clearly the seriousness with After careful consideration the Committee determined that: which the Board takes its fiduciary responsibilities and as an ongoing means of measuring and monitoring the effectiveness All Directors of the Company are non-executive and as such of its actions.
It also addresses Principle 16 of the AIC Code.
there are: no service contracts with the Company: Committees of the Board no long-term incentive schemes: Nomination Committee no options or similar performance incentives.
The Nomination Committee was constituted by resolution of the The Directors Remuneration: Board on 24 August 2010.
The Committee is chaired by Mr shall reflect the responsibility, experience, time Hallam and the other members are Mr Ash, Mrs Farnon and Mr commitment and position on the Board: Collins Mrs Farnon and Mr Collins from 30 November 2010. the Chairman and Chairman of the Audit Committee shall The key duties of the Nomination Committee are to regularly be remunerated in excess of the remaining board review the structure, size and composition including skills, members to reflect their increased roles of responsibility knowledge and experience in accordance with Principle 6 of and accountability: the AIC Code required of the Board and to make fees shall be paid quarterly in arrears: recommendations with regard to changes and to give full remuneration for additional work shall be carefully consideration to succession planning for Directors that would considered and become due and payable on an ad-hoc include identifying and nomination of suitable board basis: and candidates.
independent professional consultancy shall be undertaken at least every three years.
Remuneration Committee The Remuneration Committee was constituted by resolution of Remuneration 2010 the Board on 21 August 2007.
Until July 2010 Directors remuneration had not increased since 2006.
The Remuneration Committee is chaired by Mr Ash and the other members are Mr Hallam, Mrs Farnon and Mr Collins.
In 2008 and 2009 the Directors resolved not to make any increase in basic remuneration and agreed to revisit this in 2010 The key duty of the Remuneration Committee is to determine, or early 2011, having obtained independent advice.
In February agree and propose Board policy for the remuneration of the 19 DEXION ABSOLUTE LIMITED 2010 REPOR T & ACCOUNTS 2011 the Remuneration Committee recommended and the Board The Management Engagement Committee consists of Mr Ash approved the following annual fees with effect from 1 July 2010: Chairman, Mr Collins, Mrs Farnon and Mr Hallam.
Mr J Hallam, Chairman, 45,000: Mr T Ash, Senior Independent Director 30,000: Audit Committee Mrs S Farnon, Chair of the Audit Committee, 35,000: An Audit Committee has been established consisting of Dr P Sharman and Mr W Collins, 30,000: and Mrs Farnon Chairman, Mr Ash and Mr Collins.
The Audit Committee was previously chaired by Mr Hallam.
The Audit Mr R Bowie has waived his right to his annual fee of 30,000.
Committee examines the effectiveness of the Companys internal control systems, the annual report and accounts and The increase in the fee of the Chairman for the period 1 July interim report, the auditors remuneration and engagement, as 2010 up to and including 29 November 2010 is due and well as the auditors independence and any non-audit services payable to Mr Walsh who chaired the Company from inception provided by them.
The Audit Committee receives information to his retirement on 30 November 2010. from the Company Secretary and the compliance department of the Administrator and the external auditors.
The Audit Any additional remuneration where Directors are involved in Committee meets at least three times a year to review the duties beyond those normally expected as part of a Directors audit timetable, annual and interim accounts and other risk appointment will be disclosed in the Directors Report of the management and governance matters.
financial statements in respect of that financial year.
The Audit Committee also considers whether the appointment During 2010 there were no additional payments made to of an internal audit function is required.
Management Engagement Committee Terms of Reference A Management Engagement Committee, with defined terms All Terms of Reference for Committees are available from the of reference and duties, has been established to review Company Secretary upon request.
annually the terms of the management agreement between the Company and the Manager, the investment advisory Internal Controls agreement between the Company, the Manager and the The Board is ultimately responsible for the Companys Investment Adviser, and the Investment Consultant agreement system of internal control and for reviewing its effectiveness.
agreement between the Company, the Manager and the The Board confirms that there is an ongoing process for Investment Consultant and the Company secretarial identifying, evaluating and managing the significant risks agreement with the Secretary.
The Management Engagement faced by the Company.
The Directors conduct at least Committee also reviews the performance of all other key annually a review of the Companys system of internal service providers including the Custodian, Designated control, covering all controls, including financial, operational, Manager and Corporate Broker.
This approach addresses AIC compliance and risk management.
Code Principles 15 and 18 as the Committee refers to the Board all discussions and findings.
The Board has reviewed the effectiveness of the system of internal control.
In particular, it has reviewed and updated the As previously mentioned, all key service providers submitted a process for identifying and evaluating the significant risks performance self-certification to the Management Engagement affecting the Company and the policies by which these risks Committee as part of the 2010 review.
The Management Engagement Committee is also charged with As there is a delegation of daily operational activity as ensuring that service providers do not have conflicts of interest described below, the Audit Committee and Board have in accordance with the Authorised Closed Ended Investment determined that there is no requirement for a direct internal Schemes Rules 2008 as issued by the Guernsey Financial audit function.
The internal control systems are designed to Services Commission.
meet the Companys particular needs and the risks to which it is exposed.
20 DEXION ABSOLUTE LIMITED 2010 REPOR T & ACCOUNTS DIRECTORS REPORT CONTINUED Accordingly, the internal control systems are designed to Going Concern manage rather than eliminate the risk of failure to achieve The Companys 12 month discount floor provision was business objectives and by their nature can only provide triggered again at the beginning of 2011, requiring, in reasonable and not absolute assurance against misstatement accordance with the Companys Articles of Association, and loss.
separate continuation votes to be proposed for each class of Shares by way of ordinary Class resolution.
On 28 March The Board has delegated the management of the Companys 2011, following the separate class meetings of the investment portfolio, the provision of custody services and Shareholders the Board announced that the resolutions in the administration, registrar and corporate secretarial respect of the and $ Share Classes had been passed, whilst functions including the independent calculation of the the resolution of the Share Class had not been passed.
Companys NAV and the production of the Annual Report and Details of the results are contained on page 15 in the Financial Statements which are independently audited.
Following the passing of the and $ Whilst the Board delegates responsibility, it retains continuation resolutions and after making enquiries and given accountability for the functions it delegates and is the nature of the Company and its investments, the Directors responsible for the systems of internal control.
Formal are satisfied that it is appropriate to continue to adopt the contractual agreements have been put in place between the going concern basis in preparing the Financial Statements, Company and providers of these services.
and, after due consideration, the Directors consider that the Company is able to continue in the foreseeable future.
On an ongoing basis compliance reports are provided at each quarterly board meeting from the Administrator, Custodian, Relations with Shareholders AIC Code Principle 19 Manager, Investment Adviser, Investment Consultant and The Manager, the Investment Consultant and the Companys Company Secretary.
Broker maintain a regular dialogue with institutional Shareholders, the feedback from which is reported to the As part of the overall risk management process, at each Board.
In addition, Board members will be available to quarterly meeting the Directors receive, consider and assess a respond to Shareholders questions at the Annual General risk matrix detailing all key risks that are graded by probability Meeting.
The Company continues to offer Investorweb and impact.
conferences with the Investment Adviser.
Two such conferences took place during 2010.
To provide further Corporate Responsibility transparency, the Directors agreed portfolio and liquidity The Company is not an operating company.
It considers the enhancements to the published monthly newsletter that may ongoing concerns of investors by open and regular dialogue be found by eligible Shareholders on the Companys website with and through the Manager, the Investment Consultant and page which can be accessed via www.
The Board monitors the trading activity and Shareholder profile The Company makes reference to the Corporate on a regular basis.
Shareholder sentiment is also ascertained Responsibility Statement of Aurora Investment Management by the careful monitoring of the discount premium at which LLC as Investment Adviser.
each class of Shares is traded in the market against the NAV per Share when compared to the discounts premiums The Company keeps abreast of regulatory and statutory experienced by the Companys peer group.
changes and takes appropriate action.
The Company is advised that carbon disclosure is set to become mandatory The Company reports formally to Shareholders twice a year by April 2012.
As previously referred, all daily operations are and a proxy voting card for the AGM is sent to shareholders delegated.
The Company itself does not maintain premises, with the Annual Report and Accounts.
Results of or have any employees.
Extraordinary and Annual General Meetings are announced by the Company on the day of the relevant meeting.
Additionally, the Interim Management Statements and the 21 DEXION ABSOLUTE LIMITED 2010 REPOR T & ACCOUNTS current information provided to eligible Shareholders on an Disclosure of information to auditors ongoing basis through the Companys website page and So far as each of the Directors is aware, there is no relevant newsletter assist in keeping Shareholders informed.
The audit information of which the Companys auditor is unaware, Secretary and Registrar monitor the voting of the and each Director has taken all the steps he ought to have Shareholders and proxy voting is taken into consideration taken as a Director to make himself or herself aware of any when votes are cast at the Annual General Meeting.
relevant information and to establish that the Companys Shareholders may contact the Directors via the Company auditor is aware of that information.
Secretary, whose contact details are found on page 49 of this Report and Accounts.
Auditors A resolution for the re-appointment of KPMG Channel Directors are available for meetings with Shareholders upon Islands Limited will be proposed at the forthcoming Annual request via the Company Secretary or the Investment General Meeting.
By order of the Board Directors also attend key corporate events such as the Annual Manager Conference usually held at the London John E Hallam Susie Farnon Stock Exchange premises.
