Booker Group plc annual report & accounts 2010 DIrectors report the Directors present their report and audited accounts for the 52 week period ending 26 March 2010. Business review Information fulfilling the requirements of the Business review is contained in the chief executives review and the Group Finance Directors report.
Key performance indicators the principal KpIs used to monitor the financial performance of the business are operating profit margin, operating profit, profit after tax and levels of net debt relative to plan.
other key non-financial measures are customer satisfaction and health and safety.
Results and dividends the Group recorded a profit for the period of 47.6m 2009: 39.2m as shown in the consolidated Income statement for the year which is set out on page 27. the Directors have recommended a final dividend of 1.03 pence per ordinary share.
If approved by shareholders at the annual General Meeting, this final dividend will be payable on 9 July 2010 to shareholders on the register of members at the close of business 4 June 2010. an interim dividend 0.24 pence per share was paid on 27 november 2009.
If the final dividend is approved by shareholders, dividends for the year will total 1.27 pence per ordinary share.
Interests of directors in contracts During the year ended 26 March 2010 no Director had any material interest in any significant contract to which the company or any subsidiary was a party.
Changes of control all of the companys share schemes contain provisions relating to a change of control.
outstanding options and awards normally vest and become exercisable on a change of control, subject to the satisfaction of any performance conditions at that time.
the company is not a party to any other significant agreements that take effect, alter or terminate upon a change of control following a takeover bid other than its bank facility agreement, which provides that on a change of control the lender, HBos plc shall not be obliged to fund a utilisation except for a rollover loan and, if it so requires, may cancel its commitment and declare its participation in all outstanding utilisations immediately due and payable.
Further the company is not party to any agreement with the Directors or employees providing for compensation for loss of office or employment whether through resignation, purported redundancy or otherwise that occurs as a result of a takeover bid other than with charles Wilson, in that in the event of a change of control of the company, charles Wilson has the right to terminate his employment on 30 days notice and to receive a payment equal to his gross salary for his contractual notice period.
Directors the names of those persons serving as directors of the company during the year are set out below.
the Directors held office throughout the period unless otherwise stated.
charles Wilson Jonathan prentis Mark aylwin appointed 9 november 2009 Bryan Drew Bryn satherley richard rose lord Bilimoria andrew cripps richard Farr appointed 27 May 2009 Karen Jones Kevin lyon resigned 27 May 2009 Biographical details of the Directors are set out in the section headed Board of Directors.
In accordance with the companys articles of association, Mark aylwin, having been appointed since the last annual General Meeting will offer himself for re-election.
lord Bilimoria, andrew cripps and Jonathan prentis will retire by rotation at the annual General Meeting, and being eligible, will offer themselves for re-election.
23 Booker Group plc annual report & accounts 2010 DIrectors report continued the company maintains appropriate Directors and officers liability Insurance in respect of itself and its Directors.
the Directors may also be indemnified in accordance with the companys articles of association and to the maximum extent permitted by law, although no such indemnities are currently in place.
the insurance does not, and any indemnities if granted would not, provide cover where the relevant Director or officer has acted fraudulently or dishonestly.
the company prepares a separate corporate Governance report see pages 11 to 16 and Directors remuneration report see pages 17 to 22. the interests of the Directors in the ordinary shares of the company were as follows: Ordinary Shares Ordinary Shares in Booker Group plc in Booker Group plc 26 March 2010 27 March 2009 charles Wilson 123,241,986 123,241,986 Jonathan prentis 15,363,486 22,863,486 1 Mark aylwin 1,673,170 n a Bryan Drew 16,863,486 22,863,486 Bryn satherley 15,363,486 22,863,486 richard rose 910,282 0 2 lord Bilimoria 200,000 200,000 andrew cripps 200,000 200,000 3 richard Farr 0 n a Karen Jones 100,000 50,000 1 Mark aylwin was appointed to the Board on 9 november 2009.
2 on the 11 March 2010 lord Bilimoria pledged 200,000 ordinary shares to sG Hambros Bank limited.
3 richard Farr was appointed to the Board on 27 May 2009.
Details of the interests of Directors in options over ordinary shares of the company are set out on page 22. there have been no changes in the interests of any of the directors between 26 March 2010 and 19 May 2010.
Substantial interests the company is aware or has been notified of the following shareholdings of 3% or more of the total voting rights attaching to its issued share capital as at 19 May 2010: % artemis Investment Management 8.49 charles Wilson 8.10 Morley Fund Investment 7.95 schroder Investment Management 5.63 ameriprise Financial Inc 5.45 aXa Investment Managers 5.07 Blackrock Investment Management uK limited 5.00 legal & General Group plc 4.02 cazenove capital Management 3.07 Employees It is the Groups policy to involve employees in the business and to ensure that matters of concern to them, including the Groups aims and objectives and its financial performance, are communicated in an open and regular way.
this is achieved through the use of business briefings, newsletters and other less formal communications.
24 Booker Group plc annual report & accounts 2010 the Directors encourage employees to become shareholders to improve active participation in and commitment to the Groups success.
this policy has been pursued for all employees through the saYe scheme.
as at the year end 1,055 employees were contributing monthly to the saYe scheme.
the promotion of equal opportunities for all employees, including disabled persons, is regarded as an important Group priority.
applications for employment and promotion of disabled persons are treated on the same basis as those from other applicants having regard to aptitude, ability, requirements of the job and experience.
the Groups policy is to seek to continue the employment of, and to arrange appropriate training for, employees who have become disabled during the period when they were employed by the Group.
In the year the average number of persons employed by the Group including Directors increased from 8,340 to 8,741. the increase in the average number of persons employed by the Group was partly due to the insourcing of cleaning services, additional operational staff due to the increase in trading activity and as a result of opening a branch in Mumbai, India.
Suppliers the Group works closely with its suppliers to ensure the delivery of its policies on product quality and integrity, health and safety, and the environment.
payments to suppliers are made in accordance with terms and practices agreed with individual suppliers.
trade creditors for the Group at the financial year end represented 40 days of purchases 2009: 38 days Share capital as at the date of this Directors report, the companys share capital consisted of 1,494,038,480 issued and fully paid ordinary shares with a nominal value of 1 pence per share, listed on london stock exchange.
a total of 5,359,400 ordinary shares were issued during the year in connection with the exercise of options under the companys share option schemes.
ordinary shares may be held in certificated or uncertificated form.
Further details of the companys authorised and issued share capital are set out in note 20 to the Financial statements.
at the aGM held in 2009, the company was granted authority by shareholders to purchase up to 148 million ordinary shares, representing less than 10% of the companys ordinary share capital as at 11 June 2009. no ordinary shares were purchased pursuant to this authority during the year.
this authority will expire at the forthcoming aGM and, in accordance with current best practice, the company will seek to renew it.
the rights and obligations attaching to the companys ordinary shares are contained in the companys articles of association, a copy of which can be viewed on the companys website or obtained by request to the company secretary.
the articles of association can only be changed by special resolution passed in a general meeting of shareholders.
each ordinary share carries the right to one vote on a poll at a general meeting of the company.
there are no restrictions on transfer or limitations on the holding of the ordinary shares, nor are there any requirements for prior approval for their transfer.
under the articles of association, the Directors have the power to suspend voting rights and the right to receive dividends in respect of ordinary shares in circumstances where the holder of those shares fails to comply with a notice issued under section 793 of the companies act 2006. ordinary shares acquired through the companys share option schemes rank equally with all other ordinary shares in issue and have no special rights.
Details of share options granted but not exercised or lapsed as at 26 March 2010 are set out in note 23 to the Financial statements.
In respect of Directors shareholdings, there are no known arrangements under which financial rights are held by persons other than holders of the shares except in respect of lord Bilimoria as described above.
Annual General Meeting the annual General Meeting of the company will be held at 11:00am on Wednesday 7 July 2010 at Booker branch st pancras, 106 camley street, elm Village, camden, london nW1 0pF.
the notice of annual General Meeting, which seperately accompanies this document, includes details of the business to be transacted at the meeting and contains an explanation of all resolutions to be considered at the annual General Meeting.
In particular, the opportunity will be taken to propose amendments to the articles of association of the company to take account of the coming into force of the companies shareholders rights regulations 2009, the implementation of the final parts of the companies act 2006 and amendments to the uncertificated securities regulations 2001.
25 Booker Group plc annual report & accounts 2010 DIrectors report continued Electronic Communications the company is authorised under its articles of association and pursuant to the companies act 2006 to communicate with shareholders or anyone with an indirect interest in shares by making such communication available on its website.
the company has written to all shareholders to invite them to indicate how they wish to receive copies of the annual report and accounts.
accordingly, the company will, distribute its printed annual report and accounts only to shareholders who have indicated to the company that they wish to receive it in that form.
the company will periodically canvas new shareholders on the form in which they wish to receive their shareholder communications.
Going concern after making enquiries, the Directors have a reasonable expectation that the Group have adequate resources to continue in operational existence for the foreseeable future.
accordingly, they continue to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the group and company financial statements.
Political and charitable contributions the Group made no political contributions during the period, nor has it incurred any other political expenditure, either in the uK or overseas.
staff and Directors have raised 50,835 for 132 local charities across the country.
the Group donated 10,000 each to caravan and sweet charity.
In addition donations totalling 55,498 have been made to charities by colleagues through the Give as you earn scheme.
Disclosure of information to auditors each of the Directors who held office at the date of approval of this Directors report confirms that, so far as he or she is aware, there is no relevant audit information of which the companys auditors are unaware and that he or she has taken all the steps that he or she ought to have taken as a Director to make himself or herself aware of any relevant audit information and to establish that the companys auditors are aware of that information.
Auditors the companys auditors, KpMG audit plc, have expressed their willingness to continue in office and a resolution will be proposed at the annual General Meeting for their reappointment as the external auditor to the company.
this report was approved by the Board of Directors on 19 May 2010.
