Booker Group plc annual report & accounts 2010 BoarD oF DIrectors British american tobacco plc, he has held Richard Rose, Mark Aylwin a number of non-executive Directorships Non-Executive Chairman Managing Director Booker Direct in the uK and europe.
andrew is currently Age: 54 Age 46 non-executive Deputy chairman of swedish richard joined Blueheath as deputy Mark is Managing Director of Booker Direct.
Match aB and a non-executive Director of chairman in May 2006 and was appointed prior to that, he was chief executive officer Helphire Group plc and Molins plc.
executive chairman in september 2006. of Blueheath.
Mark was previously supply richard now acts as non-executive chain and It director at Musgrave Budgens chairman of the company.
He has over twenty years trading, Richard Farr, formerly chief executive officer of Whittard supply chain and logistics experience in the Non-Executive Director of chelsea plc, a multi site retailer of tea and food industry, principally at safeway where Age: 52 coffee which was sold in 2006. previously he was commercial director for non-foods richard is a qualified chartered accountant he was a Director of Hagemeyer uK ltd, and the supply chain director.
richard was a a distributor of professional products and director and subsequently partner in the services, with a uK turnover approaching restructuring and pensions practices at Bryan Drew, 1 billion through 360 outlets.
prior to  between 2001 Commercial Director that he had been chief executive officer and 2007 during which time he was Age: 49 of WF electrical plc, a fully listed electrical seconded to the pensions regulator.
prior Bryan is commercial Director, responsible distributor, where he created a substantial to joining the board of Booker, richard for all buying and brands of the Booker improvement in shareholder value.
was a director of swiss re capital Markets Group.
Bryan was at Booker plc from Hagemeyer purchased WF electrical plc in limited.
richard is currently a Director of 1989 to 2003 when he left to co-found 2000.
He was also non-executive chairman Blue sky london limited.
He returned to Booker of ac electrical Wholesale ltd where he led in november 2005. a successful growth strategy resulting in a Karen Jones CBE, substantial increase in shareholder value.
Non-Executive Director Bryn Satherley, the business was sold to Wolseley in 2006.
Age: 53 He is also executive chairman of Helphire Operations Director Karen was ceo of spirit Group ltd, a Group plc, non-executive chairman of Age: 49 private equity backed pub & restaurant Kiotech International plc and crawshaw Bryn is operations Director responsible for group which was built up by acquisition Group plc and non-executive Director of property, It, logistics and supply chain of and sold to punch taverns in January 2006.
Drl Group ltd. the Booker Group.
Bryn was at Booker prior to spirit, Karen founded, grew and plc between 1999 and 2001 and rejoined floated the pelican Group plc, owner of a Booker in 2005. prior to 1999 he was at Charles Wilson, number of restaurant chains including caf exel plc and was on the board of alldays Chief Executive rouge, which was acquired by Whitbread ltd.
Karen has a first class honours Director of poundcroft ltd. charles started his career in 1986 with degree from university of east anglia, and procter and Gamble following which he also attended Wellesley college, usa.
Lord Bilimoria CBE, DL, was a consultant with oc&c strategy Karen has now started another hospitality consultants and a Director of abberton Non-Executive Director company in london, Food and Fuel ltd associates.
In 1998 he became an executive Age: 48 which currently consists of ten gastropubs.
Director of Booker plc which merged with Karan Bilimoria is a university of cambridge Karen is a non-executive Director of Virgin Iceland plc in 2000.
In 2001 he became an law graduate and a qualified chartered active Group ltd, asos plc, coFra aG executive Director of arcadia Group plc and accountant.
He is the founder and and of royal national theatre enterprises in 2004 he became an executive Director chairman of cobra Beer partnership ltd. ltd. she is a Governor of ashridge Business at Marks and spencer plc.
In 2005 he was He is chancellor of thames Valley university school, sits on the Industrial Development appointed as chief executive of Booker.
and an Honorary Fellow of sidney sussex advisory Board and chairs the rebuilding college, cambridge.
He is an advisory Board childhoods Board of the nspcc.
Member of Boston analytics and a former Jonathan Prentis, non-executive Director of Brake Brothers.
Group Finance Director Membership of Committees He is also president of the uK India Business Age: 48 Audit council and an independent crossbench Jonathan qualified as a chartered andrew cripps chairman peer in the House of lords.
accountant in 1987 with Deloitte & touche.
richard Farr He was appointed as Group Finance Karen Jones Andrew Cripps, Director of Booker in 2005. prior to this Nomination appointment, Jonathan was Finance Non-Executive Director richard rose chairman Director of Woodward Foodservice ltd Age: 52 lord Bilimoria and then Finance Director of Group andrew read economics at the university of andrew cripps logistics within the Big Food Group plc.
cambridge prior to qualifying as a chartered Remuneration prior to 2003, he was with tDG plc.
Following twenty lord Bilimoria chairman years with rothmans International and andrew cripps richard Farr 10
