Ecofin Water & Power Opportunities pic 16 Report and Accounts 2010 Directors Ian BarbyA, the Chairman of the Company, was a ViceJohn Murray, is the Chairman and one of the founders of Chairman of Mercury Asset Management pic from 1990 to Ecofin Limited Ecofin, the Company's Investment Manager.
1998 and subsequently a Managing Director of Merrill Lynch Prior to founding Ecofin in 1992, he was head of the corporate Investment Managers.
He is non-executive chairman of finance department and a member of the management NVESCO Perpetual UK Smaller Companies Investment Trust pic committee of Swiss Bank Corporation's London-based and a non-executive director of BlackRock World Mining Trust investment banking business.
Before joining Swiss Bank pic, Pantheon International Participations PLC, Schroder Income Corporation in 1987, he was an investment banker with Morgan Growth Fund pic and SR Europe Investment Trust pic.
Stanley Group, Inc. from 1975 to 1986.
He is a non-executive director of Ecofin Global Utilities Hedge Fund Limited, Ecofin North American Utilities Hedge Fund Limited, Ecofin Special Christopher JonesA f, was head of investments Situations Utilities Fund Limited, Ecofin China Power & at Merchant Investors Assurance Company Ltd, a wholly-owned Infrastructure Fund Limited and BlackRock New Energy subsidiary of Allianz UK Limited, which he joined in 1985, Investment Trust pic.
He is chairman of EFMI Global Utilities until retiring in 2003.
His other directorships are Atlantis Japan and Infrastructure Funds pic, a fund managed by an affiliate Growth Fund Ltd, Cayenne Trust pic, Montanaro European of Ecofin.
Smaller Companies pic, Montanaro UK Smaller Companies Investment Trust pic and Schroder UK Mid and Small Cap Fund pic.
Martin Negre, was the Chairman of the Company until 31 March, 2005.
He is Chairman of Ecofin Global Utilities Hedge Bernard Lambilliotte Alternate Director to John Murray, Fund Limited, Ecofin North American Utilities Hedge Fund Limited, Ecofin Special Situations Utilities Fund Limited and is the Senior Managing Director, Chief Investment Officer, and one of the founders of Ecofin Limited Ecofin, the Company's Ecofin China Power & Infrastructure Fund Limited and a director Investment Manager.
Prior to founding Ecofin in 1992, he was of EFMI Global Utilities and Infrastructure Funds pic.
He was, an investment manager for Pictet & Cie in Geneva and in until June 2001, the chief executive officer of Ondeo Services London.
From 1985 to 1990, he was an investment banker UK then known as Northumbrian Water Group pic, a subsidiary of Suez Lyonnaise des Eaux, and Suez Lyonnaise's chief with Swiss Bank Corporation in London and Paris.
He is also a non-executive director of Hamon & Cie International S. A. corporate representative in the UK.
Prior to that, he was an international power engineering group based in Brussels.
Suez Lyonnaise's international director in Paris and then its Asia-Pacific president in Hong Kong and Singapore.
Before that, he spent 21 years with Alsthom and then GEC Alsthom, Federico MarescottiA, has, since 1999, been the Executive the Anglo French engineering company, where he was a senior Chairman of Vela Capital, a private equity group.
He is also executive and the chief executive officer of the power generation Executive Chairman and Managing Director of Friulia, one of division.
He is a non-executive director of Northumbrian Water Italy's leading financial holding companies.
From 1986 to 1992, Group pic, Promethean pic and Bolux SICAV Luxembourg.
he was Managing Director of Saceccav Depurazioni Sacede On 24 June, 2010, he was appointed a director of Hansen s. p. a. an Italian company which builds and operates water and Transmissions International NV, the Company's second refuse facilities for local governments which was acquired by the largest investment.
At RWE, he was Managing Director of RWE Ambiente Italia s. p. a.
director of JP Morgan European Fledgeling Investment Trust pic t Senior Independent Director.
and Dunedin Enterprises Investment Trust pic.
He is also a Audit Committee member All Directors are Non-Executive.
The dates of appointment of all Directors.
director of other unquoted companies.
other than the Alternate Director, are given on page 26.
All Directors are Directors of the Company's subsidiary, EW&PO Finance pic except for Mr Lambilliotte who is an alternate for Mr Murray.
