Managers Review which have significant exposure to the mainland, rose as Overview investors focused on the growing rental income from its Asian equities rose strongly in the year under review as premium shopping malls.
corporate earnings rebounded, aided by low interest rates and fiscal stimulus.
Thailand was the best performing market The underweight to China boosted relative returns, as the as it shrugged off violent protests in Bangkok between market lagged amid government cooling measures.
Stock government forces and the red shirts to gain 56.1% in selection, which was also positive, was driven mainly by sterling terms.
Indonesia was next, thanks to its large, CNOOC, the countrys largest offshore oil and gas  economy that was mostly shielded exploration company, as it was bolstered by record first-half from ongoing external uncertainties.
Your Manager remains cautious about China.
There is a disparity between the At the outset of the period, economic conditions across Asia economy, which continues its inexorable rise, and the were improving quickly.
The regions sizable foreign reserves stockmarket, where cashflows do not always end up in the and healthy fiscal positions helped governments execute hands of shareholders.
Many of the larger state-run generous and effective stimulus packages.
In particular, enterprises, including the banks, have to balance Chinas own massive US$585 billion package, combined with shareholders interests with the countrys socio-economic a big expansion in bank credit, drove demand higher for its goals.
While we have a small number of Chinese companies neighbours commodities and other products.
As such, the in our portfolio at present, our Hong Kong holdings provide a export-orientated economies of Singapore, Hong Kong and more effective exposure to the mainland.
We plan to Taiwan, which had contracted sharply in 2008 and early increase our investments in China over time as we find well- 2009, rebounded quickly.
managed and attractively-priced companies with proven track records.
The rapid economic improvement, however, gave rise to concerns of overheating.
Beijing applied the brakes in two Our investments to Sri Lanka also boosted performance, as sectors that had helped propel the recovery, ordering a the market rose more than 80% over the period on the back clampdown on property speculation and bank lending to of hopes that the end of the 25-year-long civil war would local government investment vehicles.
Elsewhere, Malaysia usher in a new era of stability.
Tourism has been the clear and India were the most aggressive in raising interest rates beneficiary so far, having risen steadily since June last year three times each since the beginning of the calendar year with John Keells and its portfolio of hotels, ports and retail while South Korea, Taiwan and Thailand lifted policy rates at leading the rally.
Similarly, DFCC Banks share price doubled.
This stood in contrast to the West, where interest The lender managed to post steady results despite the heavy rates were kept at record lows as economies struggled with tax burden on the sector.
high unemployment and consumer debt.
The portfolios overweight in South-east Asia also Regional currencies, as measured by the Bloombergcontributed considerably to relative performance.
In JPMorgan Asia Currency Index, rose to a two-year high in the Thailand, positive asset allocation outweighed negative stock second quarter, driven by a pick-up in fund inflows.
Chinas selection: PTT Exploration and Production failed to keep pace move to increase the flexibility of its exchange rate against with the rising market after the September 2009 oil spill the US dollar in June although viewed as largely political incident at Montara.
Conversely, in the Philippines, Ayala further buoyed hopes that currencies would rise significantly Lands expansion into mid-range residential property and over the next few years.
into second-tier cities paid off, while Jakarta-listed Unilever Indonesias share price was underpinned by steady revenue Performance Attribution Analysis growth, complemented by margin expansion from lower raw The portfolios net asset value rose 35.0% on a total return material costs.
The portfolio also has exposure to Indonesias basis during the 12 months to 31 August 2010, compared long-term growth prospects via Hong Kong-listed Jardine with a rise in its benchmark of 24.2%.
Asset allocation, stock Strategic, which owns conglomerate Astra International, in selection and the currency effect all contributed positively to addition to Singapores Oversea-Chinese Banking Corp and relative performance.
United Overseas Bank, which have local subsidiaries in the archipelago.
Our positioning in Hong Kong, China and Sri Lanka contributed the most to relative performance.
In Hong Kong, From a sector perspective, our large exposure to financials our stock holdings were beneficiaries of robust growth in aided performance.
In addition to DFCC Bank and Ayala Land, China.
Jardine Strategics tender offer to repurchase its own which have been mentioned above, CIMB Group also rose in shares, along with upbeat full-year results, boosted its share response to the success of its South-east Asian expansion price.
Both Hang Lung Group and Hang Lung Properties, strategy with Indonesia now accounting for 20% of its 8 Edinburgh Dragon Trust plc profits.
Other notable performers in the sector included Outlook Indian mortgage provider HDFC and Malaysias Public Bank.
Asia has survived the financial crisis remarkably well, but growth rates are likely to slow for the remainder of this year On the flip side, Indias Grasim Industries was the years because of Chinas tightening measures and continued biggest laggard on fears of overcapacity and fierce weakness in the West.
In the US, unemployment remains competition in the cement sector, although the share price high and house prices are still depressed.
The Eurozone faces reversed some of the poor performance towards the periodsovereign debt risks, while reducing public spending to trim end.
burgeoning budget deficits will only slow the process of economic recovery.
Portfolio Activity Turning to portfolio activity, your Manager divested In view of these global uncertainties, Asian policymakers may Singapore-listed conglomerate Fraser and Neave: Hong Kong be reluctant to tighten policy further.
Real interest rates are retailer Giordano: and Singapore-listed SATS, shares of which likely to remain negative in several countries, most evidently the Company had received as an in specie distribution from in India, where food price inflation has stayed above 20% Singapore Airlines.
These were sold for company-specific year-on-year for most of the period under review.
Also sold were automation services provider ABB India, after its parent made an attractive open offer and Despite these headwinds, your Manager is upbeat on Asias Indian gas transportation company GAIL, following the growth prospects.
Current valuations offer good value for the sharp-run up in its share price.
long-term investor as both economic growth and domestic consumption are picking up.
Most crucially, corporate Against this, we initiated a position in Li & Fung, a leading earnings have recovered and the balance sheets of our trading company with an excellent track record of growth companies are in good shape, placing them in excellent and a top-tier client base.
We also topped up a number of position to benefit from the growth of the region.
existing holdings whose stock prices we felt had lagged underlying business performance.
As we already hold several of the best companies in Asia, adding them to the portfolio at attractive valuations remains an important part of our Aberdeen Asset Management Asia Limited investment process.
14 October 2010 Gearing As highlighted in the Chairmans statement the Company did on behalf of Aberdeen Asset Managers Limited not drawdown on the 40 million loan facility during the Both companies are subsidiaries of Aberdeen Asset year.
This facility expired at the end of September 2010 and Management PLC.
further gearing options are currently under consideration.
