Marketing Strategy Edinburgh Dragon Trust plc contributes to the marketing Internet programme run by the Aberdeen Group AAM on behalf of The AAM Investment Trust website contains details of closed a number of investment trusts under its management.
Under funds and investment companies managed or advised by the this agreement the Companys contribution is matched by Aberdeen Group.
This contribution is reviewed annually.
Edinburgh Dragon Trust plc has its own dedicated website at: The purpose of the Programme is to communicate effectively www.
This allows web users to access with existing Shareholders and gain more new Shareholders, information on the Companys share price performance, thus improving liquidity and thereby enhancing the value and capital structure, stock exchange announcements and rating of the Companys shares.
The site is continuously being evaluated for improvement.
These aims can be met in several ways: It is intended that ongoing Programme activities in these Investor Relations Programme various fields, both proactive and supportive, will assist the AAM runs an investor relations programme to existing and Company to increase and maintain its Shareholder base, prospective institutional investors in investment trusts.
Each improve liquidity and sustain ratings.
month institutional investors and prospects receive a Managers report on your Company that includes detailed The Company is committed to the close monitoring of the performance analysis.
The Head of Investor Relations for Investment Trusts reports to the Board and provides a written summary quarterly.
Group Schemes AAM runs a group Share Plan and ISA.
These schemes allow If you have any questions about your Company, the Manager investment free of dealing costs and, with only nominal exit or performance, please telephone AAM Customer Services charges, have proved popular with private investors.
Department direct private investors on 0500 00 00 40.
Alternatively, internet users may e-mail AAM at Newsletter inv.
com or write to AAM at Aberdeen The Bulletin newsletter, an informed commentary on Investment Trusts, Block C, Western House, Lynchwood markets and investment trusts managed by AAM, is Business Park, Peterborough PE2 6BP distributed free of charge.
Public Relations AAM undertakes to brief journalists, write regularly through placed articles and ensure Company results and any corporate activity are brought to public attention.
Shareholder Services AAM runs an investment help desk for retail enquirers and investors.
Enquirers or investors will be sent any relevant literature on request and have queries answered immediately.
The Marketing Programme is under the direction of AAMs Head of Investor Relations who has considerable experience in the marketing and communications of investment products.
He is supported by a team of marketing professionals.
48 Edinburgh Dragon Trust plc How to Invest in Edinburgh Dragon Trust plc current legislation, investments in ISAs can grow free of How to Invest capital gains tax.
Investors can buy and sell shares directly through a stockbroker or indirectly through a lawyer, accountant or ISA Transfer other professional adviser.
Alternatively shares can be bought directly through Aberdeens Investment Plan for You can choose to transfer previous tax year investments to Children and Aberdeens Investment Trust Share Plan, us which can be invested in Edinburgh Dragon Trust plc while Investment Trust ISA or ISA Transfer.
The minimum lump sum for an ISA transfer is 1,000 and is subject to a minimum per trust of 250.
Aberdeens Investment Plan for Children Aberdeen Asset Managers AAM runs an Investment Plan Note for Children the Childrens Plan which covers a number of Please remember that past performance is not a guide to the investment companies under its management including future.
Stock market and currency movements may cause Edinburgh Dragon Trust plc.
Anyone can invest in the the value of shares and the income from them to fall as well Childrens Plan, including parents, grandparents and family as rise and investors may not get back the amount they friends.
All investments are free of dealing charges on the originally invested.
initial purchase of shares, although investors will suffer the bid-offer spread, which can, on some occasions, be a As with all equity investments, the value of investment trusts significant amount.
Lump sum investments start at 150 per purchased will immediately be reduced by the difference trust, while regular savers may invest from 30 per month.
between the buying and selling prices of the shares, the Investors simply pay Government Stamp Duty currently market makers spread.
There is no restriction on how long an investor need invest in the Investors should further bear in mind that the value of any Childrens Plan, and regular savers can stop or suspend tax relief will depend on the individual circumstances of the participation by instructing AAM in writing at any time.
In investor and that tax rates and reliefs, as well as the tax common with other schemes of this type, all investments are treatment of ISAs, may be changed by future legislation.
Trust Information Aberdeens Investment Trust Share Plan If investors would like details of Edinburgh Dragon Trust plc AAM runs a Share Plan the Plan through which shares in or information on the Childrens Plan, Share Plan, ISA or ISA Edinburgh Dragon Trust plc can be purchased.
There are no Transfers please telephone 0500 00 00 40 or write to dealing charges on the initial purchase of shares, although Aberdeen Investment Trusts, Block C, Western House, investors will suffer the bid-offer spread, which can, on some Lynchwood Business Park, Peterborough PE2 6BP or e-mail occasions, be a significant amount.
Details are also available on start at 250, while regular savers may invest from 100 per www.
Investors simply pay Government Stamp Duty currently 0.5% on entry.
There is no restriction on how long an investor need invest in Literature Request Service a Plan, and regular savers can stop or suspend participation For literature and application forms for the Managers by instructing AAM in writing at any time.
In common with investment trust products, please contact: other schemes of this type, all investments are held in Telephone: 0500 00 40 00 nominee accounts.
Investors have full voting and other Email: aam@lit-request.
com rights of share ownership.
Keeping you Informed Stocks and Shares ISA The Companys share price appears daily in the Financial An investment of up to 10,200 in Edinburgh Dragon Trust Times and the Daily Telegraph.
plc can be made in the tax year 2010 2011.
For internet users, detailed data on the Company, including There are no brokerage or initial charges for the ISA, although price, performance information and a monthly fact sheet is investors will suffer the bid-offer spread, which can be a available on the Companys website significant amount.
Investors only pay Government Stamp www.
co. uk and the TrustNet website Duty currently 0.5% on purchases.
Alternatively you can call 0500 00 00 VAT.
The annual ISA management charge is 24 VAT, 40 for trust information.
calculated six monthly and deducted from income.
Under Edinburgh Dragon Trust plc 49 How to Invest in Edinburgh Dragon Trust plc continued Contact Us For information on Edinburgh Dragon Trust plc and for any administrative queries relating to the Investment Plan for Children, Share Plan, ISA or ISA Transfer please contact: Aberdeen Investment Trust Administration Block C, Western House Lynchwood Business Park Peterborough, PE2 6BP Telephone: 0500 00 00 40 Alternatively, if you have an administrative query which relates to a certificated holding, please contact the Registrar, as follows: Equiniti Limited Aspect House Spencer Road Lancing West Sussex BN99 6DA Telephone: 0871 384 2499 Fax: 0871 384 2100 Shareview Enquiry Line: 0871 384 2020 Textel hard of hearing: 0871 384 2255 Calls to the above numbers will be charged at 8p per minute from a BT Landline.
Other telephony providers costs may vary.
The above information has been approved for the purposes of Section 21 of the Financial Services and Markets Act 2000 by Aberdeen Asset Managers Limited which is authorised and regulated by the Financial Services Authority.
