Managers Review - The Investment Process Asia has offices in Kuala Lumpur, Hong Kong, Sydney, Taipei, Philosophy and Style Tokyo and Bangkok.
Our investment philosophy is that markets are not always efficient.
We believe that superior investment returns are Risk Controls therefore attainable by identifying good companies which are cheap in terms of the fundamentals that in our opinion We seek to minimise risk by our in-depth research.
We do drive share prices over the long term.
We undertake not view divergence from a benchmark as risk we view substantial due diligence before initiating any investment investment in poorly run expensive companies that we do including company visits in order to assure ourselves of the not understand as risk.
In fact where risk parameters are quality of the prospective investment.
We are then careful expressed in benchmark relative terms, asset including not to pay too high a price when making the investment.
sector allocation constitutes a significant constraint on Subsequent to that investment we then keep in close touch stock selection.
Hence diversification of stocks provides our with the company, aiming to meet management at least main control.
Given our long-term fundamental investment philosophy, one would not expect much change in the Aberdeens performance and investment risk unit companies in which we invest.
We do, however, take independently monitors portfolio positions, and reports opportunities offered to us by what we see as anomalous monthly.
As well as attributing performance it also produces price movements within stock markets to either top up or statistical analysis, which is used by the Manager primarily to top slice positions, which typically accounts for the bulk of check the portfolio is behaving as expected, not as a the activity within the portfolio during the year under review.
AAM Asia is based in Singapore.
Founded in 1992, the office Aberdeen Asset Management Asia Limited is run by Hugh Young, the founding managing director who on behalf of Aberdeen Asset Managers Limited oversees a team of portfolio managers in Singapore who act as generalists, cross-covering the region.
In addition, AAM Regional Teams Company visit note Risk controls Step 1 Step 2 Step 3 Quality Aberdeen Price Portfolio universe construction Pass or fail?
Potential revisit Watchlist Review Monitor Edinburgh Dragon Trust plc 11
