Information about the Manager Aberdeen Asset Management Asia Limited AAM Asia is The Aberdeen Group has its headquarters in Aberdeen with responsible for the Asian portfolios of all clients managed over 31 offices in 24 countries including Bangkok, Edinburgh, within the Aberdeen Group.
AAM Asia is based in Singapore Hong Kong, Kuala Lumpur, London, Philadelphia, Singapore and is a wholly-owned subsidiary and the Asia Pacific and Sydney.
headquarters of Aberdeen Asset Management PLC the Aberdeen Group, a publicly-quoted company on the Worldwide, the Aberdeen Group manages a combined London Exchange.
168.8 billion in assets as at 31 August 2010 for a range of clients, including individuals and institutions, through mutual AAM Asia have been the Aberdeen Group's principal and segregated funds.
The Aberdeen Group manages over 52 managers of Asia-Pacific assets since 1992, and had over 343 investment companies and other closed-ended funds staff across the region at 31 August 2010.
Total funds in the representing 11.1 billion under management.
They adhere region, which are also managed from Bangkok, Hong Kong, closely to the Groups investment style which is that of Kuala Lumpur and Sydney are over 48.5 billion as at 31 fundamental investors, with an emphasis on company visits August 2010. and original research.
The Investment Team Senior Managers Hugh Young Andrew Gillan Adrian Lim Managing Director Senior Investment Manager Senior Investment Manager BA in Politics from Exeter University.
MA Joint Honours in French and Chartered Financial Analyst, B. Acc Started investment career in 1980.
European History from University of from Nanyang Technological In charge of AAM Asias Far East Edinburgh.
Joined Aberdeen in University Singapore.
September 2000 and transferred to Aberdeen in 2000.
Previously he was AAM Asia in November 2001. an associate director at Arthur Andersen advising clients on mergers and acquisitions in South East Asia.
Flavia Cheong Chou Chong Christopher Wong Investment Director Investment Director Senior Investment Manager Masters in Economics from Chartered Financial Analyst and BA in Accounting and Finance from University of Auckland.
Previously Double Masters in Accounting & Heriot-Watt University, and a with Investment Company of the Finance and Information Systems Fellow of the Chartered Certified Peoples Republic of China and from the London School of Accountants FCCA and a CFA Development Bank of Singapore.
Joined AAM Asia in Charterholder.
Previously, he was an Started investment career in 1987.
1994. associate director at Andersen Joined AAM Asia in 1996.
Corporate Finance advising clients on mergers and acquisitions in South East Asia.. 10 Edinburgh Dragon Trust plc
