Directors Report The Directors present their report and the audited financial under review, as well as the investment outlook, is provided statements for the year ended 31 August 2010. in the Chairmans Statement and Managers Review.
Future Trends Business Review The regions economies have high rates of growth, strong This Business Review, in conjunction with the rest of the trade and fiscal surpluses and rapidly developing capital Report and Accounts, is intended to provide shareholders markets.
Nevertheless the past has demonstrated regional with the information and measures that the Directors use to risks and the outlook for the region is provided in the assess, direct and oversee the Manager in the management Chairmans Statement and Managers Review.
The Business Review is prepared in accordance with the requirements of Section 417 of the Companies Act 2006.
Risk Management The major risks associated with the Company are detailed Principal Activity below: The Company is registered as a public limited company in Resource risk: The Company is an investment trust and has Scotland and is an investment company as defined by no employees.
The responsibility for the management of Section 833 of the Companies Act 2006.
The Companys the Company has been delegated to Aberdeen Asset registration number is SC106049.
Managers Limited the Manager under the management agreement.
The terms of the management agreement cover The Company carries on business as an investment trust and the necessary duties and conditions expected of the the Directors do not envisage any change in this activity in Manager.
The Board reviews the performance of the the foreseeable future.
The Company has received requisite Manager on a regular basis and their compliance with the approval of investment trust status from the Inland Revenue management contract formally on an annual basis.
for accounting periods up to and including 31 August 2009.
Investment and market risk: The Company is exposed to the The Directors are of the opinion, under advice, that the effect of variations in share prices due to the nature of its Company has conducted its affairs for the year ended 31 business.
Investment in Asian equities involves a greater August 2010 so as to be able to obtain approval as an degree of risk than that usually associated with investment investment trust under Sections 1158-1159 of the in the major securities markets.
These include a greater risk Corporation Tax Act 2010 formerly Section 842 of the of social, political and economic instability including Income and Corporation Taxes Act 1988 for that year, changes in government which may restrict investment although approval for the period would be subject to review opportunities and have an adverse effect on economic were there to be any enquiry under the Corporation Tax Self reform.
Changes in legal, regulatory and accounting policies Assessment regime.
can also affect the value of the Companys investments.
The lower volumes of trading in certain securities of The Company has conducted its affairs so as to satisfy the emerging markets may result in lack of liquidity and price requirements as a qualifying security for Individual Savings volatility.
In addition, currency fluctuations and high Accounts.
The Directors intend that the Company will interest rates may affect the value of the Companys continue to conduct its affairs in this manner.
investments and the income derived therefrom.
Investment Objective and Policy The Board continually monitors the investment policy of The Companys objective is to achieve long term capital the Company, taking account of stockmarket factors, and growth through investment in the Far East.
The Companys reviews the Companys performance compared to its benchmark is the MSCI All Country Asia ex Japan Index.
benchmark index and peer group.
Further details on other Investments are made in stock markets in the region with the risks relating to the Companys investment activities, exception of Japan and Australasia, principally in large including market price, liquidity and foreign currency risks, companies.
are provided in note 18 to the financial statements.
Details of the Company's investment policy and strategy are Gearing risk: During the year to 31 August 2010 the provided in the Investment Objective and Policy section on Company had in place a 40 million multi-currency loan page 3. facility.
As at 31 August 2010 no drawdowns had been made on this facility and the facility subsequently expired on 29 September 2010.
The Board is considering further Review of Performance gearing options available to the Company.
Gearing has the An outline of the performance, market background, effect of exacerbating market falls and gains.
In order to investment activity and portfolio strategy during the year Edinburgh Dragon Trust plc 21 Directors Report continued manage the level of gearing, the Board has set a maximum Company at the Repurchase Price of 197.2794 pence per gearing ratio of 20%.
Regulatory risk: The Company operates in a complex Following the implementation of the Tender Offer, the regulatory environment and faces a number of regulatory Company had 196,311,219 Ordinary shares in issue.
Serious breaches of regulations, such as Sections were no further buybacks during the year and there have 1158-1159 of the Corporation Tax Act 2010, the UKLA been no buybacks subsequent to the year end up to the date Listing Rules and the Companies Act, could lead to a of this report.
number of detrimental outcomes and reputational damage.
The Audit Committee monitors compliance with At 31 August 2010 the Company capital structure consisted regulations by reviewing internal control reports from the of 196,311,219 Ordinary shares of 20p each 2009 - Manager.
The Ordinary shares carry a right to receive dividends which are declared from time to time by an ordinary resolution of the Company up to the Discount volatility: The Companys share price can trade at amount recommended by the Board and to receive any a discount to its underlying net asset value.
The Board interim dividends which the Directors may resolve the monitors the discount level of the Companys shares and Company should pay.
On a winding up, after meeting the has in place a buyback mechanism whereby the Manager is liabilities of the Company, the surplus assets will be paid to authorised to buy back shares within certain limits.
Ordinary shareholders in proportion to their shareholdings.
On a show of hands, every shareholder present in person, or Monitoring Performance Key Performance Indicators by proxy, has one vote and, on a poll, every Ordinary At each Board meeting, the Directors consider a number of shareholder present in person has one vote for each share performance measures to assess the Companys success in held and a proxy has one vote for every share represented.
The key performance indicators KPIs are established industry measures, and are as follows: There are no restrictions concerning the holding or transfer of the Company's shares and there are no special rights Net asset value total return attached to any of the shares.
The Company is not aware of Share price total return any agreements between shareholders which may result in Performance attribution restriction on the transfer of shares or the voting rights.
Discount to net asset value A record of these measures is disclosed on page 4.
Other Information Performance is measured against the Companys benchmark, The rules concerning the appointment and replacement of the MSCI All Country Asia ex Japan Index and the Board Directors, amendments of the Articles of Association and also considers peer group comparative performance.
powers to issue or buy back Company's shares are contained in the Articles of Association of the Company and the Social, Community, Employee Responsibilities and Companies Act 2006.
There are no agreements which the Environmental Policy Company is party to that might affect its control following a As an investment trust, the Company has no employees and takeover bid: and there are no agreements between the has no direct social, community, employee or environmental Company and its Directors concerning compensation for loss responsibilities.
Details of the Companys Socially of office.
Other than the Management Agreement with the Responsible Investment policy are set out in the Corporate Manager, further details of which are set out on page 23, the Governance Report.
Company is not aware of any contractual or other agreements which are essential to its business which ought Share Capital to be disclosed in the Directors Report.
In December 2009, the Company announced a Tender Offer for up to 15% of the Ordinary shares of the Company at a Dividends discount of 3 per cent.
to Formula Asset Value, which The Directors recommend that a final dividend of 1.90p per resulted in 15% Ordinary shares 34,643,156 shares being Ordinary share 2009 1.61p be paid on 10 December 2010 tendered.
A special resolution authorising the Company to to shareholders on the register on 12 November 2010. buy back up to 34,643,156 Ordinary shares in connection with the Tender Offer was passed at a General Meeting of Directors the Company on 15 January 2010 which resulted in 15% of Details of the current Directors of the Company are shown the net assets of the Company valued at 68,343,809 being on pages 18 to 20. distributed in cash to exiting Ordinary shareholders and 34,643,156 Ordinary shares being repurchased by the 22 Edinburgh Dragon Trust plc Tony Cassidy retired from the Board on 9 December 2009 Directors Conflicts of Interest and Allan McKenzie took over the chairmanship of the The Board monitors on a regular basis the direct and indirect Company at this time.
interests of each Director and has concluded that there were no situations which gave rise to an interest of a Director Iain McLaren was appointed as a non-executive director on 6 which conflicted with the interests of the Company.
September 2010 and, in accordance with the Companys Articles of Association, will retire from the Board and offer Directors Liability Insurance himself for election at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting.
The Directors have the benefit of the indemnity provisions contained in the Companys Articles of Association.
The Peter Tyrie will retire from the Board at the conclusion of the Company maintains insurance in respect of Directors and Annual General Meeting.
officers liabilities in relation to their acts on behalf of the Company.
In accordance with the Companys Articles of Association, Tony Lowrie will retire from the Board and, being eligible, Management Agreement offer himself for re-election at the Annual General Meeting.
The Manager to the Company is Aberdeen Asset Managers Limited.
Under the Management Agreement, the Manager is In accordance with the corporate governance procedures required to give a notice period of six months if it wishes to endorsed by the Board, all Directors who have attained more terminate the agreement.
The notice period for the than nine years service will retire from the Board and submit Company is three months or on shorter notice in certain themselves for re-election on an annual basis.
Compensation is payable in lieu of the and Watt will retire and be proposed for re-election at the unexpired notice period if actual notice is less than the Annual General Meeting.
The management fee is 0.25% per quarter of the net assets of the Company less i the value of any No contract or arrangement subsisted during the period in investment funds managed by the Manager and ii 50% of which any of the Directors was materially interested.
No the value of any investment funds managed or advised by Director had a service contract with the Company.
investment managers other than the Manager.
The Directors interests in the shares of the Company as at Auditors 31 August 2010 are shown in Table 1.
The Companys auditors, KPMG Audit Plc, are willing to continue in office, and resolutions will be proposed at the 31 August 1 September forthcoming Annual General Meeting to re-appoint them, 2010 2009 and to authorise the Directors to fix their remuneration.
Ordinary Ordinary Non-audit fees of 14,000 were paid to the auditors during shares shares the period, which related to their review of the interim report and their work in connection with the Tender Offer.
Tony Cassidy n a 9,538 retired 9 December 2009 The Directors who held office at the date of approval of this Directors Report confirm that, so far as they are each aware, Frank Frame 8,500 8,500 there is no relevant audit information of which the David Gairns Companys auditors are unaware: and each Director has Tony Lowrie taken all the steps that he ought to have taken as a Director Allan McKenzie 5,000 to make himself aware of any relevant audit information and Iain McLaren n a n a to establish that the Companys auditors are aware of that appointed 6 information.
September 2010 Peter Tyrie 11,000 11,000 Corporate Governance Iain Watt 17,164 17,789 The Statement of Corporate Governance, which forms part Table 1 Directors and their interests in the Company of the Directors Report, is contained on pages 26 to 29. of which nil 2009 - 625 Ordinary shares are held in trust The Company has not been notified of any subsequent Payments Policy changes in Directors interests.
It is the Companys policy to settle all investment transactions in accordance with the terms and conditions of the relevant markets in which it operates.
All other expenses Edinburgh Dragon Trust plc 23 Directors Report continued are paid on a timely basis in the ordinary course of business.
at a price not less than the net asset value per share.
In certain circumstances, settlement terms are agreed prior This authority will expire on 28 February 2012 or, if to business taking place.
earlier, at the conclusion of the next Annual General Meeting of the Company unless previously revoked, varied or extended by the Company in general meeting.
Substantial Share Interests At 14 October 2010, the substantial interests in the Ordinary The Directors consider that the powers proposed to be share capital which had been notified to the Company during granted by the above resolutions are necessary to the period are shown in Table 2. provide flexibility to issue shares should they deem it to be in the best interests of shareholders as a whole.
of Directors do not have any intention of exercising such Ordinary powers at present.
Holder % shares iii Purchase of the Companys own Ordinary shares City of London Investment 21,415,747 10.9 Resolution 12, which will be proposed as a special Management resolution, will authorise the Company to make market Lazard Freres Asset 18,546,858 9.5 purchases of its own shares.
The maximum number of Management Ordinary shares which may be purchased pursuant to Derbyshire County Council 12,000,000 6.1 the authority shall be 14.99% of the issued share capital Rensburg Sheppards 9,835,022 5.0 of the Company as at the date of the passing of the Investment Management resolution approximately 29.4 million Ordinary shares.
Legal & General Assurance 7,461,676 3.8 The minimum price which may be paid for an Ordinary Table 2 Substantial share interests share exclusive of expenses shall be 20p.
The maximum price for an Ordinary share again exclusive of Annual General Meeting expenses shall be an amount being not more than the Among the resolutions being put at the Annual General higher of i 105% of the average of the middle market Meeting of the Company to be held on 8 December 2010, quotations for the Companys Ordinary shares for the the following resolutions will be proposed: five business days immediately preceding the date of purchase and ii the higher of the price of the last i Section 551 authority to allot shares independent trade and the highest current independent Resolution 10, which is an ordinary resolution, will, if bid relating to an Ordinary share on the trading venue approved, give the Directors a general authority to allot where the purchase is carried out.
new securities up to an aggregate nominal value of 13,087,415, representing approximately 33.33 per This authority, if conferred, will only be exercised if to cent.
of the total Ordinary share capital of the Company do so would enhance the net asset value per share and in issue as at the date of this Directors Report, such is in the best interests of shareholders generally.
Shares authority to expire on 28 February 2012 or, if earlier, at so repurchased will be cancelled.
This authority will the conclusion of the next Annual General Meeting of expire on 28 February 2012 or, if earlier, at the the Company unless previously revoked, varied or conclusion of the next Annual General Meeting of the extended by the Company in general meeting.
Company unless previously revoked, varied or extended by the Company in general meeting.
ii Limited disapplication of Pre-emption Provisions As noted above, resolution 10 will, if approved, give the iv Notice period for general meetings Directors a general authority to allot securities up to an The Companys Articles of Association enable the aggregate nominal amount of 13,087,415.
Resolution Company to call general meetings other than an Annual 11, which is a special resolution, will, if approved, give General Meeting on 14 clear days' notice.
In order for the Directors power to allot unissued Ordinary shares up this to be effective, the shareholders must also approve to a maximum aggregate nominal amount of the calling of meetings on 14 days' notice by separate 1,963,112, being 5% of the current issued share capital resolution.
The of the Company, for cash other than to existing approval will be effective until the Company's next shareholders pro rata to their holdings.
A maximum of Annual General Meeting, when it is intended that a 13,087,415 of unissued Ordinary share capital may similar resolution will be proposed.
The Company will also be allotted for cash, pursuant to a rights issue made also need to meet the requirements for electronic voting pro rata to shareholders in the future.
Ordinary shares under the Companies Act 2006 as amended by the would only be issued for cash pursuant to a rights issue 24 Edinburgh Dragon Trust plc Shareholders Rights Regulations before it can call a general meeting on 14 days' notice.
Recommendation The Directors believe that the resolutions to be proposed at the Annual General Meeting are in the best interests of the Company and its shareholders as a whole, and recommend that shareholders vote in favour of the resolutions, as the Directors intend to do in respect of their own beneficial shareholdings totalling, in aggregate, 41,664 Ordinary shares, and representing 0.02% of the existing issued Ordinary share capital of the Company.
By order of the Board, Aberdeen Asset Managers Limited Secretary Edinburgh, 14 October 2010 Edinburgh Dragon Trust plc 25
