Corporate Summary The Company Share Dealing ISA Status The Company is an investment trust and its shares are listed Shares in Edinburgh Dragon Trust plc can be bought in the on the London Stock Exchange.
The Company is a member of open market through a stockbroker.
They can also be the Association of Investment Companies.
purchased through the Aberdeen savings scheme and are fully qualifying for inclusion within tax efficient ISA wrappers Investment Manager see page 49.
Aberdeen Asset Managers Limited AAM Limited or the Management Agreement Manager, a subsidiary of Aberdeen Asset Management PLC AAM.
The Company has an agreement with AAM Limited for the provision of management and secretarial services the Management Agreement, details of which are provided in Capital Structure the Directors Report.
At 31 August 2010 the Company had a capital structure comprising 196,311,219 fully paid Ordinary shares of 20p.
The Directors review the terms of the Management Agreement on a regular basis and have confirmed that, due Total Assets and Net Asset Value to the investment skills, experience of the Manager and its The Company had total assets of 471.3 million and a net long-term relative performance, in their opinion the asset value of 240.1 pence per Ordinary share at 31 August continuing appointment of Aberdeen Asset Managers 2010.
Limited, on the terms agreed, is in the interests of shareholders as a whole.
com Company Secretary Aberdeen Asset Managers Limited 40 Princes Street, Edinburgh EH2 2BY Email: company.
co. uk Customer Services Freephone: 0500 00 00 40 open Monday Friday, 9am 5pm Email: inv.
com Principal Risk Factors Investment in Far East securities or those of companies that derive significant revenue or profit from the Far East involves a greater degree of risk than that usually associated with investment in the securities in major securities markets.
Further details of the risks are disclosed in the Business Review contained within the Directors Report on pages 21 and 22.
Duration Shareholders are given the opportunity to vote on the continuation of the Company at every third Annual General Meeting.
The next continuation vote will be held at the Annual General Meeting in December 2012.
