L15825 Edinburgh pp01 14 2 6 10 4:54 pm Page 08 08 MANAGERS REPORT Market Review Following the turbulence that characterised the early months of 2009, the UK equity market experienced a sustained recovery in the twelve months to 31 March 2010 and provided a total return of 52.3% based on the FTSE All-Share index.
The abrupt turnaround in equity market performance was based on evidence that the extraordinary measures adopted by governments and central banks had successfully arrested the downward spiral in the global economy.
The rally was given further impetus by stabilisation in the financial sector, where balance sheet repair is an ongoing theme.
As equity markets quickly embraced an expectation of rapid and sustainable economic recovery, appetite for risk assets rebounded sharply.
In this environment, lower quality companies and those most closely aligned to the economic cycle led the UK market higher.
Having cut interest rates to a record low of 0.5% in March of last year, the Bank of England maintained rates at this level throughout the period under review.
March of 2009 also saw the commencement of Quantitative Easing QE through which the central bank purchased gilts and, to a lesser extent, corporate bonds to inject liquidity into the financial system.
An initial allocation of 150 billion was later extended to 200 billion as UK authorities sought to use all policy tools at their disposal to support the economy.
Economic performance was weak throughout the year with the domestic economy only emerging from recession in the final quarter of 2009.
While the final three months of the year saw growth of 0.4% compared to the previous quarter, year-on-year comparisons showed that output had contracted by more than 3%.
Manufacturing and service sector activity gradually improved, with sterlings weakness boosting the competitiveness of British exporters.
However, unemployment remained elevated and despite the efforts of QE there were no tangible signs of credit growth in the economy.
Portfolio Strategy and Review The Companys net asset value, including reinvested dividends, rose by 46.0% during the period, compared to a rise of 52.3% total return for the FTSE All-Share index.
The underperformance relative to the benchmark index was a reflection of the polarisation that has become increasingly evident in the UK market.
The companies that have led the rally have mostly been those in cyclically orientated sectors as the market has continued to discount a strong and sustainable recovery.
The Manager retains his conviction that economic growth in the UK will disappoint consensus expectations and he believes that a prolonged period of muted growth is likely.
Despite the disappointing relative performance seen in the period, the Manager has been greatly encouraged by the operational performance of the companies that constitute a large part of the Companys investments.
These businesses have been able to maintain profit and dividend growth and while this has yet to be fully reflected in share price terms, the Manager is confident that this will be corrected as the economic challenges that remain become clearer.
The Managers decision to utilise the gearing facility available during a period of strongly rising markets was beneficial to performance.
The preference for quality growth companies, able to maintain and grow their dividends, in a period when a number of businesses were forced to reduce or suspend their payouts, helped the Company to continue to provide a robust level of income.
With the share prices of the Managers favoured companies trading on valuations that in some cases are among the lowest he has seen, there were a number of additions to existing holdings.
These included GlaxoSmithKline, Reynolds American, Capita and BAE Systems.
In addition, new positions were introduced in Morrison W Supermarkets and Swiss pharmaceutical group Roche.
The Manager believes that Morrison W Supermarkets is trading on an undemanding rating.
This holding has been added as he believes that the groups value proposition is well suited to todays market environment.
The company has been able to deliver robust like-for-like sales growth and an optimisation plan has improved operating margins.
The Manager believes the company remains poised to deliver considerable dividend growth in future years through new store openings in the south of England, better performance from the recently acquired Co-Op stores and from further cost savings.
Much like the UK pharmaceutical businesses that form part of the portfolio, the Manager believes that Roche is undervalued.
In his view, the company has a strong diagnostics business and has a good portfolio of on-market drugs.
This includes some biologics, which are more difficult for generic
