L15825 Edinburgh pp01 14 2 6 10 4:54 pm Page 09 THE EDINBURGH INVESTMENT TRUST PLC 09 manufacturers to replicate and this reduces the threat of patent expiries.
The company has a well regarded management team and the combination of a strong drug pipeline and a high quality portfolio of existing drugs give the Manager confidence in the outlook for the stock.
The most notable disposals were from the oil and gas sector.
The Manager sold positions in oil majors BP and Royal Dutch Shell, as well as a position in the oil services group Amec.
The principal rationale for these sales was the Managers concern that these companies may not be able to maintain dividend payments.
While the oil price has been strong in recent months, the Managers expectation that economic growth globally, as well as in the UK, is likely to disappoint could lead to weakness in the price of oil in the years ahead.
This would put pressure on revenues for oil companies at a time when they continue to face huge capital expenditure demands.
As such, the Manager believes that dividends are at risk and with other investment opportunities offering what he believes are better valuations and greater earnings visibility, he chose to re-allocate these funds into other areas of the market.
The representation in Reed Elsevier was sold, as the Managers level of conviction in the companys ability to improve returns diminished during the period.
The holding of Rexam was sold as disappointing trading performance, combined with the announcement of a rights issue, reduced the Managers conviction in the outlook for the company.
Outlook The Manager believes that the UK economy continues to face a number of challenges over the coming years.
Having seen a dramatic rise in the UKs debts, he believes uncertainty about how quickly the budget deficit can be brought under control is likely to remain an issue for the foreseeable future.
With ratings agencies watching developments in the UK very closely, the Manager believes that markets are likely to remain concerned about the security of the UKs AAA sovereign debt rating.
As a part of the measures to bring the fiscal situation under control, the Manager anticipates cuts in government spending and public sector job losses, both of which would have negative consequences for near-term growth prospects.
The Manager believes that the legacy of the financial crisis will also present a headwind for economic growth.
The banking sector has made some progress in improving balance sheet strength, but in the Managers view this process has further to run.
As a result, credit growth in the UK is likely to remain slow and this is compounded by a lack of demand from the corporate and consumer sectors which continue to deleverage.
Against this backdrop, the Manager expects domestic economic growth to be weak for an extended period as the imbalances that still exist in the economy are slowly corrected.
In contrast to his cautious outlook for the economy, the Manager remains upbeat about the opportunities available in selected areas of the UK market.
In his view, the fundamental strengths of these companies have been overlooked in a largely momentum driven environment and this has presented the opportunity to invest in high quality businesses at very attractive levels.
In the Managers view, this combination leaves the Company well positioned to achieve its investment goals over the medium to long-term.
Neil Woodford Investment Manager 20 May 2010
