L15825 Edinburgh pp15 36 2 6 10 4:55 pm Page 16 16 REPORT OF THE DIRECTORS INCORPORATING THE BUSINESS REVIEW continued Company Business A review of the Companys business is provided in the Chairmans Statement and the Managers Report.
The Board does not at present envisage any significant change in the business of the Company.
No important events effecting the Company have occurred since the end of its financial year.
Issued Share Capital and Rights Attaching to the Companys shares At the year end, the Companys issued share capital consisted of 195,116,734 ordinary shares of 25p each.
During the year, no shares were repurchased.
Under the Companys Articles of Association, any share in the Company may be issued with such rights or restrictions, whether in regard to dividend, voting, return of capital or otherwise as the Company may from time to time by ordinary resolution determine or, in the absence of any such determination, as the Directors may determine.
At a general meeting of the Company every shareholder has one vote on a show of hands and on a poll one vote for each share held.
The notice of general meeting specifies deadlines for exercising voting rights either by proxy or present in person in relation to resolutions to be passed at a general meeting.
If any shareholder has been duly served with a notice pursuant to section 793 of the Companies Act 2006 which confers the power to require information with respect to interests in voting rights and has failed in relation to any ordinary shares default shares to give the Company the information thereby required within 14 days from the service of the notice, then unless the Board otherwise determine, the member shall not, for so long as the default continues, be entitled in respect of the default shares to attend or vote at any general meeting or on any poll.
Where the default shares represent 0.25% or more in nominal value of the issued ordinary shares excluding any treasury shares, the Board may in their absolute discretion by notice to such member direct any dividend or part thereof or other money which would otherwise be payable in respect of the default shares to be retained by the Company.
When such money is finally paid to the shareholder, he shall not be entitled to receive interest or elect to receive shares in lieu of dividend.
The Board may also decide that no transfer in respect of any default shares shall be registered unless certain conditions are met.
These restrictions cease to have effect seven days after the receipt by the Company that the default shares have been transferred or all the information required by the section 793 notice has been notified to the Company, whichever is earlier.
The Directors may refuse to register any transfer of any share which is not a fully-paid share, although such discretion may not be exercised in a way which the Financial Services Authority regards as preventing dealings in the shares of the relevant class or classes from taking place on an open or proper basis.
As at 31 March 2010, the Companys issued share capital did not include any ordinary shares that were not fully paid.
The Directors may likewise refuse to register any transfer of a share in favour of more than four persons jointly.
The Company is not aware of any other restrictions on the transfer of shares in the Company other than certain restrictions that may from time to time be imposed by laws and regulations for example, insider trading laws.
The Company is not aware of any agreements between shareholders that may result in restrictions on the transfer of securities or voting rights.
The Company is seeking to renew the existing authority for the Directors to allot new shares and to buy back shares at the forthcoming AGM.
Additional details are given in the section on Special Business at the AGM further on in this Report.
Revenue and Dividends The results for the year are shown in the income statement.
Subject to approval at the Annual General Meeting, the final proposed dividend for the year ended 31 March 2010 of 6.35p 2009: 6.15p per ordinary share will be payable on 30 July 2010 to Shareholders on the register on 18 June 2010.
This will give total dividends for the year of 20.6p per share, a small increase of 1% on the previous years dividend of 20.4p.
Revenue returns per share in this year were 19.8p 2009: 21.0p.
Share Valuations On 31 March 2010 the mid-market price was 396.3p per ordinary share 2009: 292.5p.
The net asset value debt at par and net asset value debt at market value per ordinary share were 422.41p and 398.92p respectively.
The comparative figures on 31 March 2009 were 326.99p and 293.56p.
