L15825 Edinburgh pp15 36 2 6 10 4:55 pm Page 18 18 REPORT OF THE DIRECTORS INCORPORATING THE BUSINESS REVIEW continued The capital net asset value used below is the capital net asset value at par, less proposed dividends.
FOR YEAR CAPITAL RETURN BASIS ENDED 31 MARCH 2010 % Net asset value capital return 31.6 Benchmark capital return 46.7 Relative performance 15.1 Performance attribution analyses the Companys performance relative to its benchmark.
Portfolio under outperformance measures the relative effect of the Companys investment portfolio against that of its benchmark.
Net gearing effect measures the impact of the debenture stocks and cash on the Companys relative performance.
Interest arising from the debenture stocks reduces the assets available to invest, resulting in a negative impact on performance.
Management fees including both the base fee and any performance fee, reduce the Company net assets and decrease performance.
Refund of VAT on management fees, thereon, will add to net assets and thus performance.
Other expenses and tax reduce the level of assets and therefore result in a negative effect for relative performance.
Invesco Perpetuals Investment Process and Performance At the core of Invesco Perpetuals investment philosophy is a belief in active investment management.
Fundamental principles drive a genuinely unconstrained investment approach, which aims to deliver attractive total returns over the long term.
These fundamental principles place an emphasis on sound balance sheets, good cash flows, the ability to pay and sustain dividends, strong asset bases and market conditions.
The investment manager and the UK Equities team employ a pragmatic, valuation-orientated approach that allows investment freedom, such that the investment manager can select stocks free from the constraint of the weighting within the benchmark.
The investment managers focus is on absolute rather than relative returns, as he chooses to take a long term view in the companies he invests in and to invest where he sees value and opportunity.
The aim of the investment process is to identify companies whose outlook or growth prospects are not reflected in their valuations.
To identify these companies the investment manager combines bottom-up research with a top-down macro-economic view.
Stocks are then subjected to detailed fundamental analysis augmented by a qualitative assessment of the company.
The output from this analysis is then used to construct and review the portfolio with the aim of maximising exposure to the most attractive opportunities within its risk parameters.
Principal Risks and Uncertainties The Companys key long-term investment objectives are an increase in the capital net asset value per share by more than the growth in the FTSE All-Share Index the benchmark or index and growth in dividends by more than the RPI.
The principal risks and uncertainties of the Company are an integral consideration when assessing the operations in place to monitor these objectives, including the performance of the portfolio, share price and dividends.
The Board is ultimately responsible for the risk control systems but the day to day operation and monitoring is delegated to the Manager.
Market Risk The uncertainty over future equity market price movements is an inherent part of the rationale for the Companys existence.
The Companys assets principally consist of quoted securities.
The prices of these securities and the income derived from them are influenced by many factors such as general economic conditions, interest rates, inflation, political events, and government policies as well as by supply and
