L15825 Edinburgh pp15 36 2 6 10 4:55 pm Page 20 20 REPORT OF THE DIRECTORS INCORPORATING THE BUSINESS REVIEW continued meeting regulatory requirements: the management of the relationship with the Custodian in respect of the custody and security of the Companys assets: and the management of the relationship with the Registrar.
Consequently in respect of these activities the Company is dependent on the Managers control systems and those of its Custodian and Registrars, both of which are monitored by the Manager in the context of safeguarding the Companys assets and interests.
There is a risk that the Manager fails to ensure that these controls are performed in a satisfactory manner.
A risk-based programme of internal audits is carried out by the Manager regularly to test the controls environment.
An internal controls report providing an assessment of these risks is prepared by the Manager and considered by the Audit Committee, and is formally reported to and considered by the Board.
Other Risks The Company may be exposed to other business and strategic risks in the future, including fiscal, legal or regulatory changes, and the perceived impact of the designated Investment Manager ceasing to be involved with the Company.
The instruments in which the Companys cash positions are invested are reviewed by the Board to ensure liquidity and concentration risks are adequately managed.
Where an Invesco Group vehicle is utilised, it is assessed for suitability against other similar investment options.
The Company is subject to laws and regulations by virtue of its status as an investment trust and is required to comply with certain regulatory requirements that are applicable to listed closed-ended investment companies.
The Company is subject to the continuing obligations imposed by the UK Listing Authority on all companies whose shares are listed on the Official List.
A breach of section 842 of the Income and Corporation Taxes Act 1988 s842 ICTA could lead to the Company being subject to capital gains tax on the sale of the investments in the Companys portfolio.
A serious breach of other regulatory rules may lead to suspension from listing on the Stock Exchange or a qualified Audit Report.
The Manager reviews the level of compliance with s842 ICTA and other financial and regulatory requirements on a daily basis.
There is an ongoing process for the Board to consider these other risks.
In addition, the composition of the Board is regularly reviewed to ensure the membership offers sufficient knowledge and experience to assess and anticipate these risks, as far as possible.
Main trends and factors likely to affect the future development, performance and position of the Companys business As the Company is an investment trust, details of the main trends and factors likely to affect the future development, performance and position of the Companys business can be found in the Investment Managers Report on pages 8 and 9.
Further details as to the risks affecting the Company are set out under Principal Risks and Uncertainties.
Resources The Company is an investment trust and has no employees.
All the Directors are non-executive.
However, through the contractual arrangements in place, a full range of services is available to the Company.
The most significant contract is the Investment Management Agreement IMA with the Manager, Invesco Asset Management Limited, to whom responsibility for the management of the portfolio is delegated.
The Board reviews the performance of the Manager at every Board meeting.
The day-to-day management of the portfolio is the responsibility of Neil Woodford, Head of Investment at Invesco Perpetual based in Henley-on-Thames.
Neil has worked in equity markets since 1981, joining Perpetual in 1988 and has been the Fund Manager of the Company since September 2008, when Invesco Asset Management Limited were appointed as Manager of the Company.
The Board has adopted guidelines within which the Manager is permitted wide discretion: any proposed variations outside these parameters are referred to the Board.
The Board has the power to
