L15825 Edinburgh pp15 36 2 6 10 4:55 pm Page 23 THE EDINBURGH INVESTMENT TRUST PLC 23 Investment Management Agreement IMA Invesco Asset Management Limited IAML acts as Manager and Secretary to the Company under an investment management agreement dated 15 September 2008.
The agreement is terminable by either party by giving not less than 3 months notice.
The management fee is payable monthly in arrears and is equal to 0.05% of the market capitalisation of the Companys ordinary shares at each month end.
IAML is also entitled to a performance fee in respect of each rolling three year period in which the Company outperforms its benchmark, the FTSE All-Share Index, plus a hurdle rate, this being the equivalent of 1.25% per annum, as adjusted for shorter periods.
The IMA provides for transitional arrangements for the periods up to 31 March 2011, under which half of any performance fee for each period is paid at the end of the period and half deferred.
Any deferred portion becomes payable after 31 March 2011 if and when performance meets or exceeds the benchmark plus hurdle rate.
Any performance fee earned will be the lower of 15% of the out-performance based on the average quarterly net asset value with debt at par of the Company over the relevant performance period and 1% of net asset value, as adjusted for shorter periods where required.
No performance fee is due for the year ended 31 March 2010.
For the year ended 31 March 2009, a performance fee of 3,422,000 was charged of which half is paid and the remainder is shown as a provision in accordance with the transitional arrangements as detailed above.
VAT on Management fees As previously reported, management fees are no longer subject to VAT.
The Company received a refund of VAT paid on Management fees from Aberdeen Asset Management who acquired Edinburgh Fund Managers of 963,000 which has been recognised in these accounts.
The Board expects the Company to receive interest on the refund of VAT, however, as the amount involved and timing of receipt is uncertain, no provision has been made for this amount in these accounts.
The Managers Responsibilities The Directors have delegated to Invesco Asset Management Limited the Manager the responsibility for the day-to-day investment management activities of the Company.
The Manager has full discretion to manage the assets of the Company in accordance with the Companys stated objectives and policies.
The Manager has discretion to make purchases and sales, make and withdraw cash deposits, enter into underwriting commitments and exercise all rights over the investment portfolio.
The Manager also advises on borrowings.
The Manager provides full administration and company secretarial services to the Company, ensuring that the Company complies with all legal and regulatory requirements and officiating at Board meetings and shareholders meetings.
The Manager additionally maintains complete and accurate records of the Companys investment transactions and portfolio and all monetary transactions from which the Manager prepares half-yearly and annual financial statements on behalf of the Company as well as interim management statements.
Assessment of the Investment Manager The Management Engagement Committee meets annually to review the investment management and secretarial arrangements.
The Committee considers, among other matters investment performance, marketing activity, secretarial and administrative services, the finance and control environments, compliance, audit and terms of the Investment Management Agreement.
The Board, based on its recent review of activities, considers that the continuing appointment of Invesco Asset Management Limited is in the best interests of shareholders as a whole.
Directors Directors are appointed by ordinary resolution at a general meeting of ordinary shareholders.
The Directors have the power to appoint a Director during the year but any person so appointed must stand for election at the next Annual General Meeting.
L15825 Edinburgh pp15 36 2 6 10 4:55 pm Page 24 24 REPORT OF THE DIRECTORS INCORPORATING THE BUSINESS REVIEW continued Subject to its Articles of Association and relevant statutory law and to such direction as may be given by the Company in general meeting by special resolution, the business of the Company shall be managed by the Directors, who may exercise all powers of the Company which are not required to be exercised by the Company in general meeting.
The present members of the Board, all of whom served throughout the year, are listed on page 12 together with their biographies.
In accordance with the Board's tenure policy set out in the Corporate Governance Statement on page 27, Scott Dobbie, having served on the Board for more than 9 years, will retire at this years AGM and will offer himself for re-election.
In accordance with the Companys Articles of Association, at every AGM, one third of the Directors shall retire by rotation and no Director shall hold office for more than three consecutive years without retiring by rotation.
Nicola Ralston and Sir Nigel Wicks will therefore retire by rotation and offer themselves for re-election at the forthcoming AGM.
The following table sets out the number of scheduled Directors meetings including committees held during the year and the number of meetings attended by each Director: MANAGEMENT AUDIT ENGAGEMENT NOMINATION BOARD COMMITTEE COMMITTEE COMMITTEE MEETINGS MEETINGS MEETINGS MEETINGS aaaaaa aaaaaa aaaaaa aaaaaa HELD ATTENDED HELD ATTENDED HELD ATTENDED HELD ATTENDED 1 Scott Dobbie 55 3 n a 11 11 Jim Pettigrew 5 5 3 3 1 1 1 1 Richard Barfield 5 5 3 3 1 1 1 1 Nicola Ralston 5 5 3 3 1 1 1 1 William Samuel 5 5 3 3 1 1 1 1 Sir Nigel Wicks 5 5 3 3 1 1 1 1 1 The Chairman is not a member of the Audit Committee but was in attendance at the meetings.
Board members attended a number of non-scheduled meetings to deal with other ad hoc items.
All Directors have letters of appointment which are available for inspection at the Registered Office of the Company.
All Directors are independent of the investment manager.
Directors Interests The beneficial interests of the Directors in the ordinary share capital of the Company are set out below: 31 MARCH 1 APRIL 2010 2009 Scott Dobbie 214,937 133,266 Jim Pettigrew 20,000 20,000 Richard Barfield 13,984 13,984 Nicola Ralston 15,000 15,000 William Samuel 23,170 23,170 Sir Nigel Wicks 3,500 3,500 Scott Dobbie also has a non-beneficial interest in 422,416 2009: 422,416 ordinary shares.
This largely arises as a result of Mr Dobbies membership of the Board of Trustees of the Cambridge Endowment for Research in Finance.
Save as aforesaid, no Director had any interests, beneficial or otherwise, in the shares of the Company during the year.
No Director held any of the Companys debenture stocks at either date.
No changes to these holdings had been notified up to the date of this report.
Disclosable Interests No Director was a party to, or had any interests in, any contract or arrangement with the Company at any time during the year or at the year end.
The Company has entered into a Deed of Indemnity with each Director under which the Directors are indemnified by the Company for, inter alia, costs incurred in defending claims made by third parties.
