L15825 Edinburgh pp15 36 2 6 10 4:55 pm Page 15 THE EDINBURGH INVESTMENT TRUST PLC 15 REPORT OF THE DIRECTORS INCORPORATING THE BUSINESS REVIEW FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 MARCH 2010 Introduction The Directors present their report together with the audited financial statements of The Edinburgh Investment Trust plc the Company for the year ended 31 March 2010.
The Corporate Governance Statement forms part of this report.
The Report of the Directors incorporates the Business Review and expands on the following main areas: page 15 Nature of the Company page 15 Objective and Investment Policy page 16 Company Business, Results and Share Capital page 16 Share Valuations page 17 Key Performance Indicators page 18 Invesco Perpetuals Investment Process and Performance page 18 Principal Risks and Uncertainties page 20 Resources, Relationships and Advisers page 21 Financial Position page 21 Social and Environmental Policies page 22 Substantial Holdings in the Company page 22 Special Business at the Annual General Meeting page 23 The Manager page 23 Directors page 27 Corporate Governance Statement Nature of the Company The Company was incorporated and registered in Scotland as a public limited company on 1 March 1889, registered number SC1836.
The Company is an investment company as defined by section 833 of the Companies Act 2006 and operates as an investment trust in accordance with section 842 of the Income and Corporation Taxes Act 1988 ICTA 1988.
HM Revenue & Customs have approved the Companys status as an investment trust, subject to there being no subsequent enquiry under Corporation Tax Self Assessment, in respect of the year ended 31 March 2009.
In the opinion of the Directors, the Company has subsequently conducted its affairs so as to enable it to maintain such approval.
It is the Companys intention to continue to seek authorisation under section 842 of ICTA 1988 or under the subsequent legislation of s1158 of the Corporation tax Act 2010.
Objective and Investment Policy The Company invests primarily in UK securities with the long term objective of achieving: 1. an increase of the Net Asset Value per share by more than the growth in the FTSE All-Share Index: and 2. growth in dividends per share by more than the rate of UK inflation.
The Company will generally invest only in companies quoted on a recognised stock exchange in the UK or in those which are about to enter the FTSE All-Share Index.
The Company may invest up to 15% of the market value of the Companys investment portfolio, measured at the time of any acquisition, in securities listed on stock exchanges outside the UK.
The portfolio is selected by the Manager on the basis of its assessment of the fundamental value available in individual securities.
Whilst the Companys overall exposure to individual securities is monitored carefully by the Board, the portfolio is not primarily structured on the basis of industry weightings.
The securities of no one company may, as determined at the time of acquisition, represent more than 10% of the market value of the Companys equity portfolio.
Similarly, the Company will not hold more than 5% of the issued share capital or voting shares in any one company.
Investment in convertibles is subject to normal security limits.
Should these or any other limit be exceeded by subsequent market movement, each resulting position is specifically reviewed by the Board.
The Company borrows money to provide gearing to the equity portfolio up to a maximum of 200 million.
Use of derivative instruments is permitted within the following constraints and is monitored carefully by the Board.
The writing of covered calls, to a maximum of 10% of the value of the portfolio, is permitted and a maximum of 15% may be invested in FTSE 100 futures.
Other derivative contracts may be employed subject to an aggregate of the above limits and to the prior approval of the Board.
