L15825 Edinburgh pp15 36 2 6 10 4:55 pm Page 21 THE EDINBURGH INVESTMENT TRUST PLC 21 replace the Manager and reviews the management contract formally once a year.
The outcome of this review is discussed on page 23.
Other contractual arrangements govern relationships with the Auditors, Registrar, Custodian and Broker.
The performance of the service providers is reviewed formally by the Board on an annual basis.
Relationships Through the annual and half-yearly financial reports, interim management statements and the publication of a daily net asset value, the Board endeavours to ensure that shareholders understand the Companys investment objectives and policies.
The Board monitors and reviews shareholder communications on a regular basis and, both independently and through the Manager, reviews the Companys objectives and policies in the light of feedback from shareholders.
The Companys main supplier of services is the Manager which provides both investment management services and company secretarial and administrative support.
Advisers and Principal Service Providers The Company has the following additional advisers and principal service providers: KPMG Audit Plc as Auditors: The Bank of New York Mellon as Custodian: Equiniti Limited as Registrar: and Collins Stewart Europe Limited as Broker.
Capita Registrars will be Registrar to the Company with effect from 9 August 2010.
Financial Position Assets and Liabilities At 31 March 2010, the Companys gross assets were valued at 1,026 million 2009: 840 million.
These comprised a portfolio of mainly equity investments and net current assets.
1 The Company has 200 million of borrowings in the form of two 100 million debentures.
The 11 2% 3 debenture matures in 2014 and the 7 4% debenture in 2022.
The weighted average interest rate is 9.625%.
The Company also has a bank overdraft facility of 10% of assets held by the Custodian which was undrawn at 31 March 2010: this facility was unused during the year and is available to facilitate settlement of short-term cash timing differences.
Due to the readily realisable nature of the Companys assets, cash flow does not have the same significance as for an industrial or commercial company.
The Companys principal cash flows arise from the purchase and sales of investments and the income from investments against which must be set the costs of borrowing and management expenses.
Social and Environmental Policies As an investment trust with no employees, property or activities outside investment management, environmental policy has limited application.
The Manager considers various factors when evaluating potential investments.
Some are financial ratios and measures, such as free cash flow, earnings per share and price-to-book value.
Others are more subjective indicators which rely on first hand research: for example quality of management, innovation and product strength.
The Companys policy is that, subject to an overriding requirement to pursue the best financial interests of the Company, the Manager should take account of social, environmental and ethical factors in making and holding investments and in the use of voting powers conferred by such investments.
At the AGM in 2008, shareholders adopted revised Articles of Association which allow the Company to send or supply documents or information to shareholders in electronic forms e. g. by email or by means of a website.
This will deliver environmental benefits through reduced use of paper and the energy required for its production and distribution.
