L15825 Edinburgh pp15 36 2 6 10 4:55 pm Page 27 THE EDINBURGH INVESTMENT TRUST PLC 27 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE STATEMENT Directors Statement of Compliance with the revised Association of Investment Companies Code of Corporate Governance AIC Code and the AICs Corporate Governance Guide for Investment Companies AIC Guide The Corporate Governance Statement forms part of the Report of the Directors.
The Principles The Board is committed to maintaining the highest standards of Corporate Governance and is accountable to shareholders for the governance of the Companys affairs.
In February 2006, the Financial Reporting Council confirmed that AIC member companies which report against the AIC Code and which follow the AIC Guide meet their obligations in relation to the Combined Code on Corporate Governance and paragraph 9.8.
On 20 February 2009 the FRC provided the AIC with an updated endorsement to cover the 2009 edition of the AIC Code relating to additional items to be included in the annual financial report.
This statement describes how the principles of the AIC Code and Guide have been complied with in the affairs of the Company.
Any reference to the AIC Code in this statement includes references to the AIC Guide.
The Board considers that reporting against the principles and recommendations of the AIC Code, and by reference to the AIC Guide which incorporates the Combined Code, will provide better information to shareholders.
Copies of the AIC Code and AIC Guide can be found on the AICs website at www.
The Company has complied with the recommendations of the AIC Code and the relevant provisions of Section 1 of the Combined Code, except as set out below.
The Combined Code includes provisions relating to the role of the chief executive, executive directors remuneration and the need for an internal audit function.
For the reasons set out in the AIC Guide, and in the preamble to the Combined Code, the Board considers these provisions are not relevant to the Company, which is an externally managed investment company.
The Company has therefore not reported further in respect of these provisions.
Directors Independence The Board comprises six non-executive Directors, each of whom the Board regards as wholly independent of the Companys Manager.
Some commentators have a view that length of service on a board can compromise independence from the manager.
The AIC does not believe that this is the case for investment companies and therefore does not recommend that long serving directors be prevented from forming part of the independent majority.
The Board considers that the independence of Scott Dobbie, who has served on the Board for more than 9 years, is not compromised by his length of service.
The Board believes that the Company benefits from a balance of board members with different tenures.
Scott Dobbie, having served on the Board for more than 9 years is subject to re-election and therefore will retire at this years AGM and will offer himself for re-election.
In considering the Chairmans independence, it should also be noted that the Manager, Invesco Asset Management Limited, was appointed in September 2008.
Chairman The Chairman of the Company is Scott Dobbie, a non-executive and independent Director who has no conflicting relationships.
As the Company is an investment trust and sub-contracts its day-to-day investment management and administration, its Board consists exclusively of non-executive Directors and it does not have a Chief Executive Officer.
Scott Dobbie has been a member of the Board since 1998 and Chairman since 2003.
He is subject to an annual performance appraisal.
Following this years appraisal, the Board has confirmed that the Chairmans performance continues to be effective and therefore recommends his re-election.
The Chairman will be present at the AGM to answer questions.
Senior Non-Executive Director The Companys Senior Non-Executive Director is Richard Barfield.
