L15825 Edinburgh pp15 36 2 6 10 4:55 pm Page 23 THE EDINBURGH INVESTMENT TRUST PLC 23 Investment Management Agreement IMA Invesco Asset Management Limited IAML acts as Manager and Secretary to the Company under an investment management agreement dated 15 September 2008.
The agreement is terminable by either party by giving not less than 3 months notice.
The management fee is payable monthly in arrears and is equal to 0.05% of the market capitalisation of the Companys ordinary shares at each month end.
IAML is also entitled to a performance fee in respect of each rolling three year period in which the Company outperforms its benchmark, the FTSE All-Share Index, plus a hurdle rate, this being the equivalent of 1.25% per annum, as adjusted for shorter periods.
The IMA provides for transitional arrangements for the periods up to 31 March 2011, under which half of any performance fee for each period is paid at the end of the period and half deferred.
Any deferred portion becomes payable after 31 March 2011 if and when performance meets or exceeds the benchmark plus hurdle rate.
Any performance fee earned will be the lower of 15% of the out-performance based on the average quarterly net asset value with debt at par of the Company over the relevant performance period and 1% of net asset value, as adjusted for shorter periods where required.
No performance fee is due for the year ended 31 March 2010.
For the year ended 31 March 2009, a performance fee of 3,422,000 was charged of which half is paid and the remainder is shown as a provision in accordance with the transitional arrangements as detailed above.
VAT on Management fees As previously reported, management fees are no longer subject to VAT.
The Company received a refund of VAT paid on Management fees from Aberdeen Asset Management who acquired Edinburgh Fund Managers of 963,000 which has been recognised in these accounts.
The Board expects the Company to receive interest on the refund of VAT, however, as the amount involved and timing of receipt is uncertain, no provision has been made for this amount in these accounts.
The Managers Responsibilities The Directors have delegated to Invesco Asset Management Limited the Manager the responsibility for the day-to-day investment management activities of the Company.
The Manager has full discretion to manage the assets of the Company in accordance with the Companys stated objectives and policies.
The Manager has discretion to make purchases and sales, make and withdraw cash deposits, enter into underwriting commitments and exercise all rights over the investment portfolio.
The Manager also advises on borrowings.
The Manager provides full administration and company secretarial services to the Company, ensuring that the Company complies with all legal and regulatory requirements and officiating at Board meetings and shareholders meetings.
The Manager additionally maintains complete and accurate records of the Companys investment transactions and portfolio and all monetary transactions from which the Manager prepares half-yearly and annual financial statements on behalf of the Company as well as interim management statements.
Assessment of the Investment Manager The Management Engagement Committee meets annually to review the investment management and secretarial arrangements.
The Committee considers, among other matters investment performance, marketing activity, secretarial and administrative services, the finance and control environments, compliance, audit and terms of the Investment Management Agreement.
The Board, based on its recent review of activities, considers that the continuing appointment of Invesco Asset Management Limited is in the best interests of shareholders as a whole.
Directors Directors are appointed by ordinary resolution at a general meeting of ordinary shareholders.
The Directors have the power to appoint a Director during the year but any person so appointed must stand for election at the next Annual General Meeting.
