2010 RA 1-19 final:Layout 1 14 12 10 15:22 Page 5 Objective and Investment Policy Electra has been quoted on the London Stock Exchange since 1976.
Electra is managed as an HM Revenue and Customs approved investment trust, and invests primarily in the private equity mid-market.
The business and affairs of Electra are managed on an exclusive and fully discretionary basis by Electra Partners, an independent private equity fund manager with over 25 years experience in the mid-market.
Electras objective is to achieve a rate of return on equity of between 10-15% per year over the long term by investing in a portfolio of private equity assets.
Electra Partners aims to achieve this target rate of return on behalf of Electra by utilising a flexible investment strategy and: exploiting a track record of successful private equity investment: utilising the proven skills of its management team with a strong record of deal flow generation and long-term presence in the private equity market: targeting private equity opportunities including direct investment, fund investments and secondary buyouts of portfolios and funds so that the perceived risks associated with such investments are justified by expected returns: investing in a number of value creating transactions with a balanced risk profile across a broad range of investment sectors through a variety of financial instruments: and actively managing its capital position and levels of gearing in light of prevailing economic conditions.
The investment focus is principally on Western Europe, with the majority of investments made in the United Kingdom where Electra Partners has historically been most active.
There is an emphasis on areas where Electra Partners has specific knowledge and expertise.
In circumstances where Electra Partners feels that there is merit in gaining exposure to countries and sectors outside its network and expertise, consideration is given to investing in specific funds managed by third parties or co-investing with private equity managers with whom it has developed a relationship.
In implementing Electras flexible investment strategy, Electra Partners typically targets investments at a cost of 20 million to 75 million in companies with an enterprise value of 50 million to 200 million.
Electra Partners attempts to mitigate risk through portfolio diversification.
Investments will therefore be made across a broad range of sectors and industries and not more than 15% of Electra's net asset value, at the time of investment, will be invested in any single investment.
If Electra acquires a portfolio of companies in a single transaction, this limitation shall be applied individually to each of the underlying companies purchased and not to the portfolio as a whole.
Electra has a policy to maintain total gearing below 40% of its total assets.
Unless required to do so to maintain Electras investment trust status, it is the policy of the Directors not to pay dividends.
Electra Private Equity PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2010 5 Overview Chairmans Statement Objective and Investment Policy 2010 RA 1-19 final:Layout 1 14 12 10 15:22 Page 6 Review The Manager As at 30 September 2010, Electra Partners had funds under management of over 800 million on behalf of Electra and other clients.
Over the last 20 years Electra Partners has invested in excess of 3 billion in private equity investments, accumulating considerable expertise and building a strong track record.
The majority of Electra Partners senior management have worked together for 20 years.
They are supported by the investment team who average over 17 years in private equity, and are backed by a 24-strong team skilled in finance, compliance, investor relations and marketing.
Senior Management Team Years of experience Hugh Mumford Managing Partner 29 Tim Syder Deputy Managing Partner 25 David Symondson Deputy Managing Partner 26 Rhian Davies Partner 17 Philip Dyke Partner 37 Steve Ozin Partner 20 Investment Team Years of experience Alex Cooper-Evans Investment Partner 16 Ian Dyke Investment Partner 12 Charles Elkington Investment Partner 16 Nigel Elsley Investment Partner 20 Roger Isaac Investment Partner 23 John Martin Investment Manager 8 Sarah Williams Investment Manager 8 Peter Carnwath Portfolio Manager 28 Oliver Huntsman Portfolio Manager 27 John Levack Portfolio Manager 20 Electra Private Equity PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2010 6 2010 RA 1-19 final:Layout 1 14 12 10 15:22 Page 7 Electra enters the new financial year with a portfolio which has shown considerable resilience to difficult conditions, is conservatively financed and has good prospects for further value growth even if the economy remains weak.
Most of the factors which have made private equity successful in the last two decades continue to be valid in todays changed circumstances.
With its experienced management team, strong market position and flexible approach to capital structuring Electra is well placed to take advantage of the opportunities ahead.
Hugh Mumford Managing Partner, Electra Partners LLP 29 November 2010 Electra Private Equity PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2010 7 Review The Manager
