2010 RA 1-19 final:Layout 1 14 12 10 15:22 Page 16 Review Large Private Equity Investments ALLFLEX HOLDINGS Location: International Equity Ownership 33.0% In 1998 Electra invested 23.1 million in the US$160 million buyout of Allflex.
Allflex is the worlds leading manufacturer and distributor of plastic and electronic Valuation 71,924,000 animal identification tags Rfid with factories in France, Brazil and China.
In Cost 40,482,000 August 2007 the business was refinanced with Electra retaining a significant ongoing holding in the business.
In the year ended 31 December 2009, Allflex generated sales of $187.4 million Valuation based on multiple of 2008: $201.6 million.
On a constant currency basis turnover for 2009 was earnings equivalent to sales generated in 2008.
The business has shown strong growth in 2010, despite adverse currency movements, primarily as a result of increased sales of electronic tags, both in Europe, where new sheep identification legislation has been implemented, and in New Zealand.
BDR THERMEA Location: International Equity Ownership 6.0% In 2004 Electra invested 14.9 million in the buyout of Baxi Group.
Through this investment Electra maintained an exposure to a business considered to have good Valuation 62,500,000 long term growth potential.
Accrued income 574,000 In July 2009 Baxi announced that it had reached agreement with fide Dietrich Cost 55,847,000 Remeha Group to form a combined group with a leading position in the European heating market.
This transaction completed in October 2009.
Pro forma 2009 turnover and EBITDA of the combined BDR Thermea Group were approximately Valuation based on multiple of 1,700 million and 230 million respectively.
earnings 2010 is progressing well for the combined group, with performance ahead of 2009 pro forma figures and synergies beginning to be realised.
RIO TRENS CORPORATION Location: Brazil Equity Ownership 22.4% In 1998 Electra first invested in Rio Trens Corporation RTC which has an investment in a Brazilian transportation company operating 159 trains on a 225km Valuation 52,600,000 network serving 89 stations.
Electra invested US$25 million in the company between Cost 34,362,000 1998 and 2000.
Following a series of financial and operational difficulties the investment was written off by Electra in 2000.
Subsequently, changes were made to the management The valuation at 30 September 2010 and during the last year Electra invested a further 17.3 million to aid the companys reflected the imminent sale of this ongoing investment programme to improve the network and capacity.
With the forthcoming World Cup and Olympics in Brazil, the concession attracted interest and Electra accepted an offer for its shareholding in RTC in November 2010, receiving 54 million of proceeds.
16 Electra Private Equity PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2010 2010 RA 1-19 final:Layout 1 14 12 10 15:22 Page 17 PROMONTORIA Location: Germany Equity Ownership 10.7% Promontoria is a property investment company which owns more than 100 retail properties, of which 82 are leased to the discount chain Deutsche Woolworth.
Valuation 36,304,000 The freehold and long leasehold stores are situated throughout the major towns Accrued income 3,539,000 and cities in Germany.
Cost 16,479,000 In July 2010, Deutsche Woolworth was acquired by a consortium including the Tengelmann retail group and Stefan Heinig CEO of Kik Textilien.
Promontoria is unleveraged and its properties are valued either on the basis of Valuation based at a discount to the a 9% yield or on a discount 10-20% to the expected proceeds arising on rental or expected disposal value realisation or development.
ESURE Location: UK Equity Ownership 7.0% In February 2010 Electra invested 30 million in the management buyout of esure from Lloyds Banking Group, led by Peter Wood, founder and CEO of esure.
The Valuation 35,376,000 transaction was unleveraged and the total value was in excess of 185 million.
Cost 29,733,000 Founded in 2000 as a joint venture between the then Halifax plc and Peter Wood who previously founded Direct Line at RBS, esure is now one of the UKs leading motor insurers, offering car, home, pet and travel insurance over the Valuation based on multiple of net internet and by phone through the esure and Sheilas Wheels brands.
esure also assets esure earnings has a 50% interest in Gocompare, the internet aggregator.
Gocompare After a difficult period for the motor insurance market, including an increase in personal injury claims and unusually bad weather in January 2010, there are now clear signs that market conditions are improving with significant premium increases reported to date in 2010.
This, together with managements actions, is expected to have a positive impact on underwriting performance and overall profitability.
PREMIER ASSET MANAGEMENT Location: UK Equity Ownership 73.7% Premier is a retail fund manager distributing funds through IFAs as well as other discretionary and advisory channels.
In 2009 Electra made a further investment Valuation 31,823,000 of 23.6 million in the company in order to support the acquisition of two OEICs Cost 55,785,000 from Aberdeen Asset Management.
The company now has a strong platform for organic growth based on its IFA market positioning and distribution infrastructure, as well as the long-term Valuation based on multiple of growth nature of the retail investment market.
The companys strategy is to earnings accelerate organic growth by selective recruitment and by making further acquisitions.
At 30 September 2010 Premier had funds under management of 2.5 billion 30 September 2009: 2.5 billion.
Electra Private Equity PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2010 17 Review Large Private Equity Investments 2010 RA 1-19 final:Layout 1 14 12 10 15:22 Page 18 Review LIL-LETS GROUP Location: UK and South Africa Equity Ownership 61.7% In 2006 Electra invested in the management buyout of Lil-lets from Accantia.
Lil-lets is best known for its branded tampons and has operations in the UK and Valuation 21,149,000 South Africa.
Accrued income 15,197,000 In the UK the company has focused on promotional activity, on strengthening its Cost 21,412,000 sales team and on improving distribution in order to protect its market share.
These efforts have been largely successful over the past eighteen months and the company is now focusing on consumer marketing strategies to maximise profitability.
Valuation based on multiple of South Africa remains a growth market in which Lil-lets is the leader: the earnings company continues to benefit from product and operating cost improvements and is targeting entry into a number of sub-Saharan markets.
Group net sales in the year to 31 December 2010 are forecast to be approximately 38 million 2009: 37.7 million.
NUAIRE Location: UK and France Equity Ownership 38.8% In 2007 Electra invested in the 83 million management buyout of Nuaire.
Nuaire is a leading UK based manufacturer and distributor of ventilation equipment for Valuation 20,146,000 commercial and residential applications, with factories in Caerphilly, South Wales Cost 23,138,000 and St. Brisson-sur-Loire, France.
Nuaire had a satisfactory years trading to September 2010, delivering profits marginally behind budget and down on the prior year in a very challenging Valuation based on multiple of environment.
Nuaire generated unaudited sales of 53.8 million 2009: earnings 55.9 million.
Cash flow has been good and the business continues to seek to grow its addressable markets.
CAPITAL SAFETY GROUP Location: International Equity Ownership 10% Electra originally invested in the buyout of Capital Safety Group CSG in 1998 and Electras initial investment was predicated on transforming the business from Valuation 17,919,000 one with a regional focus into an international brand.
Accrued income: 1,935,000 CSG manufactures harnesses, lifelines and anchors for people working at height Cost 17,586,000 in a wide range of end user sectors including manufacturing, construction, oil and gas, and utilities.
Following the sale of the investment in 2007, Electra reinvested in the business to benefit from the continued growth forecast in the fall protection Valuation based on multiple of market and complementary acquisitions.
earnings In the first five months of CSGs year to August 2010 the business generated turnover of circa $96 million 2009: $77 million and EBITDA of $26 million 2009: $19 million.
The company continues to focus on winning market share and cost control, as well as attacking new markets such as wind power.
18 Electra Private Equity PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2010 2010 RA 20-37 final:2006 as 2007 23-36 14 12 10 15:24 Page 19 Report of the Directors To the Members of Electra Private Equity PLC The Directors present the audited Accounts of the Group for the year ended 30 September 2010 and their Report on its affairs.
Investment Trust Status The Company carries on business as an investment trust.
HM Revenue and Customs has approved the Company as an investment trust under Section 842 of the Income and Corporation Taxes Act 1988 now section 1158 of the Corporation Taxes Act 2010 for the accounting period to 30 September 2009.
In accordance with the self-assessment of Corporation Tax this approval is based upon the computations submitted by the Company and is subject to the findings of any enquiries that HM Revenue and Customs may make.
The Directors are of the opinion that since that date the Company has conducted its affairs in a manner which will satisfy the conditions for continued approval as an investment trust under that section.
Business Review The Business Review in the Report of the Directors describes the business of the Company and details the main risks and uncertainties associated with the Companys activities, taking into account performance as measured by the Key Performance Indicators KPIs.
Objective and Investment Policy The Objective and Investment Policy of the Company are set out on page 5.
Current and future development A review of the main features of the year is contained in the Chairmans Statement, the Investment Portfolio Analysis and Investment Portfolio Review.
The Board regularly reviews the development and strategic direction of the Company.
The Board believes that the current investment strategy which was approved by shareholders in October 2006 remains effective in the light of existing market conditions.
The Boards main focus continues to be on the Companys long-term investment return.
The Board, in consultation with the Manager, review, set a strategy for and monitor the Companys total capital position and gearing.
Performance A detailed review of performance during the year is contained in the Investment Portfolio Analysis and Investment Portfolio Review.
A number of performance measures are considered by the Board and the Manager in assessing the Companys success in achieving its objectives.
The KPIs used to measure the progress and performance of the Company are established industry measures and are as follows: Return on equity over the long term The movement in net asset value per ordinary share The movement in share price Details of the KPIs are shown on page 3 Social, community, employee and environmental issues In carrying out its activities and in its relationships with the community, the Company aims to conduct itself responsibly, ethically and fairly.
The Company has no employees and the Board is composed entirely of nonexecutive Directors.
As an investment trust, the Company has no direct impact on the environment.
However, the Company believes that it is in the shareholders interests to consider environmental, social and ethical factors when selecting and retaining investments.
Further details of how the Company views socially responsible investment are set out on page 22.
Electra Private Equity PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2010 19 Review Large Private Equity Investments Reports Report of the Directors 2010 RA 20-37 final:2006 as 2007 23-36 14 12 10 15:24 Page 20 Reports Risk management As the Company is focused on investment in private equity assets, Electra Partners aims to limit the risk attaching to the portfolio as a whole by careful selection of investments and by a spread of holdings in terms of overall portfolio analysis, age and geographic split in accordance with the Companys Objective and Investment Policy.
It is the role of the Board to review and manage all risks associated with the Company, either mitigating these directly or through Electra Partners.
The principal risks facing the Company include Market Price Risk, Credit Risk, Interest Rate Risk, Liquidity Risk and Foreign Currency Risk as further detailed in Note 17 of the Notes to the Accounts.
In addition the Company is also focused on the following risks: Macroeconomic risks The performance of the Companys underlying investment portfolio is principally influenced by a combination of economic conditions, the availability of appropriately priced debt finance, interest rates and the number of active trade and financial buyers.
All of these factors have an impact on the Companys ability to invest, the Companys ability to exit from its underlying portfolio and the levels of profitability achievable on exit.
Gearing risks of Zero Dividend Preference shares ZDP shares Electra Private Equity Investments plc, a wholly owned subsidiary of the Company, issued ZDP shares in 2009, which represents a form of gearing for the Company.
The principal gearing risk of these ZDP shares is that they rank prior to the Companys ordinary shares in respect of their final capital entitlement due in 2016 and that there may therefore be an adverse impact on the Companys performance.
Secondary risks relate to whether the cost of this gearing is too high and whether the length of gearing is appropriate.
The Board regularly monitors and reviews the impact of the ZDP shares and their final capital entitlement cost to the Company.
Long-term strategic risk The Company is subject to the risk that its long-term strategy and its level of performance fail to meet the expectations of its shareholders.
The Board monitors the level of discount of share price to net asset value per share and considers the most effective methodologies to keep this at a minimum, including the share buy-back policy.
With the need to fund the future redemption of the ZDP shares and anticipating attractive investment opportunities, the Board considers that the purchases of shares for cancellation will be less likely in the medium term.
Nevertheless, Directors will continue to seek shareholder authority on an annual basis to enable them to purchase shares for cancellation when they believe it will be in the best interests of shareholders.
In addition the Board regularly reviews the Objective and Investment Policy in light of prevailing investor sentiment to ensure the Company remains attractive to its shareholders.
Government policy and regulation risk The Company carries on business as an investment trust under section 1158 of the Corporation Taxes Act 2010.
Retention of investment trust status is subject to the Company conducting its affairs in a manner which will satisfy annually the HM Revenue and Customs conditions for continuing approval as an investment trust.
Expected and actual changes in government policy and treatment of investment trusts are closely monitored, as are other changes which could affect the Companys business or financial position.
Electra Partners is an authorised person under the Financial Services and Markets Act 2000 and is regulated by the FSA.
Changes to the regulatory framework under which Electra Partners operates are closely monitored by Electra Partners and reported upon as necessary by Electra Partners to the Board.
Investment risks The Company operates in a very competitive market.
Changes in the number of market participants, the availability of funds within the market, the pricing of assets, or in the ability of Electra Partners to access deals could have a significant effect on the Companys competitive position and on the sustainability of returns.
In order to source and execute good quality investments the Company is primarily dependent on Electra Partners having the ability to attract and retain executives with the requisite investment experience and whose compensation is in line with the Companys objectives.
20 Electra Private Equity PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2010 2010 RA 20-37 final:2006 as 2007 23-36 14 12 10 15:24 Page 21 Once invested, the performance of the Companys portfolio is dependent upon a range of factors.
These include but are not limited to: i the quality of the initial investment decision: ii the ability of the portfolio company successfully to execute its business strategy: and iii actual outcomes against the key assumptions underlying the portfolio companys financial projections.
Any one of these factors could have an impact on the valuation of a portfolio company and upon the Companys ability to make a profitable exit from the investment within the desired timeframe.
A rigorous process is put in place by Electra Partners for managing the relationship with each investee company.
This includes regular asset reviews and in many cases, board representation by one of Electra Partners executives.
The Board reviews both the performance of Electra Partners and its incentive arrangements on a regular basis to ensure that both are appropriate to the objectives of the Company.
Valuation risk In order to value investments correctly, the Company is primarily dependent on Electra Partners following Accounting Standards, in this case IAS 39 as further detailed on page 45.
Operational risk The Companys investment management, custody of assets and many administrative systems are provided or arranged for the Company by Electra Partners.
Therefore the Company is exposed to a range of operational risks at Electra Partners which might arise from inadequate or failed processes, people and systems or from external factors affecting these.
These include operational events such as human resources risks, legal and regulatory risks, information technology systems failures, business disruption and shortcomings in internal controls.
The Companys system of internal control mainly comprises the monitoring of the services provided by Electra Partners, including the operating controls established by them to ensure they meet the Companys business objectives, as further detailed in the Corporate Governance Statement on page 30.
Management Arrangements On 12 October 2006 Electra Partners was appointed as the Manager following shareholders approval of revised management arrangements.
The management agreement dated 12 October 2006 ran for an initial three year period with a 12 month rolling notice period.
Neither party could serve notice to terminate during the first two years of the agreement.
With effect from 30 September 2010, the management agreement was amended so that the agreement may be terminated by either party giving notice of not less than 12 months.
Whatever notice period is worked, Electra Partners will be entitled to receive additional compensation equivalent to 12 months priority profit share determined by reference to the previous 12 months priority profit share.
Electra Partners is able to terminate the new management agreement on 12 months notice and if so Electra may pay compensation in lieu of any part of the notice period but Electra Partners is not entitled to any additional compensation.
Electra Partners receives a priority profit share of 1.5% on the gross value of the Companys investment portfolio including cash but excluding any amounts committed to funds established and managed by Electra Partners.
During the year the Company continued to operate carried interest and co-investment schemes for executives of Electra Partners and details of these schemes are contained in Note 22 and 24 of the Notes to the Accounts.
As detailed in the Corporate Governance Statement, the Board reviews the activities of Electra Partners on an ongoing basis and believes that the continuing appointment of Electra Partners on the terms agreed is in the interests of shareholders as a whole.
Electra Partners is responsible for the investment management of a number of limited partnership funds to which the Company has subscribed.
Electra Partners manages the Companys investments in accordance with guidelines determined by Directors and as specified in limited partnership and in management and investment guideline agreements.
Electra Private Equity PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2010 21 Reports Report of the Directors 2010 RA 20-37 final:2006 as 2007 23-36 14 12 10 15:24 Page 22 Reports Socially Responsible Investment Electra believes that high standards of corporate social responsibility CSR make good business sense and have the potential to protect and enhance investment returns.
Consequently, the investment process takes social, environmental and ethical issues into account when, in Electra Partners view, these have a material impact on either investment risk or return.
Electra recognises and supports the view that social, environmental and ethical best practice should be encouraged.
It favours investing in companies committed to high standards of CSR and to the principles of sustainable development.
Electra Partners does not screen out companies from its investment universe purely on the grounds of poor social, environmental or ethical performance.
Instead, it adopts a positive engagement approach whereby, if it is appropriate, it discusses these issues with the management of the companies in which it invests.
The information gathered during these meetings is used both to assist Electra Partners investment decisions and also to encourage investee company management to improve procedures and attitudes.
Electra Partners strongly believes that this is the most effective way to improve the CSR policies of the businesses in which it invests and the Board endorses this view.
Results A revenue profit attributable to shareholders of 1,558,000 2009: profit of 12,047,000 was transferred to Revenue Reserves.
No dividend is proposed in respect of the year ended 30 September 2010 2009: nil.
Authority to Make Market Purchases of Shares As at 30 September 2010, the Company had authority to purchase for cancellation up to 5,297,269 shares.
This authority will lapse at the 2011 Annual General Meeting when a Special Resolution will be proposed to renew the Companys authority to make market purchases of its own shares.
During the year the Company did not purchase any shares for cancellation.
The Company does not hold any shares in treasury.
Accordingly, at 30 September 2010 a total of 35,338,687 ordinary shares of 25p each were in issue.
Multi-Currency Loan Facility At 30 September 2010 borrowings under the 185 million 2009: 185 million multi-currency facility amounted to 163,945,000 2009: 169,732,000.
Directors The current Directors of the Company are listed on page 72.
Dr C Bowe, Mr RA Armstrong, Mr MEDA Walton, Ms L Webber and Mr JP Williams served as Directors throughout the year ended 30 September 2010.
Mr RK Perkin was appointed as a Director on 24 November 2009.
Sir Brian Williamson resigned as a Director on 24 May 2010.
No other person was a Director of the Company during any part of the year.
Dr C Bowe, Mr MEDA Walton and Ms L Webber will all retire at the Annual General Meeting in 2011 and, being eligible, offer themselves for re-election.
The Board appointed Ms K Barker as a non-executive Director with effect from 1 November 2010.
Ms K Barker offers herself for election at the Annual General Meeting in 2011.
Mr RA Armstrong and Mr JP Williams will retire as Directors at the conclusion of the Annual General Meeting in 2011.
Directors Conflicts of Interest The Board met on 24 November 2009 to consider conflicts of interest when it was agreed that none of the Directors had an actual conflict of interest.
The Board has agreed that the Remuneration and Nomination Committee are responsible for considering and reviewing conflicts of interest and that any Director or Directors with a potential conflict would be excluded from such a review.
After consideration, if required, the Remuneration and Nomination Committee would subsequently make a recommendation to the Board of Directors.
The terms of reference of the Remuneration and Nomination Committee have been amended accordingly.
22 Electra Private Equity PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2010 2010 RA 20-37 final:2006 as 2007 23-36 14 12 10 15:24 Page 23 Directors Interests The interests of the Directors including connected persons in the ordinary shares of the Company are shown below.
Save as disclosed, no Director had any notifiable interest in the securities of the Company or of any subsidiary of the Company.
There have been no changes in the interests of any of the Directors in the ordinary shares of the Company between 1 October 2010 and 29 November 2010.
30 September 30 September 2010 2009 Shares Shares Dr C Bowe 5,000 1,129 RA Armstrong 23,723 23,723 RK Perkin MEDA Walton 16,016 16,016 L Webber 1,500 1,500 JP Williams 30,000 10,000 Upon appointment 24 November 2009 Mr RK Perkin did not have an interest in any ordinary shares of the Company.
Ms K Barker was appointed a Director on 1 November 2010.
Upon appointment Ms K Barker did not have an interest in any ordinary shares of the Company.
Substantial Interests The Company has received the following notifications of interests of 3% or more in the voting rights attached to the Companys ordinary shares: Voting Rights Notified Percentage of Voting Rights Direct Indirect Direct Indirect No.
% % Prudential PLC group of companies 2,580,081 7.30 The Cooperative Asset Management 2,027,730 5.74 Rensburg Sheppards Investment Management Limited 1,850,616 5.24 Asset Value Investors Limited as discretionary manager 1,741,132 4.93 Bear, Stearns International Trading Limited 1,441,394 4.08 Legal & General Group PLC 1,409,952 3.99 HBOS PLC 67,208 1,633,324 0.19 4.62 Percentage shown as a percentage of 35,338,687 ordinary shares, being the number of shares in issue at the latest practicable date before the publication of this Directors Report.
Charitable and Political Donations During the year the Group made no charitable or political donations 2009: nil.
Audit Information Each of the Directors confirms that so far as they are aware, there is no relevant audit information of which the Companys Auditors are unaware and they have taken all steps they ought to have taken to make themselves aware of any relevant audit information and to establish that the Companys Auditors are aware of that information.
Electra Private Equity PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2010 23 Reports Report of the Directors 2010 RA 20-37 final:2006 as 2007 23-36 14 12 10 15:24 Page 24 Reports Auditors A resolution to re-appoint  LLP as Auditors to the Company will be proposed at the Annual General Meeting.
A separate resolution will be proposed at the Annual General Meeting authorising the Directors to determine the remuneration of the Auditors.
Creditor Payment Policy The Company agrees the terms of payment with its suppliers when agreeing the terms of each agreement.
Suppliers are aware of the terms of payment and the Company abides by the terms of payment.
Going Concern The Directors believe that it is appropriate to continue to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the Accounts as the Company has adequate resources to continue in operational existence for the foreseeable future.
Annual General Meeting The Annual General Meeting will be held on Thursday 24 February 2011.
In addition to the ordinary business the following special business will be considered: Authority to Purchase own Shares Resolution 9 A special resolution will be proposed to renew the Boards authority to purchase its own shares, so as to permit the purchase of up to 5,297,269 of the Companys ordinary shares or such lesser number of shares as is equal to 14.99% of the total number of ordinary shares in issue at the date of the passing of the resolution subject to the constraints set out in the special resolution.
The Directors would intend to use this authority to purchase shares only if this would result in an increase in net asset value per share and would be in the best interests of shareholders generally.
Should any shares be purchased under this authority, it is the intention of the Board that such shares be cancelled.
The Directors believe that the renewal of the Boards authority to purchase shares, as detailed above, is in the best interests of shareholders as a whole and therefore recommend shareholders to vote in favour of Resolution 9.
"Additional Information for Shareholders Set out below is a summary of certain provisions of the Company's current Articles of Association the ""Articles"" and applicable English law concerning companies the Companies Act 1985 and the Companies Act 2006 together the ""Companies Act""."
This is a summary only and the relevant provisions of the Articles or the Companies Acts should be consulted if further information is required.
Share Capital The Company has a single class of share capital which is divided into ordinary shares of 25 pence each.
The shares are in registered form.
Dividends and Distributions Subject to the provisions of the Companies Acts, the Company may by ordinary resolution from time to time declare dividends not exceeding the amount recommended by the Board.
The Board may pay interim dividends whenever the financial position of the Company, in the opinion of the Board, justifies such payment.
The Board may withhold payment of all or any part of any dividends payable in respect of the Company's shares from a person with a 0.25% interest of a class of shares if such a person has been served with a notice after failure to provide the Company with information concerning interest in those shares required to be provided under the Companies Act 2006.
Voting Rights Subject to any rights or restrictions attached to any shares, on a show of hands, every member who is present in person has one vote and every proxy present who has been duly appointed has one vote for every complete 25p in nominal amount of the shares of which he is the holder.
However if the proxy has been duly appointed by more than one member entitled to vote on the resolution, and is instructed by one or more of those members to vote for the resolution and by one or more others to vote against it, or is instructed by one or more of those members to vote in one way and is given discretion as to how to vote by one or more others and wishes to use that discretion to vote in the other way he has one vote for and one vote against the resolution.
Every corporate representative present 24 Electra Private Equity PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2010 2010 RA 20-37 final:2006 as 2007 23-36 14 12 10 15:24 Page 25 who has been duly authorised by a corporation has the same voting rights as the corporation would be entitled to.
On a poll every member present in person or by duly appointed proxy or corporate representative has one vote for every share of which he is the holder or in respect or which his appointment as proxy or corporate representative has been made.
A member, proxy or corporate representative entitled to more than one vote need not, if he votes, use all his votes or cast all the votes he uses the same way.
In the case of joint holders the vote of the senior who tenders a vote shall be accepted to the exclusion of the votes of the other joint holders, and seniority shall be determined by the order in which the names of the holders stand in the register of members.
A member is entitled to appoint another person as his proxy to exercise all or any of his rights to attend and to speak and vote at a meeting of the Company.
The appointment of a proxy shall be deemed also to confer authority to demand or join in demanding a poll.
Delivery of an appointment of proxy shall not preclude a member from attending and voting at the meeting or at any adjournment of it.
A proxy need not be a member.
A member may appoint more than one proxy in relation to a meeting, provided that each proxy is appointed to exercise the rights attached to a different share or shares held by him.
Restrictions on Voting No member shall have the right to vote at any general meeting or at any separate meeting of the holders of any class of shares, either in person or by proxy, in respect of any share held by him unless all amounts presently payable by him in respect of that share have been paid.
In addition if a person with a 0.25% interest of a class of shares has been served with a notice after failure to provide the Company with information concerning interest in those shares required to be provided under the Companies Act 2006 the member shall not be entitled to vote.
Deadlines for exercising voting rights Votes are exerciseable at a general meeting of the Company in respect of which the business being voted upon is being heard.
Votes may be exercised in person, by proxy, or in relation to corporate members, by corporate representative.
The Articles provide a deadline for submission of a proxy form in hard copy and electronic form of not less than 48 hours before the time appointed for the holding of the meeting or adjourned meeting.
In the case of a poll taken subsequently to the date of the meeting or adjourned meeting, the proxy form must be received not less than 24 hours or such shorter time as the Directors may determine before the time appointed for the taking of the poll.
Variation of rights The Articles specify that if the capital of the Company is divided into different classes of shares, rights attached to any class may be varied, either in such manner if any as may be provided by those rights: or in the absence of any such provision, with the consent in writing of the holders of three-quarters in nominal value of the issued shares of that class excluding any shares of that class held as treasury shares, or with the sanction of a special resolution passed at a separate meeting of the holders of the shares of that class, but not otherwise.
At every such separate meeting other than an adjourned meeting the quorum shall be two persons together holding or representing by proxy at least one-third in nominal value of the issued shares of the class in question excluding any shares of that class held as treasury shares.
At an adjourned meeting, the quorum shall be two persons holding shares of the class in question other than treasury shares or his proxy.
Transfer of shares The instrument of transfer of a share in certificated form may be in any usual form or in any other form which the Directors approve and shall be executed by or on behalf of the transferor and, where the share is not fully paid, by or on behalf of the transferee.
Where any class of shares is, for the time being, a participating security, title to shares of that class which are recorded on an operator register of members as being held in uncertificated form may be transferred by means of the CREST system.
The transfer may not be in favour of more than four transferees.
Transfers of shares in uncertificated form are effected by means of the CREST system.
Electra Private Equity PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2010 25 Reports Report of the Directors 2010 RA 20-37 final:2006 as 2007 23-36 14 12 10 15:24 Page 26 Reports The Directors may, in their absolute discretion, refuse to register the transfer of a share in certificated form which is not fully paid provided that if the share is listed on the Official List of the UK Listing Authority such refusal does not prevent dealings in the shares from taking place on an open and proper basis.
The Directors may also refuse to register a transfer of a share in certificated form whether fully paid or not unless the instrument of transfer: a is lodged, duly stamped, at the Office or at such other place as the Directors may appoint and except in the case of a transfer by a financial institution where a certificate has not been issued in respect of the share is accompanied by the certificate for the share to which it relates and such other evidence as the Directors may reasonably require to show the right of the transferor to make the transfer: b is in respect of only one class of share: and c is in favour of not more than four transferees.
If the Directors refuse to register a transfer of a share, they shall as soon as practicable and in any event within two months after the date on which the transfer was lodged with the Company in the case of a transfer of a share in certificated form or the date on which the Operator-instruction was received by the Company in the case of a transfer of a share in uncertificated form to a person who is to hold it thereafter in certificated form send to the transferee notice of the refusal together with reasons for the refusal.
The Directors shall send such further information about the reasons for the refusal to the transferee as the transferee may reasonably request.
Nothing in the Articles shall preclude the Directors from recognising a renunciation of the allotment of any share by the allottee in favour of some other person.
Appointment and replacement of Directors Unless otherwise determined by the Company by ordinary resolution the number of Directors disregarding alternate Directors shall not be less than three nor more than fifteen.
At the annual general meeting in every year there all Directors who held office at the time of each of the two preceding annual general meetings and who did not retire at either of them shall retire from office by rotation and such further Directors if any shall retire by rotation as would bring the number retiring by rotation up to one-third of the number of Directors in office at the date of the notice of the meeting or, if their number is not a multiple of three, the number nearest but not greater than one third.
The additional Directors to retire shall be those who have been longest in office since their last appointment or reappointment, but, as between persons who became or were last reappointed Directors on the same day, those to retire shall unless they otherwise agree among themselves be determined by lot.
Any non-executive Director other than the chairman who has held office as a non-executive Director for nine years or more shall retire from office at each annual general meeting and shall be eligible for reappointment.
A Director who retires at an annual general meeting may be reappointed.
If he is not reappointed or deemed to have been reappointed, he shall retain office until the meeting elects someone in his place or, if it does not do so, until the close of the meeting.
If the Company, at the meeting at which a Director retires under any provision of the Articles, does not fill the vacancy the retiring Director shall, if willing to act, be deemed to have been reappointed unless at the meeting it is resolved not to fill the vacancy or a resolution for the reappointment of the Director is put to the meeting and lost.
The office of a Director shall be vacated if a Director: i becomes bankrupt or compounds with his creditors generally: ii is prohibited by law from being a Director: iii has a court order made in respect of his mental health which wholly or partly prevents him from exercising powers or rights which he would otherwise have: iv sends a notice to the Company that he is resigning or retiring from his office and such registration or retirement has taken effect: v sees his appointment at an executive office terminated or expiring and the Directors resolve that he should cease to be Director: vi is absent without permission of the Board from meetings of the Board for six consecutive months and the Board resolves that the office is vacated: or vii notice is served upon a Director in writing by all other co-Directors.
26 Electra Private Equity PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2010 2010 RA 20-37 final:2006 as 2007 23-36 14 12 10 15:24 Page 27 Powers of the Directors Subject to the Articles, the Companies Acts and any directions given by special resolution, the business of the Company will be managed by the Board who may exercise all the powers of the Company.
The Directors shall restrict the borrowings of the Company and exercise all powers of control exercisable by the Company in relation to its subsidiary undertakings so as to secure that the aggregate principal amount including any premium payable on final repayment outstanding of all money borrowed by the Company and its subsidiaries shall not at any time, save with the previous sanction of an ordinary resolution of the Company, exceed i the amount paid up or credited as paid up on the share capital of the Company or ii the total of any credit balance on the distributable and undistributable reserves of the Company and its subsidiaries, subject to certain adjustments.
The Company may by ordinary resolution declare dividends in accordance with the respective rights of the members, but no dividend shall exceed the amount recommended by the Directors.
Subject to the provisions of the Articles and to the rights attaching to any shares, any dividends or other monies payable on or in respect of a share may be paid in such currency as the Directors may determine.
The Directors may deduct from any dividend payable to any member all sums of money if any presently payable by him to the Company on account of calls or otherwise in relation to shares of the Company.
The Directors may retain any dividends payable on shares on which the Company has a lien, and may apply the same in or towards satisfaction of the debts, liabilities or engagements in respect of which the lien exists.
Significant agreements: Change of control If there is a no fault termination by the Company of the Management Agreement dated 12 October 2006 between the Company and Electra Partners within 24 months of a change of effective control of the Company, 100% of the carried interest which has accrued as at the date of termination will be payable to the members of Electra Partners over three years and any future additional carry on existing investments will vest at 80% and will be paid on the realisation of investments when it becomes due in the ordinary course.
By order of the Board of Directors Frostrow Capital LLP, Secretary 25 Southampton Buildings, London WC2A 1AL 29 November 2010 Electra Private Equity PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2010 27 Reports Report of the Directors
