Report on directors remuneration continued Remuneration package The remuneration package of the executive directors consists of basic salary, performance bonus, health insurance, membership of the Bovis Homes Regulated Independent Car Scheme for Employees BRICS, pension, death in service assurance, and participation in employee share schemes and the Bovis Homes Group Long Term Incentive Plan.
The Remuneration Committee aims to balance appropriately fixed remuneration with those elements of an executive directors remuneration which are subject to explicit performance conditions, accepting that all remuneration is linked with ongoing appraisal of individual performance.
By virtue of the various elements of directors remuneration being subject to performance conditions, a significant part is variable and is not guaranteed.
The potential remuneration package is structured so that one-third is fixed and two-thirds is variable.
Whilst the Remuneration Committee aims to achieve this balance, it recognises that the payout in any year will vary from this.
The chart below to the left shows this graphically.
Targeted xed and variable elements % Potential and earned remuneration during 2010 000 450 450 450 400 400 400 Salary xed Earned 350 350 350 Performance Potential unearned 300 300 300 bonus variable 1 1 33 3 33 3 250 250 250 A 2010 salary xed LTIP variable 200 200 200 B 2010 performance 150 150 150 bonus variable 1 33 3 100 100 100 Gains on 2007 LTIP C variable 50 50 50 0 0 0 A B C A C A B Neil Cooper Jonathan Hill David Ritchie See bonus sacrifice note below Departed 6 May 2010 Appointed 23 August 2010 For remuneration earned during 2010 the fixed element, being salary, and variable elements, which includes bonus and gains on the exercise of LTIP awards granted in 2007, are shown, by director, in the charts immediately above and to the right.
As Jonathan Hill commenced with the Company on 23 August 2010 he had no entitlement to exercise awards under the LTIP during 2010.
Neil Cooper left the Company on 6 May 2010 and received no additional compensation on departure.
Salary Executive director salaries are reviewed annually to take effect from 1 January, taking into account the total remuneration package at the time of the review and having regard to the pay and conditions of employees throughout the Company.
At the end of 2010, the Remuneration Committee undertook a review of David Ritchies salary, which had not been increased since July 2008, having regard to the significant contribution made to the Groups performance since his appointment in July 2008.
This process was supported by an external benchmarked review, to gain an understanding of remuneration levels in companies of similar size and complexity, and independent advice.
As a result the Committee decided to increase his salary by 3.75% to 415,000 from 1 January 2011.
The salary of Jonathan Hill was set at 240,000 on appointment on 23 August 2010 and will next be reviewed on 1 January 2012.
Annual performance bonus Following a consultation with major shareholders, the Remuneration Committee established a new annual bonus scheme commencing for the 2010 financial year.
Under this scheme the executive directors have a bonus cap equal to 100% of basic annual salary prevailing at the date of the Remuneration Committee meeting to determine bonus earned.
The plan was designed as a long term arrangement with flexibility to adapt to a range of market conditions.
A mix of performance measures are used, with the proportion applying to each measure and the associated targets being determined by the Remuneration Committee at the start of each year.
The approach is designed to result in a balanced remuneration package, aligned with business strategy.
The maximum bonus caps provide an appropriate level of short term incentive which is aligned with performance bonus arrangements of other house building companies and listed companies of similar size and complexity.
Any bonus will normally be paid in cash.
However, before paying cash bonuses the Remuneration Committee reviews the proposed position regarding dividends.
If no dividend is proposed, the Remuneration Committee may choose to exercise its discretion to pay all, or part, of the bonus in ordinary shares, with the right to receive the shares normally deferred for two years.
The overall principles applying to the mix of performance measures are: at least 70% of the bonus will be based on financial measures, with the balance being based on non-financial measures: the financial criteria are likely to include one or more of profit before tax, return on capital employed and cash flow the non-financial measures are likely to include one or both of health and safety and customer service The assessment of bonus achievement in respect of the 2010 financial year considered delivery against performance measures set by the Remuneration Committee comprising 80% financial performance measures profit before tax, cash flow and management of land acquisition and 20% non-financial performance measures health and safety and customer service.
The targets set for each performance measure contained threshold, on target and stretch elements and all stretch targets were achieved.
The outcome was approved by the Remuneration Committee and bonuses were awarded to the executive directors for the 2010 financial year equal to 100% of current basic annual salary pro-rated for service, to be paid in 2011.
The level of bonus awarded to the executive directors was considered appropriate as a result of the high level of performance during a challenging year, which saw a significant increase in pre tax profits to 18.5 million and earnings per share to 10.6p, operating margin progression, good progress with land acquisition and a strong cash flow performance, providing the basis for a return to dividend in 2011.
In advance of the bonus decision being considered, David Ritchie had requested that 193,000 of any bonus awarded to him be sacrificed in exchange for an equivalent employer contribution to a qualifying personal pension arrangement.
After careful consideration, this request was agreed by the Remuneration Committee and the bonus was subsequently awarded, with the result that David Ritchie will receive 222,000 as a cash bonus before tax and a contribution of 193,000 will be made by his employer to the qualifying personal pension arrangement.
Bovis Homes Group PLC 43 Report on directors remuneration continued The Remuneration Committee has spent time ensuring that performance measures and targets for the 2011 financial year are based around the key deliverables of the business.
The performance measures will be based 90% on financial measures and 10% on non-financial measures.
The 2011 targets have been set by the Remuneration Committee taking into account appropriate internal and external metrics, including analysts forecasts for the Company and the sector.
All office based employees receive separate consideration for a bonus based on the achievement of bonus performance targets and personal performance to be paid from profits generated during the year.
Site employees are incentivised through direct site bonus schemes based on measurable site performance.
Sales staff are incentivised through separate commission arrangements.
Pension David Ritchie is a senior executive member of the Bovis Homes Pension Scheme.
This is a contributory funded, defined benefit scheme approved by HMRC.
Pensionable earnings were equal to basic pay prior to 6 April 2006.
From 6 April 2006, increases in pensionable earnings are restricted each year to the lesser of the percentage increase in basic pay and 2.5%.
David Ritchie is subject to the statutory earnings cap for service until 5 April 2006 and, following the introduction of the lifetime allowance pension rules on 6 April 2006, is not subject to an earnings cap for service from 6 April 2006.
Normal retirement age for senior executive members under the scheme is 60, and the accrual rate is 1 45th of final pensionable earnings for each year of service as a senior executive.
There are no special early retirement, unreduced pension or early termination provisions for executive directors.
At the end of 2010, the Remuneration Committee reviewed the competitiveness of pension provision and adopted a revised pensions policy which sets a contribution rate allowance of 20% of basic annual salary per annum for David Ritchie from April 2011.
A sum is deducted from this allowance for Company contributions to the Bovis Homes Pension Scheme and the balance will be paid as a non-bonusable and non-pensionable salary supplement.
Neil Cooper was a member of the Bovis Homes Group Personal Pension Plan until 6 May 2010 and Jonathan Hill is a current member.
The Plan is a contracted-in defined contribution arrangement, to which the Company contributes 7% of basic annual salary per annum.
Normal retirement age for joiners after 1 October 2006 is age 65.
There are no special early retirement or early termination provisions for executive directors.
Share schemes The Company operates the Bovis Homes Group Long Term Incentive Plan for executive directors and senior management.
The granting of awards under the Plan is at the discretion of the Remuneration Committee.
The performance conditions are designed to challenge and motivate executive directors to improve profitability and enhance shareholder return.
The conditions are also designed to require strong collective and individual performance from the executive directors before options and awards vest, whilst at the same time offering a credible opportunity for success.
Bovis Homes Group Long Term Incentive Plan 2010 The current Long Term Incentive Plan for executive directors and senior executives was approved by shareholders at the 2010 Annual General Meeting.
Under the rules of the plan, in normal circumstances, a participant may receive in respect of any financial year a maximum award of shares with a market value, when the award is made, not exceeding 100% of basic salary.
Each award is made subject to the achievement of certain performance criteria determined by the Remuneration Committee and awards may usually be exercised at the end of three years.
There is no cost to the participants in the plan to exercise the awards and dividend equivalents will normally be paid on vesting shares.
The extent to which awards granted under the plan in 2011 may be exercised is determined by two measures of performance: total shareholder return TSR and earnings per share EPS, each measured over a three year performance period and each relating to half of the shares awarded.
The TSR measure requires the comparison of the growth in the Companys TSR over a three year period to that of a group of comparator companies in the housebuilding industry specified by the Remuneration Committee at the start of the performance period.
TSR is the aggregate of share price growth and dividends paid during the three year period assuming that such dividends are reinvested in ordinary shares.
The TSR measure assesses performance relative to the median over the three year performance period, as derived from the TSR performance of the comparator companies.
Measuring performance against the median provides a robust approach and one less prone to distortions and is viable for smaller comparator groups.
Vesting is as follows: TSR performance % of total award which can be realised Maximum TSR performance 50% of the shares in the award Threshold TSR performance 15% of the shares in the award In setting the TSR performance targets for the 2011 awards, the Remuneration Committee has taken account of historic TSR performance in the housebuilders comparator group and wider practice amongst FTSE 350 companies.
Threshold TSR performance is set at the median, as for previous awards, and maximum TSR performance is set at median plus 10% growth in TSR of the comparator group, deemed to be equivalent to achieving at least upper quartile performance based on historic TSR performance.
Where TSR performance falls between the threshold and the maximum TSR performance, the percentage of shares which can be realised will be calculated on a straight line sliding scale.
Where TSR falls below median, none of the shares in the award judged by reference to TSR can be realised.
The group of comparator companies is comprised as follows: Comparator companies Barratt Developments PLC The Berkeley Group plc Taylor Wimpey plc Bellway p. l. c. Persimmon plc Redrow Group plc 44 Bovis Homes Group PLC www.
co. uk Report on directors remuneration continued The EPS measure is based on the extent to which the Companys EPS over the three year performance period falls between minimum and maximum EPS targets set by the Remuneration Committee as follows: EPS % of total award which can be realised Maximum EPS 50% of the shares in the award Threshold EPS 15% of the shares in the award In setting minimum and maximum absolute EPS targets for the 2011 awards, the Remuneration Committee has considered data providing visibility over the three year performance period, including internal forecasts and analysts forecasts.
Use of a cumulative three year EPS target, first used for the 2010 awards, was again considered appropriate, given the ongoing uncertain environment.
Accordingly, the Remuneration Committee has set absolute minimum and maximum EPS targets of 55p and 80p per share to be measured on a cumulative basis over the three year performance period.
Where EPS falls between the minimum and maximum EPS targets, the number of shares which can be realised will be determined on a straight line sliding scale.
Where EPS falls below the minimum, none of the shares in the award judged by reference to EPS can be realised.
2011 awards granted to the executive directors will be over shares with a market value of 100% of basic salary.
Awards were granted under the Bovis Homes Group Long Term Incentive Plan 2000 until March 2010.
Awards granted in 2008, 2009 and 2010 may be exercised subject to EPS and TSR performance targets being met, each relating to half of the shares awarded.
For 2008 and 2009 awards, threshold TSR performance is set at median growth in the TSR comparator group and maximum TSR performance is set at median plus 15% growth in TSR.
For 2010 awards, threshold TSR performance is again set at median growth in the TSR comparator group and maximum TSR performance is set at median plus 10% growth in TSR.
The threshold and maximum EPS targets for 2008 awards are 4% and 10% per annum above RPI respectively.
The Remuneration Committee then set absolute levels of EPS for 2009 awards of 20p and 50p per share as the maximum and threshold EPS targets to be measured in the third year of the performance period.
For 2010 awards, absolute levels of EPS were again used, with threshold and maximum EPS targets set at 35p and 50p per share, to be measured on a cumulative basis over the three year performance period.
Threshold EPS vesting realises 20% of the shares in an award for 2008 and 2009 awards and 15% of the shares in an award for 2010 awards.
Awards granted to executive directors in 2010 were made at 100% of basic salary.
For the 2008 awards, the threshold EPS target was not met and the Companys TSR performance was between the threshold TSR target and the maximum TSR target.
Therefore, total vesting for the 2008 awards was 31.05%.
The shares required to satisfy the awards have been purchased by the Bovis Homes Group Employee Trust.
The grant price of the awards is set as the market value of the shares at the date of grant.
The market value of the shares attributable to each director will be included in remuneration in the year in which the awards are exercised.
An award may only be exercised within six months of the realisation date under the Long Term Incentive Plan 2000, the realisation date being the date of notification from the Trustee of the Bovis Homes Group Employee Trust that the award is realisable in whole or in part.
Awards may be exercised up until the tenth anniversary of the date of grant under the Long Term Incentive Plan 2010.
Bovis Homes Group PLC 2009 Bonus Replacement Share Plan The Bovis Homes Group PLC Bonus Replacement Share Plan was approved at the 2009 Annual General Meeting and is designed to encourage and reward participants for delivering business recovery that results in the creation of shareholder value.
The Plan was operated in 2009 only as an alternative to entitlement for consideration for annual cash bonus.
Awards were granted on 7 May 2009 and will be capable of exercise, should the performance condition be met, for a period of six months following 7 May 2012.
The performance condition is linked to an average share price target to be measured at the end of the performance period.
The average market value of a share achieved over the three months immediately preceding the end of the performance period will determine the number of shares which will vest.
Vesting will be calculated in accordance with the following table and is subject to the discretion of the Remuneration Committee, as mentioned above: Average share price achieved Percentage of shares in award that vest 7.00 100% 6.00 50% 5.50 25% Less than 5.50 nil The number of shares that will vest will be calculated on a straightline basis for average share prices achieved between 5.50 and 7.00.
Operated in 2009 only, the Plan terminated on the conclusion of the 2010 Annual General Meeting, with outstanding awards remaining in existence.
