Report of the directors continued Significant agreements The Group is a party to a syndicated facility agreement with its relationship banking group relating to the provision of a 150 million revolving loan facility.
In the event of a change of control, provisions in the agreement would allow lenders to withdraw the facility.
At 31 December 2010, the Group had no borrowing positions under this arrangement.
All of the Groups share schemes contain provisions relating to a change of control.
Under these provisions, a change of control would be a vesting event, allowing exercise of outstanding options and awards, subject to satisfaction of performance conditions as required.
There are a number of commercial contracts that could alter in the event of a change of control.
None is considered to be material in terms of their potential impact on the Group in this event.
Annual General Meeting Notice of the 2011 Annual General Meeting to be held on Wednesday 11 May 2011 is set out on pages 83 to 85.
Members wishing to vote should return forms of proxy to the Companys Registrar not less than 48 hours before the time for holding the meeting.
Shareholders with internet access may register their voting instructions via the internet by going to www.
In accordance with the UK Corporate Governance Code, all the directors will stand for re-election at the Annual General Meeting.
As in prior years, it is proposed that a general meeting that is not an Annual General Meeting can be called on not less than 14 clear days notice.
This resolution is required as a result of the implementation of the Shareholder Rights Directive, which increased the notice period for general meetings of the Company to 21 days unless shareholders have approved the calling of meetings on 14 days notice.
Ability to call a general meeting on 14 days notice would only be utilised in limited circumstances and where it was to the advantage of shareholders as a whole.
At a meeting on 11 March 2011, the Board resolved that a resolution be submitted to shareholders at the Annual General Meeting proposing the renewal of the authority to enable the Company to purchase up to 10% of its own shares.
At the present time, the directors have no wish to exercise the authority to purchase any of the shares of the Company, but consider that it is appropriate to have the flexibility to do so.
Any shares so purchased would be cancelled.
The directors believe that all the resolutions proposed to be considered at the Annual General Meeting are in the best interests of the Company and its shareholders as a whole and, accordingly, unanimously recommend all shareholders to vote in favour of the resolutions, as the directors intend to do in respect of their own shares in the Company.
Auditors Each person who is a director at the date of approval of this report confirms that: so far as the director is aware, there is no relevant audit information of which the Companys auditors are unaware: and each director has taken all the steps that he ought to have taken as a director to make himself aware of any relevant audit information and to establish that the Companys auditors are aware of that information.
This confirmation is given and should be interpreted in accordance with the provisions of Section 418 of the Companies Act 2006.
The auditors, KPMG Audit Plc, have indicated their willingness to continue in office and, in accordance with the provisions of the Companies Act 2006, resolutions concerning their re-appointment and remuneration will be placed before the Annual General Meeting.
Report on corporate governance The Company continues its commitment to high standards of corporate governance and recognises that appropriate boardroom behaviours are an essential component of best practice.
The Board, acknowledging its responsibility to shareholders in this area, has put in place an appropriate framework as described in the corporate governance policy guidelines on page 39 of this Annual Report and Accounts.
The Company welcomes the new UK Corporate Governance Code, which applies to accounting periods beginning on or after 29 June 2010, and will report on its compliance with the new Code in the 2011 Annual Report and Accounts.
This report sets out the Companys compliance with the 2008 Combined Code issued by the Financial Reporting Council available at www.
uk and how its corporate governance framework is applied.
The Combined Code is supplemented by a publication entitled Internal Control: Revised Guidance for Directors on the Combined Code the Revised Turnbull Guidance to enable listed companies to comply with Listing Rule 9.8.
The Company has throughout 2010 applied the provisions of Section 1 of the Combined Code and complied therewith, as detailed below.
Information on share capital is provided on page 33.
The Board The Board comprises Malcolm Harris, non-executive Chairman: Alastair Lyons, non-executive Deputy Chairman and Senior Independent Director: two executive directors, David Ritchie, Chief Executive, and Jonathan Hill, Group Finance Director: and two further independent non-executive directors, John Warren and Colin Holmes.
Lesley MacDonagh retired at the Annual General Meeting held on 6 May 2010, having served since 2003, and Neil Cooper left the Company on the same date.
Jonathan Hill was appointed on 23 August 2010 following a recommendation from the Nomination Committee and an evaluation of the knowledge, skills and experience that the appointment would bring to the Company and the Board.
A comprehensive, tailored and formal induction to the Company was provided shortly after appointment and major shareholders had the opportunity to meet the newly appointed Group Finance Director.
There is a clear division of responsibilities between the non-executive Chairman and the Chief Executive, set out in writing and agreed by the Board and the responsibilities of the non-executive Deputy Chairman have been treated similarly.
The Chairman provides leadership to and runs the Board, takes a leading role in determining its composition and structure, and sets its agenda.
He ensures that it receives accurate, timely and clear information, facilitates the contribution of the non-executive directors and ensures constructive relations on the Board.
The Chairman also ensures that effective communications are maintained with shareholders.
Bovis Homes Group PLC 35 Report of the directors continued Report on corporate governance continued The Chief Executive is responsible for the overall performance of the Group as dictated by the Boards strategy and for developing strategic operating plans that reflect the objectives and priorities established by the Board.
The Deputy Chairmans role is to support the Chairman in ensuring that the Board is effective, to deputise as necessary, to support the building and maintaining of constructive relations on the Board and to act as the Senior Independent Director.
The responsibilities of the Senior Independent Director are to lead the annual performance evaluation of the Chairman carried out by the non-executive directors, to meet with the non-executive directors without the Chairman present when appropriate and to provide an additional point of contact for shareholders.
The Board has determined that non-executive directors Alastair Lyons, John Warren and Colin Holmes are independent.
This includes an assessment of their independence in character and judgement and confirmation of their being free from any business or other relationship or circumstances which could affect, or appear to affect, the exercise of their independent judgement on matters under consideration by the Board.
The Board met ten times during 2010 and all the directors, then current, attended all meetings, with the exception of Alastair Lyons, who missed one meeting by prior arrangement, and Lesley MacDonagh who missed two meetings by prior arrangement.
The Board receives timely, clear and comprehensive board papers a week in advance of each meeting and other information appropriate to enable it to discharge its duties.
Meetings are conducted in a way which allows open discussion and enables the non-executive directors to challenge and test the strategy, policy and proposals put forward by the executive directors.
The Chairman and the non-executive directors also met during the year under review without the executive directors present.
There is a formal schedule of matters reserved for the Boards decision which includes: responsibility for the overall leadership of the Group: approval of long term objectives, commercial strategy and annual budgets: oversight of the Groups operations and review of performance: changes to the Groups capital structure: financial reporting, approval of results, dividend policy and treasury policy: maintenance and review of the system of internal control and risk management: approval of major expenditure and transactions: changes to the structure, size and composition of the Board, including new appointments: determining the remuneration of the non-executive directors: the introduction of new employee share plans and major changes to existing plans for shareholder approval: approval of the division of responsibilities between the Chairman and Chief Executive: approval of the terms of reference of Board committees: annual review of its own performance and that of its Board committees: determining the independence of directors: review of the Groups overall corporate governance arrangements.
A management paper, subject to regular review, includes the authorities and decision making delegated by the Board to management and includes appropriate controls, authorities and procedures across the range of the Groups activities.
All directors have the right both individually and collectively to consult the Companys professional advisers and, if they are not satisfied with the advice so received, to seek independent professional advice at the Companys reasonable expense.
No such advice was sought during the year.
The advice and services of the Group Company Secretary are also available to all directors.
Training is made available to directors as and when required and the Chairman ensures, as part of the Board performance evaluation, that directors continually update and refresh their knowledge and skills and familiarity with the Company appropriate to both their role on the Board and on Board Committees.
During the year under review the directors received regulatory and technical updates.
Executive and non-executive directors are subject to retirement by rotation every three years under the Articles of Association.
Subject to continued satisfactory performance, re-election is proposed where appropriate by the Nomination Committee and is voted on by shareholders at the Annual General Meeting.
In accordance with the UK Corporate Governance Code, applicable to accounting periods commencing on or after 29 June 2010, all the directors will stand for re-election at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting.
The Board strongly supports and recommends the re-election of the directors to shareholders.
A brief summary of their biographical details is set out on page 32.
All executive directors have notice periods of twelve months after the end of their first years service.
Non-executive directors are appointed for periods up to three years duration during which they have notice periods of up to twelve months, and their terms and conditions of appointment are available for inspection.
The Board has authorised potential conflicts of interest in accordance with Article 110 of the Articles of Association in respect of Malcolm Harris and his position as a non-executive director of the House Builders Federation, David Ritchie and his position as Chairman of the corporate trustee of the Companys defined benefit pension scheme and Alastair Lyons and his positions as Chairman of Legal Marketing Services Limited and a non-executive director of Phoenix Group Holdings.
The Board has procedures in place for ensuring that powers of authorisation of conflicts are operated effectively and it confirms compliance with those procedures.
The Company has in place an appropriate policy which insures directors against certain liabilities, including legal costs that they may incur in carrying out their duties.
36 Bovis Homes Group PLC www.
