12 13 continued The strategic land bank at 31 December 2010 amounted to The Group continues to regard sustainable development as 17,325 potential plots as compared to 16,363 potential plots critical to the long term creation of value for its shareholders.
The Group added c1,800 potential The housebuilding industry has an important role to play both plots to the strategic land bank during 2010, thus enabling in mitigating the impact of its building activities on the local the strategic land bank to grow in size notwithstanding the environment and in the evolution of building techniques successful conversion of over 800 plots into the consented and advances, which reduce the carbon usage from new land bank.
The Group has for a long time recognised the build developments.
potential of strategic land investment and, as visibility over the Ensuring that its developments take place in a manner which effects of the changes to the planning environment improves, mitigates the impact of its operations on its local environment, the Group intends to increase its investment in strategic land.
thereby balancing the needs of local communities for new Delivering strong health, safety and housing with the requirement to avoid environmental damage, environmental standards the Group works with a range of external stakeholders to agree The Group is committed to delivering strong health and safety and carry out development in a mutually acceptable manner.
standards for its employees, subcontractors and other site Looking forward, the Group is focusing on ways to ensure that visitors and maintains a high level of organisational focus on its its products conform to good environmental standards, including health and safety regime through comprehensive staff training, both to EcoHomes standards and to emerging standards under clear and accountable management processes and through the Code for Sustainable Homes.
Reflecting the existing regular and transparent reporting of the performance of the contribution that the Group makes to the communities and Group in all aspects of health and safety.
environments in which it operates, the Group is proud to say This is overseen, firstly, through the operational line, which that it is a member of the FTSE4Good index.
takes day to day accountability for this area and, secondly, via a Group-wide oversight committee with nominated regional Further details of the Groups efforts and achievements during directors responsible for safety, run by the Group Director of 2010 in regards to Corporate Social Responsibility will be Health and Safety and chaired by a senior Group manager, published in a separate report, available from the Companys thereby maintaining appropriate oversight of these activities.
The Group also seeks to ensure that all of its employees and Improving the customer service experience for subcontractors who operate at or visit sites carry a CSCS card, Bovis Homes customers indicating its commitment to a fully trained workforce.
The Group continues to invest in delivering its customer charter, which sets the expectations in relation to the quality Notwithstanding the significant increase in the Groups build of the product it delivers and the manner in which the sales activity during 2010, the Groups NHBC risk score for the year transaction is serviced.
The Group has been recognised was 0.66, which compares favourably to the industry peer independently by the achievement of a four star builder rating group average.
Additionally, the incident rate decreased to 31, by the Home Builder Federation.
Additionally the Group is a 21% reduction from 2009. pleased to see the key internal scoring metrics of recommend During the last 12 months the Group has focused efforts a friend, purchase another Bovis home and overall quality on working at heights, PPE and slips, trips and falls in order of the new home continuing to generate strong satisfaction to raise awareness in these areas, as the Group strives to scores during 2010. make the work environment safer.
Whilst the Groups The focus of the Groups customer communication has health and safety performance is relatively strong versus remained web based during 2010, with the Group using external benchmarks, the Group cannot be complacent.
the power of the internet to directly market its products to Health and safety will remain a key area of focus for consumers, utilising internally generated mailing lists as well as regional and Group management.
via intermediaries such as smart new homes or right move.
Over 70% of customer enquires now originate via the web.
David Ritchie Chief Executives operating review
