22 23 continued Financial risk and liquidity This has led to an increase in the size of the Groups long term The Group largely sees three categories of financial risk: receivable.
Available for Sale Financial Asset balance which at interest rate risk, credit risk and liquidity risk.
Currency risk is 31 December 2010 was 31.1 million versus 21.3 million at not a consideration as the Group trades exclusively in the UK.
Whilst this does represent an increase in credit risk in total, each individual credit exposure is small given With regard to interest rate risk, the Group from time to time the high number of counterparties.
On average, individual will enter into hedge instruments to ensure that the Groups shared equity exposure totals 24,000 2009: 26,000. exposure to excessive fluctuations in floating rate borrowings is adequately hedged.
With the commencement of a new In early 2010, the Group successfully re-refinanced its banking banking arrangement in late 2008, the Group entered into a arrangements, putting in place a 150 million syndicated 50 million zero cost cap and floor collar hedge arrangement facility which is committed to September 2013.
The Group in February 2009, ensuring that variable rates on up to 50 regards this facility as adequate in terms of both flexibility and million of the Groups floating rate debt are held within a liquidity to cover its medium term cash flow needs.
This prevents the Group from suffering Financial reporting material adverse floating rate increases beyond an agreed level There have been no changes to the Groups accounting the cap in return for which the Group accepts a minimum policies during 2010. payment cost the floor.
With unprecedentedly low LIBOR rates together with the risk premium on LIBOR rates falling away as liquidity has returned Jonathan Hill to the market, the variable cost of borrowings is below the Finance Director floor and therefore ongoing costs are being incurred.
As the Group has no debt at present, these hedge instruments are regarded as ineffective and thus all costs are being taken directly through income.
At present, this cost is estimated at 0.3 million per annum until expiry in March 2011 which reflects the fair value of the interest rate swap.
At the time of the expiry of this hedge, the Group will assess its future expected debt profile and, having quantified its interest rate risk, will make a decision on any future hedging.
The Group does not have a defined policy for interest rate hedging.
Credit risk is largely mitigated by the fact that the Groups sales are generally made on completion of a legal contract at which point monies are received in return for transfer of title.
During 2010, the Group continued to make a number of sales with the provision of a shared equity investment by the Group as a key part of the Groups sales incentive packages, either via the Government Home Buy Direct scheme or via the Groups own Jumpstart scheme.
