John Warren 57 Non-executive Chairman Non-executive Deputy Chairman Non-executive Director Non-executive Director Appointed non-executive Chairman in Appointed non-executive Deputy Chairman Appointed an independent non-executive Appointed an independent non-executive 2008, Malcolm was previously Chief and Senior Independent Director in 2008, director in 2006 and Chairman of the director in 2006, John is Chairman of Executive from 1996 to 2008 and was Alastair is non-executive Chairman of the Remuneration Committee in 2008, Colin Uniq plc and a non-executive director of first appointed to the Board of Bovis Admiral Group plc and Serco Group plc.
is a Chartered Management Accountant Rank Group plc and Spectris plc.
He is a non-executive He is also Senior Independent Director of and has over 20 years of financial, previously group finance director of WH director of the Home Builders Federation the Phoenix Group and a non-executive commercial and operational experience Smith PLC and United Biscuits plc and HBF and was previously a director of the director of the Towergate Insurance Group.
gained through a number of executive a non-executive director of Arla Foods National House Building Council NHBC.
Previously, Alastair was Chief Executive of positions within Tesco PLC.
Until July 2010 UK plc, BPP Holdings plc, RAC plc and Malcolm has in depth sector and industry the National Provident Institution and the he was Tescos Commercial Director for Rexam plc.
John has detailed financial knowledge and is a regular contributor to National and Provincial Building Society, fresh foods and a member of the Group and accounting expertise and previous industry thinking.
Managing Director of the Insurance Division Executive Committee of Tesco PLC.
Colin is experience in chairing audit committees.
of Abbey National plc and Director of a non-executive director of Admiral Group Corporate Projects at National Westminster plc, where he is also a member of both Bank plc.
He has a broad base of business the audit and remuneration committees.
experience, including financial services, the insurance industry and private equity.
Martin Palmer 52 BA Hons ACA, Chief Executive BSc Hons ACA, Group Finance Director FCIS, Group Company Secretary Appointed Chief Executive in 2008, David Joined Bovis Homes in August 2010 as Joined Bovis Homes in 2001 and was was Group Managing Director from 2007 Group Finance Director.
Previously, he was previously Group Company Secretary of to 2008 and Group Finance Director from employed by TUI Travel plc in both group London Forfaiting Company PLC from 2002 to 2006.
He joined Bovis Homes in finance and divisional roles and held 1997 to 2001 and London & Edinburgh 1998 as Group Financial Controller and positions with Centrica plc, BT Group plc Trust PLC from 1994 to 1997. was previously employed by KPMG.
David has significant experience and knowledge of the sector, including land acquisition, planning, construction, marketing and customer service.
