15841 F&C Annual Report FRONT AND BACK:Layout 1 06 04 2011 15:36 Page 14 14 Business Review F&C Asset Management Our view of the market In the UK retail market, the timetable for the introduction of the The aftermath of the credit crisis of 2008 continues to cast a long shadow over the global economy, with an ongoing dichotomy recommendations of Retail Distribution Review RDR remains unchanged despite the structural changes in regulation that followed between prospects in the developed and emerging economies.
Central banks have continued to maintain interest rates and the election of the Coalition government during 2010.
RDR presents UK Independent Financial Advisers IFAs with significant monetary conditions at emergency levels but the burden of excess public and private sector debt still weighs heavily on medium term challenges to their business models and we expect to see further consolidation in the IFA market and the repositioning of IFA business growth.
We expect the pace of recovery to continue to be protracted across developed economies as the stimulus packages models ahead of the implementation of RDR in 2012.
We believe this will underpin the growth of assets into multi-manager products introduced during the recessions of 2009 have given way to austerity plans.
These plans, comprising of a combination of and the use of risk-based funds as outsourced investment solutions.
aggressive spending cuts and tax rises, are necessary as We also anticipate closer partnerships between IFA firms and governments seek to repair their bloated Balance Sheets.
The spectre of rising inflation is a further concern both in the A further factor impacting asset managers operating in the UK retail market is the growth in market share from platforms and fund developed and emerging economies.
Much of the rise in global inflation levels is being transmitted through buoyant commodity supermarkets.
While there are many benefits arising from these distribution channels, a by-product is that asset managers are prices, which are particularly problematic for the developing economies.
In the UK inflation has risen to well above the Bank of becoming further removed from the end investor.
Englands official target and we expect that this will bring an end to a In the institutional market we expect to see rapid growth in the prolonged period of record low interest rates with hikes beginning Defined Contribution DC pension market as Defined Benefit during 2011.
The start of a normalisation policy will add further DB schemes continue to close.
This trend presents both pressure on the recovery against the backdrop of higher taxes, opportunities and challenges for asset managers, as does the public spending cuts, weak credit and money supply growth and development of the National Employment Savings Trust NEST in high unemployment.
The latter is effectively a state-backed DC scheme into After a period of strong relative performance for the emerging which employees who do not automatically have access to an economies, inflation is also dampening growth prospects for these occupational pension scheme will gradually be automatically markets, alongside a managed slowdown in China.
In addition to enrolled between October 2012 and 2017.
NEST will add creating challenges for economic policy makers, soaring commodity to competitive pressure on charging structures on DC and food prices are compounding the risks of political and social pension funds.
instability, as we have recently seen across North Africa and the In the broader pensions market, we see the trend towards solutionsMiddle East.
The prospect of supply disruption in major oil based investment approaches continuing both in terms of producing countries is now manifesting itself in higher oil prices governance models and fide-risking.
We see further growth in which will, in turn, risk future global growth.
Fiduciary Management asset manager led and Implemented Despite two strong years for equity returns and the continuing Consulting investment consultant led services, both of which seek economic uncertainties, we remain positive on equities.
We regard to provide governance models for pension schemes incorporating equities as fair value, with attractive yields versus other asset advice on asset allocation, risk budgeting and manager selection classes and inflation-hedging characteristics.
The trend towards fide-risking solutions will manifest itself in momentum for liability driven investments, inflation Within the asset management industry, we expect to see a protection strategies and the pension buy-out market.
continuation of the trend for managers to deleverage their balance sheets to reflect both increased client focus on financial strength Finally, our view is that the long-term prospects for the asset management industry remain attractive.
Across the developed world and the more conservative regulatory backdrop.
Consolidation will continue to be a theme in the industry, though principally through governments are under pressure to pull back from universal welfare provision and to encourage individuals to make appropriate the absorption of specialist asset managers and boutiques into bigger groups, rather than large scale integrations.
The drivers commitments for their retirement through pensions and investments.
Meanwhile, in the fast-growing emerging economies, populations behind this will be the increased costs of regulation on smaller firms, institutional demand for absolute return and specialist capabilities are much younger than the developed world and wealth is spreading rapidly.
Both these multi-year macro trends provides and restructuring at financial conglomerates.
considerable opportunities for asset managers.
We also expect to see continued polarisation between providers of low-cost passive investment strategies and active managers.
Amongst active managers there will be convergence between alternative and traditional asset managers as demand for absolute return products moves into the mainstream, including the retail funds market through UCITS 3 fund structures which provide daily pricing and liquidity.
Annual Report and Financial Statements 2010
