15841 F&C Annual Report FRONT AND BACK:Layout 1 06 04 2011 15:36 Page 16 16 Business Review F&C Asset Management Our financial performance In addition to the initial consideration of 33.6m, and estimated Total return additional cash consideration of 7.5m payable as a result of We view share price total return including dividends as a key acquired Thames River assets exceeding targets, further amounts performance measure.
Our total shareholder return for the year may become payable to the vendors, members or employees of ended 31 December 2010 was 20 per cent.
In the same period, the Thames River.
Payment of any of these additional amounts is total shareholder return on the FTSE 250 index was 27 per cent.
generally dependent on Thames River achieving stretching financial and the FTSE 100 was 13 per cent.
targets or creating further value for the Group.
Details of potential Strategic background amounts payable and the related targets are set out below.
Whilst the macroeconomic environment remained challenging during Firstly, as a condition of the acquisition, the Group established a 2010, financial markets faired better, with the FTSE 100 index Management Retention Plan MRP to retain and incentivise certain closing the year at 5900, having opened at 5413.
Investors risk key individuals within Thames River.
Under this plan the Group appetite increased over the year, with greater allocations to higher agreed to award some 21.7 million F&C shares, which will be issued risk asset classes, such as equities and property, underpinned by and vest to employees in September 2013.
At the date of medium term inflationary concerns.
There is also, however, announcing the acquisition, these share awards had a value of indication that investors are increasingly seeking absolute, rather some 15m.
The value of the share awards at the date of grant will than benchmark relative returns from equity and other asset classes.
be treated as an expense over the vesting period.
A cost of 1.7m Retail investor sentiment also significantly improved during 2010, under this plan has been recognised in the 2010 results.
with industry statistics reporting a significant increase in open-ended Secondly, the Group also established a Management Incentive Plan fund sales compared to 2009.
MIP, allowing for a maximum of some 29 million shares, with a We have positioned the Group to benefit from these trends: the value of 20m at the date of announcing the acquisition, to be acquisition of Thames River during the year provides us with issued to certain key individuals within Thames River.
The issue of enhanced fund distribution and a greater range of absolute return these shares is dependent on the achievement of three performance products.
Additionally, we also launched a variety of products to conditions: a profit target measured at 31 December 2011, a further benefit from these emerging trends these included, for example, profit target measured at 30 June 2012 and the cumulative property funds in the UK and Germany and a range of equity-linked profitability of Thames River over the 48 months ended 31 March bond funds targeted at corporate pension schemes which combine 2014.
Each of these targets has an upper and lower threshold: if interest rate hedging features with equity market exposure.
profitability is below the lower threshold for a target no shares related to that target are issued: if profitability is above the upper Presentation of financial results threshold, the full amount of shares related to that target are issued International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS require our and if profitability lies between the thresholds a proportion of the Financial Statements to consolidate the results of our Managed shares related to that target are issued.
Details of each of the targets Pension Funds MPF business on a line-by-line basis, impacting are set out further in Note 26 to the Consolidated Financial the presentation of both our Income Statement and Statement of Statements on page 96.
Our MPF business provides certain clients with Under relevant accounting rules, we are required to assess whether asset management services inside an insurance product wrapper.
we believe the MIP targets will be met and, if so, the number of The requirement to consolidate this business has a significant effect shares that may be issued.
The value of those shares is then treated on the financial investments and investment contract liabilities as an expense, and allocated over the vesting period.
At 31 captions included in our Statement of Financial Position, the risks of December 2010, the Board estimate that the first two performance which are substantially borne by the clients of this business.
In conditions will be partially met, resulting in a total expense under the addition, our Statement of Financial Position includes some 23.4m MIP of 1.0m, of which 0.1m is recognised in 2010. of cash also attributable to policyholders of this business and which is not available for corporate purposes.
Thirdly, under the acquisition agreement the Group committed to pay additional consideration to the vendors of Thames River Furthermore, during 2010, we acquired a number of new based on achievement of the same 31 December 2011 and subsidiaries as a result of our purchase of Thames River.
The results 30 June 2012 profits targets as for the MIP.
The maximum of these new subsidiaries are included in our Consolidated Financial potential amount of additional consideration payable is 20m: at Statements from the date of their acquisition.
Further details of the 31 December 2010, the Board has estimated that 7.5m may be impact of the acquisition on our financial results and position are set payable and provision for this amount is included in the year end out in the remainder of this report.
The acquisition agreement provides Thames River acquisition for this amount to be settled by the issue or transfer of shares in the Company.
The acquisition of Thames River, for an initial consideration of 33.6m, completed on 1 September 2010.
The purchase was At the time of the acquisition, the Group entered into agreements funded by proceeds from an equity issue, borrowings obtained the Commutation Arrangements with the individual members of under a loan facility and the Groups existing cash resources.
Under the Commutation Arrangements, the Group committed, under certain circumstances, While the Group acquired 100 per cent.
equity ownership of Thames to purchase part of the individual members profit share in return for River, certain Thames River personnel, principally senior fund an issue of F&C shares.
As the Commutation Arrangements can managers, are entitled to a profit share through their membership only be exercised by members who are still actively involved in the interests in limited liability partnerships LLPs which form part of Thames River business and they must continue in the business for a Thames River.
Annual Report and Financial Statements 2010 15841 F&C Annual Report FRONT AND BACK:Layout 1 06 04 2011 15:36 Page 17 F&C Asset Management Our financial performance Business Review 17 further two years to receive the full amount of their consideration, River acquisition, remained broadly flat on 2009 levels.
Thames IFRS requires the value of the shares which may be issued under River variable compensation costs are directly correlated to the the Commutation Arrangements to be treated as an expense, profitability of that business, with many of the senior fund recognised over the period in which the member must remain in the management personnel receiving a share of profits of the LLPs, in business.
The total expense recognised in 2010 under the their capacity as members.
Commutation Arrangements is 6.2m, of which 1.4m is a cash During 2010, we incurred a number of exceptional operating costs, payment in respect of commutations exercised in 2010. which are excluded from our underlying results.
These include corporate advisory fees, Thames River integration expenses and Net revenue certain legal costs.
In addition, we have excluded certain items of Net revenue for the year was 243.2m 2009: 225.1m.
This operating income from our underlying results.
Each of these is included 12.9m 2009: 18.7m of performance fee income.
new business of 0.3 billion, excluding insurance flows, was funded during the year 2009: net outflows of 3.7 billion.
The combination Corporate advisory fees of 9.9m principally represent 7.5m of of improved market levels, partially offset by adverse exchange rate advisory and other transaction costs incurred in the acquisition of variances, added a net 4.3 billion to our assets under management Thames River and 2.0m of costs incurred in respect of the aborted during 2010 and the acquisition of Thames River added a further acquisition of the C-Quadrat group during the first half of 2010.
While the costs relating to the Thames River acquisition resulted ina capital investment by the Company, IFRS requires that these costs Net funds flows and related annualised revenues represent a key are charged to the Consolidated Income Statement.
performance indicator and are indicative of the growth potential of the business.
In that regard, it is pleasing to report that after several The Thames River integration costs are amounts incurred after years of net outflows, as set out above, 2010 represented a return the acquisition in aligning certain of its activities within the F&C to net inflows in our third-party business.
In addition, the fees Group.
They include product rationalisation costs and staff earned on our institutional business continue to improve, with fee redundancy costs.
margins on new business gained during 2010 some 39 per cent.
As disclosed in the 2009 Financial Statements, the Group has greater than fee margins on outflows during the same period.
received put option notices under a Limited Liability Partnership During 2010 our performance fee income was 12.9m: a reduction Agreement from the two individual members of F&C Partners LLP from the 2009 level of 18.7m, despite a contribution of some Partners, the Groups majority owned fund of hedge funds 1.8m from Thames River.
Whilst this reduction in performance fee business.
There has been related litigation, details of which are given income reflects our performance in those mandates in which we can in note 6 b in the Financial Statements.
The Company vigorously earn a performance fee, it is also impacted by other factors, such as denies the validity of these notices and related claims and has been the contractual basis of calculation of fees in such mandates.
engaged in litigation during the course of 2010 in respect of these matters.
Some 6.0m of associated legal and related expenses Revenue margin have been charged to the Income Statement for the year ended Our revenue margin excluding performance fees, measured as our 31 December 2010. net management fee income divided by average assets under During 2010, the Group implemented a number of actions to alter management, increased from 21.8 basis points in 2009 to 22.6 the profile of the benefits payable under its UK defined benefit basis points in 2010.
This measure shows progress against our pension scheme.
These resulted in a reduction in pension liabilities target of migrating our business towards higher margin products.
This amount, net of 1.5m of redundancy and has also been affected by the acquisition of Thames River which, as related pension costs incurred during the year, has been treated as a pooled fund business primarily serving wholesale and retail clients, an exceptional employment credit.
carries a higher fee margin than our legacy business.
Stripping out the acquisition of Thames River, our revenue margin would have A foreign exchange gain of some 1.3m was recognised in the been broadly unchanged.
Income Statement during 2010 as a result of the Group liquidating one of its overseas subsidiaries.
As this item is non-recurring Operating expenses in nature, it has been excluded from the calculation of Our total operating expenses, excluding amortisation of intangible underlying earnings.
assets and exceptional items, were 175.7m in 2010, compared to In addition, each of the MIP, MRP and Commutation expenses have 163.6m in 2009.
After excluding exchange gains and losses, which also been excluded in calculating underlying earnings.
are substantially outwith the control of management, our operating expenses were 175.0m in 2010, compared to 166.6m in 2009.
Operating margin The cost base of Thames River included in these results for 2010 The Groups operating margin ex FX for 2010 was 28.5 per cent.
was some 12.6m including 6.0m of proft share payable to LLP compared to 26.6 per cent.
This represents one of members: accordingly operating costs in the legacy Group business managements key performance indicators, and is measured as reduced by some 4.2m during 2010. adjusted operating profits as a percentage of net revenues.
One of the key costs for an asset management business is For this purpose, adjusted operating profits represent operating remuneration costs, which are correlated to personnel numbers.
At profits before the impact of exceptional items but after adjusting 31 December 2010, our headcount, on a full-time equivalent basis, for variable compensation payable to members of Thames was 962 compared to 868 at 31 December 2009.
The tables on page 127 show how the Groups headcount includes some 118 staff added on the Thames River key performance indicators are quantified.
Total staff costs, prior to the impact of the Thames Annual Report and Financial Statements 2010 15841 F&C Annual Report FRONT AND BACK:Layout 1 06 04 2011 15:36 Page 18 18 Business Review Our financial performance F&C Asset Management For accounting purposes, the valuation of the option provided by Amortisation and impairment of intangible assets the earn-out mechanism is treated as a share-based payment Under IFRS, when an acquisition is made, there is a requirement to expense and included in the Income Statement.
As a result of a recognise separately the fair value attributed to intangible assets, in re-assessment of the likelihood of these financial targets being our case, management contracts.
The excess of consideration over achieved, a credit of 0.3m was recognised in the Income the fair value of net assets acquired represents the business value Statement during 2010 and, consistent with prior years, this amount and infrastructure and is recognised as goodwill.
has been excluded from underlying earnings.
As a result of the acquisition of Thames River, the Group recognised additional goodwill of 16.8m and additional management contract Underlying earnings intangible assets of 23.0m in 2010.
The Board utilises underlying earnings per share as one of its key metrics in assessing financial performance.
The reconciliation Management contracts are separated by client type and are between underlying earnings and statutory earnings is provided in amortised over their estimated useful lives.
Where an indicator of note 10 to the Consolidated Financial Statements.
Underlying impairment occurs, such as greater than anticipated fund losses, we earnings per share for the year ended 31 December 2010 were 5.9p are required to review the carrying value of these contracts.
2009: 5.8p excluding the impact of all foreign exchange gains and No such indicators of impairment arose during 2010 and accordingly losses and 5.6p 2009: 4.6p after the inclusion of realised exchange no impairment charges were recognised.
We are also required to conduct an annual impairment review of the Dividends carrying value of goodwill.
This review demonstrated that there was Our dividend policy is to achieve at least 150 per cent.
cover on no impairment and hence no requirement to write-down goodwill.
underlying earnings, and where possible, to grow the dividend.
As set out above, our underlying earnings for the year were 5.9p per Foreign exchange share.
An interim dividend of 1p per share was paid during the year.
A large proportion of the Groups business is conducted outside the After a review of the results for the year, the market conditions that UK and, consequently, the Group has significant exposure to foreign prevailed during the year and the business outlook for 2011, the exchange rate movements.
The main areas which are potentially Board has declared a final dividend of 2p per share.
If approved by exposed to exchange rate fluctuations are our revenues and our Shareholders, this dividend, together with the interim dividend, will assets and liabilities.
of the Groups result in a total dividend for the year of 3p per share.
assets under management are denominated in Euros and, accordingly, a significant proportion of the Groups revenues are Cash resources earned in Euros.
During 2008 the Company entered into a series of The Group has gross debt of some 275m 2009: 265m.
During forward currency contracts to partially hedge Euro-denominated the year, the Group repaid the remaining vendor loan notes of 10m cash flows: the final contract matured in H1 2010 and therefore, issued in connection with the REIT acquisition.
In addition, the no unrealised gain or loss has been recognised in the 2010 Group entered a new loan facility agreement with HSBC Bank plc, Financial Statements.
which provided a loan facility for the acquisition of Thames River and During 2010, exchange losses of some 0.7m were incurred, a 20m revolving credit facility.
On 1 September, 15m was drawn comprising a gain of 0.9m on a forward currency contract offset by under the acquisition loan facility.
This was subsequently repaid by a 1.6m exchange loss on the retranslation of assets and liabilities an issue of 20m of 9 per cent.
senior loan notes prior to year end.
As these amounts do not reflect the The revolving credit facility has not been drawn down.
ongoing profitability of the business, they have been excluded from Therefore, at 31 December 2010, the Groups borrowings comprise underlying earnings.
125m of remaining subordinated loan notes and some 150m of senior loan notes.
Neither the subordinated loan notes nor the F&C REIT senior loan notes include any financial covenants.
Our minority interest partners currently own 30 per cent.
of F&C REIT, the Groups property asset management business.
In certain At 31 December 2010, the Group held cash resources of 202m, of circumstances, they can require F&C to purchase their interests at which some 23m relates to policyholders and is not available for future dates and, under IFRS, a liability for this potential obligation is corporate purposes.
A significant portion of cash is held in our included in our financial statements.
As this option requires to be regulated subsidiaries against their capital requirements.
As asset carried at its fair value, representing 30 per cent.
of the value of F&C management is a cash generative business, we should not require REIT, it is revalued each year, with any revaluation gain or loss significant cash for working capital purposes beyond our regulatory reflected in the Income Statement.
During 2010, this revaluation capital requirements.
resulted in a gain of 6.4m being included in the 2010 Income Our borrowings carry fixed rates of interest.
This gain is excluded from underlying earnings.
notes currently bear interest at 6.75 per cent.
and the senior loan In addition to the arrangements described above, the F&C REIT notes carry a fixed 9 per cent.
Our cash resources earn minority interest partners have the opportunity to increase their interest based on bank deposit rates.
ownership interest from 30 per cent.
should F&C REIT achieve certain stretching financial targets over agreed periods.
Annual Report and Financial Statements 2010
