15841 F&C Annual Report FRONT AND BACK:Layout 1 06 04 2011 15:36 Page 15 F&C Asset Management Business Review 15 Our trading performance and outlook Insurance Investment Trusts F&C manages significant assets for insurance groups across a Assets under management in investment trusts and other closed number of jurisdictions.
Our major insurance clients are Achmea end listed funds increased to 5.9 billion 2009: 5.1 billion The Netherlands, BCP-Fortis Portugal, Friends First Ireland and benefiting from the recovery in equity markets during the year and Friends Provident UK.
At 31 December 2010 assets under the addition of TR Property Investment Trust plc and the Thames management in insurance funds were 59.5 billion 2009: River Multi-Hedge PCC Limited vehicles following the acquisition of 57.2 billion representing 56 per cent.
of our total assets Thames River.
A net outflow of 371 million from investment trusts reflected a Partially due to the maturity profile of some of the underlying funds combination of the termination of the mandates to manage Foreign we manage for our insurance clients there has been a longstanding & Colonial Eurotrust plc and Pacific Assets Trust plc, the wind up trend of annual net outflows from insurance funds.
Across 2010 net of F&C UK Select Trust plc and share buyback activity by insurance outflows were 780 million 2009: 2.2 billion, the lowest individual trusts.
Open Ended Funds UK Onshore Portfolios managed for our insurance clients invest across multiple OEICs are the principal form of mutual fund that we distribute asset classes but with a strong bias to fixed income.
through UK-based Independent Financial Advisers, although wealth managers and institutional investors may also invest through OEICs.
Institutional Most of our OEIC funds offer share classes targeted specifically at F&C is a major provider of services to pension schemes and other retail and institutional investors, with different fee structures.
institutional clients located in a number of countries.
We provide both portfolio management in multi-asset and single asset class Assets under management in UK domiciled open-ended funds mandates and, increasingly, investment solutions such as liability increased 40 per cent.
to 3.5 billion 2009: 2.5 billion as a result hedging strategies and shareholder engagement programmes.
of improved markets and sentiment, the addition of Thames Rivers UK multi-manager range and the launch of a series of equity-linked Our largest markets for institutional asset management are The bond funds specifically targeted at institutional clients.
We Netherlands, the UK and Germany.
Institutional assets under generated 712 million of gross sales during the year, including a management were 29.3 billion at 31 December 2010 2009: 27.7 four month contribution from Thames River, and net sales of billion representing 28 per cent.
of our assets under management.
The institutional asset management business is heavily The institutional equity-linked bond funds were a significant driver of intermediated through firms of investment consultants who advise inflows while much of the focus in the UK retail market has been pension schemes on manager selection and asset allocation.
multi-manager and Lifestyle funds where we see strong distribution Following F&Cs demerger from Friends Provident in July 2009, opportunities in the run up to the implementation of the Retail which brought to an end a prolonged period of ownership Distribution Review RDR.
uncertainty, our position with investment consultants has improved considerably with 43 consultant product ratings as at the end of Open Ended Funds Offshore 2010 compared to 30 at the time of the fide-merger.
Products with Our offshore open-ended product range comprises F&Cs consultant support include liability driven investments, equity-linked Luxembourg SICAV platform, the Thames River Dublin-domiciled bond funds, emerging market debt, real-estate and sustainable OEIC range Traditional Funds Plc and a number of Cayman Islands investments.
Our improved position with investment consultants and competitive SICAV funds and Dublin domiciled OEICs are distributed primarily performance contributed to a 56 per cent.
increase in gross sales to through UK and Continental European based wealth managers 3.9 billion during 2010 2009: 2.5 billion.
This, coupled with a 34 and wholesale relationships with private banks, multi-managers per cent.
decrease in outflows, resulted in net institutional inflows of and platforms.
Additionally, at 31 December 2010 the business had Assets under management in offshore open ended funds increased won a further 1.5 billion of pipeline of institutional new business by 254 per cent.
to 4.6 billion at 31 December 2010 2009: that had yet to be funded.
1.3 billion following the acquisition of Thames River whose product In line with our strategy of focusing on higher margin and specialist set predominantly falls in this category.
Across 2010, including four products, new institutional mandates won during 2010 were on months contribution from Thames River, we delivered gross sales of average at fee margins some 39 per cent.
higher than those on 994 million in offshore open ended funds and net inflows of 205 mandates lost during the year.
Sales were strong in the Thames River Global Bond and Global Credit products and F&Cs Convertible Bond fund.
We saw Sub-Advisory outflows in Germany from F&C HVB Stiftungsfonds, a conservative For certain of our insurance-led strategic partners based in fund which aims to generate a yield of 1 per cent.
over Euribor, as Eurozone countries we provide portfolio management services on a investors allocated to higher yielding products.
sub-advisory basis to their in-house open-ended fund ranges.
We do not act as distributor for these funds.
Sub-advisory assets under management were 3.0 billion at 31 December 2010 2009: 4.0 billion.
Net outflows from sub-advisory funds were 543 million during the year.
Annual Report and Financial Statements 2010
