15841 F&C Annual Report FRONT AND BACK:Layout 1 06 04 2011 15:36 Page 22 22 Governance F&C Asset Management Report of the Directors without compensation or notice.
As at the latest practicable date prior Results, business review and dividend to the publication of this Annual Report and Financial Statements, The Groups results for the year ended 31 December 2010 are none of the relevant agreements has been terminated and no notice shown in the Consolidated Income Statement on page 41.
A terminating such agreements has been received.
business review of the year ended 31 December 2010 and future developments are covered on pages 2 to 20.
This review, together Foreign & Colonial Investment Trust Plc with the Directors Report on Corporate Governance on pages 26 The Investment Management Agreement in place with Foreign & to 31, forms part of the Report of the Directors.
Colonial Investment Trust Plc can be terminated by the investment The Group loss for the year, after tax, amounted to 13.4 million.
trust on a minimum of six months notice expiring at the end of any calendar month.
In the event that there is a change of control in The Directors recommend a final ordinary dividend of 2.0 pence per F&C as defined in Section 1124 of the Corporation Tax Act 2010, share, amounting to 10.3 million, resulting in a total of 3.0 pence then the investment trust is entitled to terminate the agreement and 15.4 million for the year.
on not less than three months notice to expire at the end of The final ordinary dividend, if approved, will be paid on 27 May 2011 any calendar month.
to ordinary shareholders whose names are on the register on F&C Commercial Property Trust Limited 1 April 2011.
No liability for the proposed dividends has been The Investment Management Agreement in place with F&C recognised as at 31 December 2010, in accordance with IFRS.
Commercial Property Trust Limited can be terminated by the Principal activity and status investment trust on not less than six months notice.
Early termination can be undertaken by the investment trust, but only The Groups business is asset management.
Details of the progress subject to the payment of compensation to F&C based on revenue of the business during the year and of future prospects are stream.
Immediate termination is possible by the investment trust in contained in the Chairmans Statement, the Chief Executives Report the event that there is a change of control in F&C as defined in and the Business Review on pages 2 to 20.
Section 1124 of the Corporation Tax Act 2010 which has not been The Company is registered as a Public Limited Company in terms of consented to by its Board.
the Companies Act 2006 and is currently a constituent of the FTSE F&C Partners LLP 250 Index.
The Company is registered in Scotland, registered number SC73508, and is domiciled in the United Kingdom.
The F&C Partners Limited Liability Partnership Agreement, dated 3 December 2004, is between F&C Alternative Investments Holdings Details of the principal entities within the Group are contained in Limited FAIHL, the two individual founder members and the LLP.
Note 39 to the Consolidated Financial Statements.
There are also three branch offices in the Group outside the UK, in Germany, The LLP Agreement provides that in the event of a change of control of FAIHL it has the right within three months of such change of France and Ireland.
control to declare to the individual members that such change of Significant agreements control is a trigger event.
Upon the declaration of a trigger event, the In addition to the significant management contracts with Friends individual members of the LLP have no right to require FAIHL to Provident plc and the Achmea Group, details of which are contained purchase their interests for a period of twelve months thereafter.
in Note 40 to the Consolidated Financial Statements, F&C is party to Following the expiry of this twelve month period, the individual the following significant contracts that take effect, alter or terminate members have a period of three months during which they can upon a change of control of the Company: choose to require FAIHL to purchase their interests.
F&C REIT Asset Management LLP Millennium BCP Group BCP The F&C REIT Asset Management LLP the LLP Limited Liability The consequences of termination of the various agreements with Partnership Agreement, dated 21 July 2008, is between F&C, the BCP related funds are regulated by an Umbrella Agreement with BCP two individual members and a separate company controlled by the UA.
The UA provides that compensation is payable if any of discretionary trusts.
these agreements are terminated before 29 June 2013.
If a person acquires an interest in the shares of F&C which is larger than the Where there is a change of control of F&C, F&C can elect to change aggregate interest of Friends Provident and Eureko, then the period the arrangements for voting at LLP members meetings such that by reference to which compensation is payable by BCP to F&C on F&Cs interests are represented by one vote and the REIT Parties termination of such an agreement is reduced.
On 17 December 2010, aggregate interests are represented by one vote.
If F&C does not so Sherborne Investors GP, LLC acquired an interest in the shares of elect, then F&C may be required to offer to sell its interests in the F&C which is greater than the aggregate interest of Friends Provident LLP to the other members of the LLP at a price determined by an and Eureko thereby reducing the period by reference to which independent valuer.
compensation would have been payable had an agreement been Thames River Capital terminated at that time from 42 months to 12 months.
Further communications from BCP have put F&C on notice that payments by The Share Purchase Agreement relating to the acquisition of the BCP in respect of F&Cs continued provision of services to BCP, Thames River Capital Group provides for deferred consideration constitutes payment in lieu of compensation and that the agreements payable in two instalments of up to 10 million each, subject to could be terminated by BCP at any time after 17 December 2011 certain financial targets being met.
These payments are to be Annual Report and Financial Statements 2010 15841 F&C Annual Report FRONT AND BACK:Layout 1 06 04 2011 15:36 Page 23 F&C Asset Management Report of the Directors Governance 23 satisfied by the issue or transfer of F&C shares, the number of which Directors and officers liability will be based on the average closing price of such shares for the The Group maintains insurance cover in respect of Directors and 5 business days ended 2 business days prior to their issue or officers liability.
If, however, amongst other things, a person obtains control The Directors have the benefit of an indemnity in accordance with of F&C, then the deferred consideration will be satisfied in the form the Companys Articles of Association at article 166 which is a of bank guaranteed loan notes.
qualifying third party indemnity provision as defined in the Property, plant and equipment Companies Act 2006.
Details of changes in property, plant and equipment are disclosed in Charitable and political contributions Note 12 to the Consolidated Financial Statements.
At 31 December During the year, the Group made contributions to charity of 2010, there were no significant differences between the net book 211,000 2009: 86,000.
No political donations were made during and market values of property, plant and equipment.
Further details on the criteria for charitable Financial instruments giving are contained on the Companys website.
Details of financial instruments are disclosed in Notes 14 and 18 to the Payment policy and practice Consolidated Financial Statements.
The financial risk management objectives and policies of the Group are contained in Note 36.
It is the Groups policy to ensure settlement of suppliers accounts in accordance with the stated terms.
In certain circumstances, Share capital and directors interests settlement terms are agreed prior to any business taking place.
It is During the year the Company issued 1,952,528 ordinary shares in our policy to abide by those terms.
respect of vested awards or options under the Companys long term At 31 December 2010, trade creditors represented the equivalent of incentive schemes.
9 days 2009: 6 days of the annual purchases invoiced by the Details of shares under option at 31 December 2010 are shown suppliers to the Group.
Details of all shares issued during the year ended 31 December 2010, are given in Note 31 to the Consolidated Substantial interests in share capital Financial Statements.
The Directors who held office at the year end The Company has been informed of the following substantial and their interests together with those of their connected persons interests, above 3 per cent.
as at 6 April 2011: in the share capital of the Company are shown below: Ordinary Ordinary Shares 31 Dec 10 31 Dec 09 Shares Percentage Sherborne 98,853,454 18.6 Edward Bramson Beneficial Nil Nil Eureko B. V. 51,128,190 9.6 Non Beneficial 96,329,200 Nil Aviva 45,797,939 8.6 Keith Bedell-Pearce Beneficial 51,285 51,285 Employee Benefit Trusts 17,177,070 3.2 Ian Brindle Beneficial Nil Nil Alain Grisay Beneficial 2,062,657 1,304,847 Non Beneficial 64,176 64,176 Employees Brian Larcombe Beneficial 20,000 20,000 At 1 March 2011, there were 898 full-time employees and 84 David Logan Beneficial 198,428 95,485 part-time employees within the Group 1 March 2010: 798 full-time Non Beneficial 64,176 64,176 employees and 75 part-time employees.
Nick MacAndrew Beneficial 50,000 25,000 Jeff Medlock Beneficial 20,000 10,000 Disabled employees Derham ONeill Beneficial Nil Nil The Group gives full consideration to applications for employment Kieran Poynter Beneficial 30,000 30,000 from disabled persons where the requirements of the job can be Gerhard Roggemann Beneficial Nil Nil adequately fulfilled by a handicapped or disabled person.
Edward Bramson is an associate of of SIGA, LP, a member of the Where existing employees become disabled, it is the Groups policy Sherborne Group.
wherever practicable to provide continuing employment under normal These shares include Mr Grisays participation in the Purchased Equity Plan.
terms and conditions and to provide training, career development Further details of this plan are set out in the Directors Remuneration Report on pages 32 to 33. and promotion to disabled employees wherever possible.
Alain Grisay and David Logan are Directors of F&C Group ESOP Trustee Limited, a company incorporated in 1995 as a discretionary employee Employee involvement benefit trust to encourage and facilitate the acquisition and holding of shares During the year, the policy of providing employees with information in the Company by employees.
about the Group has been continued through internal presentations Or date of appointment if later.
by the Executive Directors and Executive Committee and the Since the year end, the following Directors dealings in the Companys shares have taken place: internal publication of relevant information.
Wherever appropriate, On 15 March 2011, Mr Grisay sold 1,000,000 shares in the Company at a employees are consulted to ensure that their views are taken into price of 77.12 pence per share.
account before decisions are taken which are likely to affect On 25 March 2011, Messrs Grisay and Logan received 740,740 shares and their interests.
284,900 shares respectively in the Company that vested under the terms of the Companys Executive Director Remuneration Plan, the details of which are set out on page 34.
On 31 March 2011 Mr Grisay sold 740,740 shares and Mr Logan sold 147,354 shares in the Company at a price of 77.87 pence per share.
In addition, Mr Logan subscribes for 125 worth of shares each month under the Companys Share Incentive Plan, details of which are set out on page 33.
Annual Report and Financial Statements 2010 15841 F&C Annual Report FRONT AND BACK:Layout 1 06 04 2011 15:36 Page 24 24 Governance Report of the Directors F&C Asset Management authority on an annual basis is that it would allow the Company to Equal opportunities implement a rights issue of an amount equal to approximately 50.34 The Group aims to provide equal opportunities for all, without per cent.
of the issued ordinary share capital without the need to call discrimination on the grounds of race, religion, marital status, an additional general meeting.
This would shorten the age, sex, sexual orientation or disability.
We recruit and promote implementation timetable for such a rights issue.
The Directors have those best suited for the job.
The Group respects the dignity of no present intention of exercising this authority.
The authority will individuals and their beliefs.
The Group does not tolerate any sexual, expire at the end of the AGM to be held in 2012, unless previously racial, physical or mental harassment of staff in the work place.
cancelled or varied by the Company in general meeting.
It is the intention of the Directors to renew this authority annually at each Share incentive schemes AGM.
To the extent that this authority is used by the Directors, all During the year, employees participated directly in the business Directors will offer themselves for re-election at the next General through a number of Employee Share Schemes, details of which are Meeting of the Company.
included within the Directors Remuneration Report on pages 32 to 38 or the notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements on pages Special resolution 9 will renew the present power to allot unissued 90 to 100. ordinary share capital and to sell ordinary shares held in treasury for cash without first being required to offer such shares to existing Annual General Meeting AGM shareholders in proportion to their existing shareholdings.
The Company will hold its AGM on Tuesday, 3 May 2011 at The Such power will apply to the allotment of unissued ordinary shares Gibson Hall, 13 Bishopsgate, London EC2N 3BA.
and treasury shares sold up to a maximum nominal amount of The Meeting will start at 11 a. m. UK time.
Details of all resolutions 26,605.94 representing approximately 5 per cent.
of the being put to shareholders are set out in the Notice of Annual Companys issued ordinary share capital as at the date of this General Meeting commencing on page 143. report, except that: Board changes 1 the maximum nominal amount of shares that can be allotted in connection with a pre-emptive rights issue is 267,917.21 On 3 February 2011, at a General Meeting of the Company, shareholders approved the appointment of Messrs Bramson, representing approximately 50.34 per cent.
of the Companys total issued ordinary share capital excluding treasury shares as Brindle and ONeill to the Board and resolved that Messrs MacAndrew and Larcombe be removed from the Board.
at the date of this report: and 2 the maximum nominal amount of unissued ordinary shares that Mr Roggemann has expressed his intention to retire on conclusion can be allotted or treasury shares sold: of this years Annual General Meeting.
The Nomination Committee and the Board have commenced a search for two additional a pursuant to any other pre-emptive offering where legal or independent Non-executive Directors.
regulatory requirements prevent the issue of shares wholly Information relating to the re-election of Directors at the Annual on a pre-emptive basis : or General Meeting is set out in the Directors Report on Corporate b in order to satisfy options or awards under any share Governance on page 29. scheme for employees or share incentive plan approved by the Company in general meeting, is 177,355.19, Authority to allot ordinary shares and disapplication representing approximately 33.33 per cent.
of the of pre-emption rights Companys total issued ordinary share capital excluding Ordinary resolution 8 will be put to the AGM of the Company to treasury shares as at the date of this report.
renew the Directors power to allot shares.
The Directors currently have a general authority to allot relevant securities up to a maximum The Directors consider that the authority proposed to be granted by amount of 160,715.81 together with specific authorities to allot resolution 8 and the power proposed to be granted by resolution 9 shares to satisfy the consideration payable in connection with the are necessary in order to take advantage of opportunities as they acquisition of Thames River and the related commutation arise and to retain flexibility.
The Directors do not have any intention arrangements and for the settlement of awards made under the of exercising such authority or power at the present time other than management share plans the Specific Authorities.
The resolution for the purposes referred to in 2 b above.
proposes that a similar general authority be granted in substitution Purchase of own shares of the existing general authority to allot securities up to a maximum amount of 177,355.19, representing approximately 33.33 per cent.
Special resolution 10 will be put to the AGM to renew the present power to make market purchases of the Companys own ordinary of the Companys total issued ordinary share capital excluding treasury shares as at the date of this report.
Pursuant to the renewed power, the maximum aggregate number of ordinary shares which may be purchased pursuant to the will remain unaffected by the passing of this resolution.
authority shall be 53,211,879 being approximately 10 per cent.
of In addition, in accordance with guidance issued by the Association the issued ordinary share capital of the Company as at the date of of British Insurers in December 2008, the Company is seeking this report.
The minimum price which may be paid for an ordinary additional authority to allot securities in connection with a preshare shall be 0.1 pence exclusive of expenses.
The maximum emptive rights issue up to a maximum amount of 90,562.02, price for an ordinary share again exclusive of expenses shall be an representing approximately 17.0 per cent.
of the Companys total amount equal to 105 per cent.
of the average of the middle market issued ordinary share capital excluding treasury shares as at the quotations for the Companys ordinary shares for the five business date of this report.
The benefit to the Company of obtaining such Annual Report and Financial Statements 2010 15841 F&C Annual Report FRONT AND BACK:Layout 1 06 04 2011 15:36 Page 25 F&C Asset Management Report of the Directors Governance 25 days immediately preceding the date of purchase.
The power Resolution 12 is proposing to enhance the retention value of the conferred by this resolution will expire on the earlier of the date restricted share awards to the above categories of good leavers by falling 15 months after the date of the passing of this resolution and resolving, in respect of any awards made in 2011, that the Board has the conclusion of the Annual General Meeting of the Company to be the discretion to disapply the time pro-rating reduction that would held in 2012. otherwise be applied to those awards.
Thereafter the current rules will apply.
The Ordinary Shares of the Company to which the former As at the date of this report, the Company had 119,769,934 options employee will become entitled as a result of a restricted award will to subscribe for ordinary shares outstanding representing 22.51 per remain dependent on the performance conditions attached to the cent.
of the issued ordinary share capital of the Company at the award at the date of grant and will continue to be measured over the same date, excluding treasury shares.
If the buy-back authority is performance period.
The original vesting date of any awards made renewed at the 2011 AGM and is then utilised in full, the options being three years after the date of award will also continue to apply.
outstanding at the date of this report would represent 25.01 per cent.
of the issued ordinary share capital of the Company excluding Further details of the proposed amendments to the LTRP rules treasury shares.
are set out in the appendix to the notice of meeting contained on page 146.
The LTRP rules, marked up to show the proposed Any ordinary shares purchased pursuant to this authority would amendments, are available for inspection at the Companys either be held as treasury shares or cancelled.
While any shares are Registered Office or Head Office.
held in treasury, voting rights are suspended and currently no dividends or any other distribution are paid or made on such Notice of General Meetings shares.
The Directors consider it appropriate to have in place the We are currently able to call general meetings other than AGMs on facility to acquire shares in circumstances where they believe that 14 days notice.
We are proposing Special resolution 13 at the future shareholder returns can be enhanced by taking such action.
Meeting so that we can continue to be able to do so.
The flexibility This authority, if renewed, will only be exercised if to do so would offered by this resolution will only be used where it is, in the opinion result in an increase in earnings per ordinary share and if it is of the Directors, appropriate in relation to the business to be considered to be in the best interests of shareholders generally.
considered at the meeting and merited in the interests of the Shareholders as a whole.
Directors fees Ordinary resolution 11 will be put to the AGM to increase the overall The authority being sought pursuant to Special resolution 13 will limit on the fees paid to, and the benefits in kind received by, the expire at the conclusion of the AGM to be held in 2012.
It is the Directors of the Company for their services to the office of Directors current intention of the Directors to renew this authority annually.
This increase is intended Auditors to provide the Board with the flexibility to make additional KPMG have expressed their willingness to continue in office as Non-executive appointments in the future.
auditors and a resolution proposing their re-appointment and for the Proposed amendment to the Companys Long Term Directors to determine their fees will be submitted at the AGM.
Remuneration Plan LTRP Details of the auditors remuneration is provided in Note 4 c to the The Board believes the continued stability of the Companys key Consolidated Financial Statements and further detail on how the employees is fundamental to the successful achievement of the Board ensures the independence of the auditors is detailed on Companys strategy and places the highest priority on the retention page 31 within the Directors Report on Corporate Governance.
of the Companys top performing executives.
To reinforce retention value the Companys policy is to provide a strong emphasis on longAdequacy of the information provided to the auditors term share-based awards that provide alignment of long-term The Directors who held office at the date of approving this Directors interest between employees and shareholders.
The LTRP is the Report confirm that, so far as they are each aware, there is no Companys principal long-term retention plan.
relevant audit information of which the Companys auditor is unaware, and each Director has taken all the steps that he is obliged In accordance with their terms of reference and best market practice, the Remuneration Committee and the Board keep the to take as a Director in order to make himself aware of any relevant audit information and to establish that the Companys auditor is terms and the effectiveness of the Companys share schemes under review.
Having conducted a recent review, the Boards assessment aware of that information.
is that in one important aspect the rules of the LTRP do not provide By order of the Board, the necessary retention value required during a period of uncertainty within the business and as such should be amended.
W Marrack Tonkin, FCCA Secretary Under the current rules of the LTRP, a participant whose 80 George Street employment is terminated in certain good leaver circumstances Edinburgh EH2 3BU namely, redundancy, retirement at normal retirement age, the transfer of his employing business or company out of the F&C 6 April 2011 group, or any other reason at the discretion of the Board receives only a pro-rata award to reflect the period of service and at a future date, being the original vesting date of the award.
Annual Report and Financial Statements 2010
