Investment management and income risks are non-executive, the Companys day to day activities dividends being carried out by third parties.
There are therefore no In addition to the risk of the mis-management of funds disclosures to be made in respect of employees.
The by poor investment decisions, there is also a risk Board fully endorses Fidelitys strong procedures which involved in income.
The Companys objective is capital are involved in the making of its investments.
growth and, as explained in the Chairmans Statement on page 4, the Portfolio Manager is not constrained in The Company has no premises, consumes no electricity, any way to determine the level of income.
The Board gas or diesel fuel and consequently does not have a monitors this risk through the receipt of detailed measurable carbon footprint.
FIL Investments income reports and forecasts which are considered at International is registered with the Carbon Reduction each meeting.
Commitment Energy Efficiency Scheme administered by the Environment Agency.
Share price, NAV and discount volatility risk The price of the Companys shares relative to the The Companys financial reports are printed by a benchmark Index and in absolute terms, as well as its company which has won awards for its environmental discount to net asset value, are factors which are not awareness and further details of this may be found on within the Companys total control.
Some short term the back cover of this report.
Financial reports and other influence over the discount may be exercised by the use publicly available documentation are also available on of share repurchases at acceptable prices.
Details of the Companys website www.
Details repurchases during the year are given on page 20.
The about Fidelitys own community involvement may be Companys share price, NAV and discount volatility are found on its website www.
co. uk monitored daily by the Manager and considered by the Board at each of its meetings.
Socially responsible investment The Managers primary objective is to produce superior 5.
Gearing risk financial returns to investors.
It believes that high The Company has the option to invest up to the total of standards of corporate social responsibility CSR make its loan facilities in equities.
In a rising market the good business sense and have the potential to protect Company will benefit but in a falling market the impact and enhance investment returns.
Consequently, its would be detrimental.
In order to manage the level of investment process takes social, environmental and gearing the Board regularly considers gearing and ethical issues into account when, in its view, these have a gearing risk and sets limits accordingly.
The Portfolio material impact on either investment risk or return.
Manager follows these and may hold short term cash deposits to control the level of net gearing appropriate The Manager recognises and supports the view that to the circumstances as viewed at the time.
social, environmental and ethical best practice should be encouraged so long as the potential for financial return is 6.
Control systems, regulation, governance not reduced.
It favours companies committed to high including shareholder relations risks standards of CSR and to the principles of sustainable The Company is dependent on the Managers control development.
systems and those of its Custodian and Registrar, both of which are monitored and managed by the Manager in The Manager does not set out to manage an ethical the context of the Companys assets and interests on investment fund and does not screen out companies behalf of the Board.
The security of the Companys from its investment universe purely on the grounds of assets, dealing procedures and the maintenance of poor social, environmental or subjective ethical records.
investment trust status under Section 1159 of the Instead it adopts a positive engagement approach Corporation Tax Act 2010, among other things, rely on whereby social, environmental and ethical matters the effective operation of such systems.
These are are discussed with management with the aim of regularly tested and a programme of internal audits is improving procedures and attitudes.
The Manager carried out by the Manager to maintain standards.
believes that this is the most effective way to improve Regular reports are provided to the Board.
the attitude of business towards CSR and the Board endorses this approach.
Other risks Other risks monitored on a regular basis include loan DIRECTORS REPORT GENERAL covenants, which are subject to daily monitoring, together with the Companys cash position, and the DIVIDENDS continuation vote at a time of poor performance.
The Directors recommend that a final dividend of Regular reports are provided to the Board.
15.75p 2009: final dividend nil: interim dividend of 22.50 pence per share be paid on 27 May 2011 to Environmental, employee, social and community shareholders on the register at the close of business on matters 18 March 2011 ex-dividend date 16 March 2011.
The Company is managed by FIL Investments International, has no employees and all of its Directors Fidelity European Values PLC Annual Report 2010 Page 19 Directors Report SHARE CAPITAL flexible manner depending on his views of the market at The Companys issued share capital comprises ordinary the time.
As at 31 December 2010, 49,449,986 shares were in issue 2009: 51,116,605 POLITICAL AND CHARITABLE DONATIONS shares.
Each share in issue carries one vote.
Deadlines The Company has not made any political or charitable for the exercise of voting rights and details of donations in the year 2009: nil.
arrangements by which someone other than the shareholder can exercise voting rights in respect of this PAYMENT OF CREDITORS years Annual General Meeting are detailed in the Notes The Companys principal supplier is the Manager who is to the Notice of Meeting on pages 55 and 56.
The paid in the month following the end of each calendar Companys ordinary shares have a premium listing on the quarter in accordance with the terms of the London Stock Exchange.
The Companys policy for the year to 31 December 2011 SHARE CAPITAL SHARE REPURCHASES AND 2010: same for all suppliers, is to fix terms of payment SHARE ISSUES when agreeing the terms of each business transaction to Pursuant to the authority granted at the 2009 Annual ensure that the supplier is aware of these terms and to General Meeting 1,166,949 ordinary shares of 25p each abide by the agreed terms of payment.
The Company were repurchased for cancellation between 1 January did not have any trade creditors in the year 2009: nil.
At the Annual General Meeting held on 18 May 2010 the Companys shareholders MANAGEMENT COMPANY passed a special resolution which granted the Directors During the year to 31 December 2010, the Manager, FIL authority to purchase up to 7,512,000 ordinary shares in Investments International, a subsidiary of FIL Limited, the market for cancellation.
Pursuant to this authority, provided management, accounting, administrative and during the period 20 May 2010 to 31 December 2010 a secretarial services to the Company pursuant to the further 499,670 ordinary 25p shares were repurchased Management Agreement dated 1 January 2007 as for cancellation.
In aggregate the total shares amended on 18 May 2010. repurchased during the year ended 31 December 2010 was 1,666,619 2009: 3,798,605 3.3% of the issued For the year ended 31 December 2010, the share capital as at 31 December 2010 2009: 7.4% Management Agreement provided a quarterly base fee for a total consideration of 17,968,000 of 0.2125% of net assets 2009: same.
Agreement excludes the value of any investment in any other fund which is managed by the Manager or an As at 31 December 2010, the total number of shares in Associate of the Manager in the calculation of fees.
The authority There is no additional company secretarial fee 2009: to repurchase shares expires on 18 May 2011 and a same.
In addition there is an annual performance related special resolution to renew the authority in respect of up fee of 20% of any change in net asset value in excess of to 14.99% of the issued share capital as at 7 March 2011 the returns on the FTSE World Europe ex UK Index plus will be put to shareholders for approval at the 0.5%.
Both the net asset value and Index will be forthcoming Annual General Meeting.
calculated on a total return basis, while the net asset value per share will be based on the weighted average Since the year end, a further thirteen share repurchases number of shares in issue.
have been made totalling 305,000 ordinary 25p shares.
The issued share capital as at 7 March 2011 was In the event of underperformance of the NAV relative to 49,144,986.
No share issues were made during the the benchmark Index in any year, no performance fee year 2009: nil.
will be payable for a subsequent accounting year unless and until such and all cumulative underperformance has GEARING been made good.
The performance related fee will be The u40m fixed rate loan with Lloyds TSB Bank plc was subject to an upper limit of 1.5% of net assets.
The following loans remain in performance is such that the performance related fee place: would exceed this cap, any excess outperformance will be carried forward and offset against any future u65m at a fixed interest rate of 4.38% repayable on underperformance deficit but will not be counted 15 December 2011 with Barclays Bank PLC: and towards future performance related fees.
For the year ended 31 December 2010 no performance fee was nil drawn down of a u25m revolving credit facility payable 2009: nil.
The facility expires on 15 December 2011.
The Board reviews the services provided by the Manager and also the terms of the Management Agreement on a The Board is of the opinion that the use of a revolving regular basis.
The Management Agreement will continue credit facility for part of its gearing will enable the unless and until terminated by either party giving to the Portfolio Manager to manage the portfolio in a more other not less than six months notice in writing.
The Page 20 Fidelity European Values PLC Annual Report 2010 Directors Report Management Agreement may, however, be terminated brokers are called Secondary State Research firms without compensation if the Company is liquidated in SSRs.
As a consequence of the policy, the core 2011, or in any subsequent year thereafter, pursuant to brokers earn a larger percentage of the commission the procedures laid down in the Articles of Association of paid.
These core brokers pay away some of the the Company.
increased commission earned to the SSRs to compensate them for the research provided to Fidelity.
The Management Agreement may also be terminated Under FSA regulations this type of payment from one forthwith as a result of a material breach of the broker to another is currently treated as softing.
The Agreement or on the insolvency of the Manager or the Managers soft commission policy complies with the UK Company.
In addition, the Company may terminate the regulations.
Fidelity adopts a best execution policy that agreement by six months notice if the Manager ceases applies to all transactions in all instruments, regardless of to be a subsidiary of FIL Limited or if the Board shall the fund or account or location of the trading desk.
resolve at two successive quarterly meetings that there has been a material and continuing underperformance in The Manager has an arrangement with certain brokers the portfolio of assets.
whereby a portion of commissions from security transactions may be paid to the Company to reduce The Management Engagement Committee met on transaction costs.
Amounts received by the Company 12 January 2011 and reviewed the performance of the under this arrangement are credited to capital.
In the Manager for the year to 31 December 2010.
Further year to 31 December 2010, 212,000 was received details of this review are included in the Companys 2009: 178,000.
Corporate Governance Statement on pages 29 and 30.
The Committee concluded that it was in the interests of There is a regulatory requirement on the Manager to shareholders that the appointment of the Manager obtain best execution and no individual deal is entered should continue.
The Manager also provides certain into which prevents compliance with this requirement.
services, including marketing and administration, in connection with the Fidelity Investment Trust Share Plan Mr Fraser was employed by FIL Limited Group until the and the Fidelity Individual Savings Account under an end of December 2008.
Mr Fraser is a Director of agreement dated 4 March 1996.
The amount payable for Barclays PLC and Barclays Bank PLC.
The Company has these services for the year to 31 December 2010 was a current loan relationship with Barclays Bank PLC.
If the amount paid by the Mr Fraser has no influence over the decisions by Barclays Manager for the provision of these services by third Bank PLC in its lending relationship with the Company.
parties is less than this amount, the balance is carried forward to cover the cost of the provision of these FIL Limited has an interest of 112,379 shares or 0.23% in services in future years.
2009: 1,466,000 was due to the Manager under the above agreements at 31 December 2010 and is included DIRECTORS in other creditors in Note 11 to the financial Details of the Directors who served in the year to statements on page 43.
31 December 2010 are set out on pages 14 and 15 with a brief description of their careers, each of which Fidelity has adopted a broker segmentation policy which indicates their qualifications for Board membership.
has reduced the number of brokers used and allows it to Further details of the contribution made by the Directors concentrate on those brokers who, in its opinion, offer may also be found in the Chairmans Statement on the best service in terms of overall execution.
With the exception of Dr Niblett, who was brokers are Fidelitys core brokers.
At the same time, appointed on 14 January 2010 and Mr Walther who the Manager evaluates the research provided by other retired on 19 May 2010, all of the Directors served brokers and uses some of them for their research.
These throughout the year to 31 December 2010.
DIRECTORS SHAREHOLDINGS 31 December 2010 31 December 2009 Humphrey van der Klugt 3,000 2,000 Purchase of 1,000 shares 1 Simon Duckworth, DL 1,500 1,000 Purchase of 500 shares Simon Fraser 6,946 6,908 Dividend reinvestment Robin Niblett n a Appointed 14 January 2010 James Robinson 2,000 2,000 No change during the year Robert Walther n a 12,251 Retired 18 May 2010 1 Mr Duckworth purchased a further 500 shares after the year end Fidelity European Values PLC Annual Report 2010 Page 21 Directors Report In accordance with the proposal of the AIC Code Analysis of Ordinary Shareholders as at 31 December 2010 of Corporate Governance for all Directors of FTSE 350 % of issued share capital Companies to be subject to annual re-election, the Private individuals 49.25 Board has decided to introduce annual re-election at this years Annual General Meeting, a year ahead of the Mutual funds 32.46 proposed schedule.
Further details on re-election can Insurance companies 5.19 be found in the Corporate Governance Statement on pages 25 and 26.
Pension funds 5.86 Trading companies 3.20 Mr van der Klugt was appointed as Chairman with effect from the retirement of Mr Walther following the 2010 Hedge funds 3.76 Annual General Meeting.
Mr Robinson was appointed as Charities 0.28 Chairman of the Audit Committee and Senior Independent Director with effect from that date.
Total 100.00 No Director is under a contract of service with the Company and no contracts existed during or at the end ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING of the financial period in which any Director was THIS SECTION IS IMPORTANT AND REQUIRES YOUR materially interested and which were significant in IMMEDIATE ATTENTION.
If you are in any doubt as to relation to the Companys business, except as disclosed the action you should take, you should seek your own previously in relation to Mr Frasers interest in the personal financial advice from your stockbroker, bank Management Agreement and his directorship of Barclays manager, solicitor or other financial adviser authorised Bank PLC.
There have been no other related party under the Financial Services and Markets Act 2000. transactions requiring disclosure under Financial Reporting Standard FRS 8.
The interests of the At the 2011 Annual General Meeting resolutions will be Directors in the ordinary shares of the Company as at proposed to renew the Directors authority to allot 31 December 2010 and 31 December 2009 are shown securities in the Company.
The authorities sought by on page 21. these resolutions are to replace the existing powers of the Directors which expire on the date of the Annual Information on the Companys Articles of Association is General Meeting and will provide the Directors with the included in the Corporate Governance Statement on flexibility to issue further ordinary shares if they deem it page 26.
Any amendments to the Companys Articles of appropriate to do so.
By law, directors are not permitted Association must be made by special resolution.
to allot new shares or to grant rights over shares unless authorised to do so by shareholders.
Resolution 11 DIRECTORS AND OFFICERS LIABILITY provides the Directors with a general authority to INSURANCE allot securities in the Company up to an aggregate In addition to benefits enjoyed under the Managers nominal value of 614,250.
If passed, this resolution will global Directors and Officers insurance arrangements, enable the Directors to allot a maximum of 2,457,000 the Company maintained insurance cover for its ordinary shares which represents approximately 5% of Directors and Officers under its own policy as permitted the issued ordinary share capital of the Company as at by the Companies Act 2006.
SUBSTANTIAL SHARE INTERESTS This authority provides the Directors with a degree of As at 7 March 2011 notification had been received of the flexibility to increase the assets of the Company by the following interests in 3% or more of the voting rights of issue of new shares should any favourable opportunities the Company: arise to the advantage of shareholders.
If new ordinary shares are allotted for cash, the Companies Act 2006 Shareholder % requires such new shares to be offered to existing holders of ordinary shares pre-emption rights.
In 1 FIL Limited 24.4 certain circumstances it is beneficial for the Directors to 2 Rathbone Brothers PLC 5.1 allot shares for cash otherwise than pro rata to existing shareholders and the Companies Act 2006 provides for 3 Legal & General Investment Management 4.0 shareholders to give such power to the Directors by waiving their pre-emption rights.
1 Including investments through the Fidelity ISA and the Fidelity Investment Trust Share Plan 2 Indirect holding for Rathbone Group companies Resolution 12 is a special resolution disapplying pre- 3 Direct holding for various Legal & General entities emption rights and granting authority to the Directors, without the need for further specific shareholder As at 7 March 2011 24.3% of the issued share capital approval, to make allotments of equity securities for cash was held by investors in the Fidelity ISA and the Fidelity by way of a rights issues where practical considerations, Investment Trust Share Plan.
such as fractions and foreign securities laws, make this Page 22 Fidelity European Values PLC Annual Report 2010 Directors Report desirable, and b other issues up to an aggregate AUDITORS RIGHT TO INFORMATION nominal value of 614,250 approximately 5% of the As required by Section 418 of the Companies Act 2006 issued share capital of the Company as at 7 March 2011. the Directors in office as at the date of this report each The authority to issue ordinary shares for cash under confirm that, so far as they are aware, there is no relevant Resolution 11 will, inter alia, enable the Directors to issue audit information of which the Auditor is unaware and additional new ordinary shares to participants in the each Director has taken all the steps that ought to have Fidelity Investment Trust Share Plan and the Fidelity ISA been taken as a Director to make themselves aware of in the event that the ordinary shares are trading at a any relevant audit information and to establish that the premium to their net asset value.
The Directors would Auditor is aware of that information.
only intend to use this power if such premium were in excess of 2% and they considered that it was in the AUDITORS APPOINTMENT interests of shareholders to do so.
A resolution to reappoint Grant Thornton UK LLP as Auditor to the Company will be proposed at the Resolution 13 is a special resolution which renews the forthcoming Annual General Meeting together with a Directors authority to repurchase the Companys shares resolution to authorise the Directors to determine the for cancellation.
It is proposed that the Board be Auditors remuneration.
authorised to make arrangements to purchase through the London Stock Exchange up to 7,366,800 ordinary By order of the Board shares of 25 pence each equivalent to 14.99% of the FIL Investments International shares in issue at 7 March 2011.
By utilising this power 7 March 2011 to repurchase shares when they are trading at a discount to net asset value, the Company will increase the resulting net asset value per share for remaining shareholders.
Purchases of shares will be made at the discretion of the Board and within guidelines set from time to time by the Board in the light of prevailing market conditions.
Purchases will only be made in the market at prices below the prevailing net asset value.
Resolution 14 is an ordinary resolution regarding the continuation of the Company as an investment trust.
The Board undertook to give shareholders the opportunity to vote on the continuation of the Company in 2001 and every two years thereafter.
Accordingly a resolution for the continuation of the Company as an investment trust will be put to shareholders at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting.
The full text of the resolutions is set out in the Notice of Meeting contained on pages 54 to 56.
Recommendation: The Board considers that each of the resolutions is likely to promote the success of the Company and is in the best interests of the Company and its shareholders as a whole.
The Directors unanimously recommend that you vote in favour of the resolutions as they intend to do in respect of their own beneficial holdings.
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Full details are given in the Corporate Governance Statement on pages 25 to 30.
The Corporate Governance Statement forms part of this Directors Report.
Fidelity European Values PLC Annual Report 2010 Page 23
