Managers Review FIL Investments International Sam Morse The Company is managed by FIL Investments International is a portfolio manager with FIL Investment Services UK Limited which is authorised and regulated by the Financial Services based in London.
During the year, we announced that Sam Authority.
FIL Investments International is part of the FIL Limited would take over the management of the portfolio with effect group which, as at 31 December 2010, had total assets under from 1 January 2011 replacing Sudipto Banerji.
Sam has more management exceeding 160 billion.
He also manages the Fidelity European Fund.
PERFORMANCE REVIEW and the anticipation of continuing economic recovery As shown in the Summary of Results on page 2, the NAV led investors to be less concerned with European per share of Fidelity European Values PLC increased by contagion and US recession risks.
7.1% in the year to 31 December 2010, outperforming the FTSE World Europe ex UK Index, which rose by The year end saw a European equity market rally in 5.1%.
All performance figures are quoted on a total which even the peripheral countries participated as return basis and in sterling.
investors began to appreciate the positive fundamentals that Europe can offer rather than focus on the negative The portfolio generated positive absolute returns and headlines.
European equity markets produced positive gains over the year, but were PORTFOLIO REVIEW highly volatile as newsflow surrounding the sovereign During the period, the portfolio outperformed its risk crisis dominated the headlines.
Stock picking, particularly in the in the region with exposure to global trade performed financials sector, was the key contributor to relative out well, whereas financials suffered during periods of performance.
Avoiding commercial banks in some of uncertainty.
the more troubled Eurozone economies such as Spain, Ireland and Greece proved positive, whereas holding MARKET BACKGROUND financial stocks with a more defensive profile such as European equities made positive gains at the start of the Zurich Financial Services, the Swiss insurance company, year, with investors anticipating continuing global and Swedbank of Sweden, also helped returns.
economic recovery and companies reporting improved earnings results.
However, this was short-lived as Exposure to basic materials was positive during the intensified Greek debt problems spilled over from the period.
Within the chemicals sector, Umicore, which previous year and investors grew concerned that there generates a large part of its revenue from catalytic would be an escalation in Eurozone sovereign risk.
converters used in the automobile industry, benefited from a cyclical recovery in automobile production during Significant support packages announced from the EMU the year.
Other positions in the sector, such as BASF, member states, the IMF and the EU combined were not benefited from good relative returns, but to a lesser enough to stem investor fears of contagion.
sector worries remained given their exposure to sovereign bonds.
The interbank funding market also Factors that held back performance included an showed signs of stress with lending rates starting to rise underweight exposure to the industrial cyclical stocks once more.
which enjoyed a year end rally due to growing optimism in a continued global economic recovery.
After a short lull during the summer period, investors began to rotate into riskier assets once again.
This was as a result of better than expected macro economic data and the announcement that there would be further quantitative easing from the US.
At a company level, third quarter earnings releases continued to be positive Page 6 Fidelity European Values PLC Annual Report 2010 Managers Review Relative % weighting to FTSE World Europe ex UK Index Western Europe Non-Eurozone Core Eurozone Eastern Europe & Other Peripheral Eurozone -12 -10 -8 -6 -4 -2 0 2 4 6 Sources: Fidelity and Datastream as at 31 December 2010 Western Europe NonPeripheral Eurozone Eastern Europe & Core Eurozone Eurozone comprises comprises Other comprises comprises Norway Spain Israel Italy Sweden Austria Poland Germany Switzerland Finland Hungary Netherlands Denmark Ireland Iceland France Greece Czech Republic Belgium Portugal OUTLOOK There are still some key challenges for European economies to face, not least debt issues especially in the periphery.
However, attractive valuations relative to history and other regions, together with the prospect of profits growth in spite of these economic headwinds, means that there are some good reasons for investors to look again at Europe.
A focus on attractively valued companies with sustainable dividend growth prospects should continue to add value in an uncertain economic environment.
FIL Investments International 7 March 2011 Fidelity European Values PLC Annual Report 2010 Page 7
