Corporate Information Manager, Secretary and Registered Office FIL Investments International 1,2 Beech Gate Lynn Ruddick Millfield Lane Chairman date of Lower Kingswood appointment: 22 July 2005: Tadworth appointed as Chairman: Surrey KT20 6RP 9 July 2010 is a Fellow of the Chartered Association Financial Advisers and Stockbrokers of Certified Accountants and Cenkos Securities plc a member of the Securities 6,7, 8 Tokenhouse Yard Institute.
She is Chairman of London EC2R 7AS British Assets Trust plc, a non-executive director of Standard Life UK Smaller Companies Trust plc, a Independent Auditor member of the Investment Committee of the Pearson Grant Thornton UK LLP Group Pension Plan and a trustee of the Scottish Chartered Accountants and Registered Auditor & Newcastle Pension Plan.
She is also a member 30 Finsbury Square of the Investment Committee of Western Provident London EC2P 2YU Association and chairman of their Pension Fund Trustee Board.
She worked for many years as an Bankers and Custodian investment manager in both Edinburgh and London JPMorgan Chase Bank London Branch and is a former chairman of the Investment Committee 125 London Wall of the National Association of Pension Funds.
Before London EC2Y 5AJ retiring from Merrill Lynch Investment Managers in 2004 she headed their investment trust business unit.
Registrars Capita Registrars Northern House Woodsome Park Fenay Bridge Huddersfield 1,2 Sharon Brown West Yorkshire HD8 OGA Chairman of the Audit Committee date of Lawyers appointment: 15 April 2010: Slaughter and May appointed as Chairman of the One Bunhill Row Audit Committee: 26 October London EC1Y 8YY 2010 is Finance Director of Dobbies Garden Centres PLC and Member of Court and Audit Committee Chairman of Queen Margaret University, Edinburgh as well as a member of the Group of Scottish Finance Directors.
Mrs Brown previously held a senior financial position at John Menzies plc and is a Fellow of the Chartered Institute of Management Accountants.
Page 16 Fidelity Special Values PLC Annual Report 2010 Board of Directors 1,2 Andy Irvine Douglas Kinloch 1,2 date of appointment: 15 April Anderson 2010 is Chairman of Montanaro date of appointment: European Smaller Companies 18 October 1994 is chairman PLC, a Director of Securities of Kinloch Anderson Limited Trust of Scotland PLC and and a director of F&C Private Non-Executive Chairman of Equity Trust PLC.
He has been Robertson Property.
Mr Irvine is president of the Edinburgh also Non-Executive Chairman of Chamber of Commerce and a Jones Lang LaSalle Scotland, Chairman of the Scottish member of the Scottish Committee of the Institute of International Education Trust and is a past Chairman Directors.
He was previously a board member of the of the British and Irish Lions Limited and a past Scottish Tourist Board, Master of the Edinburgh President of the Scottish Rugby Union.
Merchant Company and he was national president of the Royal Warrant Holders Association.
His career has included wide experience in manufacturing, retailing and exporting, particularly to Europe, North America and the Far East.
2 1, 2 Nicky McCabe Ben Thomson date of appointment: 9 Senior Independent Director December 2004 is an Executive date of appointment: 1 January Director of Moonray Investors, 2008: appointed as Senior a division of FIL Investments Independent Director: 12 July International, responsible for the 2010 has a background of over non-financial services businesses 25 years in investment banking within Fidelity.
Prior to that, she and was chairman and chief was Chief Operating Officer executive of the Edinburgh for the investment management team, having joined investment banking firm, Noble Group Limited, from Fidelity in 1999 as head of investment administration.
He is also chairman of Reform Scotland Ms McCabe has wide experience in investments, having Limited, of Barrington Stoke Limited and of the National been responsible for all aspects of operational, systems Galleries of Scotland.
He is a director of Martin Currie and project support for the portfolio managers, analysts Portfolio Investment Trust PLC and the Edinburgh and traders.
Prior to joining Fidelity, she spent 6 years at Science Festival.
He is a partner on Antonine LLP and HSBC Asset Management where she ran Performance Inverleith Capital LLP.
In the past he has been a nonMeasurement, Institutional Marketing Support and executive director on a number of publicly quoted and Operations.
Ms McCabe also spent 2 years at McKinsey private boards.
All of the Directors are non-executive directors and with the exception of Ms McCabe are independent.
1 Member of the Audit Committee and Management Engagement Committee 2 Member of the Nomination and Remuneration Committee Fidelity Special Values PLC Annual Report 2010 Page 17
