Directors Report The Company has no premises, consumes no BUSINESS REVIEW continued electricity, gas or diesel fuel and consequently does not have a measurable carbon footprint.
FIL Investments Share price risk International is registered with the Carbon Reduction Although it is usually the case that the longer a share is Commitment Energy Efficiency Scheme administered owned the less the risk of losing money, share prices are by the Environment Agency.
volatile and for the short term shareholder, likely to want to sell in the near future, volatility is a risk.
The Board The Companys financial reports are printed by a does not regard volatility as a significant risk for the company which has received the relevant accreditations long term shareholder.
for its environmental awareness and further details of this may be found on the back cover of this report.
Discount risk Financial reports and other publicly available The Board cannot control the discount at which documentation are also available on the Companys the Companys share price trades to net asset value.
Details about Fidelitys However, it can influence this through its share buyback own community involvement may be found on its policy and through creating demand for shares through website, www.
good performance and an active investor relations programme.
DIRECTORS REPORT GENERAL Internal risks THE BOARD Investment management All appointments to the Board, re-elections and The Board relies on the Managers skills and judgement replacements of Directors take place in accordance to make investment decisions based on research and with the Companies Act and the Companys Articles of analysis of individual stocks and sectors.
Details of the Directors who served in the reviews the performance of the asset value of the year to 31 August 2010 are set out on pages 16 and 17. portfolio against the Companys benchmark and During the year, Alex Hammond-Chambers and Sir competitors and the outlook for the market with the Richard Brooke retired and Sharon Brown and Andy Manager at each Board meeting.
The emphasis is on Irvine were appointed.
All other Directors served long term investment performance and the Board throughout the year to 31 August 2010.
Since 2004, accepts that by targeting long term results the the Board has followed a process whereby all Directors Company risks volatility in the shorter term.
are subject to re-election on an annual basis.
Information on the process of appointment, re-election and Governance, operational, financial, compliance, replacement of Directors is included in the Corporate administration etc Governance Statement.
While it is believed that the likelihood of poor governance, compliance and operational administration Nicky McCabe is an Executive Director of Moonray by other third party service providers is low, the financial Investors, a division of FIL Investments International, a consequences could be serious, including the associated member of the FIL Limited Group of Companies.
Nicky reputational damage to the Company.
Your Board is McCabe has waived her entitlement to Directors fees.
responsible for the Companys system of internal control No Director has a contract of service with the Company and for reviewing its effectiveness.
Details of this process and no contracts existed during or at the end of the are provided in the Corporate Governance Statement financial period in which any Director was materially within this Annual Report.
interested and which were significant in relation to the Companys business, except as disclosed in relation Financial and financial instrument risks to Nicky McCabes interests in the Management The financial instrument risks faced by the Company are Agreement.
There have been no other related party shown in Note 19 to the financial statements on pages transactions requiring disclosure under Financial 49 to 53.
Other risks monitored on a regular basis include derivative The interests of the Directors and FIL Limited in the positions, which are subject to daily monitoring, together ordinary shares of the Company as at 31 August 2010 with the Companys cash position, and the continuation and 31 August 2009 are shown on page 23. vote at a time of poor performance.
DIRECTORS AND OFFICERS Environmental, employee, social and community matters LIABILITY INSURANCE The Company is managed by FIL Investments In addition to benefits enjoyed under the Managers International, has no employees and all of its Directors global Directors and Officers liability insurance are non-executive.
The Companys day to day activities arrangements, the Company maintains insurance being carried out by third parties.
There are therefore cover for its Directors under its own policy as permitted no disclosures to be made in respect of employees.
The Board fully endorses Fidelitys strong procedures which are involved in the making of its investments.
Page 22 Fidelity Special Values PLC Annual Report 2010 Directors Report Management Regular Nomination Audit Engagement Board Committee Committee Committee Meetings Meetings Meetings Meetings Lynn Ruddick 4 4 2 2 2 2 1 1 1 Sir Richard Brooke 1 2 1 1 0 1 0 1 2 Sharon Brown 1 1 n a n a n a 3 Alex Hammond-Chambers 4 4 2 2 2 2 1 1 2 Andy Irvine 1 1 n a n a n a Douglas Kinloch Anderson 4 4 2 2 2 2 1 1 Nicky McCabe 4 4 2 2 n a n a Ben Thomson 4 4 2 2 2 2 1 1 1 2 3 Retired 16 December 2009 Appointed 15 April 2010 Retired 8 July 2010 Figures indicate those meetings for which each Director was eligible to attend and attended in the year.
Regular Board meetings exclude procedural meetings held to discharge, for example, formal approvals.
of voting rights and details of arrangements by which ARTICLES OF ASSOCIATION someone other than the shareholder can exercise voting Any amendments to the Companys Articles of rights are detailed in the Notes to the Notice of Meeting Association must be made by special resolution.
The Companys ordinary shares have a premium listing on the London Stock Exchange.
SUBSTANTIAL SHARE INTERESTS During the year, FIL Limited sold its remaining 75,790 SHARE ISSUES shares.
At the date of this report notification had been No shares were issued during the year and none have received that the shareholders listed in the table on page been issued since the year end.
The authority to issue 24 held more than 3% of the voting rights and or issued shares and disapply pre-emption rights, granted by share capital of the Company.
shareholders at the Annual General Meeting held on 16 December 2009, expires at the conclusion of the SHARE CAPITAL next Annual General Meeting and therefore resolutions The Companys share capital comprises ordinary to renew the authority will be put to shareholders for shares of 25 pence each.
As at 31 August 2010 the total approval at the Annual General Meeting to be held number of shares in issue was 56,938,896 2009: same.
Each share carries one vote.
Deadlines for the exercise Held at Held at 31 August 2010 31 August 2009 Changes Lynn Ruddick 7,665 7,541 46 shares acquired due to automatic dividend reinvestment Sir Richard Brooke n a 12,000 Retired 16 December 2009 Sharon Brown nil n a No change Alex Hammond-Chambers n a 16,000 Disposal of 11,000 shares by the trust of which Mr Hammond-Chambers is a nonbeneficial trustee prior to year end.
Retired 8 July 2010 Andy Irvine 10,000 n a No change historical holding Douglas Kinloch Anderson 18,011 17,898 113 shares acquired due to automatic dividend reinvestment Nicky McCabe 1,000 1,000 No change Ben Thomson nil nil No change FIL Limited nil 75,790 Sale of holding during the year Fidelity Special Values PLC Annual Report 2010 Page 23 Directors Report administrative and secretarial services to the Company Number of under an agreement the Management Agreement Shareholders ordinary shares % entered into on 6 February 2006.
1 FIL Limited 19,924,046 34.99 The Management Agreement replaced that between 2 Legal & General Group plc 2,220,745 3.90 the same parties dated 19 October 1994 and provides 2 Alliance Trust 2,198,837 3.86 for an annual fee of an amount equal to 0.875 per cent 1 of net assets per annum for investment management Held in aggregate by investors in the Fidelity ISA and the Fidelity Investment Trust Share Plan and 600,000 for non-portfolio management services 2 Direct and indirect holdings for clients and on own account payable quarterly in arrears and calculated as of the last business day of March, June, September and December An analysis of ordinary shareholders as at 31 August in each year.
In computing the asset value, the value of any investment in any fund which is managed by the 2010 is detailed in the table below.
Manager or an associate of the Manager is excluded.
Analysis of ordinary shareholders % of issued as at 31 August 2010 share capital The Management Agreement will continue unless and until terminated by either party giving to the other not Private shareholders 81.11 less than six months notice in writing.
The Management Institutions 8.03 Agreement may, however, be terminated without compensation if the Company is liquidated in 2010, Insurance 5.82 or in any subsequent year thereafter, pursuant to the Pensions 3.87 procedures laid down in the Articles of Association of Other 1.17 the Company.
The Management Agreement may also be terminated forthwith as a result of a material breach 100.00 of the Agreement or on the insolvency of the Manager 1 Includes Share Plan and ISA investors or the Company.
In addition, the Company may terminate the Agreement by sixty days notice if the SHARE REPURCHASES Manager ceases to be a subsidiary of FIL Limited.
At the Annual General Meeting held on 16 December 2009 the Companys shareholders passed a special The Management Engagement Committee has reviewed resolution which granted the Directors authority to the performance of the Manager over one and five years purchase up to 8,535,140 ordinary shares in the market taking into consideration those items in the Corporate for cancellation.
No shares were repurchased for Governance Statement on pages 28 to 32 of this Annual cancellation during the year 2009: 34,000 shares Report.
The Committee concluded that it was in the repurchased and no shares have been repurchased interests of shareholders that the Management for cancellation since the year end.
POLITICAL AND CHARITABLE DONATIONS The Manager also provides certain services, including The Company has not made any political or charitable marketing and administration, in connection with the donations during the year 2009: nil.
Fidelity Investment Trust Share Plan and the Fidelity ISA under an agreement dated 17 April 1996.
The amount PAYMENT OF CREDITORS payable for these services for the year to 31 August 2010 The Companys principal supplier is the Manager is 169,700 2009: 78,222.
If the expenses incurred by which is paid in the month following the end of each the Manager for the provision of these services is less calendar quarter, in accordance with the terms of than this amount, the balance is carried forward to cover the Management Agreement detailed below.
the cost of the provision of these services in future years.
The Companys policy for the years to 31 August 2010 An amount of 700,300 2009: 665,260 was due to and 31 August 2011, for all suppliers, is to fix terms of the Manager under the above agreements at 31 August payment when agreeing the terms of each business 2010 and is included in other creditors in Note 13 on transaction to ensure that the supplier is aware of these page 47. terms and to abide by the agreed terms of payment.
The Company did not have any trade creditors in the Fidelity operates a broker segmentation policy, which year under review and to date 2009: nil.
Other suppliers allows it to concentrate on those brokers who, in its are paid in accordance with the individual payment opinion, offer the best service in terms of overall terms agreed with each supplier.
These brokers are Fidelitys core brokers.
At the same time, the Manager evaluates the research MANAGEMENT COMPANY provided by other brokers and uses some of them for The Manager, FIL Investments International, a subsidiary their research.
These brokers are called Secondary of FIL Limited, provides management, accounting, State Research firms SSRs.
Page 24 Fidelity Special Values PLC Annual Report 2010 Directors Report As a consequence of the policy, the core brokers The Board is recommending to shareholders the earn a larger percentage of the commission paid.
approval of a dividend of 10.50 pence per share for the These core brokers pay away some of the increased year ended 31 August 2010.
If approved, this dividend commission earned to the SSRs, to compensate them will be paid on 21 December 2010 to shareholders on for the research provided to Fidelity.
Under FSA the register on 19 November 2010.
The ex-dividend regulations this type of payment from one broker to date will be 17 November 2010.
In addition, resolutions another is currently treated as softing.
The Managers will be imposed to renew the Directors authority to allot soft commission policy complies with the UK regulations.
The authorities sought by Fidelity adopts a best execution policy that applies to all these resolutions are to replace the existing powers of transactions in all instruments, regardless of the fund or the Directors which expire on the date of the Annual account or location of the trading desk.
General Meeting AGM and to provide the Directors with the flexibility to issue further ordinary shares if they The Manager has an arrangement with certain brokers deem it appropriate to do so.
By law, directors are not whereby a portion of commissions from security permitted to allot new shares or to grant rights over transactions may be paid to the Company to reduce shares unless authorised to do so by shareholders.
Amounts received by the Company under this arrangement are credited to capital and Resolution 12 provides the Directors with a general included in the gains losses on sales of investments authority to allot securities in the Company up to an in Note 10 on page 45.
In the year to 31 August 2010 aggregate nominal value of 1,423,472.
If passed, this 114,000 was received 2009: 27,000. resolution will enable the Directors to allot a maximum of 5,693,888 ordinary shares which represents There is a regulatory requirement on the Manager to approximately 10% of the issued ordinary share capital obtain best execution and no individual deal is entered of the Company as at 5 November 2010.
The Directors into which prevents compliance with this requirement.
would not intend to use this power unless the premium was in excess of 2% and unless they considered that it RESPONSIBILITY AS AN INSTITUTIONAL was in the interests of shareholders to do so.
SHAREHOLDER The Board has adopted the Managers Principles of Resolution 13 is a special resolution disapplying Ownership in relation to investments.
These principles pre-emption rights and granting authority to the include the pursuit of an active investment policy Directors, without further specific shareholder approval, through portfolio management decisions, voting on to make allotments of equity securities for cash by way of resolutions at general meetings and maintaining a a rights issues and b other issues up to an aggregate continuing dialogue with the management of investee nominal value of 1,423,472 approximately 10% of the companies.
The Manager, in its Principles of Ownership, issued ordinary share capital of the Company as at expressly declares that it supports the Financial 5 November 2010.
Reporting Councils Stewardship Code setting out the responsibilities of institutional shareholders and agents.
Resolution 14 is a special resolution which, if approved, will renew the Companys authority to purchase up to Further details of the Managers Principles of Ownership 14.99% of the number of ordinary shares in issue on and voting may be found at www.
co. uk 5 November 2010 for cancellation.
Purchases of ordinary shares will be at the discretion of the Board and within SOCIALLY RESPONSIBLE INVESTMENT guidelines set from time to time by the Board in the light The Managers primary objective is to produce superior of prevailing market conditions.
Purchases will only be financial returns for the Companys shareholders.
made in the market at prices below the prevailing net It believes that high standards of corporate social asset value per share, thereby resulting in an increased responsibility CSR make good business sense and net asset value per share.
have the potential to protect and enhance investment returns.
Consequently, its investment process takes Resolution 15 is an ordinary resolution seeking approval social, environmental and ethical issues into account for the Company to continue as an investment trust for when, in the Managers view, these have a material a further three years.
The last continuation vote was impact on either investment risk or return.
ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING Recommendation: The Board considers that each of THIS SECTION IS IMPORTANT AND REQUIRES YOUR the resolutions is likely to promote the success of the IMMEDIATE ATTENTION.
If you are in any doubt as to Company and is in the best interests of the Company the action you should take, you should seek your own and its shareholders as a whole.
The Directors personal financial advice from your stockbroker, bank unanimously recommend that you vote in favour of the manager, solicitor or other financial adviser authorised resolutions as they intend to do in respect of their own under the Financial Services and Markets Act 2000. beneficial holdings.
Fidelity Special Values PLC Annual Report 2010 Page 25 Directors Report The Companys assets consist mainly of securities CORPORATE GOVERNANCE which are readily realisable and, where outsourcing Full details are given in the Corporate Governance arrangements are in place, alternative service providers Statement which forms part of the Directors Report, are readily available.
As a consequence, the Directors which can be found on pages 28 to 32. believe that the Company is well placed to manage its business risks successfully despite the current uncertain AUDITORS RIGHT TO INFORMATION economic outlook.
As required by Section 418 of the Companies Act 2006 the Directors in office as at the date of this report each The Board receives regular reports from the Manager confirm that, so far as they are aware, there is no relevant and the Directors have a reasonable expectation that audit information of which the Auditor is unaware and the Company has the adequate resources to continue each Director has taken all the steps that ought to have in operational existence for the foreseeable future.
been taken as a Director to make themselves aware of Thus they continue to adopt the going concern basis of any relevant audit information and to establish that the accounting in preparing the annual financial statements.
Auditor is aware of that information.
Continuation votes are held every three years and the AUDITORS APPOINTMENT next continuation vote will be put to shareholders at A resolution to reappoint Grant Thornton UK LLP this years AGM.
Ongoing discussions are held with as Auditor to the Company will be proposed at the shareholders not just at the time of continuation votes forthcoming AGM together with a resolution to authorise and the Board believes that the continuation vote will the Directors to determine the Auditors remuneration.
be passed at this years AGM.
GOING CONCERN By Order of the Board The Companys business activities, together with the factors likely to affect its future development, performance and position are set out in the Business FIL Investments International Review on pages 20 to 22.
The financial position of Secretary the Company, its cash flows, liquidity position and 5 November 2010 borrowing facilities are described in the Financial Statements and Notes thereto on pages 36 to 53.
The Companys objectives, policies and processes for managing its capital, financial risk management objectives, details of financial instruments and its exposures to credit and liquidity risk are also set out on pages 20 to 22 and in the Notes to the Financial Statements on pages 40 to 53.
Page 26 Fidelity Special Values PLC Annual Report 2010
