The Boards Policies The current investment approach is detailed in the INTRODUCTION Managers Review on pages 6 and 7.
The role of the Board of Directors of your Company includes determining the policies which govern how A breakdown of the current distribution of the it is managed, which are: Companys portfolio is detailed on pages 10 and 11.
INVESTMENT GOAL: CAPITAL GROWTH USE OF DERIVATIVES The Board of Directors recognises that investing in The primary motive for using derivatives is to create equities is a long term process and that there will be a wider opportunity set to deliver returns from stock good and bad years in the Companys returns to picking such that overall portfolio performance will shareholders.
However, our primary objective is to primarily be explained by stock selection and make money for you, the shareholders, over the long market returns.
In our assessment of the progress towards that end, we consider a five year time span to be the The policies, application, exposure limits and other risk most appropriate.
management requirements which the Board applies to the use of derivatives is set out in three documents: DIVIDEND POLICY: SHORT TERM VARIABLE, LONG TERM GROWTH i The Use of Derivatives Policy sets out the principles, The portfolio is managed actively in the pursuit of capital responsibilities, requirements and restrictions gains.
In any one year therefore the dividend income pertaining to usage: received from investments will vary according to which stocks are owned during the period and so therefore ii The Derivative Instrument Charter sets out the will the net income earned and the dividend paid.
applications for usage, the risks which arise from usage and the manner in which those risks are INVESTMENT POLICY: SPECIAL SITUATIONS mitigated.
This supporting document also sets out The objective of the Company is predominantly pursued the derivative exposure limits which are reviewed by investing in the stocks and shares of companies with and altered from time to time by the Board: certain characteristics which, in the Portfolio Managers judgement, offer unusual opportunities to make capital iii The Derivative Risk Measurement and Management gains.
These characteristics are usually found in one of document sets out how FIL Investments International the following investment themes: measures and manages other risks arising from the Companys positions in financial derivative instruments.
Turnaround or recovery situations: Unrecognised growth opportunities: Note 19 to the financial statements on pages 49 to 53Hidden jewels an under-appreciated product sets out the purpose of the derivatives.
or division: Franchises which may be subject to corporate activity: CURRENCIES: NO HEDGINGInvestment long or short in misvalued stocks.
It is not the policy of the Board to hedge the underlying currencies of the holdings in the shares The Portfolio Manager is looking for valuation anomalies of overseas companies in the portfolio but rather to and for companies that are under-owned and disliked take the currency risk into consideration when making by other investors, and shares which may have a high the investment.
Although the portfolio consists predominantly of holdings in UK companies, up to 20% GEARING POLICY: EXPOSURE OF 115-120% can be invested in the shares of overseas companies.
OF SHAREHOLDERS FUNDS IN NORMAL The Company invests mainly in shares but may also CIRCUMSTANCES invest in equity-related instruments such as convertible The Board takes the view that long term capital gains bonds, warrants or derivative contracts and in debt can be enhanced by the judicious use of gearing.
The Company may also invest up to 5% of Contracts For Difference are a more flexible method its assets in unquoted securities, but it is unlikely that the of attaining a geared exposure for the portfolio and, Portfolio Manager will make such investments except in current markets, cost a lot less than traditional bank where it is expected that the securities will shortly be loans.
Consequently, Contracts For Difference have listed.
The Board has not set a policy limiting the amount increasingly been used for this purpose, especially that can be invested in any one security or sector other since the repayment of traditional loans in 2010. than that limited by Section 1159 of the Corporation Tax Act 2010.
Page 18 Fidelity Special Values PLC Annual Report 2010 The Boards Policies LIQUIDITY POLICY: FULLY INVESTED IN NORMAL CIRCUMSTANCES In normal times it is the Boards policy to be fully invested by which it means at least 95% of the Companys assets are invested in stocks and shares.
However, it is aware of its duty to be concerned about the preservation of our shareholders capital as well as that of making capital gains: if the stocks and shares generally are deemed to be very overvalued or if the Portfolio Manager finds it difficult to identify many attractively priced opportunities for investment such that the chances of losing money in the medium term three to five years are considerable, liquidity uninvested cash would rise to a level which at least matches the amount of any borrowings or futures.
It is not our policy to own shares for the sake of it.
INVESTMENT IN OTHER INVESTMENT TRUSTS: LIMIT OF 15% The Board has set a limit of 15% on the proportion of the Companys total assets that can be invested in the securities of other listed investment companies including listed investment trusts which themselves do not have stated investment policies.
As at 31 August 2010 there were five such holdings totalling 5.62% of the Companys total assets.
CORPORATE ACTIVISM The Board believes that the Company should, where necessary, take an active interest in the affairs of the companies in which it invests and that it should exercise its voting rights at their general meetings.
Unless there are any controversial issues which are then referred to the Board, it delegates the responsibility for corporate activism and shareholder voting to Fidelity.
These activities are reviewed annually.
Further details may be found in the Directors Report on page 25.
PREMIUM DISCOUNT MANAGEMENT: ENHANCING SHAREHOLDER VALUE The Board seeks authority from shareholders each year to issue new shares at a premium or buy back shares at a discount to the net asset value.
It uses these authorities to enhance the net asset value and to protect or improve the premium discount rating of the shares.
Fidelity Special Values PLC Annual Report 2010 Page 19
