Managers Review Sanjeev Shah FIL Investments International joined Fidelity in 1996 as a research analyst.
He became The Company is managed by FIL Investments a portfolio manager in 2002: between October 2002 and International which is authorised and regulated by August 2005 he managed the Fidelity UK Aggressive the Financial Services Authority.
FIL Investments Fund and between September 2005 and May 2007 he International is part of the FIL Limited group which, managed Fidelity Funds European Aggressive Fund.
as at 30 September 2010, had total assets under Since January 2008 he has managed Fidelity Special management exceeding 146 billion.
Mr Shah took over responsibility for the Companys portfolio on 1 January 2008.
This has been another challenging year for investors.
demand from emerging market countries China in Although the UK stockmarket rose by 10.6% on a total particular for commodities.
Nevertheless, some of the return basis over our accounting year, investor sentiment Companys top-weighted sectors, such as technology over the period switched from optimism to fear and media, outperformed the broader market.
The regarding the economic outlook.
The level of economic energy sector ended in negative territory, mainly due to activity remained well below the pre-crisis peak.
the problems at oil major BP, whose shares suffered a significant drop following an explosion at its oil well in UK MARKET REVIEW the Gulf of Mexico in April 2010 and the rising costs of GDP growth accelerated over the year, culminating cleaning up the resultant oil spill.
in an expansion of 1.7% on an annualised basis in the second calendar quarter of 2010.
During the period, sterling weakened against the dollar Inflation rose above the governments 2% target, from $1.63 to $1.54.
elevated by temporary effects stemming from higher oil prices and the restoration of the standard rate of PORTFOLIO MANAGERS REVIEW VAT, with August CPI reaching 3.1% During the 12 months to 31 August 2010, the NAV The Bank of England kept the interest rate of the Company rose by 1.3% total return basis, but unchanged at 0.5% throughout the year.
underperformed the FTSE All-Share Index, which rose The UK stock market rose during the 12 month period by 10.6%.
as the economic outlook improved, but the European debt crisis capped the gains in the second half.
Although one of the Companys objectives was achieved, namely a positive absolute return, it is Investors appetite for risk improved considerably during nevertheless disappointing that the Company was so far the first half of the review period, supported by positive behind the market return.
However, the objective of the data releases and encouraging earnings reports.
Company is to achieve long term capital growth and we However, markets turned more cautious in the second are pleased to report that the annualised total return to half as concerns rose that the European sovereign debt 31 August 2010 for 2, 3 and 5 years are all ahead of the crisis could curtail a global recovery.
Shares of banks markets returns for these periods.
The Company is also suffered from worries about potential knock-on effects ranked in the first quartile among its peers across from the debt troubles in Europe and tougher regulatory different time periods including the 3 and 5 years to proposals.
Following the UK General Election in May and the end of August 2010. the new coalition governments Budget in June, there was renewed speculation over the possibility of a double Like last year, this 12 month period was a tale of two dip recession as the market pondered the impact of halves, although in this case with a strong rise in markets spending cuts and tax increases.
However, many of the in the early months of our financial year as investors companies in the portfolio generate a significant globally breathed a collective sigh of relief that proportion of their revenue from outside the UK, either economic growth had become positive.
This was directly or via exports.
There was increased focus on followed by a set back in the second half as fears of some of the more cyclical sectors and stocks of the UK the unsustainability of the economic growth gained market, in part due to expectations of continued strong precedence.
I altered the shape of the portfolio during Page 6 Fidelity Special Values PLC Annual Report 2010 Managers Review the year to move away from some of the cyclical J Sainsbury also made a positive contribution, as exposure towards a greater emphasis on companies did an underweight stance in BP.
which can grow during tougher economic conditions.
The portfolio is overweight in medium to small sized The key reason for the underperformance by the companies as they tend to be a more fertile hunting portfolio relative to the benchmark, over the 12 month ground for a special situations investor.
I continue to period, was the underweight stance in the mining sector, find some very good opportunities in large companies, where an improving outlook for demand for where overall valuations appear attractive versus history.
However, However, careful stock selection will be essential.
I continue to be cautious about these stocks, which do not seem attractive on valuation grounds.
Derivatives During the last year I have used derivatives in the Holdings in financials also hurt overall performance.
form of Contracts For Difference CFDs as a cheaper While earnings have been improving at key holdings, alternative to straight borrowing.
Like regular borrowing, such as Royal Bank of Scotland and Lloyds Banking CFDs used for this purpose will magnify the direction of Group, the negative sentiment due to the European underlying share prices, one way or another.
In addition, debt crisis and anticipated tough proposals on capital I am able to use other derivatives from time to time, requirements from the Basel Committee, affected sector although these form a small component of the portfolio.
Nevertheless, many of these recommendations They provide another way of investing in mis-priced have been watered down recently, which augurs well for stocks and I use them in two key ways.
I can seek to the banking sector.
take advantage of periods when the overall market is either overbought or oversold.
I can also look to derive Certain stocks detracted from performance during the performance from individual shares that I believe to period.
For example, the holdings in Yellow Pages be overvalued and likely to fall.
The impact of the publisher Yell and outsourcing group Xchanging proved derivatives overall was negative during this financial year.
significant detractors due to the markets worries about However, these strategies have contributed 5.3% over their earnings, but I retain conviction in the long term the period since I took on the management of the prospects for those companies.
Some of the positions Companys portfolio at the beginning of 2008. within the travel & leisure sector, such as Ladbrokes, held back returns.
I still remain confident about these OUTLOOK companies long term growth prospects.
The market has become more volatile recently, but these periods of volatility also offer opportunities to pick up Several of our key overweight positions made positive stocks at attractive valuations that have been dragged contributions.
These included components distributors down by the general turmoil.
Economic data continues Premier Farnell and Electrocomponents, where to be uneven, leading to fears about the sustainability continued acceleration in their web based sales of the global economic recovery, but governments have supported stock prices.
Within the media sector, shown their willingness for providing further stimulus satellite broadcaster British Sky Broadcasting, which measures.
Overall, the likely low growth economic has seen the addition of new HD customers and a bid environment over the next few quarters has led me to approach from News Corp, was a notable contributor.
switch to higher quality growth companies.
I continue Shares in the leading education publisher Pearson also to see good stock specific opportunities in financials, rose, supported by growth in its higher education and media continues to be a significant position given business, the structural shift to digital delivery and an its low valuation versus history.
upgrade in its full year outlook.
Elsewhere within the sector, business publisher United Business Media was a positive contributor as it benefited from a recovery Sanjeev Shah in corporate spending on events.
Food retailer FIL Investments International 5 November 2010 Fidelity Special Values PLC Annual Report 2010 Page 7
