Foreign & Colonials share price total return vs Benchmark, Close Peers and Retail Prices Index over 10 years 160 140 120 100 80 Source: MorningStar UK Limited 60 Dec 01 02 03 04 05 06 07 08 09 Dec 00 10 Foreign & Colonial Investment Trust total return Composite Benchmark 40% FTSE All-Share 60% FTSE WI World ex UK Close Peer Group total return weighted average Retail Prices Index We have enlisted the support of an independent The future consultant for my first annual appraisal of Board The three long-term trends we set out a year ago effectiveness.
This has been a worthwhile exercise remain the most important factors in shaping the for me as your new Chairman and for your Board global economic and market outlook.
The rise of as a whole, and has produced some clear priorities emerging markets continues: government debt for 2011. is yet to be brought under control in any country: Management reappointment and fees Foreign & Colonials annual dividend per Each year the Board formally reviews F&Cs share vs weighted average for both the Global Growth sector and the Close Peer performance as Manager and whether their Group vs Retail Prices Index over 10 years reappointment is in the interests of shareholders.
This year we also had a fundamental review of the 230 fee payable to F&C for the first time since 2005.
210 We have agreed a new fee basis with F&C, which from the start of 2011 will be an amount equal to 190 0.365% per annum of market capitalisation of the 170 Company, calculated and paid monthly: there will 150 be no performance fee.
This new fee arrangement is much simpler and yet still aligns the interests 130 between Manager and shareholder as it is based on 110 the share price.
If this had been in place in 2010 we Source: MorningStar UK Limited & F&C Management Limited 90 would have paid 6.05m instead of the actual fee Dec 01 02 03 04 05 06 07 08 09 Dec of 6.52m.
We expect to review fee arrangements 00 10 again at the end of 2014.
Foreign & Colonial Investment Trust annual dividend per share F&C has experienced some well publicised changes Global Growth Sector ex FCIT dividend per year to its Board but the service we receive has been weighted average Close Peer Group Ex FCIT dividend per year unaffected by these developments.
The Board weighted average decided to reappoint F&C as the Manager and will Retail Prices Index continue to monitor developments very carefully.
Report and Accounts 2010 3 Ch Cha aiirrm ma an ns s S Sta tatte em me en ntt co con nttiinu nue ed d and many individuals also need to reduce their the private equity industry, which is under growing debts significantly.
A further important trend that pressure to generate cash returns for investors.
We has become clearer this year is the long drawn out expect our own private equity portfolio to perform regulatory response to the financial crisis.
strongly in the first part of 2011 as valuations catch So far in 2011 the political turmoil in North Africa up with the recent rise in listed markets.
and parts of the Middle East has led to a substantial So despite the many uncertainties, we are rise in the oil price.
Rising food and commodity encouraged by the earnings performance and prices are having an impact in all countries and have valuations of the companies we own.
We are contributed to falls in many emerging market share confident that our well diversified global equity prices.
In the UK inflation is much higher than the portfolio will achieve our objective of capital and Bank of Englands target and interest rates are now income growth.
expected to rise sooner rather than later.
We need to remain vigilant about the impact of these trends and developments on our investment strategy.
However the prospects for individual companies are generally positive.
Profits and dividends are growing at a healthy rate across the world and outside the financial sector balance sheets Simon Fraser are generally strong.
We expect this will translate Chairman 4 March 2011 into increased takeover activity in 2011 which will help investor sentiment.
This could be important for Forward-looking statements This document may contain forward-looking statements with respect to the financial condition, results of operations and business of the Company.
Such statements involve risk and uncertainty because they relate to future events and circumstances that could cause actual results to differ materially from those expressed or implied by forward-looking document.
The forward-looking statements are based on the Directors current view and on information known to them at the date of this document.
Nothing should be construed as a profit forecast.
4 Foreign & Colonial Investment Trust PLC
