Directors Report and Business Review continued with section 1158 of the Corporation Tax Act 2010 Independent auditors section 1158.
Such compliance, which includes So far as each Director is aware, there is no relevant investing no more than 15% of the total portfolio audit information of which  in any one investment, deriving its income wholly LLP the Auditors are unaware.
The Directors or mainly from shares and securities and retaining believe that they have each taken all the steps no more than 15% of such income, qualifies the that they ought to have taken as Directors in order Company as an investment trust.
This status is to make themselves aware of any relevant audit granted annually in retrospect by HM Revenue and information and to establish that the Auditors are Customs, subject to there being no subsequent aware of the information.
enquiry under Corporation Tax Self Assessment.
The Auditors have indicated their willingness to The Company has qualified as an investment trust in continue in office and resolutions will be proposed at respect of all relevant years up to and including the the Annual General Meeting to re-appoint them and year ended 31 December 2009, and continues to determine their remuneration Resolutions 13 and 14. conduct its affairs in compliance with section 1158.
Objective and policy Accounting and going concern The Companys investment objective is to secure longThe Financial Statements, starting on page 36, term growth in capital and income through a policy comply with current UK Financial Reporting of investing primarily in an internationally diversified Standards, supplemented by the Statement of portfolio of publicly listed equities, as well as unlisted Recommended Practice for Investment Trust securities and private equity, with the use of gearing.
Companies SORP issued in January 2009.
The Risk diversification is achieved through geographic significant accounting policies of the Company are asset allocation and industry sector and stock set out in note 2 on the accounts.
The unqualified selection across a wide range of markets.
Within the auditors opinion on the Financial Statements general policy of maintaining a diversified portfolio, appears on page 35.
The Companys investment there are no specific geographic or industry sector objective and policy places the emphasis on exposure limits for the publicly listed equities.
The investing in readily realisable listed securities and Board has placed a limit of 5% of the value of the puts a limit on borrowings.
The Company retains total portfolio on unlisted securities, at the time of title to all assets held by its custodian.
Trust deeds acquisition and excluding private equity investments, govern its debentures and agreements cover its bank and any unlisted investment requires specific Board borrowing facilities.
Cash is held only with banks approval.
Shareholder approval would be sought in approved and regularly reviewed by the Manager.
the event that the Board considers that the long-tem Note 26 on the accounts sets out the financial risk exposure to private equity investments should ever profile of the Company and indicates the effect on exceed a figure of 20%.
the assets and liabilities of fluctuations in the value of Under the Companys Articles of Association, with securities, and exchange and interest rates.
limited exceptions, no single investment may be The Directors believe that, in the light of the made by the Company which exceeds 10% of the controls and monitoring processes that are in value of the total portfolio at the time of acquisition.
place, the Company has adequate resources and Under the Listing Rules, no more than 10% of the arrangements to continue operating within its stated total assets may be invested in other listed closedobjective and policy for the foreseeable future.
ended investment companies, unless such investment Accordingly, the accounts continue to be drawn up companies have themselves published investment on the basis that the Company is a going concern.
policies to invest no more than 15% of their total Shareholders will be asked to approve the assets in other closed-ended investment companies, adoption of the Annual Report and Accounts at the in which case the limit is 15%.
The Board has placed Annual General Meeting Resolution 1. a limit of 5% of the value of the total portfolio on investment funds managed by F&C Management 18 Foreign & Colonial Investment Trust PLC
