About your Company Objective Performance To secure long-term growth in capital and income Share price total return of 16.5% over one year.
through a policy of investing primarily in an Share price total return of 33.9% and 42.8% over five internationally diversified portfolio of publicly listed and ten years respectively.
equities, as well as unlisted securities and private Dividend up 118%, or 8.1% compound, over equity, with the use of gearing.
Heritage Increase in dividend every year for the past 40 years.
Founded in 1868 as the first ever investment trust.
Pioneered the concept of collective investment, by Advantages of an investment trust giving the small investor the same advantage as the The ability as a closed-end fund to take a longlarge institution by reducing risk through a spread of term view and ride out difficult conditions we investments.
have ridden through two world wars and many market crashes.
Today One of the largest global growth trusts, with total The flexibility to invest in a wide range of assets in assets of over 2.4 billion investing in over 540 listed recent years we have increased our exposure to companies in 31 countries.
Some 112,000 shareholders, with over 91,000 The freedom to borrow money to improve returns investors through the F&C savings plans.
to shareholders in rising markets we have borrowed in foreign currencies at low rates for Reputation many years and more recently in sterling.
Well-known and respected brand, with a reputation for delivering its long-term objectives in a responsible, The ability to buy back shares to enhance net asset prudent and effective way.
value and reduce discount volatility we have a buy back policy to keep the discount below 10% in normal Management market conditions.
Independent Board of Directors responsible for overall strategy and monitoring performance.
Low charges to investors, typically well below those for comparable unit trusts our total expense Management of the investments is carried out by ratio for 2010 was 0.54%.
The cumulative benefits of F&C Management Limited the Manager or F&C such low costs over many years are very significant under contract.
External third party sub-managers are used to enhance investment performance where appropriate.
No cross-directorships, no cross-holdings and no conflicts of interest exist between the Company and its Manager.
com Potential investors are reminded that the value of investments and the income from them may go down as well as up and investors may not receive back the full amount invested.
Tax benefits may vary as a result of statutory changes and their value will depend on individual circumstances.
Foreign & Colonial Investment Trust PLC
