Limited the Manager or F&C at the time of when this seems likely to result in better performance.
acquisition, and any such investment requires specific The Board has agreed to make no new commitments Board approval.
to private equity until the Companys exposure moves Borrowings, which can be taken out either back closer to 10%.
in Sterling or foreign currency, would normally The high level of diversification across the entire be expected to fall within a range of 020% of portfolio has recently resulted in the tendency for the shareholders funds based on valuing the Companys Companys share price to have lower volatility than debentures at market value.
Further information on current The Company will typically remain fully invested in investment strategy can be found on page 11 and equities, but is not prohibited from investing in other buyback policy on page 20. types of securities or assets.
Derivatives may be used to control risk and enhance returns for the overall portfolio Principal risks and their management including, if appropriate, protection against currency risks.
Like all businesses, the Company faces risks and uncertainties.
The Corporate Governance Strategy Statement on page 29 includes a summary of the The Board believes that the optimum basis for risk management arrangements.
By means of the achieving its stated objective and implementing the procedures set out in the summary, and in accordance investment policy is a strong working relationship with the Internal Control: Guidance for Directors on with the Manager, the more detailed arrangements the Combined Code published by the Working Party for which are explained later in this review.
F&C for the Institute for Chartered Accountants in England has overall responsibility for the management of the and Wales, the Board has established an ongoing Companys assets, and for asset allocation, gearing, process for identifying, evaluating and managing stock selection and risk.
the significant risks faced by the Company, and has Specific strategic moves in recent years have been regularly reviewed the effectiveness of the internal to establish the private equity portfolio, initially targeted control systems for the period.
This process has been at 10% of the overall portfolio, to be overweight in in place throughout the year under review, and to the Emerging Markets relative to the benchmark date hereof, and will continue to be regularly reviewed weighting, and for F&C to use external sub-managers by the Board on an ongoing basis.
Objective and strategy Risk description: Inappropriate objective and strategy in relation to investor demands in a rapidly changing financial services and savings market.
Mitigation: The Board regularly reviews the Companys position as a leading savings vehicle.
Strategic issues, including its role as a global growth investment trust, are considered annually.
Investment policy, gearing and currency Risk description: Inappropriate asset allocation, sector and stock selection, currency exposure and use of gearing leading to investment underperformance.
Mitigation: Investments are primarily in a diversified spread of international publicly listed equities with exposure to their underlying currencies.
Investment policy and performance is reviewed with the Fund Manager at each Board meeting, along with the monitoring of cash and borrowing levels.
The ability of the Company to gear up via long-term and short-term borrowings, in currencies matching those to which the portfolio is exposed, enables it to take a long-term view of the countries, markets and currencies in which it is invested, and ride out short-term volatility.
The Board approves all borrowing facility agreements and has set a limit on gearing.
Derivatives may be used for the purpose of hedging foreign currencies, although to date none has.
