BACK TO CONTENTS Operating and Financial Review This Operating and Financial Review OFR describes the main trends and factors underlying our performance and position during the year ended 30 June 2010 as well as those which are likely to aect us in the future.
This OFR has been prepared with consideration to the guidance provided in the UK Accounting Standard Boards 2006 Reporting Statement on OFRs.
This OFR has been prepared to provide respect of group pension schemes.
Administration additional information to shareholders to providing high quality information and assess the current position and future In providing this breadth of services direct to services to our clients potential of the Group.
It should not be the private investor, we offer a compelling continuous improvements to our relied on by any other party for any other proposition for clients.
This OFR contains forward-looking giving clients the confidence and support statements that involve risks and Fund supermarkets and wrap platforms to transact business online uncertainties.
The Groups actual results may typically focus on servicing the IFA motivating and retaining our talented differ materially from the results discussed community and are remunerated for acting employees in the forward-looking statements as a result as administrator.
The IFA using the platform maintaining our client-focused and of various economic factors or the business is remunerated for acting as distributor.
We entrepreneurial culture risks, some of which are set out in this provide our fund supermarket and wrap cost control and operational efficiency document.
platform direct to the private investor, thereby performing the role, and capturing Marketing Long term strategy and key objectives the economics, of both the platform provider maintaining our dialogue with clients and distributor.
expanding our investor database Hargreaves Lansdown is a leading provider improving our range of services of investment management products and We strengthen our ability to win and retain remaining flexible, responsive and services to private investors in the UK.
clients by discounting initial charges and opportunistic passing on a portion of the annual maintaining and improving our profile Our flagship service, Vantage, is a direct-tomanagement charge to clients as a loyalty continual improvement of data capture private investor fund and wrap platform.
bonus on many Vantage accounts.
The and data mining Vantage offers clients the administrative Hargreaves Lansdown business model convenience of being able to hold and allows us to offer highly competitive prices Competition and markets manage their investments, including unit to our clients and achieve strong trusts, OEICs, equities, ETFs, bonds, profitability.
The markets in which Hargreaves Lansdown investment trusts and cash, irrespective of operates are highly fragmented.
We compete the tax vehicle, in one place with We aim to create shareholder value by being with other businesses providing investment consolidated valuation reports, a single the leading provider of investment products and services direct to the private dealing service and instant online access.
management products and services to investor.
These include IFAs, execution-only private investors in the UK.
brokers, banks, building societies, life In addition to offering externally managed assurers and those fund supermarkets and investment products, we manage funds Our strategy is focused on growing the value wrap platforms which are available direct to through our own range of multi-manager of assets we have under administration or the private investor.
We believe that Vantage funds and PMS, our discretionary portfolio management and consequently increasing is the largest direct-to-private investor fund management service.
We also provide our revenues, maintaining tight cost control supermarket and wrap platform in the UK.
independent financial advisory and and improving our profit margin.
In Our target market is the UK mass affluent stockbroking services to private investors particular, we will focus on: population looking to invest their savings.
and advisory services to companies in Annual report and financial statements | Year ended 30 June 2010 8
