BACK TO CONTENTS Operating and Financial Review Outlook choice and control available through our well as maintaining high quality staff.
believe such an approach will ensure that we It is important to view these 2010 results in continue to provide an excellent service, the context of our overall growth over a We still expect the provisions of the Financial ensure client satisfaction, help maintain number of years, rather than as a comparison Services Authoritys Retail Distribution existing business and attract new business to the exceptional results from the 2009 Review RDR to only affect advisory business.
and so will enhance long term value for financial year.
The interest rate environment The Financial Services Authoritys current shareholders.
contributed to a large increase in revenue in proposals state that non-advised business 2009, and so this years 20% growth to will be excluded from the RDR, and this During July 2010 we started providing our revenue is all the more impressive given that represents the majority of Hargreaves new corporate wrap service, Corporate interest rates have remained at a record low Lansdown business.
In respect of the Groups Vantage, to the first client.
The level of throughout the year.
Interest rates and advisory business, we have already interest in the service and prospective pipeline market volatility will continue to influence announced and successfully implemented a of corporate clients is very encouraging and our performance in the new financial year.
remuneration structure for advisers that is we look forward to welcoming new employers RDR compliant.
Other aspects of the RDR on to the Corporate Vantage platform.
Our SIPP service continues to go from such as increased qualifications our advisers Although we do not anticipate any financial strength to strength, as the pension and in already comply with, or are easily benefit from this new service in the coming particular the SIPP market continues to implemented.
The Financial Services financial year, we see the corporate market as provide ample opportunities.
The continued Authority is due to publish a further a significant and important source of new trend away from defined benefit to defined Consultation Paper on the regulation of assets and clients over the medium term.
contribution DC schemes means we expect Platforms in the autumn.
Any new Financial to see substantial growth in DC assets and for Services Authority rules or changes in the Current trading is satisfactory, but the the Group to benefit from that as a leading market as a whole following the economic problems of the UK and the rest of SIPP provider.
There may be a decline in new implementation of the RDR could impact us.
the world are not behind us and we expect SIPP contributions as a result of the However, we believe we are very well placed this to continue to influence our trading and restriction of higher rate tax relief on pension to accommodate any changes and maintain our clients ability to save.
The Company is contributions for high earners, but many of our competitive position.
extremely well placed to build on the our SIPP clients are unaffected by these rules.
momentum that has been generated so far, Overall, we do not expect to see SIPP inflows The Board has reviewed the Groups progress and our ability to innovate and remain reduce as a direct result of these rule changes and strategy.
We remain focused on responsive to the economic environment will as the main source of SIPP inflows has always providing an exceptional service, and on assist us.
been pension transfers which this year growing the business principally through accounted for roughly two-thirds of SIPP new growing assets under administration.
We believe that investors will Opportunities include the increased ISA continue to transfer their assets to us in order allowance, new fund launches and corporate Tracey Taylor to benefit from the services and information wrap service.
We will continue to invest in our Group Finance Director we provide, together with the transparency, systems, equipment and infrastructure, as 8 September 2010 17 Annual report and financial statements | Year ended 30 June 2010
