BACK TO CONTENTS Management Team Members of the Board: of Bristol City Football Club.
Stephen is a Nigel Bence - Group Compliance Director.
Fellow of the Securities & Investment Nigel graduated with a First from Bristol Institute.
Polytechnic now the University of the West of The following directors have served England with a BA Honours Degree in during the year: Peter Hargreaves FCA - Chief Executive.
He joined the compliance Peter co-founded Hargreaves Lansdown in department of Hargreaves Lansdown in 1992.
Jonathan Bloomer FCA - Senior independent 1981.
Previously, he qualified as a Chartered In 2001, he was appointed to the role of non-executive director.
Jonathan became a Accountant and worked for a predecessor of Group Compliance Director.
non-executive director of the Company in KPMG, Unisys Group and Whitbread plc.
Jonathan is currently a is non-executive director of ITM Power plc.
Andrew Christian - Managing Director of partner in Cerberus European Capital Broking Operations.
Andrew graduated from Advisors LLP, Executive Chairman of Lucida Tracey Taylor FCCA, MSI - Group Finance Nottingham Polytechnic now Nottingham plc and Chairman of Scottish RE Group Director.
Tracey joined Hargreaves Trent University with a 2:1 in Law.
Previously, Jonathan was Chief Lansdown in 1999 and her responsibilities Hargreaves Lansdown in 1991, and worked Executive of Prudential plc.
He also spent within the Group since then have included initially on the investment helpdesk before twenty years in practice with Arthur systems, HR, group finance, treasury, client moving to Hargreaves Lansdown Stockbrokers Andersen LLP.
Jonathan was Chairman of the accounting and the Company secretarial in 1992.
Andrew was appointed director of Practitioner Panel of the FSA.
In 2006 she was appointed to the Hargreaves Lansdown Stockbrokers in 1998. positions also include board membership of role of Group Accounting Director and to the He resigned as a Director on 3 August 2010. the Association of British Insurers, Geneva Executive Committee.
In 2008 she was Association International Association for the appointed to the Board and the position of Alex Davies - Director of Pensions.
Alex Study of Insurance Economics and Railtrack Group Finance Director.
Tracey is a qualified joined Hargreaves Lansdown in 1999.
Jonathan is also a Trustee and the accountant, holds an MSc in Finance and is a degree in Politics and International Treasurer of the NSPCC.
also a Member of the Securities & Investment Relations from the University of Kent at Institute MSI.
He is responsible for the pensions Michael Evans - Non-executive chairman.
business SIPPs, annuities and income Michael became a non-executive director of New directors appointed after 30 June drawdown and the new Corporate Vantage the Company in September 2006.
He was appointed to the board of qualified actuary with 27 years' industry Hargreaves Lansdown Pensions Direct in experience.
He is a non-executive director of Chris Barling - Independent non-executive 2006 and to the boards of Hargreaves ING Real Estate Investment Management UK director appointed 26 August 2010.
Chris Lansdown Asset Management and Hargreaves Limited and is non-executive chairman of the has over 30 years IT industry experience Lansdown Stockbrokers in May 2009.
Unitholders' Advisory Committee of the ING and formerly held senior IT roles in Cable & Real Estate Select Global Osiris Fund.
He has Wireless and Reuters.
He has a degree in Ian Hunter - Investment Marketing Director.
recently completed a two year assignment as Computer Science from Brunel University Ian graduated from Bristol University with a director of life insurance at Pinsent Masons and is the co-founder of Actinic, the software 2:1 in Philosophy.
Ian joined the investment LLP.
Michael was formerly Chief Operating company specialising in e-commerce helpdesk of Hargreaves Lansdown in 1997 Officer at Skandia UK Limited.
Actinic went public on and after three years he moved to our the London Stock Exchange in May 2000. marketing team where he is now responsible Jonathan Davis - Independent non-executive for the marketing of all investments and the director.
Jonathan became a non-executive Ian Gorham ACA - Deputy Chief Executive.
Ian joined the Executive Director of the Company in February 2008.
Ian joined Hargreaves Lansdown in Committee and the Board of Hargreaves Jonathan, a former senior business journalist September 2009 as Chief Operating Officer.
Lansdown Asset Management Limited and on The Times, The Economist and The Ian qualified as a Chartered Accountant in Hargreaves Lansdown Stockbrokers Limited Independent, is a regular columnist in the 1996.
Previously he helped build Deloittes in July 2009.
Financial Times and founder of JDA financial services operations and was Head Independent Investor LLP, an independent of Grant Thorntons UK financial services Nick Marson - Nick joined Hargreaves investment publishing business.
Ian has worked with many Lansdown in 1997 initially working in the degrees in history and management from financial services companies on a wide Stockbrokers Back Office, before moving on to Cambridge University and MIT and is the range of strategic and operational matters.
He is now author of three books on investment.
He is responsible for overseeing the operations of also a director of Agrifirma Services Limited Members of the Executive Committee the Stockbroking and the Vantage Service.
who served during the year: Nick joined the Executive Committee and the Board of Hargreaves Lansdown Asset Stephen Lansdown FCA, FSI - Executive Mary Theresa Barry - Group Marketing Management Limited and Hargreaves director up until 26 August 2010 when he Director.
Theresa graduated with a 2:1 in Lansdown Stockbrokers Limited in July 2009. became a non-executive director.
Stephen coPolitics from the University of Bristol.
She founded Hargreaves Lansdown in 1981. joined Hargreaves Lansdown as the first fullPeter Hargreaves, Ian Gorham, Stephen Stephen qualified as a Chartered Accountant time employee in 1982.
Theresa has also Lansdown and Tracey Taylor were also in 1975 and specialised in taxation with worked in marketing at Abbey Unit Trust members of the Executive Committee during Touche Ross & Co. Stephen is also Chairman Managers Limited in the City of London.
Annual report and financial statements | Year ended 30 June 2010 18
