BACK TO CONTENTS Directors Report The directors present their annual report on the aairs of the Group together with the financial statements and auditors report for the year ended 30 June 2010.
Principal Group activities The Group maintains ongoing forecasts that respects.
Save as agreed at the Annual Hargreaves Lansdown plc is the parent indicate continued profitability in the 2011 General Meeting of the shareholders, the company of a group of companies which financial year.
Stress test scenarios are ordinary shares have pre-emption rights in offers a range of investment products, undertaken and the outcomes of which show respect of any future issues of ordinary shares investment services, financial planning and that the Group has adequate capital to the extent conferred by Section 561 of the advice.
Hargreaves Lansdown has resources for the foreseeable future even in Companies Act.
established a reputation for providing high adverse economic conditions.
The Groups quality service and value-for-money business is highly cash generative with a low No unissued share or loan capital of the products to private investors, whether they working capital requirement: indeed, the Company is under option or agreed, are making their own investment decisions forecast cash flows show that the Group will conditionally or unconditionally, to be put or looking for an advisory or discretionary remain highly liquid in the forthcoming under option.
The Trustees of the Company service.
Employee Benefit Trusts EBTs, hold Ordinary Shares either jointly owned with The Group's flagship service, Vantage, is a The Directors therefore believe that the employees or for the exercise of options under direct-to-private investor fund and wrap Group is well placed to manage its business the Company employee share schemes.
Vantage offers clients the risks successfully despite the current administrative convenience of being able to uncertain economic outlook.
After making Restrictions on transfer of shares hold and manage their investments, enquiries, the Directors expectation is that At the time of the flotation of the Company including unit trusts, OEICs, equities, ETFs the Group will have adequate resources to during May 2007, the then directors of the bonds, investment trusts and cash, continue in business for the foreseeable Company and directors of the subsidiary irrespective of the tax vehicle, in one place future.
Accordingly, they continue to adopt companies gave undertakings not to offer, sell with consolidated valuation reports, a single the going concern basis in preparing the or contract to sell, pledge or otherwise dispose dealing service and instant online access.
Annual Report and Financial Statements.
of ordinary shares directly or indirectly which were held by them on Admission to the The Group also provides independent Group results and Company dividends main market of the London Stock Exchange financial advisory and stockbroking services Operating profit for the year ended 30 June and not sold as part of the flotation, other to private investors and advisory services to 2010 was 85.4 million 2009: 69.8 than in certain limited circumstances.
The companies in respect of group pension million.
The Group profit after taxation for restrictions apply as follows: schemes.
the year ended 30 June 2010 was 61.3 million 2009: 52.1 million.
i Following the Results Announcement for The subsidiary undertakings of the Group the financial year of the Company ending during the year are listed in note 16 to the Dividends are shown in note 11 to the on 30 June 2009 but prior to the Results financial statements.
The principal trading financial statements.
In addition to the first Announcement for the financial year of subsidiaries, Hargreaves Lansdown Asset interim dividend of 8.0 pence per share, we the Company ending on 30 June 2010, to Management Limited, Hargreaves Lansdown have declared a second final ordinary such number of Shares as is equal to 50 Stockbrokers Limited, Hargreaves Lansdown dividend of 0.58 pence per share, taking the per cent of the total number of Locked-in Fund Managers Limited and Hargreaves total ordinary dividends up to 8.58 pence Shares: and Lansdown Pensions Direct Limited, are per share.
This total dividend payout ii Following the Results Announcement for authorised and regulated by the Financial equates to 65% 2009: 65% of post tax the financial year of the Company ending Services Authority.
Our policy is not to accumulate on 30 June 2010 but prior to the Results excess cash going forwards and we are Announcement for the financial year of the Business review pleased to declare a special final dividend of Company ending on 30 June 2011, to A full review of the Groups business 1.70 pence per share in addition to the such number of Shares as is equal to 25 activities, financial position, cash flows, interim special dividend of 1.6 pence per per cent of the total number of Locked-in liquidity position, together with the factors share.
This equates to a further 25% 2009: Shares.
likely to affect its future development, 25% of post tax profits.
Any special performance and position are set out in the dividend in future years will depend upon The restrictions set out above shall cease to Chairmans and Chief Executives Statement our future cash requirements and therefore apply in their entirety following the Results on pages 5 to 7 and the Operating and may vary.
Announcement for the financial year of the Financial Review on pages 8 to 17 and are Company ending on 30 June 2011. incorporated into this report by reference.
In Capital structure addition, note 3 to the Financial Statements The Companys shares are listed on the main Reporting discloses the key sources of estimation market of the London Stock Exchange.
The Shares in Hargreaves Lansdown plc are listed uncertainty and judgements made by the Companys authorised and issued share on the main market of the London Stock management: and note 28 includes the capital during the year and as at 30 June Exchange and as such the Company is Groups policies and processes on capital 2010 are shown in note 22. required to comply with its disclosure management, financial risk management requirements.
and details on its exposure to such risks.
The ordinary shares rank pari passu in all 19 Annual report and financial statements | Year ended 30 June 2010 BACK TO CONTENTS Directors Report Directors Directors Interests The directors, who served throughout the year During the period covered by this report, no director had any material interest in a contract to except as noted, were as follows: which the Company or any of its subsidiary undertakings was a party other than their own service contract, requiring disclosure under the requirements of the Companies Act 2006 except Non-executive directors: in respect of the rental of the office premises at Kendal House as disclosed in note 27 to the Jonathan Bloomer financial statements.
Michael Evans Chairman from 1 December 2009 Jonathan Davis The directors who held office at 30 June 2010 had the following interests including beneficial interests in the shares of the Company: Number and % of Number of Ordinary Executive directors: Ordinary Shares at 30 June 2010 Shares at 30 June 2009 Peter Hargreaves Chief Executive Stephen Lansdown to 26 August 2010 Non-executive directors Tracey Taylor Finance Director J Bloomer 15,625 0.01% 15,625 M Evans 15,625 0.01% 15,625 Jonathan Bloomer, Michael Evans and Executive directors Jonathan Davis were members of the P Hargreaves 152,717,606 32.20% 152,717,606 Remuneration Committee, Audit Committee S Lansdown 109,060,843 22.99% 109,060,843 and Nomination Committee.
Jonathan T Taylor 721,441 0.15% 925,000 Bloomer acts as Chairman of these Total 262,531,140 55.35% 262,734,699 Committees and is the senior independent non-executive director.
The above figures are exclusive of any interests Critical accounting policies Ian Gorham has been appointed as an under Share Options.
Details of Share Options The accounting policies adopted by Hargreaves executive director and both Chris Barling and which have been granted to directors as at the Lansdown have been consistently applied Stephen Lansdown have been appointed as date of this report pursuant to employee share throughout the current and prior year, except non-executive directors on 26 August 2010. schemes are set out in the directors as described as below, and are set out in note remuneration report.
The preparation Retirement and re-election of directors of our financial statements in accordance with In accordance with the Companys Articles of After 30 June 2010 but prior to the date of this these policies has required management to Association at each annual general meeting report, Jonathan Davis, a non-executive make a number of estimates, assumptions and any director who has been in office for more director, made a purchase of 2,500 shares, judgements.
Further details on key sources of than three years or more since their which represents less than 0.01% of the judgements and estimation uncertainty are appointment or last re-appointment must ordinary shares in issue.
provided in note 3 to the financial statements.
Those retiring shall also include any director who wishes to retire.
A Substantial shareholdings Changes in accounting policy separate resolution to reappoint any director As at 1 September 2010, the Company has not In the current financial year, the Group has appointed since the last annual general been notified of any shareholdings amounting adopted International Financial Reporting meeting must be proposed.
to more than 3 per cent of the issued share Standard 8 Operating Segments and capital of the Company other than the International Accounting Standard 1 Under the new UK Corporate Governance directors interests which are set out in the Presentation of Financial Statements Code which takes effect for financial years Directors Report and the following revised 2007. beginning on or after 29 June 2010, all shareholding: directors should offer themselves up for reIFRS 8 requires operating segments to be election annually.
The Company intends to Interested Date of Number Percentage identified on the basis of internal reports comply with the Code once the Companys Party notification of Shares held at about components of the Group that are Articles of Association have been date of regularly reviewed by the Chief Executive to appropriately amended and will implement notification allocate resources to the segments and to annual re-election from the 2011 AGM.
In contrast, the Norris predecessor Standard IAS 14 Segment Ian Gorham has been appointed as an Reporting required the Group to identify two executive director and Chris Barling has been sets of segments business and geographical, Supplier payment policy appointed as a non-executive director on 26 using a risks and rewards approach.
As the August and both offer themselves for election The Companys policy, which is also applied nature of the services provided, the regulatory at the forth-coming annual general meeting of by the Group, is to settle terms of payment environment, the customer base and 26 November 2010.
Also in accordance with with suppliers when agreeing the terms of distribution channels for each division are the the existing Articles of Association both Peter each transaction, ensure that suppliers are same, the consolidated entity operates in one Hargreaves and Stephen Lansdown will be made aware of the terms of payment and business segment for the purposes of IAS 14 proposed for re-election.
abide by the terms of payment.
Trade and hence no additional business segmental creditors of the Group at 30 June 2010 were analysis were shown in the 2009 accounts.
Biographical details of the directors proposed equivalent to 19 2009: 26 days purchases, The comparatives in note 5 are presented in for election and re-election are shown on page based on the average daily amount invoiced accordance with IFRS 8.
18. by suppliers during the year.
Annual report and financial statements | Year ended 30 June 2010 20 BACK TO CONTENTS Directors Report IAS 1 revised requires the presentation of a ensure that the Group's businesses attract, The resolution enabling directors to allot statement of changes in equity as a primary retain and promote the best available talent.
unissued shares will be limited to the allotment statement, separate from the income statement All the businesses work to embed these of shares up to a maximum nominal amount and statement of comprehensive income.
As a principles in all aspects of their management of 202,725.50, which represented the result, a consolidated statement of changes in practices and to ensure that this is evident to difference between the Companys authorised equity and company statement of changes in employees in their day-to-day work.
Further and issued share capital at 7 September 2010. equity have been included in the primary employment information is provided in the The directors do not have any present intention statements, showing changes in each component Operating and Financial Review.
of exercising such authority and the authority of equity for each period presented.
will expire at the conclusion of the next AGM Client service after the passing of the proposed resolution.
Employment policies Hargreaves Lansdown aims to ensure that we Disabled employees treat our clients fairly in every aspect of our The resolution enabling the directors to allot Applications for employment by disabled dealings with them and to provide a first class shares other than to existing shareholders in persons are always given full and fair service at all times.
proportion to their shareholdings is limited to consideration, bearing in mind the aptitudes the allotment of shares up to a maximum of the applicant concerned.
In the event of The fair treatment of our clients is central to nominal value of 94,863.72, which members of staff becoming disabled, every our corporate culture and we aim to provide represents 5% of the total ordinary share effort is made to ensure that their employment the best information, the best service and the capital in issue as at 7 September 2010. with the Group continues and that appropriate best prices to our clients.
We strive to provide training is arranged.
It is the policy of the Group clear information to all our clients and keep Both of these resolutions seek authorities which that the training, career development and them appropriately informed at all times are in accordance with the current guidelines promotion of disabled persons should, as far as whilst they remain a client of Hargreaves issued by the Investment Committees of the possible, be identical to that of other employees.
We aim to ensure that our services Association of British Insurers and the National and investment performance meet our clients Association of Pension Funds.
We continually strive to improve Hargreaves Lansdown is committed to providing our services to ensure they are designed and Share schemes a safe and healthy environment in which its targeted appropriately and that any advice we A resolution is to be proposed as special employees can work.
The Health and Safety provide is suitable for our clients.
We will business at the 2010 AGM to enable the consultants who were previously engaged to never impose unreasonable barriers to prevent directors to renew an existing share option carry out a full review of our health and safety clients from switching their investments or scheme.
The existing Executive Share Option policy and procedures, have been retained on from making a complaint.
Scheme will be renewed and further details of an ongoing basis to ensure that standards are the scheme will be provided in the maintained.
Now we are settled into the new If clients ever feel the need to complain, our shareholders Notice of AGM.
office a new Health & Safety Policy including complaints handling team carefully investigate all underlying Procedures has been rewritten our clients complaint and endeavour to Auditors and launched in August 2010.
It is easier to provide them with a fair resolution.
We Each of the persons who are a director at the navigate and more user friendly for staff who benchmark our performance in treating clients date of approval of this annual report confirms wish to refresh themselves on any Health & fairly against statistics published annually by that: Safety issues relating to their place of work.
the Financial Ombudsman Service for the so far as the director is aware, there is no industry.
The results for the 2010 financial year relevant audit information of which the Employee consultation compared to the last figures published by the Company's auditors are unaware: and Hargreaves Lansdown actively encourages Ombudsman show that Hargreaves Lansdown the director has taken all the steps that employee involvement and consultation and is achieving good results in treating our clients they ought to have taken as a director, in places emphasis on keeping its employees fairly if they raise a complaint.
order to make themselves aware of any informed of the Companys activities and relevant audit information and to establish financial performance by such means as the Special business that the Company's auditors are aware of employee intranet and publication to all staff Authority to purchase own shares that information.
of relevant information and corporate The Company was granted authority at the announcements.
AGM in 2009 to purchase its own shares up to This confirmation is given and should be an aggregate value of 10% of the issued interpreted in accordance with the provisions Equality and diversity nominal capital.
This authority expires at this of s418 of the Companies Act 2006.
Hargreaves Lansdown recognizes, respects and years Annual General Meeting and a special values difference and diversity.
We are an equal resolution will be proposed for its renewal.
Deloitte LLP have expressed their willingness opportunities employer and it is our policy to to continue in office as auditors and a ensure that all job applicants and employees Directors authority to allot shares and resolution to reappoint them will be proposed are treated fairly and on merit regardless of waiver of pre-emption rights at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting.
their race, gender, marital status, age, disability, Resolutions are to be proposed as special religious belief or sexual orientation.
business at the AGM on 26 November 2010 to By order of the Board, enable the directors to allot unissued shares and, The Group seeks to ensure all employees and subject to the limits therein contained, to allot Judy Matthews applicants to its businesses are given equal shares for cash other than to existing shareholders Company Secretary opportunity in all aspects of employment to in proportion to their shareholdings.
8 September 2010 21 Annual report and financial statements | Year ended 30 June 2010
