BACK TO CONTENTS Our Business Hargreaves Lansdown oers a range of investment products, investment services, financial planning and advice.
We have established a reputation for providing high quality service and value-for-money products to private investors, whether they are making their own investment decisions or looking for an advisory or discretionary service.
Revenue contribution 2010 The Group's agship service, Vantage, is a direct-to- 3rd party and We have three main operating divisions: private investor fund and wrap platform.
Vantage other services oers clients the administrative convenience of being 15% - Vantage able to hold and manage their investments, including - Discretionary unit trusts, OEICs, equities, bonds, investment trusts - 3rd Party and other services and cash, irrespective of the tax vehicle, in one place with consolidated valuation reports, a single dealing Discretionary 14% service and instant online access.
The Group also provides investment management, independent financial advisory and stockbroking services to private investors and advisory services to Vantage companies in respect of group pension schemes.
71% Assets under administration at 30 June 2010 17.5 bn 2009: 11.9 bn Revenue for the year to 30 June 2010 159.0 m 2009: 132.8 m profit before tax for the year to 30 June 2010 86.3 m 2009: 73.1 m Employees excluding directors at 30 June 2010 631 2009: 589 Oces Bristol, also satellite oce in London, and financial advisors throughout the UK Website www.
H-L. co. uk Recent awards 2009 2010 Best SIPP Provider - What Investment Best Independent Financial Adviser - What Investment Best IFA Firm - Unbiased.
co. uk Media IFA of the year - Danny Cox - Unbiased.
co. uk Best Pensions IFA - Tom McPhail - Unbiased.
co. uk 2008 2009 Best Investment Advisor - Money Marketing Awards Lifetime Achievement Award - Peter Hargreaves - New Breed Advisor Awards Best use of Platform Technology - New Breed Advisor Awards Best Online IFA - Online Finance Awards Best IFA - Personal Finance Awards Best SIPP Provider - What Investment 3 Annual report and financial statements | Year ended 30 June 2010 BACK TO CONTENTS Our Objectives Hargreaves Lansdown is in business to help investors make more of their money by providing a combination of the best information, the best service and the best prices in its areas of operation, thereby creating value for clients, sta and shareholders.
Objectives Strategy We aim to attract and retain clients by identifying and satisfying To fulfil our objectives, we need to command and retain the trust of their investment requirements fairly and profitably.
Whether our clients by consistently delivering on the commitments we make.
they are making their own investment decisions, or looking for We must maintain our client focus, putting the best long term advisory or discretionary services, we aim to offer a broad range interests of the client first, regardless of short term pressures, of investment solutions.
By creating value for our clients, we believe we will create long term value for shareholders and provide We strive to make Hargreaves Lansdown the best and most fulfilling careers for our staff.
profitable in all the areas in which it operates.
In particular, we shall focus on the following: We strive to provide shareholders with a growing stream of dividend income, delivered by steady and consistent growth in Continued direct, quality service to generate growth in Vantage, earnings per share as market conditions permit.
our direct to investor fund and wrap platform: We aim to provide our staff with satisfying careers and an Delivering strong performance to increase assets under opportunity to contribute to and participate in the success of the management in the Hargreaves Lansdown range of multibusiness.
manager funds and our Portfolio Management Service: Continuing to provide a premium personal financial advisory service, using our direct mail expertise to streamline the advisory process: Continuing to provide a high quality Stockbroking service: Continuing in our commitment to provide high quality service to clients through all the channels available, and in particular helping more clients to benefit from online usage: Providing independent, clear information, or advice if preferred, so that people can identify their financial priorities and choose appropriate products and solutions: Continuing to improve earnings quality within the business: Heightening the visibility of the Hargreaves Lansdown brand: Increasing operational efficiency and maintaining rigorous cost control: and Managing risk effectively.
Annual report and financial statements | Year ended 30 June 2010 4
