INVESTMENT MANAGERS REPORT At the start of the year I thought the portfolio was good value, with expectations of solid earnings.
Candidly, I did not expect a return of over 40%.
These seem to be the main reasons why my expectations were exceeded: 1 Global growth exceeded expectations.
The structural trade imbalances remain severe and excessive levels of debt proliferate.
While there is an evident credit squeeze on private sector debt, global fiscal deficits have ballooned, stimulating demand growth and providing a sympathetic background for growth in corporate profitability for those with sufficient capital.
I have experienced several recessions in my career, but 1980, 1984, 1991 and 2002 all seemed to have a greater adverse effect on profitability.
I suspect this reflects more prudent business models in TMT companies since the ferocious 2002 downturn, low interest rates and also the continued buoyant levels of demand reflecting the pervasive adoption of technology in the enterprise and the home.
Relative to bonds, property values and the wider equity markets, the portfolios earnings yield continues to seem good value.
However, I cannot fathom out how the excessive Government fiscal deficits in US, Japan, Europe and the Chinese local Government, combined with the continued deleveraging of the banks, will play out.
The appetite and need for pensions in the developed world and the dramatic increase in life expectancy imply a higher savings ratio and subdued consumer demand.
This in turn implies that returns on capital will be low - i. e. capital will be cheap and equities seem likely to become more expensive.
This will be a change from the current environment of capital scarcity and where pension funds have been migrating into bonds, out of equities.
Asset allocation seems to be driven by actuaries and accounting standards rather than fund managers.
The trick will be to find companies that can continue to grow profits in this environment.
2 Continuing takeovers in the portfolio, with the ability to reinvest on substantially lower valuations means that in spite of further net outflows from the UK and US markets, redeployment of some of the proceeds has provided much needed liquidity.
This year there have been 13 takeovers in the portfolio for cash realising 32.3m.
In contrast the market for IPOs has again been minimal in the UK only Digital Barriers appealed, and although it tried to get going in the US, many issues were withdrawn.
There is a curious dichotomy between some of the larger technology companies in the US holding huge cash balances which generate an inadequate return on capital, while there is a shortage of capital for earlier stage companies.
This mirrors the divergence in remuneration between the skilled workers and the unemployed.
The knowledge based economy presents challenges for investors as it does for those starting their careers.
The unwillingness by investors to participate in primary fund raisings has in the short term been helpful to the Company, both in providing reasonably priced investment opportunities and enabling the focus of available resources to support the secondary market as described.
However, if the UK and the US are going to maintain their lead in developing leading edge technologies and growing companies with pricing power, then this capital drought in the venture market as well as the quoted market has to end.
It is a source of frustration that more people do not share my enthusiasm for the sector in which I believe and invest, with an idealism that it is the sector which can enable the developed world to sustain and grow its living standards.
3 Innovation continues to open new markets and in 2010 the iPad arrived, stimulating demand for component suppliers, internet traffic and paid content.
This product was more disruptive than anticipated, has clearly stimulated the portfolio and contributed to upgrades in profit expectations.
The drivers that have led to this eruption include 3G mobile telephones, 802.11n wifi, touchscreens, multi-threading technology, multi-core processing, increased integration, all of which have led to market share shifts and spectacular growth for certain companies other than just Apple.
HERALD INVESTMENT TRUST plc 7 INVESTMENT MANAGERS REPORT continued UK The UK portfolio has delivered a total return of 42.4%.
Within this the biggest monetary returns came from the two biggest holdings, Imagination 10.0m and SDL 8.3m, but 12 holdings yielded a return in excess of 100% and an increase in excess of 1m.
Of these CML, Avesco, Telit, K3 and Wolfson were new holdings in 2008 or 2009.
In addition we participated in secondary placings providing expansion capital for Bango, Xaar and IQE materially increasing the stake in each and a rescue financing at 15p for Zoo Digital.
The Andor, IQE and OMG stakes were all materially increased in the secondary market.
Imagination had been the worst loss in the portfolio in 2008, but we materially added to the holding and then reduced it over time in 2010 until they too had a secondary placing towards the end of the year in which we also participated.
It is extremely fulfilling to have been able usefully to provide capital to these businesses, while also achieving exceptional returns for investors.
Unfortunately we bought back c9% of Heralds equity in the downturn.
As I suspected at the time this has clearly adversely affected the net assets per share for continuing shareholders, because although the repurchases were on discounts up to 25%, the scale of outperformance of new or increased positions has almost invariably outperformed the portfolio as a whole by more than 25% and there simply was not the liquidity in other holdings to switch.
Anyway, even the more resilient holdings were under pressure and we were determined to be supportive in fear of losing positions too cheaply to opportunistic acquisitions.
Bear in mind that the portfolio had already risen 66.5% in 2009.
Mercifully the Directors and a number of substantial wiser shareholders were supportive in resisting pressure from a small aggressive minority who were pushing for buybacks, which either reflected their own distress or a failure to comprehend the market in which we invest and the outstanding opportunities that were available.
With hindsight I regret not trusting my instincts more, resisting totally and utilising borrowing facilities more fully, but realistically it has probably only adversely impacted the NAV per share by 3-8%.
Even more so, I regret my inability to convey my enthusiasm to the wider market.
The sceptics and the pension funds and insurance companies seem to have significantly left the register, so I hope that 2011 might see an improvement in the share price relative to the assets.
It is interesting that in spite of two recovery years the market for IPOs ended the year firmly closed.
In part this reflects a couple of overpriced issues getting away and disappointing, in part the continued shift of capital away from equities by insurance companies and pension funds and in part a fear of the illiquidity of smaller companies.
This caused unfortunate volatility in Heralds NAV when there were distressed sellers in the market, but it has enhanced assets.
Pension funds and insurance companies really are the investors that ought to be able to take long term stakes and I cannot help but believe that this dramatic switch into fixed interest will prove expensive.
Takeovers in the UK portfolio include Portrait Software, Innovision, Intec and Datacash, which was nearly a ten bagger.
8 INVESTMENT MANAGERS REPORT continued US The US portfolio rose 47.5% 52.6% in sterling which is an even greater increase than the UK.
This has been driven significantly by takeovers including Sonicwall, Virage Logic, Actel, Art Technology and ADC Telecom.
Two of these rose over 100% in the year ADC Telecom and Virage Logic and seven other holdings did too.
In US$ terms, the percentage rises were as follows: MIPS 259%, Finisar 211%, Silicon Image 186%, MRV 151%, Support.
com 147%, Radware 145% and Alliance Fiber 172%.
MIPS has a similar business model to Arm, Imagination, Ceva and Virage Logic.
They all receive royalties when their IP is designed in.
Finisar and MRV are fibre component makers.
The excess network build out in 2000 was accompanied by a bubble in fibre optics.
The growth in internet traffic is leading to network capacity constraints and the fibre optic component market has consolidated, so sensible margins are now in sight.
Finisar and MRV have benefited from this.
Radware and F5 have both been outstanding contributors to the portfolio over the last two years supplying application delivery controllers.
The latter was acquired in April 2008 when it dipped into the Herald size remit at a price of $18.7 per share at $2, and was sold in March at c $70 and c $1.50, when the market capitalisation was $6bn.
By the year-end it had risen further to $130.16!
There are signs of the momentum players re-emerging, and some of the larger smaller companies are now quite expensive, while others are still in the shade.
To a degree this applies in the UK.
Rarely have I seen such a two tier market, but it provides switching opportunities.
The game is to spot the companies before they hit the radar screen and sell into the rush.
Overall the US portfolio is now on its historic valuation premium making further relative returns more challenging than 2010.
Far East After the 136.8% increase in the Asia Pacific portfolio in 2009, as growth returned to the global economy, the Asian portfolio had a muted 2010 with the Korean IT index down 2.1% and the Taiwan Taiex index up 3.6% in local currency terms.
Sterling adjusted returns are more respectable in both markets with the Herald portfolio returning 27.5% KOSDAQ IT 5.3%, Taiex Electron 17.7%.
Herald has continued with the policy of avoiding investment in the Japanese market, believing the limited opportunities within the smaller companies arena do not justify the specialist resources required.
JASDAQ sits at less than half the peak value of 2006.
Following the market movements in 2010, the key Asian technology stock markets are trading at p es of around 10x-12x a more normal level of discount to the rest of the portfolio and broadly appropriate given the low margin, cyclical and capital intensive nature of companies in the region.
Europe The European portfolio is small at 12m, but has risen 20.9% 17.8% in sterling.
Highlights include the final sale of Logitech and United Internet, which have been trusty stalwarts over the years.
Logitech was acquired in 1995 and returned over 10x SFr14m, and United Internet I luckily managed to pick out of a great deal of Neuer Markt dross in October 1999.
This has returned 5x yielding Euro8m profit.
The best return for 2010 has been Nordic Semiconductor at 133%.
HERALD INVESTMENT TRUST plc 9 INVESTMENT MANAGERS REPORT continued Sector Background The internet is clearly the killer application, but if 2009 was the year of the mobile internet, 2010 has seen another kicker with Android and the iPad to the fore.
Behind the end products the drivers have included multi-threading graphics, processors, capacitive touchscreens, mifi, flash memory CML the best % rise in the portfolio supplies flash controllers to Cisco and Juniper, baseband IP, infiniband, 3D TV, virtualisation in the data centre, applications and online content-internet TV, eReaders, iNewspapers, and many more.
SAAS software models have demonstrated durability.
Nevertheless, it is extremely encouraging that the valuation of the portfolio in p e terms at the end of 2010 is similar to that at the end of 2009.
Further profits growth is expected in 2011 albeit at a more modest rate than a year which included some holdings where profits recovered from a dip in 2009.
When I compare our sector with alternative sector choices, I remain enthused.
I cannot think of another sector outside TMT where companies can repeatedly generate such high margins and cash.
We constantly seek investments with pricing power that enables premium margins, either through technical leadership, or a defensible market position and the technology sector has a plethora of such companies.
The Far East is in general conspicuously different and generally has the low margin subcontract manufacturing.
I continue to feel safer in technology stocks in US and UK at this juncture!
10 INVESTMENT MANAGERS REPORT continued PERFORMANCE ATTRIBUTION in sterling terms Comparative index Herald Performance Contribution Contribution attributable to: allocation asset allocation Comparative to relative Stock Asset 01.01.10 31.12.10 01.01.10 31.12.10 Herald index return selection allocation Equity markets % % % % % % % % % UK 66.7 66.7 66.2 65.4 42.4 31.5 5.3 5.4 0.1 Europe ex.
The above returns are calculated on a total return basis with net income reinvested.
Dividends and interest are reinvested on a cash basis, unlike the NAV calculation where income is recognised on an accruals basis.
Relative performance may differ as a result.
Contributions cannot be added together, as they are geometric: for example, to calculate how a return of 42.6% against a comparative index return of 35.1% translates into a relative return of 5.5%, divide the portfolio return of 142.6 by the comparative index return of 135.1 and subtract one.
Asset allocation includes the contribution attributable to currency movements.
Equities includes convertibles and warrants.
