DIRECTORS REPORT continued Directors The Directors at the year end and their interests in the Company were: Number of Ordinary Shares Nature of 31 December 1 January Name Interest 2010 2010 Julian Cazalet Beneficial 100,000 75,000 Non-beneficial 50,000 Clay Brendish Beneficial 14,700 14,700 Timothy Curtis Beneficial 10,000 10,000 Douglas McDougall Beneficial 233,500 233,500 There have been no changes intimated in the above Directors interests up to 21 February 2011.
Mr CJ Cazalet, Mr CM Brendish and Mr DCP McDougall will offer themselves for re-election at the Annual General Meeting.
Mr Brendish and Mr McDougall have served for more than nine years and are subject to annual re-election.
The Board has reviewed the performance of Mr CJ Cazalet, Mr CM Brendish and Mr DCP McDougall.
Their performance continues to be effective and they remain committed to the Company.
Their contribution to the Board is valued highly and the Board recommends their re-election to shareholders.
Director Indemnification and Insurance The Company has entered into deeds of indemnity in favour of each of the Directors.
The deeds cover any liabilities that may arise to a third party, other than the Company, for negligence, default or breach of trust or duty.
The Directors are not indemnified in respect of liabilities to the Company, any regulatory or criminal fines, any costs incurred in connection with criminal proceedings in which the Director is convicted or civil proceedings brought by the Company in which judgement is given against him.
In addition, the indemnity does not apply to any liability to the extent that it is recovered from another person.
The Company maintains Directors and Officers Liability insurance.
Management and Administration For the entire year under review the management of the Company was contracted to Herald Investment Management Limited HIML.
HIML is authorised and regulated by the Financial Services Authority.
The management contract is subject to 12 months notice by either party.
The senior director of HIML with prime responsibility for the management of Herald Investment Trust plc is Katie Potts, who is also a substantial shareholder of HIML.
HIML is remunerated at a monthly rate of 0.08333% of the Companys net asset value calculated using middle market prices.
Compensation fees would only be payable in respect of this 12 month period if termination were to occur sooner.
Careful consideration has been given by the Board as to the basis on which the management fee is charged.
The Board considers that maintaining a relatively low total expense ratio is in the best interest of all shareholders.
The Board is also of the view that calculating the fee with reference to performance would be unlikely to exert a positive influence over the long term performance.
At 31 December 2010, Katie Potts held 321,559 ordinary shares of Herald Investment Trust plc.
At 31 December 2010, the Company was the beneficial owner of 14.29% of the Ordinary share capital of HIML Holdings Limited.
HIML Holdings Limited is the parent company of HIML.
Administration of the Company and its investments is contracted by HIML to Baillie Gifford & Co, who also act as Company Secretary.
Custody of investments is contracted to The Bank of New York Mellon.
The Board considers the investment management and secretarial arrangements for the Company on an ongoing basis and a formal review is conducted annually.
The Board considers, amongst others, the following topics in its review: investment performance in relation to the investment policy and strategy: the continuity of personnel managing the assets and reporting to the Board: the level of service provided in terms of the accuracy and timeliness of reports to the Board and the frequency and quality of both verbal and written communications with shareholders.
Following the most recent review the Board is of the opinion that the continued appointment of HIML as investment manager, on the terms agreed, is in the interests of shareholders due to the experience of the Manager and the quality of information provided to the Board.
