HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Report of the Directors: Governance continued Board of Directors The Board Board committees Group Management Board Group Audit Committee may be contacted through the Group Company explanation of its decision to appoint D J Flint is set Secretary at 8 Canada Square, London E14 5HQ.
We have complied throughout the year with all applicable code provisions of the Code Conflicts of interest, indemnification of on Corporate Governance Practices in Appendix 14 Directors, relevant audit information and to the Rules Governing the Listing of Securities on contracts of significance The Stock Exchange of Hong Kong Limited.
The Combined Code on Corporate Governance is The Board has authority to approve Directors available at www.
uk and the Code on conflicts and potential conflicts of interest and Corporate Governance Practices is available at has adopted a policy and procedures for the www.
determination of terms of authorisation for such situations.
The Boards powers to authorise conflicts The Board has adopted a code of conduct for are operating effectively and the procedures are transactions in HSBC Group securities by Directors.
A review of situational conflicts The code of conduct complies with The Model Code which have been authorised from time to time and in the Listing Rules of the FSA and with The Model the terms of those authorisations is undertaken by the Code for Securities Transactions by Directors of Board annually.
Listed Issuers Hong Kong Model Code set out in the Rules Governing the Listing of Securities on The Our Articles of Association provide that Stock Exchange of Hong Kong Limited, save that Directors are entitled to be indemnified out of the The Stock Exchange of Hong Kong Limited has assets of HSBC Holdings against claims from third granted certain waivers from strict compliance with parties in respect of certain liabilities arising in the Hong Kong Model Code.
The waivers granted connection with the performance of their functions by The Stock Exchange of Hong Kong Limited pursuant to the provisions of the Companies Act primarily take into account accepted practices in the 2006.
Such indemnity provisions have been in place UK, particularly in respect of employee share plans.
during the financial year but have not been utilised Following a specific enquiry, each Director has by the Directors.
confirmed he or she has complied with the code of Each person who is a Director at the date of conduct for transactions in HSBC Group securities approval of this report confirms that so far as he or throughout the year.
she is aware, there is no relevant audit information of which the auditor is unaware and the Director has Board committees taken all the steps that he or she ought to have taken The Board has appointed a number of committees as a Director in order to make himself or herself consisting of certain Directors, Group Managing aware of any relevant audit information and to Directors and, in the case of the Corporate establish that the Companys auditor is aware of that Sustainability Committee, certain co-opted noninformation.
This confirmation is given pursuant to director members.
Information in relation to the section 418 of the Companies Act 2006 and should principal committees is set out below: be interpreted in accordance therewith and subject to the provisions thereof.
Group Management Board None of the Directors had, during the year or at The GMB, an executive management committee, the end of the year, a material interest, directly or meets frequently and operates as a general indirectly, in any contract of significance with any management committee under the direct authority HSBC company.
The objective of the GMB is to maintain a reporting and control structure whereby Corporate governance codes all of our line operations are accountable to We are committed to high standards of corporate individual members of the GMB who report to the governance.
We have complied throughout the year Group Chief Executive who in turn reports to the with the applicable code provisions of the Combined Group Chairman.
The Board has set objectives and Code on Corporate Governance issued by the measures for the GMB.
These align senior Financial Reporting Council, save for code provision executives objectives and measures with the A.
2.2 as D J Flint, who had previously served as strategy and operating plans throughout HSBC.
Chief Financial Officer, Executive Director, Risk The members of the GMB are S T Gulliver and Regulation, did not meet the independence Chairman, A A Flockhart and I J Mackay, who are criteria of the Combined Code on Corporate executive Directors, and A Almeida, E Alonso, Governance when he was appointed Group S Assaf, N S K Booker, A M Keir, M M Moses, Chairman on 3 December 2010.
The Boards 194 B Robertson, P A Thurston and P T S Wong, all of The terms of reference of the Committee, whom are Group Managing Directors.
which are reviewed annually, are available at www.
The GMB exercises the powers, authorities and discretions of the Board in so far as they concern the To ensure consistency of scope and approach by management and day-to-day running of HSBC subsidiary company audit committees, the GAC has Holdings.
Matters reserved for approval by the established core terms of reference to guide Board are described on page 189. subsidiary companies when adopting terms of reference for their audit committees.
The The Group Chief Executive reports to each Committees endorsement is required for any meeting of the Board on the activities of the GMB.
proposed changes to subsidiary audit committee terms of reference and for appointments to such Group Audit Committee committees.
The chairmen of our principal The Report of the Group Audit Committee is set out subsidiary audit committees attended a forum in below.
November 2010 led by the chairman of the GAC to ensure a common understanding and approach to the Role and membership of the Group Audit way in which subsidiary audit committees operate Committee throughout the Group: understand and share the key issues we face as an organisation and as audit The Group Audit Committee GAC, whose committee members: and discuss current market members are all independent non-executive conditions and the lessons to be learned from the Directors, is responsible for advising the Board on financial crisis.
the effectiveness of our systems of internal controls and compliance in relation to financial matters and Historically the GAC has provided nonon meeting financial reporting obligations.
The executive oversight of risk as well as financial GAC also has responsibilities in relation to risk reporting.
The Group Risk Committee GRC governance and oversight and internal controls.
was established in February 2010 to focus on risk governance and to provide an increasingly forwardThe members of the Committee throughout looking view of risks and their mitigation.
The GAC 2010 were J D Coombe Chairman, R A Fairhead currently has certain responsibilities in relation to and J R Lomax.
On 1 March 2010, M K T Cheung risk governance and oversight of internal controls in was appointed a member of the Committee in order to comply with the Hong Kong and UK succession to J W J Hughes-Hallett.
On 30 July Corporate Governance Codes.
2010, J D Coombe was appointed chairman of the There is therefore currently a degree of overlap Committee in succession to R A Fairhead who remains a member of the Committee.
between the responsibilities of the GAC and the GRC in relation to risk matters.
For example, a Appointments to the Committee are made for review of the effectiveness of our systems of risk periods of up to three years, extendable by no more management and internal controls was undertaken by than two additional three-year periods, so long as the GAC and by the GRC.
Each of the committees is members continue to be independent.
reviewing its terms of reference with the aim of The Board has determined that M K T Cheung, minimising the overlap.
J D Coombe, R A Fairhead and J R Lomax are The governance structure for the oversight of independent according to SEC criteria and may be our financial reporting and governance is set out regarded as audit committee financial experts for the below: purposes of section 407 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act and have recent and relevant financial experience.
195 Shareholder Information Financial Statements Governance Operating & Financial Review Overview HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Report of the Directors: Governance continued Board committees Group Audit Committee Group Risk Committee Authority Membership Responsibilities The Board Executive and nonApproves financial statements executive Directors Appoints senior financial officers Delegates authorities in relation to financial matters The GAC Independent nonAdvises the Board on: executive Directors ensuring an effective system of internal control and compliance over financial reporting: and meeting its external financial reporting obligations Responsible for selection, oversight and remuneration of the external auditor Boards and In relation to boards, Provide bi-annual certificates to the GAC or intermediate audit committees relating to financial audit executive and nonstatements and internal control procedures of relevant subsidiary committees of executive directors.
principal Committees may have subsidiaries additional members who are not directors.
Committees activities function and planned activities for the following year: The Committee held six meetings in 2010 see page 190 for details of Directors attendance at these the Committee received regular updates on the meetings.
Following each meeting the Committee application of changes in law, regulation and reports to the Board on its activities.
accounting policies and practices including financial reporting pursuant to the SarbanesThe Committee undertook the following Oxley Act, Basel II compliance and changes activities in the discharge of its responsibilities: to the FSAs large exposure rules: the Committee satisfied itself that the system of the Committee provided oversight of the internal control and compliance over financial external auditor through regular meetings with reporting was effective through regular reports the external auditor, reviewing the auditors from the Group Finance Director, the Group strategy paper in relation to the audit and Chief Accounting Officer, and the Group Head receiving reports on the effectiveness and of Internal Audit: presentations from other progress of the audit of financial statements.
functional and business heads on the financial The Committee has approved policies on the control framework: review of minutes of provision of non-audit services by the auditor meetings of the GMB, the GRC, Risk and its affiliates and on the employment by Management Meetings, the Group Reputational HSBC of former employees of the auditor or Risk Committee and the Disclosure Committee: its affiliates.
The Committee reviewed the reports on US compliance: and through the independence and objectivity of the auditor processes described in more detail on page 202 through meetings with the auditor, annual in relation to internal controls.
The Committee reports on employment of former employees of also reviewed the adequacy of resources, the auditor and its affiliates and quarterly reports qualifications and experience of staff in the on provision of non-audit services.
The Group Head of auditor provided written confirmation of its Compliance and the Group Chief Risk Officer independence under industry standards.
The regularly attended Committee meetings and Committee approved the remuneration and other senior financial, internal audit, legal and terms of engagement of the auditor: compliance executives attended as appropriate.
The Committee had regular dialogue with the the Committee advised the Board on meeting its external auditor and the Group Head of Internal external financial reporting obligations through Audit, with opportunities at each meeting for a review of financial statements and interim dialogue to take place without management statements prior to approval by the Board: present: endorsement of the inclusion of the going concern statement in financial statements: the Committee satisfied itself that the internal review of the disclosure of the results of the EUaudit function was effective and adequately wide stress test conducted by the Committee of resourced through regular meetings with and European Banking Supervisors: a presentation reports from the Group Head of Internal Audit from the Head of Group Planning and Tax on on internal audit issues and review of an annual the Groups tax position: review of accounting report on the activities of the internal audit 196 policies and practices, including approval of the entered into under pre-approval policies established critical accounting policies: reports on proposed by the Committee.
changes to the Groups disclosures in the The pre-approved services relate to regulatory financial statements: reports from the Disclosure reviews, agreed-upon procedures reports, other types Committee: reports on the adequacy of of attestation reports, the provision of advice and procedures to identify transactions and matters other non-audit services allowed under SEC requiring disclosure under certain accounting independence rules.
They fall into the categories of standards: and reports on the audit process: and audit services, audit-related services, tax services the Committee undertook a review of its terms and other services.
of reference and its effectiveness.
Group Risk Committee Some of the activities of the GRC described on page 200 were carried out by the GAC prior to the The Report of the Group Risk Committee is set out establishment of the GRC in February 2010.
February 2010 some of those activities are carried out by the GRC and the GAC.
The description of Role and membership of the Group Risk these activities is not repeated in the list above.
Committee The GRC, whose members are all independent nonArrangements relating to the external executive Directors, is responsible for advising the auditor Board on material risk matters and providing nonThe Committee has recommended to the Board that executive oversight of risk.
The Committee was KPMG Audit Plc be reappointed auditor at the established in February 2010 following publication forthcoming Annual General Meeting.
of the final recommendations of Sir David Walkers Review of Corporate Governance in UK Banks and An analysis of the remuneration paid in respect other Financial Industry Entities, to focus on risk of audit and non-audit services provided by KPMG governance and to provide an increasingly forwardAudit Plc and its affiliates KPMG for each of the looking view of risks and their mitigation.
past three years is disclosed in Note 8 on the Financial Statements.
Historically the GAC has provided nonexecutive oversight of risk as well as financial The Board has approved, on the reporting.
As noted in the section headed Group recommendation of the Committee, a policy for the Audit Committee above there is currently a degree employment by us of former employees of KPMG of overlap between responsibilities of the GAC and and an annual report is received by the Committee the GRC in relation to risk governance and oversight on such former employees who are employed by us matters and internal controls.
Each committee is and the number of such former employees who are reviewing its terms of reference with the aim of employed by us in senior positions.
This report minimising the overlap.
enables the Committee to consider whether there has been any impairment, or appearance of impairment, The members of the GRC are R A Fairhead of the auditors judgement or independence in Chairman, J D Coombe, J W J Hughes-Hallett respect of the audit.
The policies for the pre-approval of specific The Committee's terms of reference, which are services that may be provided by the principal reviewed annually, are available at auditor are kept under review by the Committee and www.
amended as necessary to meet the dual objectives of To ensure consistency of scope and approach by ensuring that we benefit in a cost effective manner subsidiary company committees, the GRC has from the cumulative knowledge and experience of established core terms of reference to guide our auditor, while also ensuring that our auditor subsidiary companies when adopting terms of maintains the necessary degree of independence and reference for their risk committees or their audit objectivity.
These pre-approval policies apply to all committees if those committees are also responsible services where any HSBC company pays for the for risk oversight.
The Committees endorsement is service, or is a beneficiary or addressee of the required for any proposed changes to the terms of service and has selected or influenced the choice of reference of any subsidiary committee relating to KPMG.
All services provided by KPMG during 2010 risk oversight and for appointments to such were pre-approved by the Committee or were committees.
197 Shareholder Information Financial Statements Governance Operating & Financial Review Overview HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Report of the Directors: Governance continued Board committees Group Risk Committee The chairmen of committees of principal The Committee is responsible for overseeing the subsidiaries with responsibility for oversight of risk Groups risk governance structure and monitoring attended the forum referred to on page 195.
One of the effectiveness of the Groups risk management the purposes of the forum was to ensure a common and internal control systems.
The Committee understanding and approach to the way in which monitors top and emerging risks and reviews the subsidiary committees operate in relation to risk outcome of internal and external stress tests.
oversight throughout the Group: to understand and In carrying out its responsibilities the share the key risk issues we face as an organisation Committee is closely supported by the Group Chief and the issues faced by members of committees Risk Officer, who ensures that top and emerging responsible for oversight of risk: and to discuss the risks are reported to and considered by the lessons to be learned from the financial crisis.
The Committee receives regular presentations from the Group Head of Internal Audit Risk governance and other business, function and risk heads on risks All of HSBCs activities involve, to varying degrees, within their respective areas of responsibility and the measurement, evaluation, acceptance and regular reports from the Risk Management Meeting management of risk or combinations of risks.
The of the GMB, which is the executive body responsible Board, advised by the Committee, ensures that the for overseeing risk.
Group has a strong risk governance culture which The governance structure for the management of shapes the Groups risk strategy.
The Board and the risk at HSBC is set out below.
Appropriate Committee ensure that a strong risk management governance arrangements are in place in regional framework is maintained, via the continuous and operating subsidiaries.
monitoring of the risk environment and an integrated evaluation of risks and their interactions.
Authority Membership Responsibilities The Board Executive and non-executive Directors Approves risk appetite, plans and performance targets for the Group Appoints senior risk officers Delegates authorities for risk management The GRC Independent non-executive Directors Advises the Board on: risk appetite, tolerance and strategy: stress testing: systems of risk management, internal control and compliance used to identify, measure, monitor, control and report risks: the alignment of the Boards risk appetite with strategy and reward: and the maintenance and development of a supportive culture in relation to the management of risk.
Risk Management Meeting Group Chief Executive Formulates high-level Group risk policy of the GMB Group Chief Risk Officer Exercises delegated risk authorities Group Finance Director Oversees implementation of risk appetite and controls Senior management Monitors all categories of risk and determines action Global Risk Management Board Group Chief Risk Officer Supports the Risk Management Meeting and the Group Chief Risk Officer in providing strategic direction for the Chief Risk Officers of HSBCs regions Global Risk function, sets priorities and oversees their Heads of risk disciplines within Group execution Management Office Oversees consistent risk approach to accountability and control across the Global Risk function Risk appetite levels of risk that the Group is prepared to accept in executing our strategy.
Our risk appetite is Risk appetite is central to HSBCs management of underpinned by the following core characteristics: risk.
The Board, advised by the GRC, approves the Groups risk appetite which describes the types and 198 Risk appetite: core characteristics Strong balance sheet Strong brand Healthy capital position Conservative liquidity management Risk must be commensurate with returns Robust Group structure of separate legal entities The customer group and global product mix should produce sustainable long term earnings growth Risk diversification The GRC monitors the Groups risk appetite and From the core characteristics of the Groups risk satisfies itself that executive management has taken appetite see table above, our strategic and account of the future macroeconomic and financial operational objectives are determined which are environment in identifying top and emerging risks.
consistent with the Groups risk appetite.
These objectives are summarised in the table below: Strategic and operational objectives Earnings 1.
Generate sustainable economic profit commensurate with the risks taken Capital and liquidity 2.
Maintain capital in excess of regulatory requirements and a long term debt rating of AA 3.
Maintain a strong tier 1 ratio comprising a high proportion of core tier 1 4.
Maintain a well diversified funding structure with a particular focus on advances to core funding ratios 5.
Off balance sheet vehicles should not be material in size relative to the total balance sheet Impairments and 6.
Manage impairments and expected losses within the Groups tolerance expected losses Risk category and 7.
Manage all risk categories within the risk appetite diversification 8.
Harness benefits from business diversification to generate non-volatile and sustainable earnings 9.
Compete for business with international customers where market connectivity is critical: businesses with local customers where we have local scale, and products where global scale is critical to effectiveness Scenario and stress 10.
Use robust and appropriate scenario stress testing to assess the potential impact on the Groups capital testing adequacy and strategic plans Top and emerging risks if they were to crystallise, could have material impact on our long-term strategy.
Identifying and monitoring top and emerging risks is integral to HSBCs approach to risk management.
Current top and emerging risks are viewed as We define a top risk as being a current, visible risk falling under four broad categories: challenges to which has the potential to have a material impact on business operations: challenges to governance and our financial results, reputation or the sustainability internal control: macro-economic and geo-political: of our long-term business model.
An emerging risk and macro-prudential and regulatory.
These are is one which has large unknown components which, summarised below: Categories definitions Top and emerging risks Challenges to our operating model in an economic downturn in developed Challenges to our business operations economies and rapid growth in emerging markets Internet crime and fraud Operational complexity associated with high levels of change Challenges to our governance and internal control Information security risk systems Potential emerging markets asset bubble Macro-economic and geo-political risk Increased geo-political risk in the Middle East, with possible contagion Regulatory change impacting business model and Group profitability Macro-prudential and regulatory risks to our business Regulatory requirements affecting conduct of business model 199 Shareholder Information Financial Statements Governance Operating & Financial Review Overview HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Report of the Directors: Governance continued Board committees Group Risk Committee Remuneration Committee Nomination Committee Stress testing presentations from the Group Chief Risk Officer and other business and functional heads on the HSBCs scenario analysis and stress testing risk control framework: reports from the Group programme is central to the identification and Head of Internal Audit on the internal audit monitoring of top and emerging risks.
It highlights process and weaknesses identified in internal the vulnerabilities of our business and capital plans controls and reports of the external auditor and to the adverse effects of extreme but plausible regulators relating to the internal control system: events.
The GRC reviews the outcome of the stress updates from the Group Head of Compliance: tests performed.
and reports from the Group General Counsel There are three main classifications of scenario and other senior executives on US compliance and stress tests: regulatory scenarios: Group level matters.
The Committee undertook an annual business scenarios: and local business scenarios.
The review of the effectiveness of HSBCs system of GRC uses the outcome of the programme to assess internal control, which is described on page 202. the potential impact of the relevant scenarios on the The Committee had regular dialogue with the demand for regulatory capital compared with its external auditor and the Group Head of Internal supply.
Management develops action plans to Audit, with opportunities at each meeting for mitigate the risks identified.
The extent to which dialogue to take place without management those action plans are implemented depends on present: managements evaluation of the risks and their the Committee considered the Groups risk potential consequences, taking into account HSBCs appetite and the alignment of strategy with risk risk appetite.
appetite through reviewing the Groups risk appetite statement and reports on liquidity and Committee activities capital management: receiving reports from the The Committee held four meetings in 2010 see Chief Risk Officer: and considering the page 190 for details of Directors attendance.
outcomes of the scenario and stress testing Following each meeting the Committee reports to programme: the Board on its activities.
the Committee considered the alignment of John Trueman, a non-executive director of reward structures with the Groups risk appetite HSBC Bank plc and chairman of its risk and audit through a report from the Group Head of HR on committees has been invited by the Committee to procedures to be used when determining an individuals variable pay award for the 2010 attend its meetings.
His experience of risk related matters in the financial services industry is valued by performance period.
These procedures include the Committee.
making assessments of the profitability of the business area in which an individual works and The GRC undertook the following key activities the performance of that business area when in the discharge of its responsibilities: compared to the approved risk appetite in the Committee provided oversight of executive respect of that business.
The performance of the risk management through regular reports from individual is also assessed taking into account the Group Chief Risk Officer and the Risk the extent to which that individual has adhered Management Meeting of the GMB: review of to the Groups policies and procedures for risk minutes of meetings of the GMB, the Risk related matters and has achieved specified Management Meeting, the Remuneration performance targets or objectives such as a Committee and the Group Reputational Risk revenue or profit target.
These procedures were Committee: reports from the Group General considered by the Remuneration Committee in Counsel on substantial litigation: a report from early 2011.
An update was also provided on a the Remuneration Committee on risk related review of variable pay plans throughout the matters: and updates on the Swiss data theft Group: referred to on page 83.
The Group Finance in monitoring top and emerging risks the Director and the Group Chief Accounting Committee satisfied itself that it understood Officer regularly attended committee meetings and took into account the views of senior and other senior financial, risk, internal audit, management: reviewed minutes of executive legal and compliance executives attended as committee meetings including meetings of the appropriate: GMB, the Risk Management Meeting and the Committee reviewed the effectiveness of Group Reputational Risk Committee: received internal controls through a cycle of reports from the Group Chief Risk Officer and 200 the Group Head of Compliance as well as other Directors.
Lord Green succeeded Sir Brian members of senior management on Williamson as chairman of the Nomination developments in the Groups business: and Committee on 26 February 2010 and served until received regular presentations on global market his retirement on 3 December 2010 when he was risk and liquidity and the impact of the succeeded by D J Flint, upon his appointment as tightening of liquidity in the money markets: Group Chairman.
Lord Green did not chair any meeting of the Nomination Committee when it was the Committee considered risk issues relating to dealing with the appointment of the successor to a proposed strategic acquisition and discussed a the chairmanship.
The selection process for Lord report from the Group Head of Mergers and Greens successor as Group Chairman, was led by Acquisitions and other members of senior the senior independent non-executive Director.
management involved in the proposed acquisition: and The terms of reference of the Committee, which are reviewed annually, are available at the Committee undertook a review of its terms www.
The appointments of D J Flint as Group External advice on US-related compliance Chairman, S T Gulliver as Group Chief Executive matters was provided to the GRC by US law firm and I J Mackay as an executive Director were made Cahill Gordon & Reindel and by Promontory on the advice and recommendation of the Financial Group, US financial consultants.
An external consultancy Some of the activities referred to above were was used in connection with the appointments.
carried out by the GAC prior to the establishment of the GRC in February 2010.
Since February 2010 Committee activities some of those activities are carried out by the GRC The Committee held three meetings in 2010 see and the GAC.
page 190 for details of Directors attendance at these meetings.
Following each meeting the Committee Remuneration Committee reports to the Board on its activities.
The role of the Remuneration Committee and its The Committee undertook the following key membership are set out in the Directors activities in the discharge of its responsibilities: Remuneration Report on page 222. under the chairmanship of the senior Nomination Committee independent non-executive Director, the Committee led the succession process for Role and membership of the Nomination the Group Chairman and the Group Chief Committee Executive.
The process is described on The Nomination Committee is responsible for page 191: leading the process for Board appointments and for the Committee leads the process for Board identifying and nominating, for approval by the appointments, with the support of external Board, candidates for appointment to the Board.
consultants as appropriate, and has satisfied Before recommending an appointment to the Board, itself that appropriate plans are in place for the Committee evaluates the balance of skills, orderly succession to the Board reflecting an knowledge and experience on the Board and, in the appropriate balance of skills and experience light of this, and taking into account the needs of the on the Board: Groups businesses, identifies the role and capabilities required for a particular appointment.
the Committee maintains a forward-looking Candidates are considered on merit against these schedule of potential candidates for appointment criteria.
Care is taken to ensure that appointees have to the Board that takes into account the needs enough time to devote to us.
Prospective Directors and developments of the Groups businesses and are asked to identify any significant other the anticipated retirement dates of current commitments and confirm they have sufficient time Directors.
On the recommendation of the to discharge what is expected of them.
Committee, the Board has appointed L M L Cha as a non-executive Director with effect from The members of the Nomination Committee 1 March 2011: throughout 2010 were Sir Brian Williamson, R A Fairhead, Sir Simon Robertson and the Committee monitored the size, structure and J W J Hughes-Hallett, all independent non-executive composition of the Board through consideration 201 Shareholder Information Financial Statements Governance Operating & Financial Review Overview HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Report of the Directors: Governance continued Board committees Corporate Sustainability Committee Internal control of the skills, knowledge and experience required 28 February 2011, the date of approval of the Annual of the Board and the skills, knowledge and Report and Accounts 2010.
In the case of companies experience of the current Directors.
The acquired during the year, the internal controls in Committee reviewed the time commitment place are being reviewed against HSBCs required from non-executive Directors taking benchmarks and integrated into HSBCs processes.
into account the recommendations of Sir David Key internal control procedures include the Walkers review of corporate governance following: relating to board and board committee matters and made appropriate recommendations to the authority to operate the various subsidiaries and Board.
The Committee considered the responsibilities for financial performance re-election of Directors at the annual general against plans and for capital expenditure are meeting and on the recommendation of the delegated to their respective chief executive Committee, the Board has decided that all officers within limits set by the Board.
Directors should be subject to re-election by Delegation of authority from the Board to shareholders in 2011: individuals requires those individuals to maintain a clear and appropriate apportionment the Committee provided oversight of other of significant responsibilities and to oversee the matters relating to directors including establishment and maintenance of systems of considering a proposed appointment of a control appropriate to the business.
The Director to an external body and discussing and appointment of executives to the most senior providing guidance on FSA interactions: and positions within HSBC requires the approval of the Committee undertook a review of its terms the Board: of reference.
The effectiveness of the functional, operating, financial reporting and Committee was reviewed as part of the Boards certain management reporting standards are performance evaluation.
established by GMO management committees, for application across the whole of HSBC.
Corporate Sustainability Committee These are supplemented by operating standards The role of the Corporate Sustainability Committee set by functional and local management as and its membership are set out on page 213. required for the type of business and geographical location of each subsidiary: Internal control systems and procedures are in place in HSBC to identify, control and report on the major risks The Directors are responsible for internal control including credit, market, liquidity and in HSBC and for reviewing its effectiveness.
operational risk including accounting, tax, Procedures have been designed for safeguarding legal, compliance, fiduciary, information, assets against unauthorised use or disposition: for physical security, business continuity, fraud, maintaining proper accounting records: and for the systems and people risk.
Exposure to these reliability and usefulness of financial information risks is monitored by risk management used within the business or for publication.
Such committees, asset and liability committees and procedures are designed to manage rather than executive committees in subsidiaries and, for eliminate the risk of failure to achieve business HSBC as a whole, by the GMB.
A Risk objectives and can only provide reasonable and not Management Meeting of the GMB, chaired by absolute assurance against material misstatement, the Group Chief Risk Officer, is held in each errors, losses or fraud.
The procedures also enable month except August to address asset, liability HSBC Holdings to discharge its obligations under and risk management issues.
The minutes of this the Handbook of Rules and Guidance issued by the meeting are submitted to the GAC, the GRC and FSA, HSBCs lead regulator.
the Board: The key procedures that the Directors have the Global Operational Risk and Control established are designed to provide effective internal Committee GORCC, which reports to control within HSBC and accord with the Internal the Risk Management Meeting of the GMB, Control: Revised Guidance for Directors on the meets at least quarterly to monitor HSBCs Combined Code on Corporate Governance issued by operational risk profile and review the effective the Financial Reporting Council.
Such procedures implementation of the Groups operational risk for the ongoing identification, evaluation and management framework.
The GORCC receives management of the significant risks faced by HSBC quarterly reports on the Groups operational risk have been in place throughout the year and up to 202 profile, including top risks, control issues, framework of the Group Strategic Plan.
Rolling internal and external operational loss events and operating plans, informed by detailed analysis of key risk indicators.
The GORCC communicates risk appetite describing the types and quantum the lessons learned from operational events both of risk that HSBC is prepared to take in within HSBC and in the wider industry: executing its strategy, are prepared and adopted by all major HSBC operating companies and set a Disclosure Committee has been established to out the key business initiatives and the likely review material public disclosures made by financial effects of those initiatives: HSBC Holdings for any material errors, misstatements or omissions.
The membership of governance arrangements are in place to provide the Disclosure Committee, which is chaired by oversight of, and advice to the Board on, the Group Company Secretary, includes the material risk-related matters including assurance heads of the Finance, Legal, Risk, Compliance, that risk analytical models are fit for purpose, Corporate Communications, Investor Relations used accordingly and complemented by both and Internal Audit functions and representatives model-specific and enterprise-wide stress tests from the principal regions, customer groups and that evaluate the impact of severe yet plausible global businesses.
The integrity of disclosures is events and other unusual circumstances not fully underpinned by structures and processes within captured by quantitative models: the Finance and Risk functions that support centralised functional control is exercised over expert and rigorous analytical review of all IT developments and operations.
Common financial reporting: systems are employed for similar business the group financial reporting process for processes wherever practicable.
Credit and preparing the consolidated Annual Report and market risks are measured and reported on in Accounts 2010 is controlled using documented subsidiaries and aggregated for review of risk accounting policies and reporting formats, concentrations on a Group-wide basis: supported by a chart of accounts with detailed functional management in GMO is responsible instructions and guidance on reporting for setting policies, procedures and standards for requirements, issued by Group Finance to all the following risks: credit: market: liquidity: reporting entities within the Group in advance of operations: IT: fraud: business continuity: each reporting period end.
The submission of security: information: insurance: accounting: financial information from each reporting entity tax: legal: regulatory compliance: fiduciary: to Group Finance is subject to certification by human resources: reputational: sustainability: the responsible financial officer, and analytical residual value: shariah and strategic risks.
review procedures at reporting entity and Group Authorities to enter into credit and market risk levels: exposures are delegated with limits to line processes are in place to identify new risks from management of Group companies.
The changes in market conditions practices or concurrence of GMO is required, however, to customer behaviours, which could expose credit proposals with specified higher risk HSBC to heightened risk of loss or reputational characteristics: damage.
During 2010, attention was focused on policies to guide subsidiary companies and refinement and operation of the stress testing management at all levels in the conduct of framework: the roll-out of enhanced business to safeguard the Groups reputation are counterparty risk aggregation, risk management established by the Board and the GMB, information, portfolio and crisis management subsidiary company boards, Board committees processes: the mitigation of information risks: and senior management.
Reputational risks can enhancement of policies and practices relevant arise from environmental, social or governance to the prevention of financial crimes: and issues, or as a consequence of operational risk changes in the regulation of and public policy events.
As a banking group, HSBCs good towards the financial services industry.
From reputation depends upon the way in which it January 2011, risk review and audit functions conducts its business but it can also be affected have increased their focus on global thematic by the way in which clients, to which it provides risks: financial services, conduct their business or use periodic strategic plans are prepared for key financial products and services: customer groups, global product groups, support the establishment and maintenance of functions and certain geographies within the appropriate systems of internal control is 203 Shareholder Information Financial Statements Governance Operating & Financial Review Overview HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Report of the Directors: Governance continued Internal control Going concern basis Directors interests primarily the responsibility of business the GRC and the GAC review special reports, management.
The Internal Audit function, prepared at the instigation of management, which which is centrally controlled, monitors the analyse the cause of the issue, the lessons learned effectiveness of internal control structuresacross and the actions proposed by management to address the whole of HSBC focusing on the areas of the issue.
greatest risk to HSBC as determined by a riskThe Directors, through the GRC and the GAC, based grading approach.
The head of this have conducted an annual review of the effectiveness function reports to the Group Chairman, the of HSBCs system of internal control covering all Group Chief Executive, the GRC and the GAC: material controls, including financial, operational and and compliance controls and risk management executive management is responsible for systems and the adequacy of resources, ensuring that recommendations made by the qualifications and experience of staff of the issuers Internal Audit function are implemented within accounting and financial reporting function, and an appropriate and agreed timetable.
their training programmes and budget.
The review Confirmation to this effect must be provided to does not extend to material joint ventures or Internal Audit.
Executive management must also associates.
The GRC and the GAC have received confirm annually as part of the Internal Audit confirmation that executive management has taken process that offices under their control have or is taking the necessary actions to remedy any taken, or are in the process of taking, the failings or weaknesses identified through the appropriate actions to deal with all significant operation of HSBCs framework of controls.
recommendations made by external auditors in management letters or by regulators following Going concern basis regulatory inspections.
The Financial Statements are prepared on a going Historically the GAC has provided oversight of concern basis, as the Directors are satisfied that the internal controls and risk as well as oversight of Group and parent company have the resources to financial reporting.
Currently there is a degree of continue in business for the foreseeable future.
In overlap between the responsibilities of the GAC and making this assessment, the Directors have considered the GRC in relation to internal controls and risk a wide range of information relating to present and governance.
Each committee is reviewing its terms future conditions, including future projections of of reference with the aim of minimising the overlap.
profitability, cash flows and capital resources.
Further information relevant to the assessment is provided The GRC and the GAC have kept under review elsewhere in this Report.
In particular, HSBCs the effectiveness of this system of internal control principal activities, strategic direction and challenges and have reported regularly to the Board.
The key and uncertainties are described in the Operating and processes used by the GRC and the GAC in carrying Financial Review: a financial summary, including a out their reviews include: regular business and review of the consolidated income statement and operational risk assessments: regular reports from consolidated balance sheet, is provided in the the heads of key risk functions including Internal Operating and Financial Review and HSBCs Audit and Compliance: the production annually of objectives, policies and processes for managing credit, reviews of the internal control framework applied at liquidity and market risk, and its approach to capital GMO and major operating subsidiary levels management and allocation, are described in the Risk measured against HSBC benchmarks, which cover section.
all internal controls, both financial and nonfinancial: semi-annual confirmations from chief Directors interests executives of principal subsidiary companies as to whether there have been any material losses, Pursuant to the requirements of the UK Listing Rules contingencies or uncertainties caused by weaknesses and according to the register of Directors interests in internal controls: internal audit reports: external maintained by HSBC Holdings pursuant to section audit reports: prudential reviews: and regulatory 352 of the Securities and Futures Ordinance of reports.
The GRC and the GAC keep under review a Hong Kong, the Directors of HSBC Holdings at risk map of the status of key risk areas which impact 31 December 2010 had the following interests, all the Group and considers whether the mitigating beneficial unless otherwise stated, in the shares and actions put in place are appropriate.
At 31 December 2010, the aggregate interests under the Securities and Futures Ordinance of Hong Kong in HSBC Holdings ordinary shares of US$0.50, including interests arising through employee share plans were: V H C Cheng 1,546,752: D J Flint 968,179: A A Flockhart 1,231,453: S T Gulliver 4,349,161 and I J Mackay 289,250.
Each Directors total interests represents less than 0.02% of the shares in issue.
3 Interest at 3 December 2010 date of appointment.
4 Interest in listed American Depositary Shares, which are categorised as equity derivatives under Part XV of the Securities and Futures Ordinance of Hong Kong.
As a director of HSBC France during 2010, Kong in the shares and loan capital of HSBC S T Gulliver has an interest as beneficial owner in Holdings and its associated corporations.
Save as one share of 5 in that company representing less stated above, none of the Directors had an interest in than 0.01% of the shares in issue.
He has waived his any shares or debentures of HSBC Holdings or any rights to receive dividends on this share and has associated corporation at the beginning or at the end undertaken to transfer it to HSBC on ceasing to be a of the year, and none of the Directors or members of director of HSBC France.
their immediate families were awarded or exercised any right to subscribe for any shares or debentures in V H C Cheng has an interest as beneficial owner any HSBC corporation during the year.
Since the end in RMB1,960,000 of retail bonds issued by HSBC of the year, the aggregate interests of the following Bank China, which he held throughout the year.
2 Comprises scrip dividend, the automatic reinvestment of dividend income by an Individual Savings Account manager 38 shares, the acquisition of shares in the HSBC Holdings UK Share Incentive Plan through regular monthly contributions 18 shares and the automatic reinvestment of dividend income on shares held in the plan 17 shares.
205 Shareholder Information Financial Statements Governance Operating & Financial Review Overview
