The Board is responsible for managing the Board of Directors business of HSBC Holdings and, in doing so, may The Board exercise its powers, subject to any relevant laws and regulations and to the Articles of Association.
In The purpose of HSBCs management structures, particular, the Board may exercise all the powers of headed by the Board of Directors of HSBC Holdings the Company to borrow money and to mortgage or the Board and led by the Group Chairman, is to charge all or any part of the undertaking, property or deliver sustainable value to our shareholders.
The assets present or future of HSBC Holdings and Board sets the strategy for the Group and approves may also exercise any of the powers conferred on it the risk appetite, capital and operating plans by the Companies Act 2006 and or by shareholders.
presented by management for the achievement of the The Board is able to delegate and confer on certain strategic objectives it has set.
This ensures the Directors holding executive office any of its powers, efficient application of our resources for the authorities and discretions including the power to achievement of these objectives.
Implementation of sub-delegate for such time and on such terms as it the strategy set by the Board is delegated to the thinks fit.
In addition, the Board may establish any Group Management Board GMB led by the local or divisional boards or agencies for managing Group Chief Executive.
the business of HSBC Holdings in any specified HSBC Holdings has a unitary Board.
The locality and delegate and confer on any local or authority of each Director is exercised in Board divisional board, manager or agent so appointed any meetings where the Board acts collectively.
At of its powers, authorities and discretions including 28 February 2011, the Board comprises the Group the power to sub-delegate for such time and on such Chairman, Group Chief Executive, three other terms as it thinks fit.
The Board may also, by power executive Directors and 12 non-executive Directors.
of attorney or otherwise, appoint any person or Their names and brief biographical particulars are persons to be the agent of HSBC Holdings and may listed on pages 183 to 187.
The Group Chairman, delegate to any such person or persons any of its Group Chief Executive and three other executive powers, authorities and discretions including the Directors are employees.
Non-executive Directors power to sub-delegate for such time and on such are not HSBC employees and do not participate in terms as it thinks fit.
the daily business management of HSBC: they bring The Board delegates the management and dayan external perspective, constructively challenge and to-day running of HSBC to the GMB but retains to help develop proposals on strategy, scrutinise the itself approval of certain matters including operating performance of management in meeting agreed goals plans, risk appetite and performance targets, and objectives and monitor the reporting of procedures for monitoring and controlling of performance.
The non-executive Directors bring operations, the authority or the delegation of experience from a number of industries and business authority to approve credit, market risk limits, sectors, including the leadership of large complex acquisitions, disposals, investments, capital multinational enterprises.
The roles of non-executive expenditure or realisation or creation of a new Directors as members of Board committees are venture, specified senior appointments and any described on pages 194 to 198 and on pages 201 substantial change in balance sheet management and 202. policy.
The Board has determined that the time The Directors who served during the year commitment expected of non-executive Directors to were S A Catz, V H C Cheng, M K T Cheung, be not less than 24 days per annum and not less than J D Coombe, J L Durn retired 28 May 2010, 30 days per annum in total for non-executive R A Fairhead, D J Flint, A A Flockhart, W K L Fung Directors appointed to the Group Audit Committee, retired 28 May 2010, M F Geoghegan retired Group Risk Committee or Remuneration Committee 31 December 2010, Lord Green retired and for the Deputy Chairman and senior independent 3 December 2010, S T Gulliver, J W J Hughesnon-executive director.
The time commitment of Hallett, W S H Laidlaw, J R Lomax, I J Mackay each non-executive Director is set out in the appointed 3 December 2010 Sir Mark MoodyDirectors letter of appointment.
Stuart retired 28 May 2010, G Morgan, The terms and conditions of appointment of N R N Murthy, Sir Simon Robertson, J L Thornton non-executive Directors are available for inspection and Sir Brian Williamson.
at 8 Canada Square, London E14 5HQ and will be HSBC Holdings was registered in Hong Kong made available for 15 minutes before the Annual under part IX of the Companies Ordinance on General Meeting and during the Meeting itself.
189 Shareholder Information Financial Statements Governance Operating & Financial Review Overview HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Report of the Directors: Governance continued Board of Directors The Board Nine Board meetings and a two-day strategy Eight meetings of other committees of the Board meeting were held in 2010.
At least one Board appointed to discharge specific business were held meeting each year is held in a key strategic location during 2010.
These meetings are not shown in the outside the UK.
During 2010, a Board meeting was table below.
During 2010, the non-executive Directors and The table below shows each Directors the Group Chairman met three times without the attendance at meetings of the Board, Group Audit other executive Directors and the non-executive Committee, Group Risk Committee, Nomination Directors and Group Chairman and Group Chief Committee, Remuneration Committee and Corporate Executive met once without the other executive Sustainability Committee held whilst he or she was a Directors.
The non-executive Directors also met Director or member of the relevant committee during without the Group Chairman to appraise the Group 2010.
Two meetings of the Board and of the Chairmans performance.
Remuneration Committee were held at short notice.
All those who were Directors at the time Not all Directors who were entitled to attend were attended the 2010 Annual General Meeting save for able to attend these meetings.
All members eligible to attend 4 Committee Meetings.
2 Appointed a member on 28 May 2010 eligible to attend 2 Committee Meetings.
3 Appointed a member on 1 March 2010 eligible to attend 4 Committee Meetings.
4 Retired as a Director on 28 May 2010 eligible to attend 4 Board Meetings.
5 Appointed a member on 3 December 2010 not eligible to attend any Committee Meetings.
6 Retired as a Director on 28 May 2010 eligible to attend 4 Board Meetings and 3 Committee Meetings.
7 Appointed a member of the Nomination Committee on 26 February 2010 and retired as a Director on 3 December 2010 eligible to attend 8 Board Meetings and 2 Committee Meetings.
8 Ceased to be a member on 1 March 2010 eligible to attend 2 Committee Meetings.
9 Appointed a Director on 3 December 2010 eligible to attend one Board Meeting.
10 Retired as a Director on 28 May 2010 eligible to attend 4 Board Meetings, 4 Remuneration Committee Meetings and 3 Corporate Sustainability Committee Meetings.
190 Group Chairman and Group Chief Executive The Board believed strongly that these appointments, which were made by unanimous The roles of Group Chairman and Group Chief decision, are in HSBCs best interests.
There is a Executive are separate and held by experienced clear division of responsibilities at the head of the full-time Directors.
Company between the running of the Board and the D J Flint succeeded S K Green who on executive responsibility for running HSBCs 22 November 2010 became Lord Green of business.
The Group Chairmans responsibilities Hurstpierpoint and is referred to in this document as include, in addition to the leadership of the Board Lord Green as Group Chairman on 3 December and ensuring its effectiveness, the development of 2010.
S T Gulliver succeeded M F Geoghegan as relationships with governments, regulators and Group Chief Executive on 1 January 2011. investors: leading the Groups interactions on matters of public policy and regulatory reform with The appointment of D J Flint, made by a regard to the banking and financial services industry: unanimous decision of the Board, was the maintaining corporate reputation and character: and culmination of a comprehensive succession process performance management of the Group Chief begun in the first half of the year under the Executive.
Subject to the Group Chief Executives leadership of the senior independent non-executive recommendation, the Group Chairman approves risk, Director.
When considering the choice of Group capital allocation and capital investment decisions Chairman, the Nomination Committee, assisted by within authorities delegated by the Board.
an external consultant, took a number of factors into account, including the need to contribute to the The Group Chief Executive has responsibility unprecedented regulatory and public policy debate for developing, and delivering performance against, on the future shape of the banking industry and, in business plans.
He is responsible for developing particular, systemically important financial Group strategy in agreement with the Group institutions operating globally with a universal Chairman and for recommendation to the Board.
As banking model: the full-time demands of this chairman of the GMB, the Group Chief Executive is engagement: the personal standing to represent responsible for driving performance within strategic HSBC at the highest levels: a deep understanding goals and commercial objectives agreed by the and experience of international financial services: Board.
and extensive experience of Board governance and stakeholder engagement.
The Nomination Board balance and independence of Committee came to the unanimous conclusion that Directors D J Flint was the best person for the position, The Board includes a strong presence of both meeting all the core criteria and having led our executive and non-executive Directors and no regulatory engagement at Board level through 2010. individual or small group can dominate its decision S T Gulliver has worked for us throughout his making.
The size of the Board is appropriate given career serving across Asia, in Europe and in the the complexity and geographical spread of our Middle East.
The Board considers S T Gulliver business and the significant time demands placed on ideally qualified for the role of Group Chief the non-executive Directors, particularly those who Executive.
He has built and managed a global serve as members of Board committees.
business in 68 countries and has a deep knowledge The Nomination Committee regularly reviews of and strong reputation in Asia where he worked for the structure, size and composition necessary over 20 years.
S T Gulliver has been responsible for including the skills, knowledge and experience managing complex risks for many years and required of Directors to address and challenge shepherded and enhanced the Groups liquidity adequately key risks and decisions that confront, or through the economic crisis.
He also has had may confront, the Board and makes responsibility for all of HSBCs operations in the recommendations to the Board with regard to any UK, Europe and the Middle East.
The Nomination Committee maintains a Executive, S T Gullivers principal office is located forward-looking schedule of potential candidates as in Hong Kong.
Directors that takes into account the needs and Sir Simon Robertson became Deputy Chairman developments of the Groups businesses and the with effect from 1 December 2010.
As Deputy anticipated retirement dates of existing Directors.
Chairman his role is to deputise for the Group Sir Simon Robertsons role as the senior Chairman at meetings of the Board or shareholders independent non-executive Director is to act as an and to support the Group Chairman in his role.
intermediary for other non-executive Directors when 191 Shareholder Information Financial Statements Governance Operating & Financial Review Overview HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Report of the Directors: Governance continued Board of Directors The Board necessary, to lead the non-executive Directors in the access to all relevant information and may take oversight of the Group Chairman and to ensure there independent professional advice if necessary.
is a clear division of responsibility between the The Directors have free and open contact with Group Chairman and Group Chief Executive.
Group Managing Directors The Board considers all of the non-executive and Group General Managers meet informally with Directors to be independent in character and Directors after Board meetings.
The Board has determined S A Catz, are made each year to enable Directors to see at first L M L Cha, M K T Cheung, J D Coombe, hand the business operations in local environments R A Fairhead, J W J Hughes-Hallett, and to meet management, employees and customers.
W S H Laidlaw, J R Lomax, G Morgan, Full, formal and tailored induction programmes, N R N Murthy, Sir Simon Robertson, J L Thornton with particular emphasis on the systems of risk and Sir Brian Williamson to be independent.
When management and internal controls, are arranged by determining independence the Board considers that the Group Company Secretary for newly appointed calculation of the length of service of a nonDirectors.
The programmes consist of a series of executive Director begins on the date of his or her meetings with other Directors and senior executives first election by shareholders as a Director of HSBC to enable new Directors to receive information and Holdings.
Given the complexity and geographical familiarise themselves with our strategy, risk spread of our business, the experience of previous appetite, operations and internal controls.
As part of service on a subsidiary company board can be a the induction process the Group Company Secretary considerable benefit and does not detract from will coordinate the production of a development a Directors independence.
In reaching its programme based on the individual Directors needs.
determination of each non-executive Directors Directors receive comprehensive guidance on the independence the Board has concluded that there are duties and liabilities of a Director of HSBC Holdings no relationships or circumstances which are likely to before appointment and opportunities to update and affect a Directors judgement and any relationships develop their skills and knowledge, through or circumstances which could appear to do so were externally run seminars and briefings by senior considered not to be material.
In accordance with the Rules Governing the Induction programmes are also arranged for Listing of Securities on the Stock Exchange of Hong newly appointed members of committees and Kong Limited, each non-executive Director appropriate training is provided on an ongoing basis.
determined by the Board to be independent has A personalised approach to training and provided an annual confirmation of his or her independence to HSBC Holdings.
development of Directors is applied.
Development plans and records of development activities are Information, induction and ongoing maintained by the Group Company Secretary for development annual review by the Group Chairman with the Director concerned.
The Group Company Secretary The Board regularly reviews reports on progress coordinates the delivery of any training required.
against financial objectives, business developments Focused in-house development programmes to and investor and external relations and receives enhance business awareness are arranged in reports from the chairmen of Board committees and conjunction with scheduled Board Meetings.
from the Group Chief Executive.
The Board receives Directors have access online to internal training and regular reports and presentations on strategy and development resources.
developments in the customer groups, global businesses and principal geographical areas.
Regular Non-executive Directors have an open invitation reports are also provided to the Board, the Group to attend meetings of the GMB to further enhance Audit Committee, the Group Risk Committee and their understanding and awareness of our businesses the Risk Management Meeting of the GMB on credit and the senior leadership team.
exposures and the loan portfolio, asset, liability and risk management, liquidity, litigation and finance, Performance evaluation compliance and reputational issues.
The agenda and In November 2010, Oliver Wyman was supporting papers are distributed in advance of all commissioned to review and report on the Board and committee meetings to allow time for effectiveness of the Board and its principal appropriate review and to facilitate full discussion at committees with a particular focus on risk the meetings.
All Directors have full and timely management and governance responsibilities.
Oliver 192 Wymans report was prepared following interviews revoke or terminate any such appointment.
with Directors and senior members of management Shareholders may, by ordinary resolution, appoint a and a review of relevant documents.
Factors assessed person as a Director or remove any Director before during Oliver Wymans review included experience the expiration of his period of office.
On the and skills of individual Directors, breadth and mix of recommendation of the Nomination Committee and skills and expertise across the Board and its in compliance with provision B.
7.1 of the UK committees, decision making processes, group Corporate Governance Code, which replaces the culture and dynamics and interaction between the Combined Code on Corporate Governance for Board and the executive.
financial years beginning on or after 29 June 2010, the Board has decided that all of the Directors should The Oliver Wyman report concluded that the be subject to annual re-election by shareholders.
Board operates effectively with a number of Accordingly, all of the Directors will retire at the important strengths.
The report identified some areas forthcoming Annual General Meeting and with the where effectiveness could be enhanced.
exception of V H C Cheng, who is to retire, offer The report was used by the Board in its annual themselves for re-election.
All the executive evaluation of its own performance and the Directors are employed on rolling contracts which performance of its committees and individual require 12 months notice to be given by either party.
The Board will monitor implementation of None of the non-executive Directors has a service actions to address issues arising from its 2010 contract with HSBC.
All actions arising from the Brief biographical particulars of all Directors Boards 2009 performance evaluation have been are given on pages 183 to 187. implemented.
It is the intention of the Board to continue to Relations with shareholders undertake an evaluation of its performance and that The Board ensures all Directors develop an of its committees and individual Directors annually, understanding of the views of major shareholders.
with external input to the process at least every third Non-executive Directors are invited to attend analyst year.
presentations and other meetings with institutional Formal evaluation of the individual performance investors and their representative bodies.
Directors of each Director is undertaken annually by the also meet representatives of institutional Chairman using the findings of the performance shareholders annually to discuss corporate evaluation process undertaken by the Board.
Group Chairman has confirmed that all of the nonAll executive Directors and other senior executive Directors continue to perform effectively executives hold regular meetings with institutional and to demonstrate commitment to their roles.
investors and report to the Board on those meetings.
The non-executive Directors, led by the senior Our corporate brokers give bi-annual presentations independent non-executive Director, are responsible to the Board on market views and investor relations.
for the evaluation of the performance of the Group The Board receives a regular Investor Relations Chairman.
activity report which provides feedback from institutional shareholders and brokers, analysts Oliver Wyman has provided and continues to forecasts, information from research reports and provide strategic consultancy services to the Group.
Appointment, retirement and re-election of During 2010, Sir Simon Robertson, Deputy Directors Chairman and senior independent non-executive Director, J L Thornton and other non-executive The Board may at any time appoint any person who Directors met and corresponded with institutional is willing to act as a Director, either to fill a vacancy investors and their representatives to discuss or as an addition to the existing Board, but the total strategy, remuneration policy, succession and number of Directors shall not exceed twenty-five.
As senior independent non-executive Any Director so appointed by the Board shall retire Director, Sir Simon Robertson is available at the Annual General Meeting following his or her to shareholders should they have concerns which appointment and shall be eligible for re-election but contact through the normal channels of Group is not taken into account in determining the number Chairman, Group Chief Executive, Group Finance of Directors who are to retire by rotation at such Director or other executives has failed to resolve or meeting.
The Board may appoint any Director to for which such contact would be inappropriate.
He hold any employment or executive office and may 193 Shareholder Information Financial Statements Governance Operating & Financial Review Overview
