Capital to inform our capital planning process and further develop the stress scenarios we employ.
Capital management Audited In addition to our internal stress tests, others are carried out, both at the request of regulators and by Our approach to capital management is driven by our the regulators themselves using their prescribed strategic and organisational requirements, taking into assumptions.
We take into account the results of all account the regulatory, economic and commercial such regulatory stress testing when undertaking our environment in which we operate.
It is our objective to maintain a strong capital The responsibility for global capital allocation base to support the development of our business and principles and decisions rests with the GMB.
to meet regulatory capital requirements at all times.
Through our structured internal governance To achieve this, our policy is to hold capital in a processes, we maintain discipline over our range of different forms and from diverse sources, investment and capital allocation decisions and seek and all capital raising is agreed with major to ensure that returns on investment are adequate subsidiaries as part of their individual and the after taking account of capital costs.
Our strategy is Groups overall capital management processes.
to allocate capital to businesses on the basis of their Our policy is underpinned by a capital economic profit generation, regulatory and economic management framework, which enables us to capital requirements and cost of capital.
manage our capital in a consistent and aligned Our capital management process is articulated in manner.
The framework, which is approved by the the annual Group capital plan which is approved by GMB, incorporates a number of different capital the Board.
The plan is drawn up with the objective measures including market capitalisation, invested of maintaining both an appropriate amount of capital capital, economic capital and regulatory capital.
and an optimal mix between the different Capital measures components of capital.
HSBC Holdings and its major market capitalisation is the stock market value of the subsidiaries raise non-equity tier 1 capital and company: subordinated debt in accordance with our guidelines invested capital is the equity capital invested in HSBC by on market and investor concentration, cost, market our shareholders: conditions, timing, effect on composition and economic capital is the internally calculated capital maturity profile.
Each of the subsidiaries manages its requirement which we deem necessary to support the risks own capital to support its planned business growth to which we are exposed at a confidence level consistent with a target credit rating of AA: and and meet its local regulatory requirements within the context of the approved annual Group capital plan.
regulatory capital is the capital which we are required to hold in accordance with the rules established by the FSA for In accordance with our capital management the consolidated Group and by our local regulators for framework, capital generated by subsidiaries in individual Group companies.
excess of planned requirements is returned to HSBC The following risks managed through the capital Holdings, normally by way of dividends.
management framework have been identified as HSBC Holdings is the primary provider of material: credit, market, operational, interest rate risk capital to its subsidiaries and these investments are in the banking book, pension fund, insurance and substantially funded by HSBC Holdings own capital residual risks.
As part of its capital We incorporate stress testing in the capital management process, HSBC Holdings seeks to management framework, and it is important in maintain a prudent balance between the composition understanding the sensitivities of the core of its capital and that of its investment in assumptions in our capital plans to the adverse effect subsidiaries.
of extreme, but plausible, events.
Stress testing The tier 1 ratio unaudited increased to 12.1% allows us to formulate our response, including risk at 31 December 2010 2009: 10.8%.
It is our belief mitigation actions, in advance of conditions starting that this enhanced ratio is appropriate in light of our to exhibit the stress scenarios identified.
The actual current evolution of the regulatory framework.
market stresses which occurred throughout the financial system during recent years have been used 177 Shareholder Information Financial Statements Governance Operating & Financial Review Overview HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Report of the Directors: Operating and Financial Review continued Capital Capital measurement and allocation Capital measurement and allocation Regulatory and accounting consolidations Unaudited The basis of consolidation for financial accounting purposes is described on page 251 and differs from that used for The FSA supervises HSBC on a consolidated basis regulatory purposes.
Investments in banking associates are and therefore receives information on the capital equity accounted in the financial accounting consolidation, adequacy of, and sets capital requirements for, the whereas their exposures are proportionally consolidated for regulatory purposes.
Subsidiaries and associates engaged in Group as a whole.
Individual banking subsidiaries insurance and non-financial activities are excluded from the are directly regulated by their local banking regulatory consolidation and are deducted from regulatory supervisors, who set and monitor their capital capital.
The regulatory consolidation does not include SPEs where significant risk has been transferred to third parties.
Exposures to these SPEs are risk-weighted as securitisation We calculate capital at a Group level using the positions for regulatory purposes.
Basel II framework of the Basel Committee on Banking Supervision.
However, local regulators are Pillar 1 capital requirements at different stages of implementation and local Pillar 1 covers the capital resources requirements for reporting may still be on a Basel I basis, notably in credit risk, market risk and operational risk.
In most jurisdictions, non-banking financial risk includes counterparty credit risk and subsidiaries are also subject to the supervision and securitisation requirements.
These requirements are capital requirements of local regulatory authorities.
expressed in terms of risk-weighted assets RWAs.
Basel II is structured around three pillars: minimum capital requirements, supervisory review Credit risk capital requirements process and market discipline.
The Capital Basel II applies three approaches of increasing Requirements Directive CRD implemented sophistication to the calculation of pillar 1 credit Basel II in the EU and the FSA then gave effect risk capital requirements.
The most basic, the to the CRD by including the latters requirements standardised approach, requires banks to use external in its own rulebooks.
credit ratings to determine the risk weightings applied to rated counterparties and group other Regulatory capital counterparties into broad categories and apply Our capital is divided into two tiers: standardised risk weightings to these categories.
The next level, the internal ratings-based IRB tier 1 capital is divided into core tier 1 and other foundation approach, allows banks to calculate their tier 1 capital.
Core tier 1 capital comprises credit risk capital requirements on the basis of their shareholders equity and related non-controlling internal assessment of the probability that a interests.
The book values of goodwill and counterparty will default PD, but subjects their intangible assets are deducted from core tier 1 quantified estimates of exposure at default EAD capital and other regulatory adjustments are and loss given default LGD to standard made for items reflected in shareholders equity supervisory parameters.
Finally, the IRB advanced which are treated differently for the purposes of approach allows banks to use their own internal capital adequacy.
Qualifying capital instruments assessment in both determining PD and quantifying such as non-cumulative perpetual preference EAD and LGD.
shares and hybrid capital securities are included in other tier 1 capital: and The capital resources requirement, which is intended to cover unexpected losses, is derived from tier 2 capital comprises qualifying subordinated a formula specified in the regulatory rules, which loan capital, related non-controlling interests, incorporates these factors and other variables such as allowable collective impairment allowances and maturity and correlation.
Expected losses under the unrealised gains arising on the fair valuation of IRB approaches are calculated by multiplying PD by equity instruments held as available for sale.
Expected losses are deducted from Tier 2 capital also includes reserves arising from capital to the extent that they exceed accounting the revaluation of properties.
To ensure the overall quality of the capital base, For credit risk, with the FSAs approval, we the FSAs rules set limits on the amount of hybrid have adopted the IRB advanced approach for the capital instruments that can be included in tier 1 majority of our business, with the remainder on capital relative to core tier 1 capital, and also limits either IRB foundation or standardised approaches.
overall tier 2 capital to no more than tier 1 capital.
178 For consolidated group reporting, the FSAs Market risk capital requirement rules permit the use of other regulators standardised The market risk capital requirement is measured, approaches where they are considered equivalent.
with FSA permission, using VAR models, or the The use of other regulators IRB approaches is standard rules prescribed by the FSA.
subject to the agreement of the FSA.
Under our Basel II rollout plans, a number of our Group We use both VAR and standard rules companies and portfolios are in transition to approaches for market risk.
Our aim is to migrate advanced IRB approaches.
At December 2010, more positions from standard rules to VAR.
portfolios in much of Europe, Hong Kong, Rest of Asia-Pacific and North America were on advanced Operational risk capital requirement IRB approaches.
Others remain on the standardised Basel II includes a capital requirement for or foundation approaches under Basel II, pending operational risk, again utilising three levels of definition of local regulations or model approval, or sophistication.
The capital required under the basic under exemptions from IRB treatment.
indicator approach is a simple percentage of gross revenues, whereas under the standardised approach Counterparty credit risk it is one of three different percentages of gross Counterparty credit risk arises for OTC derivatives revenues allocated to each of eight defined business and securities financing transactions.
Both these approaches use an average of the in both the trading and non-trading books and is the last three financial years revenues.
Finally, the risk that the counterparty to a transaction may advanced measurement approach uses banks own default before completing the satisfactory settlement statistical analysis and modelling of operational risk of the transaction.
Three approaches to calculating data to determine capital requirements.
counterparty credit risk and determining exposure We have adopted the standardised approach values are defined by Basel II: standardised, markin determining our operational risk capital to-market and internal model method.
exposure values are used to determine capital requirements under one of the credit risk approaches: Pillar 2 capital requirements standardised, IRB foundation and IRB advanced.
The second pillar of Basel II Supervisory Review We use the mark-to-market and internal model and Evaluation Process involves both firms and method approaches for counterparty credit risk.
Our regulators taking a view on whether a firm should longer-term aim is to migrate more positions from hold additional capital against risks not covered in the mark-to-market to the internal model method pillar 1.
Part of the pillar 2 process is the Internal approach.
Capital Adequacy Assessment Process which is the firms self assessment of the levels of capital that Securitisation it needs to hold.
The pillar 2 process culminates in Basel II specifies two methods for calculating credit the FSA providing firms with Individual Capital risk requirements for securitisation positions in the Guidance ICG.
The ICG is set as a capital non-trading book, being the standardised and IRB resources requirement higher than that required approaches.
Both approaches rely on the mapping under pillar 1.
In 2011, this will be supplemented of rating agency credit ratings to risk weights, by an additional Capital Planning Buffer, set by which range between 7% and 1,250%.
Positions the FSA, to cover capital demand should economic that would otherwise be weighted at 1,250% are conditions worsen considerably against the current deducted from capital.
Within the IRB approach, we use the Ratings Pillar 3 disclosure requirements Based Method for the majority of our non-trading book securitisation positions, and the Internal Pillar 3 of Basel II is related to market discipline and Assessment Approach for unrated liquidity facilities aims to make firms more transparent by requiring and programme-wide enhancements for asset-backed them to publish specific, prescribed details of their securitisations.
We use the IRB approach for the risks, capital and risk management under the Basel II majority of our non-trading book securitisation framework.
Our pillar 3 disclosures for the year positions, while those in the trading book are treated ended 31 December 2010 are published as a separate like other market risk positions.
document on the Group Investor Relations website.
Movement in tier 1 capital average risk weighting applicable to those portfolios Audited as we progressively captured the effects of these events within the various Basel II model parameters.
HSBC complied with the FSAs capital adequacy Market risk RWAs decreased by US$13.2bn, requirements throughout 2010 and 2009.
Profits primarily due to reduced market volatility and attributable to shareholders of the parent company continuing exposure management.
increased capital by US$13.2bn, offset by net dividends of US$3.8bn after taking account of shares Future developments issued in lieu of dividends.
Hybrid capital securities Unaudited issued, net of redemptions, increased tier 1 capital by US$2.4bn.
The regulation and supervision of financial institutions continues to undergo significant change in response to the global financial crisis.
Movement in risk-weighted assets Unaudited In December 2010, the Basel Committee issued final rules in two documents: A global regulatory RWAs decreased by US$30.1bn or 2.7% in 2010. framework for more resilient banks and banking Of this reduction, US$12.8bn was due to credit risk, systems and International framework for liquidity reflecting decreases in North America and Europe risk measurement, standards and monitoring, which offset by increases in Asia and Latin America.
There together are commonly referred to as Basel III.
The has been a decline in some North American retail new minimum capital requirements will be phased portfolio exposures as a result of run off.
However, in from 1 January 2013, with full implementation the deterioration in the US economy and housing required by 1 January 2019.
The minimum common market in recent years has resulted in increases in the 181 Shareholder Information Financial Statements Governance Operating & Financial Review Overview HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Report of the Directors: Operating and Financial Review continued Capital Future developments Governance Corporate Governance Report Directors equity tier 1 requirement of 4.5% and additional We have estimated that the application of the full capital conservation buffer requirement of 2.5% will Basel III rules on a pro forma basis would result in a be phased in sequentially from 1 January 2013, common equity tier 1 ratio which is lower than the becoming fully effective on 1 January 2019.
Any Basel II core tier 1 ratio by some 250300 basis additional countercyclical capital buffer requirements points.
However, as the new rules will be phased in will also be phased in, starting in 2016, in parallel between 1 January 2013 and 1 January 2019, their with the capital conservation buffer to a maximum impact will be gradual over that period.
This level of 2.5% effective on 1 January 2019, although estimate does not, however, take account of any individual jurisdictions may choose to implement future retained earnings, nor any management larger countercyclical capital buffers.
The leverage actions to reduce RWAs.
The Basel III changes ratio will be subject to a supervisory monitoring relate to increased capital deductions, new regulatory period, which commenced on 1 January 2011, and a adjustments and increases in RWAs.
The majority of parallel run period which will run from 1 January the increase in RWAs relates to Basel III changes 2013 until 1 January 2017.
Further calibration of the which are scheduled to come into effect on 1 January leverage ratio will be carried out in the first half of 2013, in particular to changes to counterparty credit 2017, with a view to migrating to a pillar 1 risk capital charges and amounts for securitisation requirement from 1 January 2018.
The Basel positions that were previously deducted from capital Committee has increased the capital requirements that will now be risk-weighted instead.
Other for the trading book and complex securitisation increases in RWAs will begin to be phased in from exposures which are due to be implemented on 1 January 2014, including the majority of the 31 December 2011.
They will continue to conduct unconsolidated investments that were previously the fundamental review of the trading book, which deducted from capital.
The remainder of the RWA is targeted for completion by the end of 2011.
In increase arises from increases in trading book capital addition to the reforms discussed above, institutions requirements which take effect on 31 December designated as G-SIFIs may be subjected to additional 2011, primarily relating to changes in market risk.
requirements, which have yet to be proposed by The estimated impact of Basel III is subject to regulators.
The Basel Committee will provide the change as regulators develop their requirements approach to defining G-SIFIs by the end of 2011. around the practical application and interpretation of On 13 January 2011, the Basel Committee issued the new rules, in particular the counterparty credit further minimum requirements to ensure that all risk capital charge.
Further uncertainty remains classes of capital instruments fully absorb losses regarding any capital requirements which may be at the point of non-viability before taxpayers are imposed on the Group over the period to 1 January exposed to loss.
Instruments issued on or after 2019 in respect of the countercyclical capital buffer 1 January 2013 may only be included in regulatory and any additional regulatory requirements for capital if the new requirements are met.
Under the Basel III rules as they will apply treatment of securities issued prior to this date will from 1 January 2019, we believe that ultimately the be phased out over a 10-year period commencing level for the common equity tier 1 ratio of the Group 1 January 2013. may lie in the range 9.5% to 10.5%.
This exceeds the minimum requirement for common equity tier 1 Impact of Basel III capital plus the capital conservation buffer.
HSBC Unaudited has a strong track record of capital generation and In order to provide some insight into the possible actively manages its RWAs.
Before these new effects of the new Basel III rules on HSBC, we have rules come into force, we will take appropriate estimated the pro forma common equity tier 1 ratio management action over the implementation period of the Group on the basis of our interpretation of to 1 January 2019 to reduce the quantum of increase those rules, as they would apply at 1 January 2019, in RWAs that would have occurred if the new rules but based on the position at 31 December 2010. had been in effect at 31 December 2010.
Footnotes to Capital 1 Includes externally verified profits for the year to 31 December 2010.
2 Mainly comprises unrealised losses on available-for-sale debt securities within special purpose entities which are excluded from the regulatory consolidation.
3 Under FSA rules, unrealised gains losses on debt securities net of tax must be excluded from capital resources.
4 Under FSA rules, the defined benefit liability may be substituted with the additional funding that will be paid into the relevant schemes over the following five year period.
5 Mainly comprise investments in insurance entities.
6 Under FSA rules, collective impairment allowances on loan portfolios on the standardised approach are included in tier 2 capital.
7 Rights issue excludes US$493m of losses arising on derivative contracts and certain fees, which are recognised in the income statement.
