Other information We announced in November 2010 that, with effect from 1 March 2011, Retail Banking and Funds under management and assets held in Wealth Management will be managed as a single custody global business from Hong Kong.
Global Asset Management will become part of this business and Funds under management will be transferred from GB&M.
2010 2009 US$bn US$bn Assets held in custody and under Funds under management At 1 January 857 735 administration Net new money 42 36 Custody is the safekeeping and servicing of Value change... 33 76 Exchange and other 7 10 securities and other financial assets on behalf of clients.
At 31 December 2010, we held assets as At 31 December 925 857 custodian of US$5.7 trillion, 9% higher than the US$5.2 trillion held at 31 December 2009.
This was At 31 December mainly driven by an increase in the market value of 2010 2009 assets and favourable foreign exchange movements.
US$bn US$bn Funds under management by Our assets under administration business, which business includes the provision of various support function Global Asset Management.......... 439 423 activities including the valuation of portfolios of Global Private Banking............... 277 251 securities and other financial assets on behalf of Affiliates 3 3 Other...... 206 180 clients, complements the custody business.
At 31 December 2010, the value of assets held under 925 857 administration by the Group amounted to US$2.7 trillion, compared with US$2.8 trillion Funds under management at 31 December 2010 in 2009. amounted to US$925bn, an increase of 8% when compared with 2009.
Both Global Asset Property Management and GPB fund holdings increased, reflecting an improvement in equity market At 31 December 2010, we operated from some performance and strong net inflows.
9,950 operational properties worldwide, of which approximately 2,500 were located in Europe, 3,100 Global Asset Management funds, including in Hong Kong and Rest of Asia-Pacific, 800 in North emerging market funds, increased by 4% to America, 3,350 in Latin America and 200 in the US$439bn as a result of market performance gains Middle East.
These properties had an area of and strong net inflows, particularly in Europe and approximately 71.3m square feet 2009: 70.8m Asia, partly offset by adverse foreign exchange square feet.
We remain one of the worlds largest emerging market asset managers with funds under Our freehold and long leasehold properties, management of US$145bn at 31 December 2010 in together with all our leasehold land in Hong Kong, countries outside North America, Western Europe, were valued in 2010.
The value of these properties Japan and Australia.
was US$7.1bn 2009: US$4.1bn in excess of their carrying amount in the consolidated balance sheet.
GPB funds increased by 10% in 2010 to In addition, properties with a net book value of US$277bn, driven by an improvement in equity US$1,133m were held for investment purposes.
market performance and strong net inflows which benefitted from our strength in emerging markets, HSBCs operational properties are stated at cost, hiring of key relationship managers and crossbeing historical cost or fair value at the date of business referrals.
Client assets, which include funds transition to IFRSs their deemed cost less any under management and cash deposits and provide an impairment losses, and are depreciated on a basis indicator of the scale of GPB, increased by US$23bn calculated to write off the assets over their estimated to US$390bn due to the increase in funds under useful lives.
Properties owned as a consequence of management.
an acquisition are recognised initially at fair value.
Other funds under management, which are Further details are included in Note 25 on the mainly held by a corporate trust business in Asia, Financial Statements.
81 Shareholder Information Financial Statements Governance Operating & Financial Review Overview HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Report of the Directors: Operating and Financial Review continued Other information Legal proceedings Foreclosures Data security Footnotes to Operating and Financial Review Legal proceedings, investigations and and defendants in such proceedings.
The cases are at regulatory matters an early stage.
For these reasons, among others, it is not practicable at this time for HSBC to estimate As a result of an August 2002 restatement of reliably the aggregate liabilities or ranges of previously reported consolidated financial statements liabilities that may arise as a result of all such claims and other corporate events, including the 2002 but they could be significant.
In any event, HSBC settlement with 46 State Attorneys General relating considers that it has good defences to these claims to real estate lending practices, Household and will continue to defend them vigorously.
International now HSBC Finance and certain former officers were named as defendants in a class HSBC Bank USA entered into a consent cease action law suit, Jaffe v Household International Inc, and desist order with the Office of the Comptroller of et al No 2.
C 5893 N. D. Ill, filed 19 August 2002. the Currency and the indirect parent of that company, Following a jury trial concluded in April 2009, the HSBC North America, entered into a consent cease Court issued a ruling on 22 November 2010, within and desist order with the Federal Reserve Board in the second phase of the case to determine actual the first week of October 2010.
These actions require damages, that claim forms should be mailed to class improvements for an effective compliance risk members and also set out a method for calculating management programme across the Groups US damages for class members who filed claims.
businesses, including US Bank Secrecy Act BSA Despite the jury verdict and the November 2010 and Anti Money Laundering AML compliance.
ruling, HSBC continues to believe that it has Steps continue to be taken to address the meritorious defences and intends to seek an appeal requirements of these Orders and to ensure that of the Courts ruling.
The timing and outcome of the compliance and effective policies and procedures are resolution of this matter is uncertain.
complexity and uncertainties associated with the Various HSBC Group companies are the subject actual determination of damages, including but not of ongoing investigations, including Grand Jury limited to the number of class members that may file subpoenas and other requests for information, by US valid claims, the number of claims that can be Government agencies, including the US Attorneys substantiated by class members providing adequate Office, the US Department of Justice and the New documentation, the reduction of trading losses by York County District Attorneys Office.
These any trading gains made over the relevant period, the investigations pertain to, among other matters, HSBC determination of reliance by class members on the Bank USAs bank note and foreign correspondent financial statements, and whether any given class banking businesses and its compliance with BSA and member was the beneficial owner of the shares, AML controls, as well as various HSBC companies HSBC is unable at this time to estimate reliably the compliance with Office of Foreign Asset Control amount of any damages or range of possible OFAC requirements, and adherence by certain damages that could arise, but they could be customers to US tax reporting requirements.
The consent cease and desist orders do not In December 2008, Bernard L Madoff preclude additional enforcement actions against Madoff was arrested for running a Ponzi scheme HSBC Bank USA or HSBC North America by bank and a trustee was appointed for the liquidation of his regulatory or law enforcement agencies, including firm, Bernard L Madoff Investment Securities LLC actions to recover civil money penalties, fines and Madoff Securities, a Securities and Exchange other financial penalties relating to activities which Commission SEC registered broker-dealer and were the subject of the cease and desist orders.
Madoff subsequently pleaded addition, it is likely that there could be some form of guilty to various charges and is serving a 150-year formal enforcement action in respect of some or all of prison sentence.
Various non-US HSBC companies the ongoing investigations.
Actual or threatened provide custodial, administration and similar enforcement actions against other financial services to a number of funds incorporated outside institutions for breaches of BSA, AML and OFAC the US whose assets were invested with Madoff requirements have resulted in settlements involving Securities and have been named as defendants in fines and penalties, some of which have been suits in the US, Ireland, Luxembourg and other significant depending on the individual circumstances jurisdictions.
There are many factors which may of each action.
The ongoing investigations are at an affect the range of possible outcomes including, but early stage.
Based on the facts currently known, it is not limited to, the circumstances of the fraud, the not practicable at this time for HSBC to determine the multiple jurisdictions in which the proceedings have terms on which the ongoing investigations will be been brought, and the number of different plaintiffs resolved or the timing of such resolution or for HSBC 82 to estimate reliably the amounts, or range of possible finalised shortly.
While the impact of the consent amounts, of any fines and or penalties.
As matters orders depends on the final terms, we believe they progress, it is possible that any fines and or penalties have the potential to increase our operational, could be significant.
reputational and legal risk profiles and expect implementation of their provisions will require For further information see Note 44 on the significant and managerial resources.
In addition, the Financial Statements.
consent orders will not preclude further actions against HSBC Bank USA or HSBC Finance by bank Foreclosures regulatory or other agencies, including the US State and federal officials recently announced imposition of fines and civil money penalties.
We are investigations into the procedures followed by unable at this time, however, to determine the mortgage servicing companies and banks, including likelihood of any further action or the amount of HSBC Finance and HSBC Bank USA, relating to fines or penalties, if any, that may be imposed by the foreclosures.
We have responded to all related regulators or agencies.
inquiries and co-operated with all applicable investigations, including a joint examination by Data security staffs of the Federal Reserve Board and the Office of In March 2010 HSBC Private Bank Suisse SA the Comptroller of the Currency as part of their announced that it had been the victim of a significant broad review of industry foreclosure practices.
In 2010, HSBC Private Bank Suisse SA Following the examination, our examiners issued conducted a comprehensive review of its information supervisory letters noting certain deficiencies in our security procedures, formulated and implemented processing, preparation and signing of affidavits and major security upgrade programmes and continued a other documents supporting foreclosures, and in the multi-million franc investment programme in governance of and resources devoted to our systems to ensure industry-leading security foreclosure processes, including the evaluation and standards.
It also reviewed and strengthened risk monitoring of third party law firms retained to effect management and operational controls and will our foreclosures.
Certain other processes were continue to invest in these areas.
In March 2010, the deemed adequate.
Management is reviewing Swiss Financial Market Supervisory Authority foreclosures where judgement has not yet been FINMA launched an investigation into the entered and will correct deficient documentation and circumstances of the data theft.
On 22 February 2011 re-file affidavits where necessary.
We have a notice of decision with a declaratory ruling was suspended foreclosures until such time as we have received from FINMA following such investigation substantially addressed noted deficiencies in our which found that, because of deficiencies in its processes.
We are engaged in discussions with the internal organisation and oversight of its IT Federal Reserve Board and the Office of the activities, HSBC Private Bank Suisse SA had Comptroller of the Currency regarding the terms of breached various regulatory provisions.
HSBC consent cease and desist orders, which will prescribe Private Bank Suisse SA is currently considering the actions to address the deficiencies noted in the joint details of the notice of decision and actions required examination.
We expect the consent orders will be by FINMA.
Footnotes to Operating and Financial Review Financial highlights 1 Dividends recorded in the financial statements are dividends per ordinary share declared in a year and are not dividends in respect of, or for, that year.
The third interim dividend for 2009 of US$0.08 was paid on 13 January 2010.
The fourth interim dividend for 2009 of US$0.10 was paid on 5 May 2010.
First, second and third interim dividends for 2010, each of US$0.08 per ordinary share, were paid on 7 July 2010, 6 October 2010 and 12 January 2011, respectively.
Note 11 on the Financial Statements provides more information on the dividends declared in 2010.
On 28 February 2011 the Directors declared a fourth interim dividend for 2010 of US$0.12 per ordinary share in lieu of a final dividend, which will be payable to ordinary shareholders on 5 May 2011 in cash in US dollars, or in pounds sterling or Hong Kong dollars at exchange rates to be determined on 27 April 2011, with a scrip dividend alternative.
The reserves available for distribution at 31 December 2010 were US$36,013m.
Quarterly dividends of US$15.50 per 6.2% non-cumulative Series A US dollar preference share, equivalent to a dividend of US$0.3875 per Series A ADS, each of which represents one-fortieth of a Series A dollar preference share, were paid on 15 March 2010, 15 June 2010, 15 September 2010 and 15 December 2010.
Quarterly coupons of US$0.508 per security were paid with respect to 8.125% capital securities on 15 January 2010, 15 April 2010, 15 July 2010 and 15 October 2010.
Quarterly coupons of US$0.45 and US$0.50 per security were paid with respect to 8% capital securities on 15 September 2010 and on 15 December 2010, respectively.
2 Return on invested capital is based on the profit attributable to ordinary shareholders.
Average invested capital is measured as average 83 Shareholder Information Financial Statements Governance Operating & Financial Review Overview HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Report of the Directors: Operating and Financial Review continued Other information Footnotes to Operating and Financial Review total shareholders equity after adding back goodwill previously written-off directly to reserves, deducting average equity preference shares issued by HSBC Holdings and deducting adding average reserves for unrealised gains losses on effective cash flow hedges and available-for-sale securities.
This measure reflects capital initially invested and subsequent profit.
3 The return on average total shareholders equity is defined as profit attributable to shareholders of the parent company divided by average total shareholders equity.
4 The cost efficiency ratio is defined as total operating expenses divided by net operating income before loan impairment charges and other credit risk provisions.
5 Each ADS represents five ordinary shares.
6 Total shareholder return is defined as the growth in share value and declared dividend income during the relevant period.
7 The Financial Times Stock Exchange 100 Index, the Morgan Stanley Capital International World Index and the Morgan Stanley Capital International World Bank Index.
8 HBEU is HSBC Bank plc: HBAP is The Hongkong and Shanghai Banking Corporation: and HBUS is HSBC Bank USA.
Figures provided for HSBC Bank plc and The Hongkong and Shanghai Banking Corporation incorporate the major overseas branches of these entities.
Subsidiaries of these entities are not included unless there is unrestricted transferability of liquidity between the subsidiaries and the parent.
9 This comprises our other main banking subsidiaries and, as such, includes businesses spread across a range of locations, in many of which we may require a higher ratio of net liquid assets to customer liabilities to reflect local market conditions.
Reconciliations of reported and underlying profit loss before tax 10 These columns comprise the net increments or decrements in profits in the current year compared with the previous year which are attributable to acquisitions or disposals of subsidiaries and or movements in fair value of own debt attributable to credit spread.
The inclusion of acquisitions and disposals is determined in the light of events each year.
11 Currency translation is the effect of translating the results of subsidiaries and associates for the previous year at the average rates of exchange applicable in the current year.
13 Positive numbers are favourable: negative numbers are unfavourable.
14 Changes in fair value due to movements in own credit spread on long-term debt issued.
This does not include the fair value changes due to own credit spread on structured notes issued and other hybrid instruments included within trading liabilities.
15 Net operating income before loan impairment charges and other credit risk provisions.
Financial summary 17 In 2008 an impairment charge of US$10,564m to fully write off goodwill in PFS in North America was reported in total operating expenses.
This amount is excluded from total operating expenses in calculating the ratio.
18 The effect of the bonus element of the rights issue in 2009 has been included within the basic and diluted earnings per share.
19 Dividends per ordinary share expressed as a percentage of earnings per ordinary share.
20 Net interest income includes the cost of funding trading assets, while the related external revenues are reported in trading income.
In our customer group results, the cost of funding trading assets is included with GB&Ms net trading income as interest expense.
21 Gross interest yield is the average annualised interest rate earned on average interest-earning assets AIEA.
22 Net interest spread is the difference between the average annualised interest rate earned on AIEA, net of amortised premiums and loan fees, and the average annualised interest rate paid on average interest-bearing funds.
23 Net interest margin is net interest income expressed as an annualised percentage of AIEA.
24 Other interest-earning assets includes intercompany eliminations.
25 Interest income on trading assets is reported as Net trading income in the consolidated income statement.
26 Interest income on financial assets designated at fair value is reported as Net income from financial instruments designated at fair value in the consolidated income statement.
27 This includes interest-bearing bank deposits only.
28 Interest expense on financial liabilities designated at fair value is reported as Net income on financial instruments designated at fair value in the consolidated income statement, other than interest on own debt which is reported in Interest Expense.
29 This includes interest-bearing customer accounts only.
30 The cost of internal funding of trading assets was US$902m 2009: US$1,309m: 2008: US$5,547m and is excluded from the reported Net trading income line and included in Net interest income.
However, this cost is reinstated in Net trading income in HSBCs customer group and global business reporting.
31 Net trading income includes income of US$23m 2009: expense of US$444m: 2008: income of US$529m, associated with changes in the fair value of issued structured notes and other hybrid instrument liabilities derived from movements in HSBC issuance spreads.
32 Other changes in fair value include gains and losses arising from changes in the fair value of derivatives that are managed in conjunction with HSBCs long-term debt issued.
34 Net insurance claims incurred and movement in liabilities to policyholders arise from both life and non-life insurance business.
For non-life business, amounts reported represent the cost of claims paid during the year and the estimated cost of notified claims.
For life business, the main element of claims is the liability to policyholders created on the initial underwriting of the policy and any subsequent movement in the liability that arises, primarily from the attribution of investment performance to savings-related policies.
Consequently, claims rise in line with increases in sales of savings-related business and with investment market growth.
Consolidated balance sheet 35 Net of impairment allowances.
36 The calculation of capital resources, capital ratios and risk-weighted assets for 2008 to 2010 is on a Basel II basis.
2006 and 2007 comparatives are on a Basel I basis.
37 Capital resources are total regulatory capital, the calculation of which is set out on page 180.
38 Includes perpetual preferred securities, details of which can be found in Note 34 on the Financial Statements.
84 39 The definition of net asset value per share is total shareholders equity, less non-cumulative preference shares and capital securities, divided by the number of ordinary shares in issue.
40 Currency translation is the effect of translating the assets and liabilities of subsidiaries and associates for the previous year-end at the rates of exchange applicable at the current year-end.
Economic profit 41 Expressed as a percentage of average invested capital.
42 Average invested capital is measured as average total shareholders equity after: adding back the average balance of goodwill amortised pre-transition to IFRSs or subsequently written-off, directly to reserves less goodwill previously amortised in respect of the French regional banks sold in 2008 : deducting the average balance of HSBCs revaluation surplus relating to property held for own use.
This reserve was generated when determining the deemed carrying cost of such properties on transition to IFRSs and will run down over time as the properties are sold: deducting average preference shares and other equity instruments issued by HSBC Holdings: and deducting average reserves for unrealised gains losses on effective cash flow hedges and available-for-sale securities.
43 Return on invested capital is profit attributable to ordinary shareholders of the parent company, which can be found in Note 12 on the Financial Statements on page 296.
Customer groups and global businesses and Geographical regions 44 The main items reported under Other are certain property activities, unallocated investment activities, centrally held investment companies, gains arising from the dilution of interests in associates, movements in the fair value of own debt designated at fair value the remainder of the Groups gain on own debt is included in GB&M and HSBCs holding company and financing operations.
The results also include net interest earned on free capital held centrally, operating costs incurred by the head office operations in providing stewardship and central management services to HSBC, and costs incurred by the Group Service Centres and Shared Service Organisations and associated recoveries.
At 31 December 2010, there was a US$188m gain arising from the dilution of interests in associates 2009: nil: 2008: nil and adverse fair value movements on HSBCs own debt designated at fair value were US$0.1bn 2009: US$6.5bn adverse: 2008: US$6.6bn favourable.
45 Assets by geographical region and customer group include intra-HSBC items.
These items are eliminated, where appropriate, under the heading Intra-HSBC items.
46 Net operating income before loan impairment charges and other credit risk provisions.
47 Loan impairment charges and other credit risk provisions.
48 Share of profit in associates and joint ventures.
49 In the analyses of customer groups and global businesses, net trading income comprises all gains and losses from changes in the fair value of financial assets and financial liabilities classified as held for trading, together with related external and internal interest income and interest expense, and dividends received: in the statutory presentation internal interest income and expense are eliminated.
50 In 2010, Global Markets included a favourable fair value movement of US$23m on the widening of credit spreads on structured liabilities 2009: adverse fair value movement of US$444m: 2008: favourable fair value movement of US$529m.
51 Total income earned on securities services products in the Group amounted to US$1.5bn 2009: US$1.4bn: 2008: US$2.2bn, of which US$1.5bn was in GB&M 2009: US$1.4bn: 2008: US$2.1bn and US$29m was in CMB 2009: US$19m: 2008: US$45m.
52 Total income earned on payments and cash management products in the Group amounted to US$4.4bn 2009: US$4.1bn: 2008: US$5.8bn, of which US$3.3bn was in CMB 2009: US$3.1bn: 2008: US$4.1bn and US$1.1bn was in GB&M 2009: US$1.1bn: 2008: US$1.7bn.
53 Total income earned on other transaction services in the Group amounted to US$2.3bn 2009: US$1.8bn: 2008: US$1.8bn, of which US$1.6bn was in CMB relating to trade and supply chain 2009: US$1.3bn: 2008: US$1.3bn and US$636m was in GB&M of which US$523m related to trade and supply chain 2009: US$382m: 2008: US$355m and US$113m related to banknotes and other 2009: US$125m: 2008: US$126m.
54 In each Group entity, Balance Sheet Management is responsible for managing liquidity and funding under the supervision of the local ALCO.
Balance Sheet Management also manages the structural interest rate position of the entity within a Global Markets limit structure.
55 Other in GB&M includes net interest earned on free capital held in the global business not assigned to products.
56 Inter-segment elimination comprises i the costs of shared services and Group Service Centres included within Other which are recovered from customer groups, and ii the intra-segment funding costs of trading activities undertaken within GB&M.
HSBCs Balance Sheet Management business, reported within GB&M, provides funding to the trading businesses.
To report GB&Ms Net trading income on a fully funded basis, Net interest income and Net interest income expense on trading activities are grossed up to reflect internal funding transactions prior to their elimination in the inter-segment column.
57 Net insurance claims incurred and movement in liabilities to policyholders.
58 Employee expenses comprises costs directly incurred by each customer group.
The reallocation and recharging of employee and other expenses directly incurred in the Other customer group is shown in Other operating expenses.
59 RWAs are non-additive across geographical regions due to market risk diversification effects within the Group.
60 France primarily comprises the domestic operations of HSBC France, HSBC Assurances Vie and the Paris branch of HSBC Bank plc.
61 Hong Kong Government certificates of indebtedness were reclassified from PFS to Other at 1 January 2010.
62 US includes the impairment of goodwill in respect of PFS North America.
85 Shareholder Information Financial Statements Governance Operating & Financial Review Overview HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Report of the Directors: Operating and Financial Review continued Risk Risk profile Managing risk Risk governance Risk Profile Risk Unaudited Page 1 Risk profile
The ratio of customer advances to deposits 140 Primary sources of funding 141 remains below 80%.
Monitoring and limiting market risk exposure....... 145 3 Sensitivity analysis 145 Robust risk governance and accountability is 3 Trading and non-trading portfolios 146 embedded across the Group.
1 Structural foreign exchange exposures 149 1 Sensitivity of net interest income...... 149 The Board, advised by the Group Risk 2 Defined benefit pension schemes....... 151 Committee, approves our risk appetite.
Present value of in-force long-term insurance Macro-economic and geopolitical risk.
Stress testing will continue to evolve Unaudited to ensure that it considers prevailing concerns.
The continued growth in our business in 2010 was Our insurance operations are managed with achieved while ensuring risks were assumed in a regard to the effects on financial markets of measured manner and in line with our appetite for prevailing economic conditions such as the low such risks.
This approach is encapsulated within our yields available on fixed-interest investments and risk appetite framework.
It is approved by the Group continuing high unemployment rates, particularly in Risk Committee and the Board.
The framework is maintained at Group, Capital and liquidity regional, global business and customer group levels, operating through governance bodies, processes and We maintained a strong balance sheet during 2010 metrics designed to assist in risk management.
Risk while reducing the overall risk in our portfolio.
Our appetite statements define, at various levels of the balance sheet assets grew by 4% during the year business, the qualitative and quantitative expressions while our credit risk-weighted assets fell by 1.4%.
of the risks which HSBC is prepared to embrace in This was achieved, in part, by concentrating on our alignment with its strategy and business plans.
growth in core portfolios and running off those that Quantitative metrics are assigned to five key were not core to our business.
categories: earnings, capital and liquidity, In addition, we reduced our loan impairment impairments and expected losses, risk category charges and other credit risk provisions from and diversification and scenario stress testing.
US$26.5bn in 2009 to US$14.0bn in 2010, reflecting Measurement against the metrics serves to: the general improvement in the credit quality of our guide underlying business activity, ensuring it portfolio.
is aligned to risk appetite statements: Preserving our strong capital position has long determine risk-adjusted remuneration: been, and will remain, a key priority for HSBC.
We enable the key underlying assumptions to be are equipped to respond to the capital requirements monitored and, where necessary, adjusted imposed by Basel III, which are discussed further through subsequent business planning cycles: on pages 181 and 182, and to sustain future growth.
and We have adopted a holistic approach to testing the sensitivities of our capital plans against a number promptly identify business decisions needed to of scenarios: our approach to scenario stress testing mitigate risk.
Report of the Group Risk Committee We continue to maintain a strong liquidity Further commentary on risk appetite, risk governance and stress testing can be found within the Report of the Group Risk position and are well positioned for the new Committee, on pages 197 to 201 of the Governance section.
The run-off of the HSBC Finance portfolio and the continuing moderation of The diversification of our lending portfolio market conditions in 2010 contributed to our strong across our regions, together with our broad range of liquidity position.
customer groups and products, ensure that we are not dependent on a few countries or markets to generate Risk governance income and growth.
Our geographical diversification Unaudited also provides impetus to our strategies for growth in faster-growing markets and those with international Our strong risk governance reflects the importance connectivity.
placed by the Board on shaping the Groups risk strategy and managing risks effectively.
It is During 2010, the financial markets were supported by a clear policy framework of risk dominated by concerns over sovereign debt.
In ownership, by the cascading from the GMB of addition, the perception that the world economic balanced scorecards that align business and risk recovery remained fragile created volatility in certain objectives, and by the accountability of all officers for financial markets.
Further quantitative easing from identifying, assessing and managing risks within the the US temporarily boosted market confidence, but scope of their assigned responsibilities.
This personal inflationary pressures remained an issue, especially accountability, reinforced by the governance structure, in the UK and some emerging markets.
experience and mandatory learning, helps to foster With an ever-changing economic and financial throughout HSBC a disciplined and constructive environment, we pro-actively review our risk profile culture of risk management and control.
and, where appropriate, introduce new risk 87 Shareholder Information Financial Statements Governance Operating & Financial Review Overview HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Report of the Directors: Operating and Financial Review continued Risk Challenges and uncertainties Business operations Macro-economic and geopolitical Scenario stress testing could cause serious damage to our ability to serve our clients, could breach regulations under which we We conduct a range of Group stress testing scenarios operate and could cause long-term damage to our including, but not limited to, severe global economic business and brand.
Information security and the downturn, country, sector and counterparty failures, management of increasing operational complexity and a variety of projected major operational risk are two of the key emerging operational risks that we events.
The outcomes of the stress scenarios are used face.
to assess the potential impact on demand for regulatory capital against its supply.
We also We are subject to legal and compliance risks, participate, where appropriate, in scenario analyses which could have an adverse effect on the requested by regulatory bodies.
Group In addition to the suite of risk scenarios Legal and compliance risks arise from a variety of considered for the Group, each major HSBC sources with the potential to cause harm to HSBC subsidiary conducts regular macro-economic and and our ability to operate.
These issues require us to event-driven scenario analyses specific to its region.
deal appropriately with potential conflicts of interest: Stress testing is also used by the market risk regulatory requirements: ethical issues: anti-money discipline to evaluate the potential impact on laundering laws and regulations: privacy laws: portfolio values of events or movements in a set information security policies: sales and trading of financial variables.
practices: and the conduct of companies with which we are associated.
Failure to address these issues Challenges and uncertainties appropriately may give rise to additional legal and Unaudited compliance risk to HSBC, with an increase in the number of litigation claims and the amount of The top and emerging risks identified through our damages asserted against us, or subject us to risk management processes and outlined in the regulatory enforcement actions, fines or penalties or Report of the Group Risk Committee on page 199, reputational damage.
present challenges and uncertainties as we carry out our activities.
These are considered in further detail We are subject to tax-related risks in the below.
countries in which we operate Business operations, governance and We are subject to the substance and interpretation of control tax laws in all countries in which we operate.
Failure to respond to changes in tax rates and comply with Operational risks are inherent in our procedures required by tax authorities could lead to business increased tax charges, including financial or We are exposed to many types of operational risk, operating penalties.
including fraudulent and other criminal activities both internal and external, breakdowns in Liquidity and funding risks are inherent in processes or procedures, or systems failure or our business unavailability.
We are also subject to the risk of HSBCs business model is founded upon having disruption to our business arising from events that ready access to financial resources whenever required are wholly or partially beyond our control for to meet our obligations and grow our business.
To this example: natural disasters, acts of terrorism, end, our entities seek to maintain a diversified and epidemics and transport or utility failures which stable funding base comprising core retail and may give rise to losses in service to customers and or corporate customer deposits and institutional economic loss to HSBC.
All of these risks are also balances, and certain entities augment this with applicable where we rely on external suppliers or amounts of long-term wholesale funding.
In addition, vendors to provide services to us and our customers.
we hold portfolios of highly liquid assets to enable us The reliability and security of our information to respond to unusual liquidity requirements.
We and technology infrastructure and its customer continue to maintain a strong liquidity position, databases, for example to combat internet fraud, are moving into the new regulatory landscape.
crucial to maintaining our banking applications and Where markets become illiquid, the value at processes and to protecting the HSBC brand.
Critical which financial instruments can be realised is highly system failure, any prolonged loss of service uncertain, and capital resources may shrink as availability or any material breach of data security, valuations decline.
Rating agency downgrades of particularly involving confidential customer data, 88 instruments to which we have exposure, or threats of trade and capital flows may contract as a result downgrades, can exacerbate the effect.
The liquidity of protectionist measures being introduced in of those HSBC entities that utilise long-term certain markets, or on the emergence of wholesale markets could be constrained by an geopolitical risks: inability to access them due to a variety of a prolonged period of low interest rates will unforeseen market dislocations or interruptions.
constrain, for example through margin The market conditions that the financial services compression and low returns on assets, net industry experienced during the recent financial interest income we earn on our excess deposits: crisis highlighted the significant benefits of a our ability to borrow from other financial diversified core deposit base, leading to increased institutions or to engage in funding transactions competition for such deposits and the greater risk of could be adversely affected by market disruption, deposit migration between competitors.
for example in the event of contagion from stress Our GB&M business operates in many markets in the eurozone sovereign and financial sectors: affected by illiquidity and is subject to the threat of market developments may depress consumer extreme price volatility, either directly or indirectly, and business confidence, for example if growth through exposures to securities, loans, derivatives in the US or the UK were to be poor, adversely and other commitments.
Although market conditions affecting both asset prices and payment patterns continued to moderate in 2010, it is difficult to and leading to increases in delinquencies and predict if this trend will continue and, if conditions default rates, write-offs and loan impairment worsen, which of our markets, products and other charges beyond our expectations.
The effect of businesses will be affected.
Any repeat of these such conditions in 2010 and previous years on factors could have an adverse effect on our results.
our North American retail business is described on page 110.
Macro-economic and geopolitical Prevailing economic and market conditions We are subject to political and economic may adversely affect our results risks in the countries in which we operate Our earnings are affected by global and local We responded effectively to the financial crisis and, economic and market conditions.
Following the more recently, the sovereign debt problems within problems experienced in financial markets in the eurozone, where we continued during 2010 to 2007-8, concerted government action in 2009 paved support our operations and carry out wider market functions.
the way for a general improvement in the economic environment in 2010, though recovery was variable As an organisation which operates in 87 between regions.
The eurozone economies came countries and territories, however, our results are under greater pressure, the dominant concern being subject to the risk of loss from unfavourable political over sovereign debt.
The financial services industry developments, currency fluctuations, social continued to face an unusually high degree of instability and changes in government policies on uncertainty.
such matters as expropriation, authorisations, With unemployment remaining high, consumer international ownership, interest-rate caps, foreign confidence weak in developed markets and amid exchange transferability and tax in the jurisdictions signs of emerging inflationary pressures, economic in which we operate.
conditions remain fragile and volatile.
Some The ability of HSBCs subsidiaries and affiliates countries may recover only slowly to past levels of to pay dividends could be restricted by changes in growth, with the possibility of a return to recessionary official banking measures, exchange controls and conditions in more sluggish economies, while others other requirements.
We prepare our accounts in US which are growing rapidly may need to undertake dollars, but because a substantial portion of our major adjustments to counter the formation of asset assets, liabilities, funds under management, revenues bubbles.
This could have an adverse effect on our and expenses are denominated in other currencies, operating results.
In particular, we may face the changes in foreign exchange rates have an effect on following challenges in connection with these events our reported income, cash flows and shareholders to our operations and operating model: equity.
the demand for borrowing from creditworthy customers may diminish if economic activity slows: 89 Shareholder Information Financial Statements Governance Operating & Financial Review Overview HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Report of the Directors: Operating and Financial Review continued Risk Challenges and uncertainties Macro-prudential and regulatory We have significant exposure to measures to achieve orderly resolution without cost counterparty risk within our portfolio to taxpayers.
Governments and regulators have embarked on significant change in the regulation of We have exposure to virtually all major industries the financial system, highlighting the following and counterparties, and we routinely execute priorities: transactions with counterparties in financial services, including brokers and dealers, commercial banks, a stronger international framework for investment banks, mutual and hedge funds, and other prudential regulation, ensuring significantly institutional clients.
Many of these transactions increased liquidity and regulatory capital buffers expose us to credit risk in the event of default by our and enhanced quality of capital: counterparty or client.
Financial institutions are convergence towards a single set of highnecessarily interdependent because of trading, quality, global, independent accounting clearing, counterparty or other relationships.
As a standards, with particular focus on accounting consequence, a default by, or decline in market for financial instruments and off-balance sheet confidence in, individual institutions, or anxiety exposures: about the financial services industry generally, can lead to further individual and or systemic losses.
Our strengthening the regulation of hedge funds credit risk may remain high if the collateral taken to and credit rating agencies, and improving the mitigate counterparty risk cannot be realised or has infrastructure for derivative transactions, to be liquidated at prices which are insufficient to including central counterparty clearing of overrecover the full amount of our loan or derivative the-counter derivatives: exposure.
For further information relating to the design and implementation of a system which major risk areas, see Areas of Special Interest on will allow for the restructuring or resolution of page 103. financial institutions, without taxpayers ultimately bearing the burden: Macro-prudential and regulatory an increased role for colleges of supervisors to We face a number of challenges in coordinate oversight of systemically significant regulation and supervision institutions such as HSBC, and effective Financial services providers face increased coordination of resolution regimes for failed regulation and supervision, with more stringent and banks: costly requirements in the areas of capital and measures on financial sector compensation liquidity management and of compliance relating to arrangements to prevent excessive short-term conduct of business and the integrity of financial risk taking and mitigate systemic risk on a services delivery.
Increased government intervention globally consistent basis: and and control over financial institutions, together with measures to reduce systemic risk, could significantly a fair and substantial contribution by the alter the competitive landscape.
financial sector towards paying for any burden associated with government interventions, Recent regulatory and supervisory where they occur, to repair and reduce risks developments have largely been shaped by the from the financial system or to fund the leaders, Finance Ministers and Central Bank resolution of problems.
Governors of the Group of Twenty nations the G20, who delegated the development and issuance Measures proposed by the Basel Committee to of standards to the Basel Committee of Banking increase resilience in the financial system Supervisors the Basel Committee.
The G20 also established the Financial Stability Board FSB to The Basel Committee, following consultation, assess vulnerabilities affecting the financial system impact analyses and draft proposals during 2010, as a whole, as well as to monitor and advise on issued final proposals in December 2010, known as market developments and best practice in meeting Basel III, on the twin areas of capital and liquidity, regulatory standards.
the key aspects of which are set out below.
In looking to address the systemic failures that Risk weightings: increased weightings for the caused the financial crisis of 2007-8, the authorities trading book and re-securitisations are planned asserted two primary objectives: to establish a for implementation by the end of 2011.
A resilient system to reduce substantially the risks of fundamental review of the trading book will failure of financial institutions and, in case failure in continue during 2011. the end proved unavoidable, to have in place 90 Quality of capital: there is renewed emphasis on rigorous oversight and co-ordinated assessment common equity as the principal component of of their risks through international supervisory tier 1 capital, with increased deductions from colleges, provide for higher levels of capital and shareholders equity calculated on an liquidity resilience, and require mandatory accounting basis to determine the level of recovery and resolution plans with  capital.
The phasing-in periods for specific crisis cooperation agreements between these new deductions will start in 2014, to be cross-border crisis management groups.
A strong capital position has long been, and will Minimum ratios: a new minimum common remain, a key priority for HSBC.
We are equipped to equity requirement of 4.5% is to be respond to the capital requirement standards of implemented in full by 1 January 2015.
An Basel III, as discussed further on pages 181 and 182, additional capital conservation buffer of 2.5% in and to sustain future growth.
common equity effectively acts as a trigger for restrictions on management actions such as the Other measures payment of dividends or bonuses so that the Remuneration: the FSB has issued principles on capital structure can be rebuilt.
This will be remuneration designed to guide regional and phased in between 1 January 2016 and national authorities in establishing appropriate 1 January 2019.
In addition to these core regimes to align remuneration in a risk-based tier 1 levels, additional requirements from the manner with the long-term interests of Basel Committee for tier 1 capital of 1.5% and stakeholders.
The EU has implemented rule tier 2 capital of 2.0%, by 2019, will lift the changes in the Capital Requirements Directive minimum total capital requirement for banks to which impact the balance between fixed and around 10.5%.
variable remuneration, establishing limits on the Countercyclical capital buffer: the Basel percentage of bonus which can be paid in cash.
Committee has finalised its proposals for a Approaches to the issue remain divergent countercyclical capital buffer of 2.5% in globally, however.
common equity, to be built up in periods of Bank levies: a number of levies are being raised excess credit growth compared with GDP on banks, notably by the UK, Germany and growth.
It is not clear how these may operate in France.
There is a renewed US proposal to raise practice and there is doubt that either a financial crisis responsibility fee on certain supervisors or the market would support release financial companies with assets over US$50bn.
of a buffer again as the economic cycle turned.
The European levies are calculated with Total leverage: the Committee has proposed a reference to measures of stability of funding, in leverage ratio of 3% of total assets to constrain order to encourage more stable structures.
In the aggregate size relative to the capital base.
It is UK, for example, the levy is to be charged at a intended that an observation period of parallel rate of 0.075% on all liabilities excluding running from 2013 to 2017 should enable a insured deposits and certain other elements, but minimum standard to become mandatory in with a lower rate for longer-term liabilities and 2018. uninsured deposits.
Germany will hypothecate levy income to create resolution funds to Liquidity and funding: a new minimum support failing banks, while in other standard, the Liquidity Coverage Ratio, has jurisdictions it will accrue to general tax been developed to promote the short-term revenues.
Under the draft legislation, the UK resilience of a banks liquidity risk profile.
levy is not tax deductible and does not meet the A Net Stable Funding Ratio has also been definition of an income tax for income statement introduced to provide a sustainable maturity purposes.
For indicative purposes only, the UK structure of assets and liabilities.
As it is not levy that would be payable based on the closing yet clear what unintended consequences these 2010 balance sheet, after taking into account measures may have, they will be phased in after announced changes to deposit protection observation periods in 2015 and 2018, schemes in 2011, is estimated at US$0.6bn.
Other taxes: other areas of financial sector The Basel Committee is also developing an taxation being considered by the authorities approach, due by the end of 2011, to defining are a Financial Activities Tax FAT, a tax Global Systemically Important Financial on profit and remuneration, and a Financial Institutions G-SIFIs to introduce more 91 Shareholder Information Financial Statements Governance Operating & Financial Review Overview HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Report of the Directors: Operating and Financial Review continued Risk Challenges and uncertainties Macro-prudential and regulatory Credit risk Credit risk management Transaction Tax FTT applied to a specified traded funds and other equity-like and nonrange of financial transactions.
An IMF report equity instruments, and to promote their trading for the G20 in 2010 saw merit in an FAT but on exchanges and other markets that will be did not recommend an FTT as it was felt not to subject to regulation.
It also proposes giving address the key issues within the G20 mandate additional power to regulators to ban trading in and might have unintended economic and products that are eligible to be cleared but for regulatory consequences.
In its Seoul 2010 which no clearing solution is currently available.
communique the G20 did not promote any The UK Independent Commission on Banking: one approach for adoption.
Both the European this Commission was established to examine Commission and the UK Government are issues of banking activity and competition, considering an FAT, which the former believes including the potential impact on financial can work at EU level.
The EU also sees merit in markets of a number of options to separate the an FTT but, recognising the dependency on an retail and wholesale activities of universal international consensus, will continue to work banks.
Responses to the opening consultation within the G20 for its adoption.
have been published and the Commission The Volcker Rule: under the Dodd-Frank Act, intends to publish an interim report in April banking organisations with operations in the US 2011, with further consultation prior to a final face limits on their ability to sponsor or invest in report in September 2011.
The UK Government private equity or hedge funds and are prohibited is not bound to adopt the Commissions from engaging in certain types of proprietary recommendations.
trading in the US, subject to a number of Recovery and resolution plans: such plans are exceptions allowing an entity significant leeway considered a key element in improving the to engage in client-serving trading, such as ability of regulators to rescue or resolve market-making and underwriting, and riskfirms when they get into difficulties without mitigating hedging activities.
The ultimate putting taxpayer monies at risk.
Studies and impact of these restrictions will depend on how pilots have been initiated by various official US regulators implement them in rulemaking.
bodies on the resolution of financial firms and Derivatives and central counterparties the international coordination of such exercises: regulation: as agreed by the G20, the authorities the UK authorities have been at the forefront of are seeking to reduce systemic risk and volatility work to develop approaches to this subject.
The relating to derivatives trading.
In the US, the EU has consulted on a new framework for crisis Dodd-Frank Act provides for an extensive management, including so-called bail-in creditor write-down resolution.
Legislative regulatory framework for over the counter OTC derivatives.
In addition to the proposals are expected mid-2011.
In the US, mandatory clearing, exchange trading and the Dodd-Frank Act established the Orderly reporting of certain swaps and security-based Liquidation Authority which will ultimately swaps, it also requires the registration of swap provide a bank-like receivership process for dealers and major swap participants, making large financial companies: resolution plans will them subject to capital, margin, business be required of large financial institutions and conduct and record-keeping regulations.
In rules for early remediation will be September 2010, the EU Commission presented forthcoming.
There is currently no consistent proposals, currently in negotiation, for all approach and a number of key areas need to be standardised OTC derivatives to be reported to addressed, including an international legal trade repositories and centrally cleared by the framework for addressing competing creditor end of 2012.
The proposal disincentivises claims and the application of collateral.
derivative contracts which are not eligible for central clearing by proposing higher capital Restructuring of regulatory bodies requirements.
Exemptions for foreign exchange In addition to the significant volume of new swaps and forwards are currently being regulation emanating from the Basel Committee and considered.
others, the landscape of financial sector regulation Markets in financial instruments: the European itself in a number of major Western countries is Commission is conducting a major Review of undergoing significant change, presenting its own the Markets in Financial Instruments Directive, challenges to the industry and its implementation of potentially to extend its scope beyond equities to proposed reforms.
other asset classes including bonds, exchange- 92 In the EU, new authorities for segments of the constrain the availability of funds for lending to financial services sector took up their powers support economic recovery.
with effect from 1 January 2011: the European Banking Authority, the European Securities Credit Risk Markets Authority and the European Insurance Credit risk management and Occupational Pension Authority.
In Audited addition, a European Systemic Risk Board will consider emerging macro-prudential risks.
Credit risk is the risk of financial loss if a customer or counterparty fails to meet a payment obligation In the UK, the Financial Services Authoritys under a contract.
It arises principally from direct FSA prudential supervisory responsibilities lending, trade finance and leasing business, but also will be transferred in 2012 to a Bank of England from off-balance sheet products such as counterparty agency, the Prudential Regulatory Authority, risk guarantees and credit derivatives, and from our while the Financial Conduct Authority will act holdings of debt securities.
Of the risks in which we as a single regulator of conduct of business for engage, credit risk generates the largest regulatory both retail and wholesale firms.
In the US, the Dodd-Frank Act re-assigns Principal objectives of our credit risk management responsibilities of existing agencies, demising to maintain across HSBC a strong culture of responsible the Office of Thrift Supervision and creating lending and a robust risk policy and control framework: others, including a Financial Stability Oversight to both partner and challenge our businesses in defining, Council to address systemic matters and a implementing and continually re-evaluating our risk appetite under actual and scenario conditions: and Bureau of Consumer Protection.
to ensure there is independent, expert scrutiny of credit risks, their costs and their mitigation.
Implementation risks The extensive programme of regulatory change The Credit Risk department fulfils the role of an carries significant implementation risks for independent credit control unit as part of the Global authorities and industry participants alike, including: Risk function in our Group Management Office GMO.
Credit approval authorities are delegated Disparities in implementation: many official by the Board to the most senior Chief Executive measures are proposals in development and Officers, who receive commensurate authorities negotiation, and have yet to be enacted into from their own boards.
In each major subsidiary, a regional and national legislation.
These Chief Risk Officer reports to the local Chief processes could result in differing, fragmented Executive Officer on credit-related issues, while and overlapping implementation around the maintaining a direct functional reporting line to the world, leading to risks of regulatory arbitrage, a Group Chief Risk Officer in GMO.
far from level competitive playing-field and increased compliance costs, especially for large, Credit quality global financial institutions such as HSBC.
Audited Timetable and market expectations: while the Our credit risk rating systems and processes Basel Committee has announced the timetable differentiate exposures in order to highlight those for its core proposals in Basel III, it remains with greater risk factors and higher potential severity uncertain how these and other measures will of loss.
In the case of individually significant play out in practice, for instance with regard to accounts, risk ratings are reviewed regularly and any differences in approach between Basel III and amendments are implemented promptly.
Within our the Dodd-Frank Act in the US.
Meanwhile, retail businesses, risk is assessed and managed using market expectations will exert pressure on a wide range of risk and pricing models to generate institutions to assess and effect compliance well portfolio data.
in advance of official timetables.
Our risk rating system facilitates the internal Wider economic impact and unforeseen ratings-based IRB approach under Basel II consequences: while the conclusions of official adopted by the Group to support calculation of our and industry studies have diverged, the minimum credit regulatory capital requirement.
measures proposed will clearly impact on For further details, see Credit quality of financial financial and economic activity in ways that instruments on page 114. cannot yet be clearly foreseen.
For example, higher capital requirements may seriously 93 Shareholder Information Financial Statements Governance Operating & Financial Review Overview HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Report of the Directors: Operating and Financial Review continued Risk Credit risk Credit risk management Credit exposure Special attention is paid to problem exposures Impairment assessment Audited in order to accelerate remedial action.
Where appropriate, our operating companies use specialist It is HSBCs policy that each operating company units to provide customers with support in order to creates allowances for impaired loans promptly and help them avoid default wherever possible.
The high-level oversight and management of credit risk Impairment allowances may be assessed and provided globally by the Credit Risk function within GMO created either for individually significant accounts to formulate Group credit policy.
Compliance, subject to or, on a collective basis, for groups of individually approved dispensations, is mandatory for all operating significant accounts for which no evidence of companies which must develop local credit policies impairment has been individually identified or for consistent with Group policies: high-volume groups of homogeneous loans that are to guide operating companies on our appetite for credit risk exposure to specified market sectors, activities and banking not considered individually significant.
products and controlling exposures to certain higher-risk sectors: When impairment losses occur, we reduce the to undertake an independent review and objective carrying amount of loans and advances through the assessment of risk.
Global Risk assesses all commercial use of an allowance account.
When impairment of non-bank credit facilities and exposures over designated available-for-sale financial assets and held-tolimits, prior to the facilities being committed to customers or transactions being undertaken: maturity financial investments occurs, we reduce the carrying amount of the asset directly.
For further to monitor the performance and management of portfolios across the Group: details, see Critical accounting policies on page 33. to control exposure to sovereign entities, banks and other financial institutions, as well as debt securities which are not Write-off of loans and advances held solely for the purpose of trading: to set our policy on large credit exposures, ensuring that Loans are normally written off, either partially or in concentrations of exposure by counterparty, sector or full, when there is no realistic prospect of further geography do not become excessive in relation to our recovery.
For secured loans, write-off generally capital base, and remain within internal and regulatory occurs after receipt of any proceeds from the limits: realisation of security.
Write-off may occur earlier to control our cross-border exposures see page 102 : when the net realisable value of any collateral has to maintain and develop our risk rating framework and systems.
The Group Chief Risk Officer chairs the Credit been determined and there is no reasonable Risk Analytics Oversight Committee, which reports to the expectation of further recovery.
Risk Management Meeting and oversees risk rating model governance for both wholesale and retail business: In HSBC Finance, the carrying amounts of to report on retail portfolio performance, high risk residential mortgage and second lien loans in excess portfolios, risk concentrations, country limits and crossof net realisable value are written off at or before the border exposures, large impaired accounts, impairment time foreclosure is completed or settlement is allowances and stress testing results and recommendations to the Risk Management Meeting, the Group Risk reached with the borrower.
If there is no reasonable Committee and the Board: and expectation of recovery, and foreclosure is pursued, to act on behalf of HSBC Holdings as the primary interface, the loan is normally written off no later than the end for credit-related issues, with the Bank of England, the FSA, of the month in which the loan becomes 180 days local regulators, rating agencies, analysts and counterparts contractually past due.
in major banks and non-bank financial institutions.
Unsecured personal facilities, including credit cards, are generally written off at between 150 and Group and regional Credit Review and Risk 210 days past due, the standard period being the end Identification teams regularly review exposures and of the month in which the account becomes 180 days processes in order to provide an independent, contractually delinquent.
Write-off periods may be rigorous assessment of credit risk across the HSBC extended, generally to no more than 360 days past Group, reinforce secondary risk management due but in very exceptional circumstances exceeding controls and share best practice.
Internal audit, as a that figure, in a few countries where local regulation tertiary control function, focuses on risks with a or legislation constrain earlier write-off, or where the global perspective and on the design and realisation of collateral for secured real estate effectiveness of primary and secondary controls, lending extends to this time.
carrying out oversight audits via sampling of global regional control frameworks, themed audits of In the event of bankruptcy or analogous key or emerging risks and project audits to assess proceedings, write-off may occur earlier than at the major change initiatives.
Collections procedures may some improvement, economic and housing market continue after write-off.
conditions remain difficult across the US and we remain focused on running off the residual balances Cross-border exposures in our Consumer Lending and Mortgage Services portfolio.
In the UK, we grew our residential We assess the vulnerability of countries to foreign mortgage lending exposure as a result of successful currency payment restrictions, including economic promotional campaigns and competitive pricing.
The and political factors, when considering impairment consistent application of conservative underwriting allowances on cross-border exposures.
Impairment criteria ensured the credit quality of our residential allowances are assessed in respect of all qualifying mortgage exposure in the UK remained satisfactory exposures within vulnerable countries unless these and well secured.
Our exposure to the Hong Kong exposures and the inherent risks are: residential mortgage market also grew during 2010: performing, trade-related and of less than one we continued to lend conservatively with an average years maturity: loan-to-value ratio of 55% on new mortgage sales.
For further commentary on personal lending, see mitigated by acceptable security cover which is, Areas of special interest Personal Lending on other than in exceptional cases, held outside the page 106. country concerned: in the form of securities held for trading Loss experience: percentage of total loan purposes for which a liquid and active market impairment charges and other credit risk provisions Unaudited exists, and which are measured at fair value daily: and 2010 2009 US$14,039m US$26,488m performing facilities with a principal excluding Other GB&M GB&M security of US$1m or below and or with 1% 7% 12% CMB maturity dates shorter than three months.
13% CMB 12% Credit exposure PFS PFS 75% Maximum exposure to credit risk 80% Audited The following table presents the maximum Our credit exposure is spread across a broad range of exposure to credit risk from balance sheet and offasset classes, including derivatives, trading assets, balance sheet financial instruments, before taking loans and advances to customers, loans and advances account of any collateral held or other credit to banks and financial investments.
In 2010, enhancements unless such credit enhancements meet exposure to credit risk remained diversified across accounting offsetting requirements.
However, the balance changed compared assets recognised on the balance sheet, the maximum with the end of 2009, reflecting growth in loans exposure to credit risk equals their carrying amount: and advances to both customers and banks, and a for financial guarantees and similar contracts reduction in trading assets due to the deconsolidation granted, it is the maximum amount that we would of the Constant Net Asset Value funds.
have to pay if the guarantees were called upon.
For loan commitments and other credit-related Residential mortgage lending continued to commitments that are irrevocable over the life of the represent a significant portion of our overall credit respective facilities, it is generally the full amount of exposure.
In 2010, the credit quality of our mortgage the committed facilities.
portfolios generally improved, reflecting economic conditions and a stabilisation of unemployment and house prices in most of our key markets.
Collateral and other credit enhancements in the commercial real estate sector, charges Audited over the properties being financed: and Collateral held against financial instruments in the financial sector, charges over financial presented in the above table is described in more instruments such as cash, debt securities and detail below.
equities in support of trading facilities.
In addition, credit derivatives and securitisation Loans and advances structures are used to hedge or transfer credit risk Although collateral can be an important mitigant of within our loan portfolio.
credit risk, it is our policy to lend on the basis of the The loans and advances offset adjustment in the customers capacity to repay rather than to rely on table above primarily relates to customer loans and the value of security offered.
Depending on the deposits, and balances arising from repo and reverse customers standing and the type of product, repo transactions.
The offset relates to balances facilities may be provided unsecured.
where there is a legally enforceable right of offset We employ the following principal collateral in the event of counterparty default, and where, types: as a result, there is a net exposure for credit risk management purposes.
However, as there is no in the personal sector, mortgages over intention to settle these balances on a net basis under residential properties: normal circumstances, they do not qualify for net in the commercial and industrial sector, charges presentation for accounting purposes.
over business assets such as premises, stock and debtors: 96 We do not disclose the fair value of collateral securities and equities, by settling through assured held as security or other credit enhancements on payment systems or on a  loans and advances past due but not impaired, or on basis.
individually assessed impaired loans and advances, as it is not practicable to do so.
Concentration of exposure Audited Derivatives Concentrations of credit risk arise when a number of counterparties or exposures have comparable The International Swaps and Derivatives Association economic characteristics, or such counterparties are ISDA Master Agreement is our preferred engaged in similar activities or operate in the same agreement for documenting derivatives activity.
It geographical areas or industry sectors, so that their provides the contractual framework within which collective ability to meet contractual obligations is dealing activity across a full range of OTC products uniformly affected by changes in economic, political is conducted, and contractually binds both parties to or other conditions.
We use a number of controls apply close-out netting across all outstanding and measures to minimise undue concentration of transactions covered by an agreement if either party exposure in our portfolios across industry, country defaults or another pre-agreed termination event and customer groups.
These include portfolio and occurs.
It is common, and our preferred practice, for counterparty limits, approval and review controls, the parties to execute a Credit Support Annex and stress testing.
CSA in conjunction with the ISDA Master Agreement.
Under a CSA, collateral is passed Wrong-way risk is an aggravated form of between the parties to mitigate the counterparty risk concentration risk and arises when there is a strong inherent in outstanding positions.
The majority of correlation between the counterpartys probability our CSAs are with financial institutional clients.
of default and the mark-to-market value of the underlying transaction.
We use a range of procedures The derivative offset amount in the above table to monitor and control wrong-way risk, including relates to exposures where the counterparty has an requiring entities to obtain prior approval before offsetting derivative exposure with HSBC, a master undertaking wrong-way risk transactions outside netting arrangement is in place and the credit risk pre-agreed guidelines.
exposure is managed on a net basis, or the position is specifically collateralised, normally in the form of Securities held for trading cash.
At 31 December 2010, the total amount of such Unaudited offsets was US$197.5bn 2009: US$189.6bn, of which US$178.3bn 2009: US$168.5bn were offsets A detailed analysis of securities held for trading is under a master netting arrangement, US$19.0bn set out in Note 15 on the Financial Statements and an 2009: US$21.0bn were collateral received in cash analysis of credit quality is provided on page 114. and US$0.2bn 2009: US$0.1bn were other collateral.
These amounts do not qualify for net Debt securities, treasury and other eligible bills Unaudited presentation for accounting purposes, as settlement may not actually be made on a net basis.
HSBCs holdings of corporate debt, ABS and other securities were spread across a wide range of issuers Treasury, other eligible bills and debt securities and geographical regions, with 25% invested in securities issued by banks and other financial Debt securities, treasury and other eligible bills are institutions.
A more detailed analysis of financial generally unsecured except for asset-backed investments is set out in Note 21 on the Financial securities ABS and similar instruments, which Statements and an analysis by credit quality is are secured by pools of financial assets.
Items in the course of collection from other banks At 31 December 2010, our insurance businesses held diversified portfolios of debt and equity Settlement risk arises in any situation where a securities designated at fair value 2010: US$28bn: payment in cash, securities or equities is made in the 2009: US$25bn and debt securities classified as expectation of a corresponding receipt of cash, financial investments 2010: US$38bn: 2009: securities or equities.
Daily settlement limits are US$35bn.
A more detailed analysis of securities established for counterparties to cover the aggregate held by the insurance businesses is set out on of our transactions with each one on any single day.
We substantially mitigate settlement risk on many transactions, particularly those involving 97 Shareholder Information Financial Statements Governance Operating & Financial Review Overview HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Report of the Directors: Operating and Financial Review continued Risk Credit risk Credit exposure Derivatives The following commentary is on a constant Unaudited currency basis: Derivative assets at 31 December 2010 were Personal lending was US$425bn, a decline of US$261bn, a rise of 4% from 31 December 2009.
2% compared with the end of 2009 as growth in Our single largest exposure was to interest rate residential mortgage lending was more than offset derivatives, and this balance increased in 2010 by lower other personal lending balances.
Personal reflecting downward shifts in yield curves, partly lending represented 43% of our total lending to offset by higher netting from increased trading with customers.
At US$269bn, residential mortgage clearing houses.
The notional value of outstanding lending constituted the Groups largest concentration contracts also rose, reflecting an increase in the in a single exposure type.
In 2010, residential number of open transactions compared with 2009.
In mortgage lending increased by 4%, reflecting strong addition our exposure to exchange rate derivatives growth in new mortgage sales in Hong Kong and the rose as a result of increased volatility.
This was partly offset by a 12% decline in the US, mainly due to the continued run-off of our Loans and advances Consumer Lending and Mortgage Services Unaudited portfolios.
On a reported basis, gross loans and advances to Corporate and commercial lending was 46% customers excluding the financial sector at of gross lending to customers at 31 December 31 December 2010 increased by US$52bn or 6% 2010, comprising our largest lending category.
On a constant currency Commercial, industrial and international trade basis the increase was 7%.
The rise was primarily represented the largest portion of this category and due to growth in Asia, mainly in trade-related this increased by 23% in the year, reflecting the lending and, to a lesser extent, our commercial real growth in trade activity, particularly in Asia.
estate and personal lending portfolios, as the region Commercial real estate lending, which represented prospered.
7% of total gross lending to customers, increased by 5% due to strong growth in Hong Kong.
Summary of gross loans and advances to customers Unaudited In the financial category, our largest exposure was to non-bank financial institutions: this largely US$bn 500 2010 2009 446 comprised secured lending on trading accounts, 434 425 Reported basis 383 mainly repo facilities.
400 Loans and advances to banks were widely 300 distributed across major institutions in 2010 and 200 increased by 16% as placements with central 102 97 and commercial banks in Europe, Asia and Latin 100 6 8 America rose.
0 Personal Corporate and Financial ABSs The following tables analyse loans by industry commercial reclassified sector and by the location of the principal operations of the lending subsidiary or, in the case of the operations of The Hongkong and Shanghai Banking Corporation, HSBC Bank, HSBC Bank Middle East and HSBC Bank USA, by the location of the lending branch.
The classification is based on the country of cross-border exposures residence of the borrower but also recognises the Unaudited transfer of country risk in respect of third-party guarantees, eligible collateral held and residence of We control the risk associated with cross-border the head office when the borrower is a branch.
In lending through a centralised structure of internal accordance with the Bank of England Country country limits.
Exposures to individual countries and Exposure Report Form CE guidelines, outstandings cross-border exposure in the aggregate are kept comprise loans and advances excluding settlement under continual review.
accounts, amounts receivable under finance leases, The following table summarises the aggregate acceptances, commercial bills, certificates of deposit of in-country foreign currency and cross-border CDs and debt and equity securities net of short outstandings by type of borrower to countries which positions, and exclude accrued interest and individually represent in excess of 0.75% of our total intra-HSBC exposures.
Areas of special interest credit risk premia in private securities prices triggered portfolio reallocation to safer assets and a Wholesale lending tightening of market liquidity.
Initial concerns over Unaudited liquidity and funding spread to doubts about solvency in a number of cases.
The table below Wholesale lending covers the range of credit summarises our exposures to governments and facilities granted to sovereign borrowers, banks, central banks of selected eurozone countries, and non-bank financial institutions and corporate near quasi government agencies and banks entities.
Our wholesale portfolios are well domiciled in those countries.
An analysis of loans diversified across geographical and industry and advances to customers by significant countries sectors, with certain exposures subject to specific is provided on page 101. portfolio controls.
Overall credit quality improved during 2010, as economies generally demonstrated Our exposure to eurozone countries under signs of recovery.
Exposures to countries in the eurozone Unaudited Sovereign debt Intervention by governments to stabilise and reAs a result of the disruption in global financial capitalise banks and other financial intermediaries markets, the eurozone experienced a severe during the financial crisis helped to reduce the recession, followed by a sovereign debt crisis in possibility of a systemic threat to financial markets some member countries, where the high level of by transferring risk from the private sector to government deficits, banking system problems, sovereign bodies.
In 2010, this contributed to fiscal imbalances and low or declining GDP growth the creation of large fiscal imbalances in some increased their perceived vulnerability to a future industrialised economies and as a result, market downturn.
Various financial and political stresses concerns about sovereign credit risk in these forced Greece and Ireland to seek a bailout by the countries intensified.
Credit spreads for the affected ECB and the International Monetary Fund IMF sovereign and bank credit markets remained in May and November 2010, respectively, and volatile during most of 2010.
Risk aversion contagion risk to peripheral countries, notably Italy, resurfaced, and the assumption of higher sovereign Portugal and Spain persisted.
This has been Rating agencies downgraded the debt of a number viewed as a positive development by the market and of eurozone countries during 2010 and put some rating agencies, though implementation awaits on review for possible downgrades.
While the disclosure of further details by the policymakers.
We ECB continues to provide broad access to liquidity expect the ECB and eurozone countries will focus in support for eurozone sovereign borrowers and banks, 2011 on resolving intra-eurozone imbalances, the availability of longer-term fiscal support from rebuilding public finances, improving fiscal the EU for sovereigns is less certain and may lead discipline, strengthening the banking system and to debt restructuring and increased private sector managing cross-border risk.
We have closely managed our exposure to The eurozone as a whole retained substantial sovereign debt during 2010.
At 31 December 2010, economic and financial strength despite the stresses our exposure to the sovereign debt of Belgium, from the financial crisis.
However, concerns Greece, Ireland, Italy, Portugal and Spain was remained over the refinancing risks for sovereign US$8.4bn and the overall quality of the portfolio was borrowers and banks posed by the problems with strong with most in-country and cross-border limits market liquidity and the uncertainty surrounding extended to countries with high-grade internal credit support arrangements in the longer term.
We regularly update our assessment of policymakers have created two major facilities to higher risk countries and adjust our risk appetite to counter short-term financing problems, the European reflect such changes.
Financial Stability Facility and the European 104 European banks Middle East and North Africa In May 2010, an FSB review indicated that European In 2009, Dubai World requested a standstill agreement banks would have to make additional loan impairment with creditors in respect of the indebtedness of certain charges of up to US$143bn in 2011.
Following the Dubai World group companies.
The market disruption publication of this report, bond spreads on both that ensued cut would-be borrowers off from the European and US banks widened.
The size of the capital markets, although continued restructuring financial sectors exposure to sovereign debt and efforts throughout 2010 saw the return of significant doubts about economic conditions in parts of the positive sentiment from investors.
As one of the longeurozone raised fresh concerns about banks credit term bankers to Dubai World and the various entities ratings.
In addition, uncertainty over liquidity, related to the Government of Dubai, the Group has solvency, funding, changing regulation, capital worked closely during 2010 to address the prevailing requirements and taxation, and speculation over the issues.
In October 2010, Dubai World obtained an stability of the euro, continued to cloud the future for agreement to restructure US$25bn of its debt subject European banking.
to final documentation expected to be signed in the first half of 2011.
The arrangement extends loan The banking sector in the eurozone remains maturities for five to eight years at discounted rates, under stress, mainly as a consequence of allowing Dubai World time to sell off its non-core governments having to finance large budget deficits, assets while focusing on its core earnings.
The troubles in property markets and weak credit growth.
Groups exposure to Dubai is primarily spread across The Ireland bailout was a direct consequence of the operating companies within the emirate.
failure of the Irish banking sector, largely driven by the domestic property price crash.
Worries about the Political developments in the region are being size and quality of eurozone banks exposure to monitored closely and action taken to mitigate their weaker eurozone countries are entwined with impact.
It is too early to foresee how events may unfold: hitherto, our business in the region has for concerns about their ability to fund themselves.
European banks share nearly three quarters of the the most part operated without serious disruption.
In public and private sector debt in Belgium, Greece, the medium term, economic growth in the region Ireland, Italy, Portugal and Spain.
The regional and may be adversely affected, with wider implications local banks in the eurozone are considered more if the prices of oil, food and commodities rise vulnerable than well-diversified global banks.
During 2010, we were subject to the Committee Commercial real estate of European Banking Supervisors now the European Banking Authority coordinated stress test of 91 EU Our exposure in the commercial real estate sectors is financial institutions.
Banks were required to meet a concentrated in the UK, North America and Hong 6% minimum tier 1 target under stress.
While there were some positive signs of test satisfactorily, with a post-stress tier 1 ratio of recovery in markets in the UK and the US, in part 10.2% placing us in the top quartile of the institutions supported by the low levels of interest rates, the slow tested.
Further stress testing is due to take place in speed of the recovery meant that financing and re- 2011. financing activity in the sector remained subdued.
In Hong Kong, the economy recovered robustly and the We expect that the pace of reforms outlined market was relatively buoyant in 2010, characterised by various policymakers will gather speed in 2011, by strong demand and continuing credit appetite.
most notably the Basel III proposals.
These regulations will require banks to hold more capital and a higher On a constant currency basis, the aggregate of quality of capital and implement new liquidity rules, our commercial real estate and other property-related and are likely to result in a rise in the cost of funding lending of US$107bn at 31 December 2010 was 7% and put pressure on credit pricing.
higher than at 31 December 2009 and represented 11% of total loans and advances to customers.
The We continue to closely monitor and manage increase in exposure was largely in Hong Kong, eurozone bank exposures, and are cautious in lending offset by a reduction in North America.
We regularly update our assessment of credit quality across this sector generally showed higher-risk eurozone banks and adjust our risk appetite signs of stabilising but remained under stress in accordingly.
We also, where possible, seek to play a certain markets.
positive role in maintaining credit and liquidity supply.
Across our portfolios, credit risk is mitigated by long-standing and conservative policies on asset 105 Shareholder Information Financial Statements Governance Operating & Financial Review Overview HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Report of the Directors: Operating and Financial Review continued Risk Credit risk Areas of special interest Personal lending origination which focus on relationships with longfall in other personal lending balances, reflecting a term customers and limited initial leverage.
We also reduction in unsecured lending products as we set and monitor sector risk appetite limits at Group tightened our underwriting criteria and some and regional levels to detect and prevent higher risk consumers reduced their indebtedness.
While individual regions differ in Total personal lending balances in the US at their approach, typically origination loan to value 31 December 2010 were US$109bn, a decrease of ratios would be less than 65% across the Group.
19% compared with the end of 2009, reflecting the continued reduction in balances in our consumer Personal lending finance run-off portfolios and lower balances in our Unaudited Card and Retail Services business.
We provide a broad range of secured and unsecured US residential mortgage lending balances fell by personal lending products to meet customer needs.
12% to US$58bn, driven by the decisions taken in Given the diverse nature of the markets in which 2007 to close the Mortgage Services business and in we operate, the range is not standard across March 2009 to close all Consumer Lending branches all countries but is tailored to meet the demands and run off the residual consumer finance balances.
of individual markets while using appropriate US mortgage lending is discussed in greater detail on distribution channels and, wherever possible, global page 108.
In PFS, total loan impairment charges and Personal lending includes advances to customers for asset purchases, such as residential property and other credit risk provisions were 44% down motor vehicles, where the loans are typically secured on 2009. by the assets being acquired.
We also offer loans secured on existing assets, such as first and second Other personal lending balances in the US were liens on residential property: unsecured lending US$52bn at 31 December 2010, 25% lower than at the end of 2009. Credit card balances declined by products such as overdrafts, credit cards and payroll 14% reflecting a reduction in active customer loans: and debt consolidation loans which may be accounts and an increased focus by our customers secured or unsecured.
on reducing outstanding credit card debt.
In 2010, credit quality in our personal lending In March we sold US$1.0bn of vehicle finance portfolios improved, reflecting a recovery of loans.
This was followed in August by the sale of the economic conditions in most markets.
Delinquency residual vehicle finance loans US$4.3bn to the levels and loan impairment charges declined, same purchaser.
particularly in those countries which had previously been most affected by rising unemployment and In Hong Kong, total personal lending grew by house price depreciation.
20% to US$57bn as a result of strong growth in The commentary that follows is on an residential mortgage lending.
In the Rest of Asiaunderlying basis.
Pacific region, personal lending also grew strongly across many countries, notably Australia, Singapore At 31 December 2010, total personal lending and Malaysia, through successful marketing.
This was US$425bn, a decline of 2% from 31 December growth was partly offset by a managed reduction in 2009 as the reduction in our US run-off portfolios unsecured personal lending balances in India.
continued, partly offset by notable growth in Hong Kong and the UK.
Within our PFS business, total In Latin America, total personal lending was loan impairment charges and other credit risk broadly flat at US$22bn as moderate growth in provisions of US$11.3bn were 44% lower than in residential mortgage lending, particularly in Brazil, 2009, and were concentrated in North America was more than offset by a decline in other personal US$8.2bn and, to a lesser extent, Europe lending.
The latter reflected falls in credit card US$1.2bn and Latin America US$1.2bn.
lending in Mexico and other higher-risk portfolios in Mexico and Brazil as we continued to reduce higherIn the UK, total personal lending was risk portfolios in the region and tighten our US$129bn, an increase of 4% compared with the end underwriting criteria.
The increase was due to growth in mortgage lending as a result of the enhancement of our product For an analysis of loan impairment allowances offerings, successful marketing and competitive and impaired loans, see page 119. pricing UK mortgage lending is discussed in greater detail on page 108.
Mortgage lending Interest-only mortgages are those for which customers make regular payments of interest during We offer a wide range of mortgage products the life of the loan and repay the principal from the designed to meet customer needs, including capital sale of their home or alternative sources of funds.
repayment mortgages subject to fixed or variable Typically, with introductory interest-only mortgages, interest rates and products designed to meet demand the interest-only element is for a fixed term at the for housing loans with more flexible payment start of the loan, after which principal repayments structures.
We underwrite both first lien residential commence.
mortgages and loans secured on second lien mortgages.
Affordability mortgages include all products where the customers monthly payments are set at 107 Shareholder Information Financial Statements Governance Operating & Financial Review Overview HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Report of the Directors: Operating and Financial Review continued Risk Credit risk Areas of special interest US personal lending a low initial rate, either variable or fixed, before 31 December 2010, a decline of 14% compared with resetting to a higher rate once the introductory period the end of 2009. is over.
Offset mortgages are products linked to a Mortgage lending in HSBC Finance fell by 17% current or savings account, where interest earned is to US$51bn with declines in both the Consumer used to repay mortgage debt.
Lending and Mortgage Services portfolios from their planned run-off.
See table on page 110 for a UK mortgage lending breakdown of mortgage lending in HSBC Finance.
On a constant currency basis, total mortgage lending Mortgage lending in the UK rose by 7% to in the UK, comprising residential and second lien US$104bn, while in the US balances lending, increased by 7% to US$104bn at declined by 14% to US$67bn.
Growth was achieved largely through the enhancement of our product offerings, Mortgage lending balances in HSBC Bank USA successful marketing and competitive pricing.
remained broadly unchanged at US$16bn.
We Nonetheless, mortgage lending was constrained by continue to sell the majority of new origination to the decline in re-mortgage activity due to the low the secondary markets as a means of managing our interest rate environment and consumer concerns interest rate risk and improving structural liquidity.
over future employment and higher interest rates.
This reduction was partly offset by an increase in Our UK mortgage portfolio remained of high originations to Premier customers with whom we quality, consisting primarily of lending to owneralready held a banking relationship.
We restricted lending to purchase 2010, approximately 32% of the HSBC Bank USA residential property for the purpose of rental and mortgage portfolio were fixed rate loans and 77% almost all new business was originated through our were first lien.
own salesforce, with the self-certification of income During 2010, state and federal officials not permitted.
The majority of mortgage lending was announced investigations into the procedures to existing customers holding current or savings followed by mortgage servicing companies and accounts with HSBC: this facilitated and banks, including HSBC Finance and its affiliates, strengthened the underwriting process.
This included a joint Loan impairment charges and delinquency examination by the Federal Reserve and the Office levels in our UK mortgage book declined despite of the Comptroller of the Currency.
Following the unemployment remaining high, mainly due to examination, our examiners issued supervisory improving economic conditions and low interest letters noting deficiencies in our processing, rates, which helped make mortgages more affordable preparation and signing of affidavits and other for customers.
Our continuing enhancements in documents supporting foreclosures, and in the credit underwriting, credit policies and collection governance of and resources devoted to our processes contributed to the reduction in foreclosure process.
We have suspended foreclosures delinquencies.
pending correction of the weaknesses.
Management is reviewing all foreclosures which have not yet been The percentage of loans that were 30 days or completed, and will correct deficient documentation more delinquent declined from 1.6% at 31 December and refile documents where required.
2009 to 1.4% in 2010 in the HSBC Bank mortgage portfolio and remained at less than 1.0% in the First As a result of the investigations, we expect that Direct portfolio.
the scrutiny of documents will increase, and in some states additional verification of information may be In 2010, the average loan-to-value ratio for required.
If these trends continue after we reinstitute new business in the UK was 54%, an increase of a foreclosure, there could be additional delays in the single percentage point on the previous year.
Interest-only mortgage balances increased A discussion of credit trends in the US mortgage by 4% to US$45bn compared with 2009.
The lending portfolio and the steps taken to mitigate risk majority of these mortgages were offset mortgages is provided in US personal lending credit quality at First Direct for which delinquency rates remained on page 110. at very low levels.
The following table shows the levels of US mortgage lending mortgage lending products in the various portfolios in the US, the UK and the rest of the HSBC Group.
HSBC Finance held approximately US$51bn estate at 31 December 2010, 12% of the Groups of residential mortgage and second lien loans and gross loans and advances to personal customers.
US personal lending Unemployment rates, which have been a major Unaudited factor in the deterioration of credit quality, were 9.4% in December 2010, a decrease of 60 basis Credit quality points since December 2009.
Unemployment rates in During 2010, economic conditions in the US 18 states were at or above the US national average generally improved, although the pace of and unemployment rates in 5 states were at or above improvement continued to be slow.
11%, including California and Florida, where more than 5% of HSBC Finances total loan balances are In the first half of 2010, house prices stabilised based.
in many markets and began to recover in others, as the first time homebuyer tax credit and continued Ongoing improvement in the US economy will low interest rates favourably affected the housing be dependent on a sustained recovery in the housing market.
However, in the second half of the year, market and unemployment rates, as well as the house prices declined in many markets as the continuation of low interest rates.
Renewed homebuyer tax credit ended and foreclosure levels weakening in these factors and in consumer rose.
confidence may adversely affect consumer payment patterns and credit quality.
110 Mortgage lending At HSBC Bank USA, second lien balances declined by 10% to US$3.7bn, and two months or In 2010, we reduced our non-prime mortgage more delinquency rates increased from 4.0% at exposure as balances continued to run-off in our 31 December 2009 to 4.8% at 31 December 2010 due Consumer Lending and Mortgage Services portfolios to the effects of high unemployment levels.
At 31 December 2010, residential mortgage lending balances were US$58bn, a decline Stated-income mortgages are underwritten on the of 12% compared with the end of 2009. basis of borrowers representations of annual income and are not verified by supporting documents and, as In both our Consumer Lending and Mortgage a result, represent a higher than average level of risk.
Services mortgage portfolios, two months or more Stated income balances in HSBC Finance declined delinquent balances declined as balances ran-off and from US$3.9bn to US$2.9bn as the portfolio economic conditions improved.
In addition, writtencontinued to run off.
Two months or more off balances were replaced with lower levels of new delinquency rates increased to 24.0% at 31 December delinquency volumes as the portfolios continue to 2010.
In HSBC Bank USA, stated-income balances season.
First lien two months or more delinquent were unchanged at US$2.1bn while delinquency rates balances in our Consumer Lending portfolio declined decreased from 11.1% at 31 December 2009 to 10.6% from US$5.4bn at 31 December 2009 to US$4.9bn at at 31 December 2010.
31 December 2010 and, in our Mortgage Services portfolio, from US$3.1bn at 31 December 2009 to At 31 December 2010, HSBC Finance had US$2.8bn at 31 December 2010.
In each case, lending US$7.6bn of affordability mortgages, a decline balances liquidated at a faster pace than delinquency.
of 24% compared with 31 December 2009, as the As a result, two months or more delinquency rates on portfolio continued to run off.
At HSBC Bank USA, first lien loans in our Consumer Lending portfolio affordability mortgage balances of US$10.9bn at increased from 15.4% at 31 December 2009 to 16.2%, 31 December 2010 compared with US$11.1bn at 31 December 2009. while in our Mortgage Services portfolio, two months or more delinquency rates increased from 16.5% to Real estate markets in the majority of the US 18.0%.
have been and will continue to be, affected by At HSBC Bank USA, we continued to sell the stagnation or declines in property values.
As a result, majority of new mortgage loan originations to the loan-to-value ratios for our real estate secured loans secondary markets.
These decreases were partly offset have generally deteriorated since origination.
Loans by increases to the portfolio from new lending to our with a loan-to-value of 100% or more have Premier relationship customers.
Two months or more historically had a greater likelihood of becoming delinquency rates decreased from 8.6% to 7.9% at delinquent.
At 31 December 2010 loans in negative 31 December 2010, while delinquent balances equity were US$14bn, compared with US$19bn at the remained flat at US$1.0bn.
Second lien mortgage loans have a risk profile At HSBC Finance, the number of foreclosed characterised by higher loan-to-value ratios because, properties at 31 December 2010 increased compared in the majority of cases, the loans were taken out to with the end of 2009.
The rise reflected the complete the refinancing or purchase of properties.
improvement in the processing of foreclosures as Loss experience on default of second lien loans has backlogs and action taken by local governments and typically approached 100% of the amount owed, as certain states had lengthened proceedings in previous any equity in the property is initially applied to the years.
The average loss on sale of foreclosed first lien loan.
In the Mortgage Services second lien properties decreased compared with 2009 though the portfolio, outstanding balances declined by 26% to average loss increased in the second half of 2010, US$2.3bn and two months or more delinquency rates as house prices in many markets showed signs of decreased to 10.8% at 31 December 2010.
In the deterioration due to a rise in the number of foreclosed Consumer Lending second lien portfolio, outstanding properties and the expiration of the homebuyer tax balances declined by 28% to US$3.3bn, and two credit.
We continued to assist customers in months or more delinquency rates decreased to 12.7% restructuring their debts to avoid foreclosure, including at 31 December 2010. by modifying their loans when it was decided that they could be serviced on revised terms.
For more details on the investigation into US foreclosure practices, see page 83.
111 Shareholder Information Financial Statements Governance Operating & Financial Review Overview HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Report of the Directors: Operating and Financial Review continued Risk Credit risk Areas of special interest US personal lending Forbearance strategies HSBC Finance foreclosed properties in the US Unaudited Quarter ended 31 Dec 30 Sep 30 Jun 31 Mar 2010 2010 2010 2010 2010 2009 Number of foreclosed properties at end of period................ 10,940 10,940 9,798 8,394 6,961 6,188 Number of properties added to foreclosed inventory in the year quarter 20,489 5,763 5,413 5,096 4,217 14,845 21 Average loss on sale of foreclosed properties.................... 9% 15% 10% 4% 4% 12% 22 Average total loss on foreclosed properties 51% 54% 52% 49% 49% 51% Average time to sell foreclosed properties days................. 161 165 158 156 170 193 For footnotes, see page 174. Credit cards Motor vehicle finance In our credit card and private label portfolios two In 2010, we sold our vehicle finance loan portfolio months or more delinquency balances declined and vehicle finance servicing operations.
See markedly, reflecting actions taken to improve credit page 106 for details.
quality, and our customer payment rates benefitted from an increased focus by consumers on reducing Other personal lending outstanding credit card debt.
Two months or In the US unsecured lending portfolio, two months more delinquent balances in our credit card portfolio or more delinquency rates declined as balances declined from US$1.8bn to US$1.0bn, while in continued to run off, economic conditions generally percentage terms they declined from 7.4% at improved, and actions taken previously to tighten 31 December 2009 to 4.7% at 31 December 2010. underwriting and reduce risk in this portfolio In the private label cards portfolio, two months or continued to have a favourable effect on credit more delinquent balances declined from US$622m quality.
to US$404m while in percentage terms delinquency decreased from 4.1% at 31 December 2009 to 3.0% at 31 December 2010.
Loan delinquency Trends in two months and over contractual delinquency in the US Unaudited Quarter ended As Ex.
Forbearance strategies and renegotiated the product and the management of customer loans relationships through the occurrence of exceptional Audited events.
A range of forbearance strategies are employed in Loans that are subject to restructuring may only order to improve the management of customer be classified as restructured and up-to-date once a relationships, maximise collection opportunities and, specified number and or amount of qualifying if possible, avoid foreclosure or repossession.
Our payments have been received.
These qualifying policies and practices are based on criteria which, in payments are set at a level appropriate to the nature the judgement of local management, indicate that of the loan and the customers ability to make the repayment is likely to continue.
Typically the receipt of two or more qualifying payments is required within Forbearance arrangements include extended a certain period, generally 60 days in the case of payment terms, a reduction in interest or principal HSBC Finance, in certain circumstances, for repayments, approved external debt management example where debt has been restructured in plans, the deferral of foreclosures, other bankruptcy proceedings, fewer or no payments may modifications, and loan restructures.
Loans that have been restructured and management policies and practices typically provide would otherwise have been past due or impaired are the customer with terms and conditions that are more classified as renegotiated.
favourable than those provided initially.
Such arrangements could include cases where an account Renegotiated loans are segregated from other is brought up-to-date without full repayment of all parts of the loan portfolio for collective impairment the arrears.
assessment, to reflect the higher rates of losses often encountered in this segment of the portfolio.
When Our most common forbearance arrangements empirical evidence indicates an increased propensity are loan restructures applied to real estate loans to default and higher losses on such accounts, the use within consumer finance portfolios in the US.
Our of roll rate methodology ensures these factors are credit risk management policy sets out restrictions taken into account when calculating impairment on the number and frequency of restructures, the allowances.
The carrying amount of loans that minimum period an account must have been opened have been classified as renegotiated retain this before any restructure can be considered, and the classification until maturity or derecognition.
Interest number of qualifying payments that must be is recorded on renegotiated loans on the basis of new received before an account may be considered contractual terms following renegotiation.
The application of this policy varies according to the nature of the market, 113 Shareholder Information Financial Statements Governance Operating & Financial Review Overview HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Report of the Directors: Operating and Financial Review continued Risk Credit risk Areas of special interest Forbearance strategies Collateral Credit quality Financial instruments Renegotiated loans totalled US$35bn at Collateral and other credit enhancements 31 December 2010 2009: US$39bn.
The largest obtained Audited concentration was in the US and amounted to US$28bn 2009: US$33bn or 82% 2009: 86% of We obtained assets by taking possession of collateral our total renegotiated loans, substantially all of held as security, or calling upon other credit which was held by HSBC Finance.
enhancements, as follows: Carrying amount HSBC Finance loan modifications and re-ageing obtained in: Unaudited 2010 2009 US$m US$m HSBC Finance continued to refine its customer Nature of assets account management policies and practices, including Residential property 2,052 1,587 Commercial and industrial account modification and re-age programmes.
2,232 2,035 Modification may also lead to a re-ageing of the account.
In 2010, HSBC Finance modified We make repossessed properties available for 42,500 loans with an aggregate balance of US$6.0bn sale in an orderly fashion, with the proceeds used to in Consumer Lending and Mortgage Services through reduce or repay the outstanding indebtedness.
If the foreclosure avoidance and account modification excess funds arise after the debt has been repaid, programmes.
they are made available either to repay other secured At 31 December 2010, the total balance lenders with lower priority or are returned to the outstanding on HSBC Finance real estate secured customer.
We do not generally occupy repossessed accounts which have been re-aged or modified was properties for our business use.
US$26.7bn, compared with US$30.2bn at the end of 2009.
US$10.6bn relates to loans that had been Credit quality of financial instruments Audited re-aged without modification to the terms 2009: US$11.1bn, and US$13.9bn relates to loans whose The five credit quality classifications defined below terms have been modified and have been re-aged each encompass a range of more granular internal 2009: US$15.7bn.
These amounts are included in credit rating grades assigned to wholesale and retail the renegotiated loans balance disclosed above.
In lending business, as well as the external ratings addition, US$2.2bn of loans have been modified but attributed by external agencies to debt securities.
not re-aged 2009: US$3.4bn and as such do not There is no direct correlation between the internal meet the definition of a renegotiated loan as the and external ratings at a granular level, except to impairment or past-due status of the loans did not the extent each falls within a single quality change on modification.
62% of modified or re-aged real estate loans remained up-to-date or past due less than 30 days 2009: 61% and 26% were two or more months delinquent 2009: 26%.
Risk rating scales Credit quality classification Unaudited Debt securities Wholesale lending and other bills and derivatives Retail lending Quality External Internal Probability of Internal Expected 25 classification credit rating credit rating default % credit rating loss % Strong A and above CRR1 to CRR2 0 0.169 EL1 to EL2 0 0.999 Good. BBB to BBB CRR3 0.170 0.740 EL3 1.000 4.999 Satisfactory BB to B and unrated CRR4 to CRR5 0.741 4.914 EL4 to EL5 5.000 19.999 Sub-standard B and below CRR6 to CRR8 4.915 99.999 EL6 to EL8 20.000 99.999 26 Impaired.....
Impaired CRR9 to CRR10 100 EL9 to EL10 100 or defaulted For footnotes, see page 174.
114 Quality classification definitions commitments, with moderate default risk.
Retail accounts Strong: exposures demonstrate a strong capacity to meet financial commitments, with negligible or low probability of typically show only short periods of delinquency, with any default and or low levels of expected loss.
Retail accounts losses expected to be minor following the adoption of recovery operate within product parameters and only exceptionally processes.
show any period of delinquency.
Sub-standard: exposures require varying degrees of special Good: exposures require closer monitoring and demonstrate attention and default risk is of greater concern.
Retail portfolio segments show longer delinquency periods of generally up to a good capacity to meet financial commitments, with low 90 days past due and or expected losses are higher due to a default risk.
Retail accounts typically show only short periods reduced ability to mitigate these through security realisation or of delinquency, with any losses expected to be minimal following the adoption of recovery processes.
Impaired: exposures have been assessed, individually or Satisfactory: exposures require closer monitoring and collectively, as impaired.
demonstrate an average to fair capacity to meet financial The Customer Risk Rating CRR 10-grade scale Financial instruments by credit quality above summarises a more granular underlying 2010 compared with 2009 23-grade scale 2009: 22-grade scale of obligor probability of default PD.
The 23-grade scale was Financial instruments on which credit quality has introduced in September 2010 following the been assessed increased by 4% to US$2,297bn due harmonisation of PDs for three asset classes banks, to strong growth in lending, mainly in Asia.
sovereigns and corporates into one scale which At December 2010, US$1,550bn or 67% was required an additional PD band.
All distinct HSBC classified as strong in line with the end of 2009, customers are rated using the 10 or 23-grade scale, reflecting the continued actions by management to depending on the degree of sophistication of the mitigate the Groups exposure to credit risk.
The Basel II approach adopted for the exposure.
proportion of financial instruments classified as good and satisfactory were broadly unchanged at The Expected Loss EL 10-grade scale for 16% and 12% respectively.
The proportion of subretail business summarises a more granular standard financial instruments was 2%.
underlying EL scale for these customer segments: this combines obligor and facility product risk Loans and advances on which credit quality has factors in a composite measure.
been assessed increased by 8% to US$1,167bn, driven by growth in commercial and personal For debt securities and certain other financial lending in Asia as generally economic conditions instruments, external ratings have been aligned to the improved, while loans and advances to banks also five quality classifications.
The ratings of Standard rose.
The growth was in balances classified as and Poors are cited, with those of other agencies strong and good, while balances classified as being treated equivalently.
Debt securities with sub-standard and past due but not impaired short-term issue ratings are reported against the declined.
long-term rating of the issuer of those securities.
If major rating agencies have different ratings for the Derivative assets on which credit quality has same debt securities, a prudent rating selection is been assessed grew by 4% to US$261bn from made in line with regulatory requirements.
31 December 2009, with growth in balances being classified as strong.
The increase was mainly in Additional credit quality information in respect interest rate derivatives, reflecting a downward shift of our consolidated holdings of ABSs is provided on in yield curves.
At 31 December 2010, financial investments For the purpose of the following disclosure, on which credit quality has been assessed increased retail loans which are past due up to 89 days and are by 9% compared with the end of 2009, to not otherwise classified as EL9 or EL10, are not US$393bn.
Substantially all this growth was in disclosed within the EL grade to which they relate, assets classified as strong, reflecting increased but are separately classified as past due but not investment of excess liquidity into low-risk impaired.
government issued or government guaranteed bonds.
115 Shareholder Information Financial Statements Governance Operating & Financial Review Overview HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Report of the Directors: Operating and Financial Review continued Risk Credit risk Credit quality Financial instruments by credit quality Trading assets on which credit quality has been The following tables set out our distribution of assessed decreased by 11%, with the decline being financial instruments by measures of credit quality: in assets rated as strong.
This reflected the fideconsolidation of the Constant Net Asset Value funds.
Past due but not impaired gross financial 90 days, but where the value of collateral is instruments sufficient to repay both the principal debt and Audited all potential interest for at least one year: and short-term trade facilities past due more than Examples of exposures past due but not impaired 90 days for technical reasons such as delays in include overdue loans fully secured by cash documentation, but where there is no concern over collateral: mortgages that are individually assessed the creditworthiness of the counterparty.
125 Shareholder Information Financial Statements Governance Operating & Financial Review Overview HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Report of the Directors: Operating and Financial Review continued Risk Credit risk Impaired loans and impairment allowances Charge for impairment losses as a percentage of average gross loans and advances to customers by geographical region Unaudited Rest of Hong AsiaMiddle North Latin Europe Kong Pacific East America America Total % % % % % % % 2010 0.74 0.15 0.66 2.71 4.02 3.41 1.65 New allowances net of allowance releases.............. 0.07 0.03 0.20 0.23 0.09 0.51 0.12 Recoveries 0.67 0.12 0.46 2.48 3.93 2.90 1.53 Total charge for impairment losses
New loan impairment allowances 46% on both a reported and an underlying basis declined in both the personal and commercial compared with 2009.
Reported impaired loans were lending portfolios, reflecting the economic recovery US$28.3bn at 31 December 2010, a decrease of 8% and improvement in credit conditions in the territory on both bases.
The following commentary is on a and fewer customer downgrades, partly offset by an constant currency basis.
New allowances for loan impairment charges Releases and recoveries in Hong Kong were were US$15.4bn, a decline of 42% compared with US$93m, 5% lower than in 2009.
2009, while releases and recoveries of US$1.9bn were 23% higher.
New loan impairment allowances in Rest of Asia-Pacific declined by 40% to US$700m.
The Impaired loans were 2.4% of total gross loans decline reflected lower new collective impairment and advances at 31 December 2010, compared with allowances in India due to improved delinquency 2.8% at 31 December 2009. rates and lower balances as certain unsecured In Europe, new loan impairment allowances portfolios and higher risk elements of the credit card were US$3.2bn, 34% lower than in 2009, reflecting portfolio were managed down.
In addition, new a more stable credit environment across many individually assessed impairment allowances also countries in the region.
Individually assessed loan declined, mainly in India, due to the non-recurrence impairment allowances declined, mainly in the UK, of large impairments, notably on certain technologyreflecting an improvement in credit conditions.
These were partly offset by a Significantly, impairment charges in 2009 against significant loan impairment charge against a single specific customers in the property sector did not customer.
Impaired loans in the region increased by recur.
Collectively assessed loan impairment 3% to US$1.3bn at the end of 2010. allowances also declined due to a fall in delinquency Releases and recoveries in the region rose by levels as our customers continued to benefit from 19% due to releases in the construction and software the low interest rate environment and the general industries in India and higher recoveries of amounts improvement in economic conditions.
In our previously written off, notably in Australia.
personal lending portfolios, new collectively assessed loan impairment allowances declined, In the Middle East, new loan impairment reflecting lower levels of unsecured lending and allowances were US$735m, 47% lower than in 2009. tightened underwriting criteria.
Impaired loans of The decrease was largely due to a decline in new US$10.7bn were 3% higher than at the end of 2009. collectively assessed loan impairment allowances net of allowance releases against the personal and In Europe, releases and recoveries increased commercial lending portfolios as delinquency rates by 32% to US$681m.
improved, with a decline in personal balances in line 126 with the managing down of our exposure to higher releases and recoveries rose by 80% compared with risk unsecured personal lending.
allowances also reflected an overall improvement in In Latin America, new loan impairment economic conditions across the region.
There were allowances declined by 42% to US$1.9bn, while also declines in new individually assessed loan impaired loans declined by 23% to US$2.4bn as impairment charges as new charges for 2010 were economic conditions in the region improved.
Lower restricted to a small number of large corporate new loan impairment allowances in the personal exposures.
Impaired loans rose by 47% from lending portfolios were due to lower credit card 31 December 2009 to US$2.5bn due to credit balances in Mexico as we repositioned the portfolio deterioration in a small number of specific to target higher quality customers and, to a lesser exposures, and debt restructuring in the UAE.
extent, in Brazil, due to the managed reduction in Releases and recoveries in the Middle East more consumer finance balances.
In addition, in the than doubled from 2009 to US$112m due to the commercial lending portfolios in Brazil lower new release of judgemental impairment allowances impairment allowances reflected an improvement reflecting improved economic conditions during in economic conditions.
Releases and recoveries in Latin America In North America, new loan impairment declined by 21% from 2009 to US$331m.
allowances declined markedly, reducing by 44% to For an analysis of loan impairment charges and US$8.7bn.
In our HSBC Finance portfolios, lower other credit risk provisions by customer group, see new loan impairment allowances in Card and Retail pages 24 to 26.
Services reflected a reduction in lending balances and an improvement in delinquency rates.
In our HSBC Holdings Consumer Lending and Mortgage Services Audited portfolios, new loan impairment allowances also fell Credit risk in HSBC Holdings primarily arises from as the portfolio continued to run-off.
In addition, transactions with Group subsidiaries and from total loss severities on foreclosed loans improved guarantees issued in support of obligations assumed compared with 2009 reflecting the increase in the by certain Group operations in the normal conduct of number of properties for which we accepted a deedtheir business.
in-lieu of foreclosure, or a short sale, both of which result in lower losses compared with loans which are These risks are reviewed and managed within subjected to a formal foreclosure process.
regulatory and internal limits for exposures by our Global Risk function, which provides high-level In our corporate and commercial portfolios in centralised oversight and management of our credit North America, new loan impairment allowances risks worldwide.
declined, reflecting lower balances due to customer deleveraging and improved credit quality which, HSBC Holdings maximum exposure to credit along with the improved economy, resulted in credit risk at 31 December 2010 is shown below.
Its upgrades on certain accounts and fewer customer financial assets principally represent claims on downgrades.
Group subsidiaries in Europe and North America.
No collateral or other credit enhancements were held by In North America, impaired loans decreased HSBC Holdings in respect of its transactions with by 19% from the end of 2009 to US$10.8bn, while subsidiaries.
levels of write-downs and losses on our holdings of structured assets remained modest.
Unrealised losses The credit quality of the loans and advances to in our available-for-sale reserve continued to reduce HSBC undertakings is assessed as strong good, with due to increases in fair value and the principal 100% of the exposure being neither past due nor amortisation of ABSs as repayments were received impaired 2009: 100%.
Expectations of cash losses on available-forThe credit ratings of the financial investments sale ABSs remained consistent with our previous held by HSBC Holdings are within the Standard and estimates.
Poors S&P ratings range of A to BBB 2009: A to A. Overview of exposure Audited Securitisation exposures and other Accounting policies structured products Our accounting policies for the classification and valuation of Audited financial instruments are in accordance with the requirements of IAS 32 Financial Instruments: Presentation and IAS 39 The financial impact of the recent market disruption Financial Instruments: Recognition and Measurement, as is lessening with net write-downs to the income described in Note 2 on the Financial Statements, and the use of assumptions and estimates in respect of valuation of financial statement of nil 2009: US$1.9bn net write-downs instruments as described in Note 16 on the Financial and a reduction in the available-for-sale ABSs Statements.
reserve deficit by US$5.8bn to US$6.4bn.
This section contains information about our exposure Following the dislocation in markets which to the following: began in 2007, there was a modest recovery in the risk appetite of investors in 2009.
However, the first ABSs, including mortgage-backed securities half of 2010 saw renewed uncertainty and concerns MBSs and related collateralised debt over sovereign credit risk.
As a result, the prices of obligations CDOs : many assets perceived to be of higher risk fell.
In direct lending held at fair value through profit or addition, the widespread downgrading of securitised loss: assets continued in the first half of 2010 as rating monolines: agencies changed their methodologies, reducing the credit derivative product companies CDPCs : appetite for securitised assets among institutions leveraged finance transactions: and subject to the Basel II framework.
representations and warranties related to mortgage sales and securitisation activities.
Increased stability returned in the second half of 2010 following the interventions of the EU and the The following table summarises our exposure to International Monetary Fund.
A modest increase in these products.
Asset-backed securities and leveraged These activities are not a significant part of finance GB&Ms on-going business, and GB&M is not Audited reliant on them for any material aspect of its business operations or profitability.
The purchase We are or have been involved in the following and securitisation of US mortgage loans and the activities involving ABSs and leveraged finance: secondary trading of US MBSs, which was purchasing US mortgage loans with the conducted in our US MBS business, was intention of structuring and placing discontinued in 2007. securitisations into the market: trading in ABSs, including MBSs, in secondary Nature of HSBCs exposures markets: MBSs are securities that represent interests in groups holding MBSs and other ABSs in balance sheet of mortgages and provide investors with the right to management activities, with the intention of receive cash from future mortgage payments earning net interest income over the life of the interest and or principal.
An MBS which securities: references mortgages with different risk profiles is holding MBSs and other ABSs as part of classified according to the highest risk class.
investment portfolios, including securities investment conduits SICs and money market CDOs are securities backed by a pool of bonds, funds, as described in Note 43 on the Financial loans or other assets such as ABSs.
CDOs may Statements, with the intention of earning net include exposure to sub-prime or Alt-A mortgage interest income and management fees: assets where these are part of the underlying assets holding MBSs or other ABSs in the trading or reference assets.
As there is often uncertainty portfolio hedged through credit derivative surrounding the precise nature of the underlying protection, typically purchased from monolines, collateral supporting CDOs, all CDOs supported by with the intention of earning the spread residential mortgage-related assets are classified as differential over the life of the instruments: and sub-prime.
Our holdings of ABSs and CDOs and originating leveraged finance loans for the direct lending positions, and the categories of purposes of syndicating or selling them down in mortgage collateral and lending activity, are order to generate a trading profit or holding described below.
them in order to earn interest margin over their lives.
129 Shareholder Information Financial Statements Governance Operating & Financial Review Overview HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Report of the Directors: Operating and Financial Review continued Risk Credit risk Securitisation exposures and other structured products Categories of ABSs and CDOs Definition Classification Sub-prime Loans to customers who have limited credit histories, For US mortgages, standard US credit scores are modest incomes or high debt-to-income ratios or have primarily used to determine whether a loan is subexperienced credit problems caused by occasional prime: for non-US mortgages, management judgement delinquencies, prior charge-offs, bankruptcy or other is used.
US Home Equity Lines A form of revolving credit facility provided to Holdings of HELoCs are classified as sub-prime.
of Credit HELoCs customers, which is supported by a first or second lien charge over residential property.
US Alt-A Lower risk loans than sub-prime, but they share higher US credit scores and the completeness of risk characteristics than lending under fully conforming documentation held such as proof of income, are standard criteria.
considered when determining whether an Alt-A classification is appropriate.
Non sub-prime mortgages in the US are classified as Alt-A if they are not eligible for sale to the major US Government sponsored mortgage agencies.
US Government agency Securities that are guaranteed by US Government Holdings of US Government agency and US and sponsored agencies such as the Government National Mortgage Government sponsored enterprises mortgage-related enterprises mortgageAssociation Ginnie Mae, or by US Government assets are classified as prime exposures.
related assets sponsored entities including the Federal National Mortgage Association Fannie Mae and the Federal Home Loan Mortgage Corporation Freddie Mac.
UK non-conforming UK mortgages that do not meet normal lending criteria.
UK non-conforming mortgages are treated as submortgages Examples include mortgages where the expected level prime exposures.
of documentation is not provided such as income with self-certification, or where poor credit history increases risk and results in pricing at a higher than normal lending rate.
Other mortgages Residential mortgages, including prime mortgages, that Prime residential mortgage-related assets are included do not meet any of the classifications described above.
Our exposure to non-residential mortgageABSs classified as available for sale related ABSs and direct lending includes securities Our principal holdings of available-for-sale ABSs with collateral relating to: see table below are in GB&M through special commercial property mortgages: purpose entities SPEs which were established leveraged finance loans: from the outset with the benefit of external investor student loans: and first loss protection support, together with positions other assets, such as securities with other held directly and by Solitaire Funding Limited receivable-related collateral.
Solitaire, where we have first loss risk.
The following table summarises our exposure to ABSs classified as available for sale: Available-for-sale ABSs exposure Audited At 31 December 2010 At 31 December 2009 Directly Directly held held 39 39 Solitaire SPEs Total Solitaire SPEs Total US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m Total carrying amount of net principal exposure 41,106 13,586 54,692 34,040 14,021 48,061 Notional principal value of impaired securities.
Securities investment conduits reflection of the credit quality and seniority of the Audited assets held.
The total carrying amount of ABSs held through Sub-prime and Alt-A residential mortgageSPEs in the above table represents holdings in backed securities which significant first loss protection is provided Audited through capital notes issued by SICs, excluding Solitaire.
The assets which are most sensitive to possible future impairment are sub-prime and Alt-A At each reporting date, we assess whether there residential MBSs.
Available-for-sale holdings is any objective evidence of impairment in the in these higher risk categories where HSBC does value of the ABSs held by SPEs.
Impairment not benefit from significant first loss protection charges incurred on these assets are offset by a amounted to US$3.8bn at 31 December 2010 credit to the impairment line for the amount of the 2009: US$4.9bn.
For these securities the loss allocated to capital note holders.
cumulative fair value losses not recognised in the The economic first loss protection remaining at income statement at 31 December 2010 was 31 December 2010 amounted to US$2.2bn 2009: US$1.6bn 2009: losses of US$3.2bn.
On an IFRSs accounting basis, the holdings in these higher risk categories classified as carrying value of the liability for the capital notes available-for-sale are held in vehicles where third at 31 December 2010 amounted to US$0.3bn party first loss protection exists, as described in the 2009: US$0.7bn.
The impairment charge section on securities investment conduits, above.
recognised during 2010 amounted to US$531m During 2010, the credit ratings on certain ABSs 2009: US$666m.
held directly by HSBC, Solitaire and the SICs were At 31 December 2010, the available-for-sale downgraded.
A downgrade of a securitys credit reserve in respect of securities held by the SICs rating is not, of itself, evidence of impairment.
Consequently, the actions of the rating agencies Of this, US$2.3bn related to ABSs 2009: alone have no direct impact on the measurement US$4.9bn.
The impairment losses recognised on these securities at 31 December 2010 Impairments recognised during 2010 from are set out above.
assets held directly or within Solitaire, in recognition of the first loss protection of US$1.2bn Impairment methodologies we provide through credit enhancement and from Audited drawings against the liquidity facility we provide, The accounting policy for impairment and were US$444m 2009: US$1.4bn.
The reduction indicators of impairment is set out in Note 2j on the in impairment charges compared with 2009 was Financial Statements.
due to the stabilising of loss severities and delinquency roll rates which have resulted in lower For available-for-sale ABSs, to identify losses in the underlying collateral pools.
The level objective evidence of impairment, an industry of impairment recognised in comparison with the standard valuation model is normally applied which deficit in the available-for-sale reserve was a uses data with reference to the underlying asset 131 Shareholder Information Financial Statements Governance Operating & Financial Review Overview HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Report of the Directors: Operating and Financial Review continued Risk Credit risk Securitisation exposures and other structured products pools and models their projected future cash flows.
account the cash losses experienced during 2010, The estimated future cash flows of the securities the remaining cash loss projections of US$250m are assessed at the specific financial asset level to were consistent with those as at 31 December 2009. determine whether any of them are unlikely to be However, the impairment charge projections recovered as a result of loss events occurring on or showed an additional charge of US$300m arising before the reporting date.
over the next two years in relation to the SICs, after taking into account the impairments recognised in The principal assumptions and inputs to the 2010, resulting in future impairment charges of models are typically the delinquency status of the US$950m, including the US$300m relating to the underlying loans, the probability of delinquent SICs.
This additional charge reflects where the loans progressing to default, the prepayment accounting impairments will exceed the carrying profiles of the underlying assets and the loss amount of the capital notes held by third parties.
severity in the event of default.
However, the models utilise other variables relevant to specific For the purposes of identifying impairment at classes of collateral to forecast future defaults the reporting date, the future projected cash flows and recovery rates.
Management uses externally reflect the effect of loss events that have occurred available data and applies judgement when at or prior to the reporting date.
For the purposes of determining the appropriate assumptions in respect performing stress tests to estimate potential future of these factors.
HSBC uses a modelling approach impairment charges, the projected future cash flows which incorporates historically observed reflect additional assumptions about future loss progression rates to default, to determine if the events after the balance sheet date.
decline in aggregate projected cash flows from This analysis makes assumptions in respect the underlying collateral will lead to a shortfall in of the future behaviour of loss severities, default contractual cash flows.
In such cases the security rates and prepayment rates.
Movements in the is considered to be impaired.
parameters are not independent of each other.
For In respect of CDOs, expected future cash example, increased default rates and increased loss flows for the underlying collateral are assessed to severities, which would imply greater impairments, determine whether there is likely to be a shortfall generally arise under economic conditions that give in the contractual cash flows of the CDO.
rise to reduced levels of prepayment, reducing the potential for impairment charges.
Conversely, When a security benefits from a contract economic conditions which increase the rates of provided by a monoline insurer that insures prepayment are generally associated with reduced payments of principal and interest, the expected default rates and decreased loss severities.
recovery on the contract is assessed in determining the total expected credit support available to the At 31 December 2010, the incurred and ABS.
projected impairment charges, measured in accordance with accounting requirements, Impairment and cash loss projections significantly exceeded the expected cash losses on Unaudited the securities.
Over the lives of the available-forsale ABSs the cumulative impairment charges will At 31 December 2009, management undertook converge towards the level of cash losses.
In an analysis to estimate further potential respect of the SICs, in particular, the capital notes impairments and expected cash losses on the held by third parties are expected to absorb the cash available-for-sale ABS portfolio.
This exercise losses arising in the vehicles.
comprised a shift of projections of future loss severities, default rates and prepayment rates.
The results of the analysis indicated that further impairment charges of some US$1.1bn and expected cash losses of some US$450m could arise over the next two to three years.
At 31 December 2010, management re-performed the stress test.
The above table excludes leveraged finance transactions, which are shown separately on page 139.
135 Shareholder Information Financial Statements Governance Operating & Financial Review Overview HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Report of the Directors: Operating and Financial Review continued Risk Credit risk Securitisation exposures and other structured products Analysis of exposures and significant US Alt-A residential mortgage-related assets movements During 2010, spreads on Alt-A mortgage-related Audited assets tightened modestly from the levels seen in Sub-prime residential mortgage-related assets 2009.
Further impairments of US$884m 2009: US$1,372m were recorded in respect of Alt-A Sub-prime residential mortage-related assets mortgage-related assets as losses were incurred included US$3.1bn 2009: US$3.7bn related to under the accounting rules described in the US-originated assets and US$1.1bn 2009: paragraph above, without reference to the amount US$1.1bn relating to UK non-conforming of expected loss.
Our expectation of losses in the residential mortgage-related assets.
Of the non-high underlying assets did not increase from that at grade assets held of US$1.7bn 2009: US$1.7bn, 31 December 2009.
Of the impairment above, US$1.5bn 2009: US$1.6bn related to USUS$450m 2009: US$346m occurred in the originated assets, reflecting the higher quality of SICs and was borne by the capital note holders.
The downgrade of our US Alt-A residential A modest increase in observable values of our MBSs is reflected in the disclosure of fair value sub-prime assets took place in 2010.
Further net movements in the above tables as if the downgrade impairment of US$48m on assets classified as had taken effect on 1 January 2010. available for sale was recognised in 2010 2009: US$559m as losses were incurred under current The following table shows the vintages of the accounting impairment rules.
Our expectation of collateral assets supporting our holdings of US cash losses on the underlying assets did not increase sub-prime and Alt-A MBSs.
Market prices for these from that at 31 December 2009.
Of the above instruments generally incorporate higher discounts impairment, US$54m 2009: US$312m occurred in for later vintages.
The majority of our holdings of the SICs and was borne by the capital note holders.
US sub-prime MBSs originated pre-2007: holdings of US Alt-A MBSs are more evenly distributed between pre-2007 vintages and those from 2007 onwards.
US Government agency and sponsored Commercial property mortgage-related assets enterprises mortgage-related assets Of our total of US$10.5bn 2009: US$10.0bn During 2010, we increased our holdings of US of commercial property mortgage-related assets, Government agency and sponsored enterprises US$5.2bn related to US originated assets 2009: mortgage-related assets by US$8.3bn.
Spreads tightened on both US and nonUS commercial property mortgage-related assets Other residential mortgage-related assets during 2010.
Impairments of US$5m 2009: US$88m were recognised in 2010.
The majority of our other residential mortgage-related assets were originated in the UK Leveraged finance-related assets 2010: US$3.9bn: 2009: US$4.7bn.
No impairments were recognised in respect of these UK originated The majority of these assets related to US-originated assets in 2010 2009: nil, reflecting credit support exposures: 90% 2009: 94% were high grade with within the asset portfolio.
no impairments recorded in the year 2009: nil.
136 Student loan-related assets remaining derivative transactions at 31 December 2010, and hence the amount at risk if the CDS Our holdings in student loan-related assets were protection purchased were to be wholly ineffective US$5.5bn 2009: US$5.1bn.
No impairments were because, for example, the monoline insurer was recorded on student loan-related assets in 2010 unable to meet its obligations.
analyse that risk, the value of protection purchased is shown subdivided between those monolines Transactions with monoline insurers that were rated by S&P at BBBor above at Audited 31 December 2010, and those that were below HSBCs exposure to derivative transactions BBB BBB is the S&P cut-off for an investment entered into directly with monolines grade classification.
The Credit risk adjustment column indicates the valuation adjustment taken Our principal exposure to monolines is through a against the net exposures, and reflects our best number of OTC derivative transactions, mainly estimate of the likely loss of value on purchased credit default swaps CDSs.
We entered into these protection arising from the deterioration in CDSs primarily to purchase credit protection against creditworthiness of the monolines.
These valuation securities held at the time within the trading adjustments, which reflect a measure of the portfolio.
irrecoverability of the protection purchased, have During 2010, the notional value of derivative been charged to the income statement.
During 2010, contracts with monolines and our overall credit the credit risk adjustment on derivative contracts exposure to monolines decreased as a number of with monolines decreased as a number of transactions were commuted, others matured, and transactions commuted and others matured.
The table below sets out the fair value, essentially the replacement cost, of the HSBCs exposure to derivative transactions entered into directly with monoline insurers Audited Net exposure Net exposure Notional before credit Credit risk after credit 51 52 amount risk adjustment Adjustment risk adjustment US$m US$m US$m US$m At 31 December 2010 Derivative transactions with monoline counterparties Monoline investment grade BBB or above.............. 5,179 876 88 788 Monoline sub-investment grade below BBB........... 2,290 648 431 217 7,469 1,524 519 1,005 At 31 December 2009 Derivative transactions with monoline counterparties Monoline investment grade BBB or above.............. 5,623 997 100 897 Monoline sub-investment grade below BBB........... 4,400 1,317 909 408 10,023 2,314 1,009 1,305 For footnotes, see page 174.
The above table can be analysed as follows.
grade monolines and 33 cents in the dollar from HSBC has derivative transactions referenced to non-investment grade monolines 2009: 90 cents underlying securities with a notional value of and 31 cents, respectively.
US$7.5bn 2009: US$10.0bn, whose value at For the CDSs, market prices are generally not 31 December 2010 indicated a potential claim readily available.
Therefore the CDSs are valued on against the protection purchased from the the basis of market prices of the referenced monolines of some US$1.5bn 2009: US$2.3bn.
On the basis of a credit assessment of the monolines, a provision of US$519m has been taken The credit risk adjustment against monolines is 2009: US$1.0bn, leaving US$1.0bn exposed determined by one of a number of methodologies, 2009: US$1.3bn, of which US$788m is dependent upon the internal credit rating of the recoverable from monolines rated investment grade monoline.
Our assignment of internal credit at 31 December 2010 2009: US$897m.
The provisions taken imply in aggregate that 90 cents in the dollar will be recoverable from investment 137 Shareholder Information Financial Statements Governance Operating & Financial Review Overview HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Report of the Directors: Operating and Financial Review continued Risk Credit risk Securitisation exposures and other structured products ratings is based upon detailed credit analysis, and HSBCs exposure to debt securities which benefit may differ from external ratings.
from guarantees provided by monolines Credit risk adjustments for monolines Within both the trading and available-for-sale For highly-rated monolines, the standard credit risk portfolios, we hold bonds that are wrapped with a adjustment methodology as described on page 312 applies, credit enhancement from a monoline.
As the with the exception that the future exposure profile is bonds are traded explicitly with the benefit of this deemed to be constant equal to the current market value enhancement, any deterioration in the credit profile over the weighted average life of the referenced security, and the credit risk adjustment cannot fall below 10% of the of the monoline is reflected in market prices and, mark-to-market exposure.
therefore, in the carrying amount of these securities In respect of monolines, where default has either occurred at 31 December 2010.
For wrapped bonds held in or there is a strong possibility of default in the near term, the our trading portfolio, the mark-to-market movement adjustment is determined based on the estimated has been reflected through the income statement.
For probabilities of various potential scenarios, and the estimated recovery in each case.
wrapped bonds held in the available-for-sale portfolio, the mark-to-market movement is reflected in equity For other monoline exposures, the credit risk adjustment unless there is objective evidence of impairment, in follows the methodology for highly-rated monolines, adjusted to include the probability of a claim arising in which case the impairment loss is reflected in the respect of the referenced security, and applies implied income statement.
No wrapped bonds were included probabilities of default where the likelihood of a claim is in the reclassification of financial assets described in believed to be high.
Note 18 on the Financial Statements.
As described above, HSBCs monoline credit risk adjustment calculation utilises a range of HSBCs exposure to Credit Derivative approaches dependent upon the credit quality of Product Companies Audited the monoline.
The net impact of utilising the methodology adopted for highly-rated monolines Credit Derivative Product Companies CDPCs across all monolines would be a reduction in credit are independent companies that specialise in selling risk adjustment of US$94m.
The net impact of credit default protection on corporate exposures.
utilising a methodology based on credit default swap OTC derivative exposure to CDPCs became a focus spreads would be an increase in credit risk during the second half of 2008 as the spreads adjustment of US$8m.
widened, but these exposures reduced during 2009 as the spreads tightened again.
At 31 December At 31 December 2010, US$1.4bn 2009: 2010, HSBC had purchased from CDPCs credit US$2.6bn notional value of securities referenced by protection with a notional value of US$4.9bn 2009: monoline CDS transactions with a market value of US$5.0bn which had a fair value of US$0.2bn US$1.0bn 2009: US$1.9bn were held in the loans 2009: US$0.3bn, against which a credit risk and receivables category, having been included in adjustment a provision of US$0.1bn 2009: the reclassification of financial assets described in US$0.1bn was held.
At 31 December 2010, none of Note 18 on the Financial Statements.
At the date of the exposure was to CDPCs with investment grade reclassification, the market value of the remaining ratings 2009: 83%.
The deterioration reflects rating assets was US$1.2bn.
The reclassification resulted in downgrades and withdrawals during 2010. an accounting asymmetry between the CDSs, which continue to be held at fair value through profit and Leveraged finance transactions loss, and the reclassified securities, which are Audited accounted for on an amortised cost basis.
If the reclassifications had not occurred, the impact on the Leveraged finance transactions include subincome statement for 2010 would have been investment grade acquisition or event-driven a decrease in profit of US$3m 2009: increase in financing.
The following table shows our exposure profit of US$5m.
This amount represents the to leveraged finance transactions arising from difference between the increase in market value of primary transactions.
Our additional exposure to the securities during 2010 and the accretion leveraged finance loans through holdings of ABSs recognised under the amortised cost method in 2010. from our trading and investment activities is shown in the table on page 133.
HSBCs exposure to direct lending and irrevocable commitments to lend to monolines HSBC had no liquidity facilities to monolines at 31 December 2010 2009: minimal.
We held leveraged finance commitments of In sales and securitisations of mortgage loans, US$5.1bn at 31 December 2010 2009: US$6.5bn, various representations and warranties regarding the of which US$4.6bn 2009: US$5.9bn was funded.
loans may be made to purchasers of the mortgage loans and MBSs.
In respect of the purchase and As described in Note 18 on the Financial securitisation of third party originated mortgages and Statements, certain leveraged finance loans were the underwriting of third party MBSs, the obligation reclassified from held for trading to loans and to repurchase loans in the event of a breach of receivables.
As a result, these loans are held at loan level representations and warranties resides amortised cost subject to impairment and are not predominantly with the organisation that originated marked to market, and net gains of US$0.1bn 2009: the loan.
While certain of these originators are or net gains of US$1.2bn were not taken to the income may become financially impaired, and therefore, statement in 2010. unable to fulfil their repurchase obligations, we do At 31 December 2010, our principal exposures not believe we have significant exposure for were to companies in two sectors: US$2.8bn to repurchases on these loans.
data processing 2009: US$3.8bn and US$1.8bn At 31 December 2010, a liability of US$262m to communications and infrastructure 2009: was recognised in respect of various representations US$1.9bn.
During 2010, 99% of the total fair value and warranties, relating to the origination and sale by movement not recognised was against exposures in HSBC Bank USA of mortgage loans, primarily to these two sectors 2009: 99%.
These relate to, among other things, the ownership of Representations and warranties related to the loans, the validity of the liens, the loan selection mortgage sales and securitisation activities and origination process, and the compliance to the Audited origination criteria established by the agencies.
In We have been involved in various activities related the event of a breach of our representations and to the sale and securitisation of residential warranties, HSBC Bank USA may be obliged to mortgages, which are not recognised on our balance repurchase the loans with identified defects or to sheet.
These activities include: indemnify the buyers.
The liability is estimated based on the level of outstanding repurchase the purchase of US$24bn of third party demands, the level of outstanding requests for loan originated mortgages by HSBC Bank USA and files and estimated future demands in respect of securitisation of these by HSBC Securities mortgages sold to date which are either two or USA Inc. HSI between 2005 and 2007: more payments delinquent or expected to become HSI acting as underwriter for third party delinquent at an estimated conversion rate.
issuance of private label MBSs with an original Repurchase demands of US$115m were outstanding issuance value of US$37bn, most of which were at 2010 2009: US$123m.
sub-prime, as well as underwriting US$6bn of MBSs issued by HSBC Finance: and the origination and sale by HSBC Bank USA of mortgage loans, primarily to government sponsored entities.
139 Shareholder Information Financial Statements Governance Operating & Financial Review Overview HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Report of the Directors: Operating and Financial Review continued Risk Liquidity and funding Policies and procedures Primary sources of funding Liquidity and funding Annual Report and Accounts 2009, has been reduced Audited and a stressed one month coverage ratio, an extension of our projected cash flow scenario HSBC expects its operating entities to analysis, is now used as a simple and more useful manage liquidity and funding risk on a metric to express liquidity risk.
The bank also standalone basis employing a centrally manages its intra-day liquidity positions so that it imposed framework and limit structure is able to meet payment and settlement obligations which is adapted to variations in business on a timely basis.
Payment flows in real time gross settlement systems, expected peak payment flows mix and underlying markets.
Our operating and large time-critical payments are monitored entities are required to maintain strong during the day and the intra-day collateral position is liquidity positions and to manage the managed so that there is liquidity available to meet liquidity profiles of their assets, liabilities payments.
and commitments with the objective of ensuring that their cash flows are balanced Policies and procedures under various severe stress scenarios and Audited that all their anticipated obligations can be The management of liquidity and funding is met when due.
The objective of our liquidity primarily undertaken locally in our operating entities framework is to be very conservative and in compliance with practices and limits set by the adaptable to changing business models, Risk Management Meeting.
These limits vary markets and regulation.
according to the depth and liquidity of the market in which the entities operate.
It is our policy that each The objective of our liquidity and funding banking entity should be self-sufficient when management framework is to ensure that all funding its own operations.
Exceptions are permitted foreseeable funding commitments can be met when for certain short-term treasury requirements and due, and that access to the wholesale markets is start-up operations or for branches which do not co-ordinated and cost-effective.
To this end, we have access to local deposit markets.
These entities maintain a diversified funding base comprising are funded from our largest banking operations and core retail and corporate customer deposits and within clearly defined internal and regulatory institutional balances.
We augment this with guidelines and limits.
The limits place formal wholesale funding and portfolios of highly liquid restrictions on the transfer of resources between our assets diversified by currency and maturity which entities and reflect the broad range of currencies, are held to enable us to respond quickly and markets and time zones within which we operate.
smoothly to unforeseen liquidity requirements.
Elements of our liquidity and funding management process We adapt our liquidity and funding risk projecting cash flows by major currency under various management framework in response to changes stress scenarios and considering the level of liquid assets in the mix of business that we undertake, and to necessary in relation thereto: changes in the nature of the markets in which monitoring balance sheet liquidity and advances to core funding ratios against internal and regulatory requirements: we operate.
We also seek to continuously evolve and strengthen our liquidity and funding risk maintaining a diverse range of funding sources with back-up facilities: management framework.
As part of this process, managing the concentration and profile of debt maturities: we have refined the way in which we characterise managing contingent liquidity commitment exposures core deposits.
The characterisation takes into within pre-determined caps: account the activities and operating environment in maintaining debt financing plans: the entity originating the deposit, the nature of the monitoring depositor concentration in order to avoid undue customer and the size and pricing of the deposit.
reliance on large individual depositors and ensure a This exercise has resulted in a revised internal satisfactory overall funding mix: and calculation of advances to core funding ratio maintaining liquidity and funding contingency plans.
These discussed more fully below, and comparatives have plans identify early indicators of stress conditions and describe actions to be taken in the event of difficulties been restated accordingly.
While total core deposits arising from systemic or other crises, while minimising at the Group consolidated level have not changed adverse long-term implications for the business.
materially, there have been some revisions to individual entities.
We employ a number of measures to monitor liquidity risk.
The emphasis on the ratio of net liquid assets to customer deposits, as reported in the 140 Primary sources of funding these challenges, we have continued to have good Audited access to debt capital markets.
Group entities issued US$26bn of term debt securities in the public capital Current accounts and savings deposits payable on markets in 2010. demand or at short notice form a significant part of our funding, and we place considerable importance In aggregate, our banking entities are liquidity on maintaining their stability.
For deposits, stability providers to the interbank market, placing depends upon preserving depositor confidence in our significantly more funds with other banks than they capital strength and liquidity, and on competitive and themselves borrow.
Our main operating subsidiary transparent pricing.
that does not accept deposits is HSBC Finance, which is funded principally by taking term funding We also access professional markets in order to in the professional markets and securitising assets.
provide funding for non-banking subsidiaries that do At 31 December 2010, US$65bn 2009: US$82bn not accept deposits, to align asset and liability of HSBC Finances liabilities were drawn from maturities and currencies and to maintain a presence professional markets, utilising a range of products, in local money markets.
Market disruption continued maturities and currencies.
to have adverse effects on the liquidity and funding risk profile of the banking system in 2010.
The balances in the above table will not agree similar contracts are generally not recognised on our directly with those in our consolidated balance sheet balance sheet.
Trading liabilities and trading as the table incorporates, on an undiscounted basis, derivatives are included in the On demand time all cash flows relating to principal and future coupon bucket, and not by contractual maturity, because payments except for trading liabilities and trading trading liabilities are typically held for short periods derivatives.
In addition, loan and other creditof time.
We classify the undiscounted cash flows related commitments and financial guarantees and payable under hedging derivative liabilities 141 Shareholder Information Financial Statements Governance Operating & Financial Review Overview HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Report of the Directors: Operating and Financial Review continued Risk Liquidity and funding The management of liquidity risk Contingent liquidity risk according to their contractual maturities.
The corresponding growth in their core customer deposits undiscounted cash flows potentially payable under or long-term debt funding.
This measure is referred financial guarantees and similar contracts are to as the advances to core funding ratio.
Previously, classified on the basis of the earliest date they can be we utilised the advances to deposits ratio.
Advances to core funding ratio limits are set Cash flows payable in respect of customer by the Risk Management Meeting and monitored by accounts are primarily contractually repayable on Group Finance.
The ratio expresses current loans and demand or at short notice.
However, in practice, shortadvances to customers as a percentage of the total of term deposit balances remain stable as inflows and core customer deposits and term funding with a outflows broadly match and a significant portion of remaining term to maturity in excess of one year.
loan commitments expire without being drawn upon.
Loans and advances to customers which are part of reverse repurchase arrangements, and where we The management of liquidity risk receive securities which are deemed to be liquid, are Audited excluded from the advances to core funding ratio.
We use a number of principal measures to manage The three principal banking entities listed in the liquidity risk, as described below.
table below represented 62% of our total core deposits at 31 December 2010 31 December 2009: Advances to core funding ratio 63%.
The table shows that loans and advances to customers in our principal banking entities are We emphasise the importance of core customer overwhelmingly financed by reliable and stable deposits as a source of funds to finance lending to sources of funding.
We would meet any unexpected customers, and discourage reliance on short-term net cash outflows by selling securities and accessing professional funding.
This is achieved by placing additional funding sources such as interbank or limits on banking entities which restrict their ability collateralised lending markets.
Stressed one month coverage ratio horizon.
Our entities are required to target a ratio of 100% or greater.
The stressed one month coverage ratios tabulated above are derived from these scenario analyses, and Projected cash flow scenario analysis express the stressed cash inflows as a percentage of stressed cash outflows over a one month time We use a number of standard projected cash flow 142 scenarios designed to model combinations of both bank backstop lines.
Group-specific and market-wide liquidity crises, in The need for HSBC Finance to refinance which the rate and timing of deposit withdrawals and maturing term funding is mitigated by the continued drawdowns on committed lending facilities are run-down of its balance sheet.
varied, and the ability to access interbank funding and term debt markets and to generate funds from HSBC Finance funding asset portfolios is restricted.
The scenarios are Audited modelled by all our banking entities and by HSBC At 31 December Finance.
The appropriateness of the assumptions 2010 2009 US$bn US$bn under each scenario is regularly reviewed.
In Maximum amounts of unsecured term addition to our standard projected cash flow funding maturing in any rolling: scenarios, individual entities are required to design 3 month period 5.1 5.2 their own scenarios to reflect specific local market 12 month period 10.8 12.3 conditions, products and funding bases.
Unused committed sources of secured 57 funding 0.5 0.4 Limits for cumulative net cash flows under Committed backstop lines from stress scenarios are set for each banking entity and non-Group entities in support of CP programmes 4.3 5.3 for HSBC Finance.
Both ratio and cash flow limits reflect the local market place, the diversity of For footnote, see page 174. funding sources available and the concentration risk from large depositors.
Compliance with entity level Contingent liquidity risk limits is monitored centrally by Group Finance and Audited reported regularly to the Risk Management Meeting.
In the normal course of business, we provide customers with committed facilities, including HSBC Finance committed backstop lines to conduit vehicles As HSBC Finance is unable to accept standard sponsored by HSBC and standby facilities to retail customer deposits, it takes funding from the corporate customers.
These facilities increase our professional markets.
HSBC Finance uses a range funding requirements when customers choose to of measures to monitor funding risk, including raise drawdown levels over and above their normal projected cash flow scenario analysis and caps utilisation rates.
The liquidity risk consequences of placed on the amount of unsecured term funding that increased levels of drawdown are analysed in the can mature in any rolling three-month and rolling form of projected cash flows under different stress 12-month periods.
HSBC Finance also maintains scenarios.
The Risk Management Meeting also sets access to committed sources of secured funding and limits for non-cancellable contingent funding has in place committed backstop lines for short-term commitments by Group entity after due refinancing commercial paper CP programmes.
A consideration of each entitys ability to fund them.
CP programme is a short-term, unsecured funding The limits are split according to the borrower, the tool used to manage day to day cash flow needs.
In liquidity of the underlying assets and the size of the agreement with the rating agencies, issuance under committed line.
this programme will not exceed 100% of committed The Groups contractual exposures at 31 December monitored under the contingent liquidity risk limit structure Audited The Hongkong and Shanghai Banking HSBC Bank HSBC Bank USA HSBC Bank Canada Corporation 2010 2009 2010 2009 2010 2009 2010 2009 US$bn US$bn US$bn US$bn US$bn US$bn US$bn US$bn Conduits 58 Client-originated assets........ total lines 7.8 7.4 4.0 6.4 0.2 0.3 0.3 largest individual lines.... 0.7 0.8 0.4 0.4 0.1 0.1 0.3 59 HSBC-managed assets......... 25.6 29.1 60 Other conduits 1.4 1.3 Single-issuer liquidity facilities 61 five largest 4.2 4.3 5.3 6.1 2.0 2.0 1.4 1.2 62 largest market sector......... 8.4 7.9 4.9 4.7 3.8 2.9 2.4 1.5 For footnotes, see page 174.
143 Shareholder Information Financial Statements Governance Operating & Financial Review Overview HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Report of the Directors: Operating and Financial Review continued Risk Liquidity and funding HSBC Holdings Market risk Monitoring Sensitivity analysis HSBC Holdings Holdings ability to finance the commitments and Audited guarantees and the likelihood of the need arising.
HSBC Holdings primary sources of cash are HSBC Holdings actively manages the cash dividends received from subsidiaries, interest on and flows from its subsidiaries to optimise the amount of repayment of intra-group loans and interest earned cash held at the holding company level.
The ability on its own liquid funds.
HSBC Holdings also raises of subsidiaries to pay dividends or advance monies ancillary funds in the debt capital markets through to HSBC Holdings depends on, among other things, subordinated and senior debt issuance.
Cash is their respective regulatory capital requirements, primarily used for the provision of capital to statutory reserves, and financial and operating subsidiaries, interest payments to debt holders performance.
The wide range of our activities means and dividend payments to shareholders.
that HSBC Holdings is not dependent on a single source of profits to fund its dividend payments to HSBC Holdings is also subject to contingent shareholders.
During 2010, HSBC Holdings liquidity risk by virtue of loan and other creditcontinued to have full access to debt capital markets related commitments and guarantees and similar at market rates and issued US$5.0bn of capital contracts issued.
Such commitments and guarantees instruments 2009: US$5.3bn.
Trading derivatives are included in the On Holdings as the table incorporates, on an demand time bucket, and not by contractual undiscounted basis, all cash flows relating to maturity, because trading derivatives are typically principal and future coupon payments except held for short periods of time.
The undiscounted for trading derivatives.
cash flows potentially payable under financial guarantees and similar contracts are classified on the In addition, loan and other credit-related basis of the earliest date they can be called.
commitments and financial guarantees and similar 144 Market risk professionally.
In certain cases where the market Audited risks cannot be fully transferred, we use simulation modelling to identify the impact of varying scenarios Market risk is the risk that movements in market on valuations and net interest income.
factors, including foreign exchange rates and commodity prices, interest rates, credit spreads and We employ a range of tools to monitor and limit equity prices, will reduce our income or the value of market risk exposures.
These include sensitivity our portfolios.
analysis, value at risk VAR and stress testing.
We separate exposures to market risk into Sensitivity analysis trading and non-trading portfolios.
Trading portfolios Unaudited include positions arising from market-making, We use sensitivity measures to monitor the market position-taking and others designated as marked risk positions within each risk type, for example, the to market.
present value of a basis point movement in interest Non-trading portfolios include positions that rates for interest rate risk.
Sensitivity limits are set primarily arise from the interest rate management for portfolios, products and risk types, with the depth of our retail and commercial banking assets and of the market being one of the principal factors in liabilities, financial investments designated as determining the level of limits set.
available for sale and held to maturity, and exposures arising from our insurance operations.
Value at risk Audited Market risk arising in our insurance businesses is discussed in Risk management of insurance VAR is a technique that estimates the potential losses operations on pages 155 to 171. on risk positions as a result of movements in market rates and prices over a specified time horizon and to Monitoring and limiting market risk a given level of confidence.
exposure The VAR models we use are based Audited predominantly on historical simulation.
These Our objective is to manage and control market risk models derive plausible future scenarios from past exposures in order to optimise return on risk while series of recorded market rates and prices, taking maintaining a market profile consistent with our into account inter-relationships between different status as one of the worlds largest banking and markets and rates such as interest rates and foreign financial services organisations.
The models also incorporate the effect of option features on the underlying The management of market risk is principally exposures.
undertaken in Global Markets using risk limits approved by the GMB.
Limits are set for portfolios, Our historical simulation models assess products and risk types, with market liquidity being potential market movements with reference to data a primary factor in determining the level of limits from the past two years and calculate VAR to a 99% set.
Group Risk, an independent unit within GMO, is confidence level and for a one-day holding period.
responsible for our market risk management policies Although a valuable guide to risk, VAR should always be and measurement techniques.
Each major operating viewed in the context of its limitations: entity has an independent market risk management the use of historical data as a proxy for estimating future and control function which is responsible for events may not encompass all potential events, particularly measuring market risk exposures in accordance with those which are extreme in nature: the policies defined by Group Risk, and monitoring the use of a one-day holding period assumes that all and reporting these exposures against the prescribed positions can be liquidated or the risk offset in one day.
This limits on a daily basis.
may not fully reflect the market risk arising at times of severe illiquidity, when a one-day holding period may be Each operating entity is required to assess the insufficient to liquidate or hedge all positions fully: market risks arising on each product in its business the use of a 99% confidence level, by definition, does not take into account losses that might occur beyond this level and to transfer them to either its local Global of confidence: Markets unit for management, or to separate books VAR is calculated on the basis of exposures outstanding at managed under the supervision of the local Asset and the close of business and therefore does not necessarily Liability Management Committee ALCO.
Our reflect intra-day exposures: and aim is to ensure that all market risks are consolidated VAR is unlikely to reflect loss potential on exposures that within operations that have the necessary skills, only arise under significant market moves.
tools, management and governance to manage them 145 Shareholder Information Financial Statements Governance Operating & Financial Review Overview HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Report of the Directors: Operating and Financial Review continued Risk Market risk Sensitivity analysis Trading and non-trading portfolios We routinely validate the accuracy of our VAR Value at risk of the trading and non-trading models by back-testing the actual daily profit and portfolios loss results, adjusted to remove non-modelled Our Group VAR, both trading and non-trading, was items such as fees and commissions, against the as follows: corresponding VAR numbers.
Statistically, we would expect to see losses in excess of VAR only 1% of the Value at risk excluding credit spread VAR Audited time over a one-year period.
The actual number of excesses over this period can therefore be used to 2010 2009 US$m US$m gauge how well the models are performing.
At 31 December................... 266.6 204.5 Stress testing Average 199.8 156.1 Audited Minimum 139.5 105.7 Maximum 285.7 204.5 In recognition of VARs limitations, we augment it with stress testing to evaluate the potential impact on The rise in interest rate volatility, coupled with a portfolio values of more extreme, although plausible, modest increase in underlying interest rate exposure, events or movements in a set of financial variables.
resulted in a higher VAR and higher maximum VAR The process is governed by the Stress Testing at the end of 2010 compared with the end of 2009. Review Group forum which, in conjunction with The volatility in the other asset classes in 2010 was regional risk managers, determines the scenarios to lower than in 2009. be applied at portfolio and consolidated levels, as Our Group daily VAR, both trading and nonfollows: trading, was as follows: sensitivity scenarios consider the impact of any single risk factor or set of factors that are Daily VAR excluding credit spread US$m unlikely to be captured within the VAR models, Unaudited such as the break of a currency peg: 300 technical scenarios consider the largest move in 250 each risk factor, without consideration of any underlying market correlation: 200 hypothetical scenarios consider potential macro 150 economic events, for example, a global flu 100 pandemic: and historical scenarios incorporate historical 50 observations of market movements during 0 previous periods of stress which would not be Dec-08 Apr-09 Aug-09 Dec-09 Apr-10 Aug-10 Dec-10 captured within VAR.
The major contributor to our Group trading and Stress testing results provide senior management non-trading VAR was Global Markets.
with an assessment of the financial effect such events would have on our profit.
The histogram below illustrates the frequency of daily revenue arising from Global Markets trading, Trading and non-trading portfolios balance sheet management and other trading Audited activities.
The following table provides an overview of the reporting of risks within this section: Daily revenue Unaudited Portfolio 2010 2009 Trading Non-trading US$m US$m Risk type Foreign exchange and Average daily revenue......... 49.3 59.9 63 commodity VAR VAR 66 Standard deviation............. 37.8 38.4 64 Interest rate... VAR VAR Equity............ VAR Sensitivity For footnote, see page 174.
65 Credit spread VAR VAR An analysis of the frequency distribution of For footnotes, see page 174. daily revenue shows that there were nine days with negative revenues during 2010 compared with 146 11 days in the same period ended 31 December On 9 May 2010, the International Monetary 2009.
The most frequent result was daily revenue of Fund and the 16 member states of the euro area between US$30m and US$40m with 41 occurrences, announced stabilisation measures for the eurozone.
compared with between US$30m and US$40m and The period prior to this announcement was volatile, between US$40m and US$50m with 29 occurrences leading to a number of negative revenue days.
The each in 2009. maximum daily revenue of US$450m arose on 10 May 2010 which in large part reflected a recovery of these negative revenues days.
Trading portfolios restricting trading in the more complex derivative Audited products only to offices with appropriate levels of product expertise and robust control systems.
Risk measurement and control The VAR for trading intent activity within Our control of market risk in the trading portfolios is Global Markets at 31 December 2010 was based on a policy of restricting individual operations US$80.8m 2009: US$95.1m.
147 Shareholder Information Financial Statements Governance Operating & Financial Review Overview HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Report of the Directors: Operating and Financial Review continued Risk Market risk Trading and non-trading portfolios Structural FX exposures Sensitivity of NII The VAR for overall trading intent activity as such transactions in 2010. at 31 December 2010 was lower than at the end of Non-trading portfolios 2009, because of reduced volatility in various asset Audited classes.
However, the wider band in VAR observed in 2010 was driven by an increase in client-led Risk measurement and control transactions and reduced portfolio diversification The principal objective of market risk management benefit, which resulted in occasionally higher VAR of non-trading portfolios is to optimise net interest utilisation, as reflected in the above summary income.
Interest rate risk in non-trading portfolios statistics.
arises principally from mismatches between the future yield on assets and their funding cost, as a Credit spread risk result of interest rate changes.
Analysis of this risk Audited is complicated by having to make assumptions on The risk associated with movements in credit embedded optionality within certain product areas spreads is primarily managed through sensitivity such as the incidence of mortgage prepayments, limits, stress testing and VAR for those portfolios and from behavioural assumptions regarding on which it is calculated.
the economic duration of liabilities which are contractually repayable on demand such as current At 31 December 2010, the Group credit spread accounts.
The decrease arose from the effect of volatile credit Our control of market risk in the non-trading spread scenarios rolling off from the VAR portfolios is based on transferring the risks to the calculation.
books managed by Global Markets or the local ALCO.
The net exposure is typically managed Credit spread risk also arises on credit derivative through the use of interest rate swaps within agreed transactions entered into by Global Banking in limits.
The VAR for these portfolios is included order to manage the risk concentrations within our within the Group VAR see Value at risk of the corporate loan portfolio and so enhance capital trading and non-trading portfolios on page 146. efficiency.
The mark-to-market of these transactions is reflected in the income statement.
At 31 December Credit spread risk 2010, the credit VAR on the credit derivatives transactions entered into by Global Banking was The risk associated with movements in credit US$12.3m 2009: US$13.8m.
spreads is primarily managed through sensitivity limits, stress testing, and VAR for those portfolios Gap risk where VAR is calculated.
We have introduced credit spread as a separate risk type within our VAR Even for transactions that are structured to render models on a global basis.
The VAR shows the effect the risk to HSBC negligible under a wide range of on income from a one-day movement in credit market conditions or events, there exists a remote spreads over a two-year period, calculated to a 99% possibility that a significant gap event could lead confidence interval.
A gap event could arise from a significant change in market price with no accompanying At 31 December 2010, the sensitivity of equity trading opportunity, with the result that the threshold capital to the effect of movements in credit spreads, is breached beyond which the risk profile changes based on credit spread VAR, on our availablefrom no risk to full exposure to the underlying for-sale debt securities was US$264m 2009: structure.
Such movements may occur, for example, US$535m.
After including the gross exposure for when, in reaction to an adverse event or unexpected the SICs consolidated within our balance sheet, this news announcement, the market for a specific exposure rose to US$299m 2009: US$549m.
This investment becomes illiquid, making hedging sensitivity is calculated before taking into account impossible.
losses which would have been absorbed by the Given their characteristics, these transactions capital note holders.
At 31 December 2010, the make little or no contribution to VAR or to capital note holders can absorb the first US$2.2bn traditional market risk sensitivity measures.
We 2009: US$2.2bn of any losses incurred by the SICs capture their risks within our stress testing scenarios before we incur any equity losses.
and monitor gap risk on an ongoing basis.
We The decrease in this sensitivity at 31 December regularly consider the probability of gap loss, and 2010 compared with 31 December 2009 can be fair value adjustments are booked against this risk.
explained by the effect of lower volatility in credit We did not incur any material gap loss in respect of spread scenarios observed during 2010.
148 Equity securities classified as available for sale at 31 December 2010 was US$8.0bn 2009: US$9.1bn.
Market risk arises on equity securities classified as available for sale.
The fair value of the constituents of equity We may also transact hedges where a currency securities classified as available for sale can in which we have structural exposures is considered fluctuate considerably.
A 10% reduction in their to be significantly overvalued and it is possible value at 31 December 2010 would have reduced our in practice to transact a hedge.
Any hedging is equity by US$0.8bn 2009: US$0.9bn.
For details of undertaken using forward foreign exchange contracts the impairment incurred on available-for-sale equity which are accounted for under IFRSs as hedges of securities, see Securitisation exposures and other a net investment in a foreign operation, or by structured products on page 128. financing with borrowings in the same currencies as the functional currencies involved.
No forward Structural foreign exchange exposures foreign exchange hedges were in place during 2010 Unaudited in respect of our consolidated Group structural foreign exchange position.
Structural foreign exchange exposures represent net investments in subsidiaries, branches and For details of structural foreign exchange associates, the functional currencies of which are exposures see Note 36 on the Financial Statements.
currencies other than the US dollar.
An entitys functional currency is the currency of the primary Sensitivity of net interest income economic environment in which the entity operates.
Unaudited Exchange differences on structural exposures A principal element of our management of market are recognised in other comprehensive income.
We risk in non-trading portfolios is monitoring the use the US dollar as our presentation currency in our sensitivity of projected net interest income under consolidated financial statements because the US varying interest rate scenarios simulation dollar and currencies linked to it form the major modelling.
We aim to mitigate the effect of currency bloc in which we transact and fund our prospective interest rate movements which could business.
Our consolidated balance sheet is, reduce future net interest income, while balancing therefore, affected by exchange differences between the cost of such hedging activities on the current net the US dollar and all the non-US dollar functional revenue stream.
For simulation modelling, our businesses use a We hedge structural foreign exchange exposures combination of scenarios relevant to them and their only in limited circumstances.
Our structural foreign local markets and standard scenarios which are exchange exposures are managed with the primary required throughout HSBC.
The standard scenarios objective of ensuring, where practical, that our are consolidated to illustrate the combined pro forma consolidated capital ratios and the capital ratios of effect on our consolidated portfolio valuations and individual banking subsidiaries are largely protected net interest income.
from the effect of changes in exchange rates.
This The table below sets out the effect on future is usually achieved by ensuring that, for each net interest income of incremental 25 basis points subsidiary bank, the ratio of structural exposures in a parallel falls or rises in all yield curves worldwide at given currency to risk-weighted assets denominated the beginning of each quarter during the 12 months in that currency is broadly equal to the capital ratio from 1 January 2011. of the subsidiary in question.
149 Shareholder Information Financial Statements Governance Operating & Financial Review Overview HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Report of the Directors: Operating and Financial Review continued Risk Market risk Sensitivity of NII Defined benefit pension schemes Assuming no management actions, a sequence of planned net interest income by US$1,525m such rises would increase planned net interest 2010: US$1,563m.
These figures incorporate the income for 2011 by US$882m 2010: US$695m, effect of any option features in the underlying while a sequence of such falls would decrease exposures.
73 Sensitivity of projected net interest income Unaudited Rest of Hong Kong Rest of US dollar Americas dollar Asia Sterling Euro bloc bloc bloc bloc bloc bloc Total US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m Change in 2011 projected net interest income arising from a shift in yield curves of: 25 basis points at the beginning of each quarter..... 164 72 191 245 292 82 882 25 basis points at the beginning of each quarter..... 550 68 280 143 546 62 1,525 Change in 2010 projected net interest income arising from a shift in yield curves of: 25 basis points at the beginning of each quarter..... 13 92 416 112 363 301 695 25 basis points at the beginning of each quarter..... 382 46 507 133 689 194 1,563 For footnote, see page 174.
The interest rate sensitivities set out in the in interest rates on our net interest income arises in table above are illustrative only and are based on two main areas, core deposit franchises and Balance simplified scenarios.
Sheet Management: The figures represent the effect of the pro forma core deposit franchises are exposed to changes movements in net interest income based on the in the cost of deposits raised and spreads on projected yield curve scenarios and our current wholesale funds.
The net interest income benefit interest rate risk profile.
This effect, however, does of core deposits increases as interest rates rise not incorporate actions that would be taken by and decreases as interest rates fall.
This risk Balance Sheet Management within Global Markets is asymmetrical in a very low interest rate or in the business units to mitigate the impact of environment, however, as there is limited room this interest rate risk: in reality, Balance Sheet to lower deposit pricing in the event of interest Management seeks proactively to change the interest rate reductions: and rate risk profile to minimise losses and optimise net residual interest rate risk is managed within revenues.
The projections above also assume that Balance Sheet Management, under our policy of interest rates of all maturities move by the same transferring interest rate risk to Balance Sheet amount and, therefore, do not reflect the potential Management to be managed within defined effect on net interest income of some rates changing limits and with flexibility as to the instruments while others remain unchanged.
projections take account of the effect on net interest income of anticipated differences in changes The table above reflects the fact that our deposit between interbank interest rates and interest rates taking businesses will generally benefit from rising linked to other bases such as Central Bank rates or rates which will be partially offset by increased product rates over which the entity has discretion in funding costs in Balance Sheet Management given terms of the timing and extent of rate changes.
The our simplifying assumption of unchanged Balance projections make other simplifying assumptions too, Sheet Management positioning.
Additionally, the including that all positions run to maturity.
benefit to deposit taking businesses of rising rates is also offset by the increased funding cost of trading Projecting the movement in net interest income assets, which is recorded in Net interest income from prospective changes in interest rates is a and therefore captured in the above table, whereas complex interaction of structural and managed the income from such assets is recorded in Net exposures.
Our exposure to the effect of movements trading income.
150 The main drivers of the year on year changes in assessing the expected reduction in valuation of the sensitivity of the Groups net interest income to available-for-sale portfolios and cash flow hedges the change in rates shown in the table were lower due to parallel movements of plus or minus implied yield curves, changes in Balance Sheet 100 basis points in all yield curves.
The table below Management positioning, and changed expectations describes the sensitivity of our reported reserves to for deposit pricing for some currencies in a rising these movements at the end of 2010 and 2009 and rate environment.
There is a risk that market movements in based on simplified scenarios.
The table shows the equity prices and interest rates could result in asset potential sensitivity of reserves to valuation changes values which, taken together with regular ongoing in available-for-sale portfolios and from cash flow contributions, are insufficient over time to cover the hedges following the pro forma movements in level of projected obligations and these, in turn, interest rates.
These particular exposures form only could increase with a rise in inflation and members a part of our overall interest rate exposures.
Management, together with the accounting treatment under IFRSs of our remaining trustees who act on behalf of the pension scheme interest rate exposures, while economically largely beneficiaries, assess these risks using reports offsetting the exposures shown in the above table, prepared by independent external actuaries, take does not require revaluation movements to go to action and, where appropriate, adjust investment reserves.
strategies and contribution levels accordingly.
The year-on-year increase in sensitivity of HSBCs defined benefit pension schemes reserves is due to an increase in government bonds Audited held in Balance Sheet Management, which are 2010 2009 US$bn US$bn accounted for on an available-for-sale basis.
Liabilities present value....... 32.6 30.6 Defined benefit pension schemes % % Audited Assets: Equities 20 21 Market risk arises within our defined benefit pension Debt securities 66 67 schemes to the extent that the obligations of the Other including property...... 14 12 schemes are not fully matched by assets 100 100 with determinable cash flows.
Pension scheme obligations fluctuate with changes in long-term For details of our defined benefit schemes, see interest rates, inflation, salary levels and the Note 7 on the Financial Statements, and for pension longevity of scheme members.
Pension scheme risk management, see page 172. assets include equities and debt securities, the cash flows of which change as equity prices and interest 151 Shareholder Information Financial Statements Governance Operating & Financial Review Overview HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Report of the Directors: Operating and Financial Review continued Risk Market risk HSBC Holdings HSBC Holdings Changes in the market values of these swaps are Audited recognised directly in the income statement.
HSBC Holdings expects that these swaps will be held to As a financial services holding company, HSBC final maturity with the accumulated changes in Holdings has limited market risk activity.
Its market value consequently trending to zero.
activities predominantly involve maintaining sufficient capital resources to support the Groups Certain loans to subsidiaries of a capital nature diverse activities: allocating these capital resources that are not denominated in the functional currency across our businesses: earning dividend and interest of either the provider or the recipient are accounted income on its investments in our businesses: for as financial assets.
Changes in the carrying providing dividend payments to HSBC Holdings amount of these assets due to exchange differences equity shareholders and interest payments to are taken directly to the income statement.
These providers of debt capital: and maintaining a supply loans, and the associated foreign exchange exposures, of short-term cash resources.
It does not take are eliminated on a Group consolidated basis.
The principal tools used in the management of The main market risks to which HSBC Holdings market risk are the projected sensitivity of HSBC is exposed are interest rate risk and foreign currency Holdings net interest income to future changes in risk.
Exposure to these risks arises from short-term yield curves and interest rate gap re-pricing tables cash balances, funding positions held, loans to for interest rate risk, and VAR for foreign exchange subsidiaries, investments in long-term financial rate risk.
assets and financial liabilities including debt capital issued.
The objective of HSBC Holdings market Sensitivity of net interest income risk management strategy is to reduce exposure to Unaudited these risks and minimise volatility in economic HSBC Holdings monitors net interest income income, cash flows and distributable reserves.
sensitivity over a 5-year time horizon reflecting Market risk for HSBC Holdings is monitored by the the longer-term perspective on interest rate risk Holdings ALCO formerly the Structural Positions management appropriate to a financial services Review Group.
The table below sets out the effect HSBC Holdings has entered into a number of on HSBC Holdings future net interest income over a cross-currency swaps to manage the market risk 5-year time horizon of incremental 25 basis point arising on certain long-term debt capital issues for parallel falls or rises in all yield curves worldwide at which hedge accounting has not been applied.
the beginning of each quarter during the 12 months from 1 January 2011.
152 The interest rate sensitivities tabulated above Interest repricing gap table are illustrative only and are based on simplified The interest rate risk on the fixed-rate securities scenarios.
The figures represent the effect of pro issued by HSBC Holdings is not included within the forma movements in net interest income based on our Group VAR but is managed on a repricing gap basis.
projected yield curve scenarios, HSBC Holdings The interest rate repricing gap table below analyses current interest rate risk profile and assumed changes the full term structure of interest rate mismatches to that profile during the next five years.
Changes to within HSBC Holdings balance sheet.
The year-onassumptions concerning the risk profile over the next year movement in the repricing gap was mainly due five years can have a significant impact on the net to the refinancing of maturing interest bearing interest income sensitivity for that period.
The figures capital liabilities with perpetual fixed rate issues.
do not take into account the effect of actions that could be taken to mitigate this interest rate risk, however.
Total foreign exchange VAR arising within HSBC Operational risk self-assessments are input and Holdings in 2010 and 2009 was as follows: maintained by business units.
To ensure that HSBC Holdings foreign exchange VAR operational risk losses are consistently reported and Audited monitored at Group level, all Group companies are Foreign exchange required to report individual losses when the net loss 2010 2009 is expected to exceed US$10,000.
The foreign exchange risk largely arises from loans to subsidiaries of a capital nature that are not Legal risk Unaudited denominated in the functional currency of either the provider or the recipient and which are accounted Each operating company is required to implement for as financial assets.
Changes in the carrying procedures to manage legal risk that conform to our amount of these loans due to foreign exchange rate standards.
Legal risk falls within the definition of differences are taken directly to HSBC Holdings operational risk and includes contractual risk, income statement.
These loans, and the associated dispute risk, legislative risk and non-contractual foreign exchange exposures, are eliminated on a rights risk.
Contractual risk is the risk that the rights and or obligations of an HSBC company within a Operational risk contractual relationship are defective.
Unaudited Dispute risk consists of the risks that an HSBC Operational risk is relevant to every aspect of our company is subject to when it is involved in or business and covers a wide spectrum of issues.
managing a potential or actual dispute.
Losses arising through fraud, unauthorised activities, errors, omission, inefficiency, systems failure or Legislative risk is the risk that an HSBC from external events all fall within the definition of company fails to adhere to the laws of the operational risk.
jurisdictions in which it operates.
The objective of our operational risk Non-contractual rights risk is the risk that an management is to manage and control operational HSBC companys assets are not properly owned risk in a cost effective manner within targeted levels or are infringed by others, or an HSBC company of operational risk consistent with our risk appetite, infringes another partys rights.
We have a global legal function to assist A formal governance structure provides management in controlling legal risk.
The function oversight over the management of operational risk.
provides legal advice and support in managing A Global Operational Risk and Control Committee, claims against our companies, as well as in respect which reports to the Risk Management Meeting, of non-routine debt recoveries or other litigation meets at least quarterly to discuss key risk issues and against third parties.
review the effective implementation of our The GMO Legal department oversees the global operational risk management framework.
legal function and is headed by the Group General In each of our subsidiaries, business managers Counsel.
There are legal departments in 58 of the are responsible for maintaining an acceptable level countries in which we operate.
There are also of internal control, commensurate with the scale and regional legal functions in each of Europe, North nature of operations.
They are responsible for America, Latin America, the Middle East, and identifying and assessing risks, designing controls Asia-Pacific headed by Regional General Counsels.
and monitoring the effectiveness of these controls.
Our operating companies must notify the The operational risk management framework helps appropriate legal department immediately any managers to fulfil these responsibilities by defining a litigation is either threatened or commenced against standard risk assessment methodology and providing HSBC or an employee.
Any claims which exceed a tool for the systematic reporting of operational loss US$1.5m or equivalent must be advised to the data.
154 appropriate regional legal department and the procedures are supplemented by a requirement for regional legal department must immediately advise the submission of compliance certificates at the halfthe GMO Legal department if any such claim year and year-end by all Group companies detailing exceeds US$5m.
The appropriate regional legal any known breaches as above.
The contents of these department must also be immediately advised and escalation and certification processes are used for must in turn immediately advise the GMO Legal reporting to the Risk Management Meeting, the department of any action by a regulatory authority, Group Risk Committee and the Board and disclosure where the proceedings are criminal, or where the in the Annual Report and Accounts and Interim claim might materially affect our reputation.
as matters relate to GB&M or GPB, notification should also be made to GB&M Legal in London.
Group security and fraud risk Unaudited All such matters are then reported to the Risk Management Meeting in a monthly paper.
Security and fraud risk issues are managed at Group level by Group Security and Fraud Risk.
This unit, In addition, our operating companies are which has responsibility for physical risk, fraud, required to submit semi-annual returns detailing information and contingency risk, and security and outstanding claims where the claim or group of business intelligence, is fully integrated within similar claims exceeds US$10m, where the action is the central GMO Risk function.
This enables by a regulatory authority, where the proceedings are management to identify and mitigate the effect of criminal, where the claim might materially affect our the permutations of these and other non-financial reputation, or, where the GMO Legal department has risks on our business lines across the jurisdictions requested returns be completed for a particular in which we operate.
These returns are used for reporting to the Risk Management Meeting, the Group Audit Risk management of insurance Committee and the Board, and disclosure in the operations Annual Report and Accounts and Interim Report, Audited if appropriate.
We operate a bancassurance model which provides Compliance risk insurance products for customers with whom we Unaudited have a banking relationship.
Insurance products are sold to all customer groups, mainly utilising retail Compliance risk falls within the definition of branches, the internet and phone centres.
All Group companies are required customers attract the majority of sales and comprise to observe the letter and spirit of all relevant laws, the majority of policyholders.
codes, rules, regulations and standards of good market practice.
These rules, regulations, other Many of these insurance products are standards and Group policies include those relating manufactured by our subsidiaries.
This allows us to to anti-money laundering, counter terrorist financing retain the risks and rewards associated with writing and sanctions compliance.
insurance contracts as both the underwriting profit and the commission paid by the manufacturer to the The Group Compliance function supports line bank distribution channel are kept within the Group.
management in ensuring that there are adequate policies and procedures, and is responsible for Where we consider it operationally more maintaining adequate resources to mitigate effective, third parties are engaged to manufacture compliance risk.
The GMO Compliance department insurance products for sale through our banking oversees the global compliance function and is network.
We work with a limited number of marketheaded by the Head of Group Compliance who in leading partners to provide the products.
These turn reports to the Group Chief Risk Officer.
There arrangements earn us a commission.
are compliance teams in all of the countries where we operate.
These compliance teams are principally Our bancassurance business operates in all six overseen by Regional Compliance Officers located of our geographical regions with over 30 legal in Europe, North America, Latin America, the entities, the majority of which are subsidiaries of Middle East and Asia-Pacific.
banking legal entities, manufacturing insurance products.
Group Compliance policies and procedures require the prompt identification and escalation The insurance contracts we sell primarily relate to GMO Compliance of all actual or suspected to core underlying banking activities, such as savings breaches of any law, rule, regulation, Group policy and investment products, and credit life products.
These escalation 155 Shareholder Information Financial Statements Governance Operating & Financial Review Overview HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Report of the Directors: Operating and Financial Review continued Risk Risk management of insurance operations Overview of products Nature and extent of risks Insurance risk Our manufacturing business concentrates on market.
On 14 October 2010, the CC confirmed that personal lines, e. g. contracts written for individuals.
it intended to proceed with a point of sale ban.
It is This focus on the higher volume, lower individual anticipated that the Order implementing the CCs value personal lines contributes to diversifying risk.
remedies will be made in late March or early April, and that the point of sale ban will then come into Overview of insurance products effect 12 months after the date of the Order.
Audited Nature and extent of risks The main contracts we manufacture are listed below: Audited Life insurance business The majority of the risk in our insurance business derives from manufacturing activities and can be Life insurance contracts with discretionary categorised as insurance risk and financial risks.
The participation features DPF : following sections describe how these risks are credit life insurance business: managed.
Financial risks include market risk, credit annuities: risk and liquidity risk.
The assets of insurance term assurance and critical illness policies: manufacturing subsidiaries are included within the linked life insurance: consolidated credit risk disclosures on pages 93 investment contracts with DPF: to 128, although separate disclosures in respect of unit-linked investment contracts: and insurance manufacturing subsidiaries are provided other investment contracts including pension below.
The consolidated liquidity risk and market contracts written in Hong Kong.
risk disclosures focus on banking entities and disclosures specific to the insurance manufacturing Non-life insurance business subsidiaries are provided in the sections below.
Non-life insurance contracts include motor, fire and Operational risk is covered by the Groups overall other damage to property, accident and health, operational risk management process.
repayment protection and commercial insurance.
The insurance manufacturers set their own Credit non-life insurance is concentrated in control procedures in addition to complying with North America and Europe, and is originated in guidelines issued by the Group Insurance Head conjunction with the provision of loans.
The control framework for monitoring risk a decision taken to close the Consumer Lending includes the Group Insurance Risk Committee, network in the US, insurance products written in which oversees the status of the significant risk conjunction with this business are being run off.
categories in the insurance operations.
Five subcommittees of this Committee focus on products In December 2007, we decided to stop selling and pricing, market and liquidity risk, credit risk, payment protection insurance PPI products in the operational risk and insurance risk, respectively.
UK and a phased withdrawal was completed across Similar risk committees exist at regional and entity the HSBC, first direct and M&S Money brands levels.
Any issues requiring escalation from the during 2008.
HFC ceased selling single premium PPI Group Insurance Risk Committee would be reported in 2008 and sales of regular premium PPI will to the GMB via the Risk Management Meeting.
reduce as HFC exits its remaining retail relationships.
HSBC continues to distribute its UK In addition, local ALCOs and Risk Management short-term income protection STIP product.
In Committees monitor certain risk exposures, mainly January 2009, the Competition Commission CC for life business where the duration and cash flow published its report into the PPI market in which it matching of insurance assets and liabilities are stipulated that STIP products will also be subject to reviewed.
their remedies when sold in conjunction with or as a All insurance products, whether manufactured result of a referral following the sale of a loan or internally or by a third party, are subjected to a similar credit product.
We have undertaken an product approval process.
Approval is provided analysis of the required changes to the STIP product by the Regional Insurance Head Office or Group and its sales processes resulting from the CCs Insurance Head Office depending on the type of remedies.
Following an appeal to the Competition product and its risk profile.
The approval process Appeal Tribunal, the CC had to reconsider whether a is formalised through the Product and Pricing ban on firms selling PPI at the point of sale of the Committee, which comprise the heads of the relevant credit product was an appropriate and justified risk functions within insurance.
remedy for the deficiencies it identified in the PPI 156 Insurance risk Formal underwriting, reinsurance and claimsAudited handling procedures designed to ensure compliance with regulations are applied, supplemented with Insurance risk is the risk, other than financial risk, stress testing.
of loss transferred from the holder of the insurance contract to the issuer HSBC.
The principal As well as exercising underwriting controls, we insurance risk we face is that, over time, the cost of use reinsurance as a means of mitigating exposure acquiring and administering a contract, claims and to insurance risk, in particular to aggregations of benefits may exceed the aggregate amount of catastrophe risk.
When we manage our exposure premiums received and investment income.
to insurance risk through the use of third-party reinsurers, the associated revenue and manufacturing The cost of claims and benefits can be profit is ceded to them.
Although reinsurance influenced by many factors, including mortality and provides a means of managing insurance risk, such morbidity experience, lapse and surrender rates and, contracts expose us to credit risk, the risk of default if the policy has a savings element, the performance by the reinsurer see page 165. of the assets held to support the liabilities.
The following tables analyse our insurance risk Life and non-life business insurance risks are exposures by geographical region and by type of controlled by high-level policies and procedures set business.
centrally, taking into account where appropriate local market conditions and regulatory requirements.
Our most significant life insurance products are assumptions around these drivers.
These typically investment contracts with DPF issued in France, reflect the issuers own experiences.
The type and insurance contracts with DPF issued in Hong Kong quantum of insurance risk arising from life insurance and unit-linked contracts issued in Hong Kong, Latin depends on the type of business, and varies America and the UK.
The principal drivers of our insurance risk are mortality and morbidity: the main contracts described below.
The liabilities for long-term which generate exposure to these risks are term contracts are set by reference to a range of assurance, whole life products, critical illness 157 Shareholder Information Financial Statements Governance Operating & Financial Review Overview HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Report of the Directors: Operating and Financial Review continued Risk Risk management of insurance operations Insurance risk and income protection contracts and annuities.
expense risk is mitigated by pricing, for The risks are monitored on a regular basis, example, retaining the ability in certain cases to and are primarily mitigated by underwriting amend premiums and or policyholder charges controls and reinsurance and by retaining the based on experience, and cost management ability in certain cases to amend premiums in discipline.
the light of experience: Economic assumptions, such as investment lapses and surrenders: the risks associated with returns and interest rates, are usually based on this are generally mitigated by product design, observable market data.
Clearly, liabilities are the application of surrender charges and affected by changes in assumptions see Sensitivity management actions, for example, managing the of HSBCs insurance subsidiaries to risk factors on level of bonus payments to policyholders.
158 Audited policy terms and conditions, product design, risk selection, claims handling, investment strategy and Our motor business is written predominantly in reinsurance policy.
The majority of our non-life Latin America.
The run-off of the UK motor book insurance contracts are renewable annually, continued in 2010.
Accident and health is written in providing added flexibility to the underwriting all regions but mainly in Hong Kong.
We write fire terms and conditions.
and other damage to property contracts in all major markets, most significantly in Europe.
Credit nonBalance sheet of insurance manufacturing life insurance, which is originated in conjunction subsidiaries with the provision of loans, is concentrated in the Audited US and Europe.
A principal tool we use to manage our exposure to The main risks associated with non-life business insurance risk, in particular for life insurance are: contracts, is asset and liability matching.
underwriting: the risk that premiums are not The tables below show the composition of assets appropriate for the cover provided: and and liabilities by contract and by geographical region claims experience: the risk that claims exceed and demonstrate that there were sufficient assets to expectations.
cover the liabilities to policyholders in each case at the end of 2010.
Financial risks and concentration of assets that these subsidiaries Audited must maintain to meet insurance liabilities.
These requirements complement Group-wide policies.
Our insurance businesses are exposed to a range of financial risks, including market risk, credit risk and The following table analyses the assets held liquidity risk.
Market risk includes interest rate risk, in our insurance manufacturing subsidiaries at equity risk and foreign exchange risk.
The nature 31 December 2010 by type of contract, and provides and management of these risks is described below.
a view of the exposure to financial risk.
For linked contracts, which pay benefits to policyholders which Manufacturing subsidiaries are exposed to are determined by reference to the value of the financial risks when, for example, the proceeds investments supporting the policies, we typically from financial assets are not sufficient to fund the designate assets at fair value: for non-linked obligations arising from non-linked insurance and contracts, the classification of the assets is driven investment contracts.
In many jurisdictions, local by the nature of the underlying contract.
Approximately 65.1% of financial assets were Market risk Audited invested in debt securities at 31 December 2010 2009: 64.4% with 22.9% 2009: 22.2% invested Market risk arises when mismatches occur between in equity securities.
product liabilities and the investment assets which back them.
For example, mismatches between asset In life linked insurance, premium income less and liability yields and maturities give rise to interest charges levied is invested in a portfolio of assets.
manage the financial risks of this product on behalf of the policyholders by holding appropriate assets in Description of market risk segregated funds or portfolios to which the liabilities Audited are linked.
These assets represented 23.9% of the total financial assets of our insurance manufacturing The main features of products manufactured by our subsidiaries at the end of 2010 2009: 22.4%.
insurance manufacturing subsidiaries which generate market risk, and the market risk to which these 162 features expose the subsidiaries, are discussed Categories of guaranteed benefits below.
annuities in payment: deferred immediate annuities: these consist of two phases Long-term insurance or investment products the savings and investing phase and the retirement income may incorporate benefits that are guaranteed.
The phase: table below shows, in respect of each category of annual return: the annual return is guaranteed to be no lower guarantee, the total liabilities to policyholders than a specified rate.
This may be the return credited to the policyholder every year, or the average annual return established for guaranteed products manufactured by credited to the policyholder over the life of the policy, our insurance subsidiaries.
The table also shows the which may occur on the maturity date or the surrender date range of investment returns net of operating costs of the contract: and on the assets supporting these products and the capital: policyholders are guaranteed to receive no less than implied investment returns that would enable the the premiums paid plus declared bonuses less expenses.
business to meet the guarantees.
Interest rate risk arises to the extent that yields A subsidiary holding a portfolio of long-term on the assets are lower than the investment returns insurance and investment products, especially with implied by the guarantees payable to policyholders DPF, may attempt to reduce exposure to its local by insurance manufacturing subsidiaries.
When this market by investing in assets in countries other happens, we may discontinue products.
than that in which it is based.
These assets may be denominated in currencies other than the The proceeds from insurance and investment subsidiarys local currency.
It is often not cost products with DPF are primarily invested in bonds effective for the subsidiary to hedge the foreign with a proportion allocated to other asset classes in exchange exposure associated with these assets, and order to provide customers with the potential for this exposes it to the risk that its local currency will enhanced returns.
Subsidiaries with portfolios of strengthen against the currency of the related assets.
such products are exposed to the risk of falls in market prices which cannot be fully reflected in the For unit-linked contracts, market risk is discretionary bonuses.
An increase in market substantially borne by the policyholder, but we volatility could also result in an increase in the value typically remain exposed to market risk as the of the guarantee to the policyholder.
market value of the linked assets influences the fees we earn for managing them.
Long-term insurance and investment products typically permit the policyholder to surrender the Asset and liability matching policy or let it lapse at any time.
When the surrender value is not linked to the value realised from the sale It may not always be possible to achieve a complete of the associated supporting assets, the subsidiary is matching of asset and liability durations, partly exposed to market risk.
In particular, when customers because there is uncertainty over policyholder seek to surrender their policies when asset values are behaviour, which introduces uncertainty over the falling, assets may have to be sold at a loss to fund receipt of all future premiums and the timing of redemptions.
claims, and partly because the duration of liabilities may exceed the duration of the longest available dated fixed interest investments.
163 Shareholder Information Financial Statements Governance Operating & Financial Review Overview HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Report of the Directors: Operating and Financial Review continued Risk Risk management of insurance operations Financial risks Market risk Credit risk We use models to assess the effect of a range of undertaken by Group Insurance Head Office.
future scenarios on the values of financial assets and Management reviews certain exposures more associated liabilities, and ALCOs employ the frequently when markets are more volatile to ensure outcomes in determining how the assets and that any matters arising are dealt with in a timely liabilities should be matched.
stresses applied to factors which affect insurance risk such as mortality and lapse rates.
Of particular How the exposure to market risk is measured Audited importance is matching the expected pattern of cash inflows with the benefits payable on the underlying Our insurance manufacturing subsidiaries monitor contracts, which can extend for many years.
exposures against mandated limits regularly and report them to Group Insurance Head Office.
Our current portfolio of assets includes debt Exposures are aggregated and reported on a securities issued at a time when yields were higher quarterly basis to senior risk management forums in than those observed in the current market.
As a the Group, including the Group Insurance Market result, yields on extant holdings of debt securities and Liquidity Risk Committee, Group Insurance exceed those which may be obtained on current Risk Committee and the Group Stress Test Review issues.
We reduced short-term bonus rates paid to Group.
policyholders on certain participating contracts to manage the immediate strain on the business.
Should Standard measures for quantifying market risks interest rates and yield curves remain low for for interest rate risk, the sensitivities of the net present prolonged periods, further such steps may be needed.
values of asset and expected liability cash flows, in total and by currency, to a one basis point parallel shift in the discount curves used to calculate the net present values: How market risk is managed for equity price risk, the total market value of equity Audited holdings and the market value of equity holdings by region and country: and All our insurance manufacturing subsidiaries have for foreign exchange risk, the total net short foreign market risk mandates which specify the investment exchange position and the net foreign exchange positions by instruments in which they are permitted to invest and currency.
the maximum quantum of market risk which they are permitted to retain.
They manage market risk by The standard measures are relatively using some or all of the techniques listed below, straightforward to calculate and aggregate, but they depending on the nature of the contracts they write.
The most significant one is that a Techniques for managing market risk parallel shift in yield curves of one basis point does for products with DPF, adjusting bonus rates to manage the not capture the non-linear relationships between the liabilities to policyholders.
The effect is that a significant values of certain assets and liabilities and interest portion of the market risk is borne by the policyholder: rates.
Non-linearity arises, for example, from as far as possible, matching assets to liabilities: investment guarantees and product features which using derivatives to a limited extent: enable policyholders to surrender their policies.
We for new products with investment guarantees, considering bear the shortfall if the yields on investments held to the cost when determining the level of premiums or the support contracts with guaranteed benefits are less price structure: than the investment returns implied by the periodically reviewing products identified as higher risk, guaranteed benefits.
which contain investment guarantees and embedded optionality features linked to savings and investment We recognise these limitations and augment our products: standard measures with stress tests which examine including features designed to mitigate market risk in new products, such as charging surrender penalties to recoup the effect of a range of market rate scenarios on the losses incurred when policyholders surrender their policies: aggregate annual profits and total equity of our and insurance manufacturing subsidiaries, after taking exiting, to the extent possible, investment portfolios whose into consideration tax and accounting treatments risk is considered unacceptable.
The results of these tests are reported to Group Insurance Head Office In the product approval process, the risks and risk committees every quarter.
embedded in new products are identified and assessed.
When, for example, options and guarantees The following table illustrates the effects of are embedded in new products, the due diligence various interest rate, equity price, foreign exchange process ensures that complete and appropriate risk rate and credit spread scenarios on our profit for the management procedures are in place.
For all but the year and total equity of our insurance manufacturing simplest of guaranteed benefits the assessment is subsidiaries: 164 Sensitivity of HSBCs insurance manufacturing subsidiaries to risk factors Audited 2010 2009 Effect on Effect on Effect on Effect on profit for total profit for total the year equity the year equity US$m US$m US$m US$m 100 basis points parallel shift in yield curves 72 132 68 82 100 basis points parallel shift in yield curves 86 131 69 92 10% increase in equity prices. 76 76 19 19 10% decrease in equity prices 76 76 20 20 10% increase in US dollar exchange rate compared to all currencies. 21 21 20 20 10% decrease in US dollar exchange rate compared to all currencies. 21 21 20 20 Sensitivity to credit spread increases................ 31 74 36 91 Where appropriate, we include the impact of the We used to sell certain unit-linked life insurance stress on the PVIF in the results of the stress tests.
contracts which were reinsured with a third-party The relationship between the values of certain assets counterparty, who also underwrote market return and liabilities and the risk factors may be non-linear guarantees.
We are exposed to credit risk to the and, therefore, the results disclosed cannot be extent that the counterparty is unable to meet the extrapolated to measure sensitivities to different terms of the guaranteed benefits.
The cost to us of levels of stress.
The sensitivities are stated before market return guarantees increases when interest rates fall, equity markets fall or market volatility allowance for the effect of management actions which may mitigate changes in market rates, and for increases.
In addition, when determined by reference any factors such as policyholder behaviour that may to a discounted cash flow model in which the change in response to changes in market risk.
discount rate is based on current interest rates, guarantee costs increase in a falling interest rate Credit risk environment.
The sale of these contracts ceased in Audited 2008, reflecting our adjusted risk appetite.
Description of credit risk How credit risk is managed Credit risk can give rise to losses through default Our exposure to credit risk products is included in and can lead to volatility in our income statement the tables showing exposures to life and non-life and balance sheet figures through movements in insurance risk on pages 157 to 159.
Our insurance credit spreads, principally on the US$43.3bn 2009: manufacturing subsidiaries are responsible for the US$40.5bn non-linked bond portfolio.
credit risk, quality and performance of their As tabulated above, the sensitivity of the net investment portfolios.
Our assessment of the profit after tax of our insurance subsidiaries to the creditworthiness of issuers and counterparties is effects of increases in credit spreads is a fall of based primarily upon internationally recognised US$31m 2009: US$36m fall.
This is small because credit ratings and other publicly available 51.4% of the financial assets held by our insurance information.
subsidiaries are classified as either held to maturity Investment credit exposures are monitored or available for sale, and consequently any changes against limits by our local insurance manufacturing in the fair value of these financial investments, subsidiaries, and are aggregated and reported to absent impairment, would have no impact on the Group Credit Risk, the Group Insurance Credit Risk profit after tax.
We calculate the sensitivity using Meeting and the Group Insurance Risk Committee.
simplified assumptions based on a one-day Stress testing is performed by Group Insurance Head movement in credit spreads over a two-year period.
Office on the investment credit exposures using A confidence level of 99%, consistent with our credit spread sensitivities and default probabilities.
While credit spreads have The stresses are reported to the Group Insurance generally widened from the levels observed at the Risk Committee.
end of 2009, the volatility experienced during 2010 was lower than that seen in 2009, leading to a We use a number of tools to manage and reduction in our sensitivity to credit spread monitor credit risk.
These include an Early Warning movements.
Report and a watch list of investments with current credit concerns which are circulated fortnightly to 165 Shareholder Information Financial Statements Governance Operating & Financial Review Overview HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Report of the Directors: Operating and Financial Review continued Risk Risk management of insurance operations Financial risks Credit risk senior management in Group Insurance Head Office our insurance business by measures of credit quality.
and the Regional Chief Risk Officers to identify The five credit quality classifications are defined investments which may be at risk of future on page 114.
Only assets supporting non-linked impairment.
liabilities are included in the table as financial risk on assets supporting linked liabilities is Credit quality predominantly borne by the policyholder.
90.5% Audited 2009: 90.9% of the assets included in the table are invested in investments rated as Strong.
Our exposure to third parties under risk we incur is assumed by reinsurers.
The split of the reinsurance agreements described in the Credit liabilities ceded to reinsurers and outstanding Risk section above is included in this table.
Liquidity risk They manage liquidity risk by utilising some or Audited all of the following techniques: Description of liquidity risk matching cash inflows with expected cash outflows using specific cash flow projections or It is an inherent characteristic of almost all insurance more general asset and liability matching contracts that there is uncertainty over the amount of techniques such as duration matching: claims liabilities that may arise and the timing of their settlement, and this creates liquidity risk.
maintaining sufficient cash resources: There are three aspects to liquidity risk.
The investing in good credit-quality investments first arises in normal market conditions and is with deep and liquid markets to the degree to referred to as funding liquidity risk: specifically, the which they exist: capacity to raise sufficient cash when needed to meet monitoring investment concentrations and payment obligations.
Secondly, market liquidity risk restricting them where appropriate, for example, arises when the size of a particular holding may be by debt issues or issuers: and so large that a sale cannot be completed around the market price.
Finally, standby liquidity risk refers to establishing committed contingency borrowing the capacity to meet payment terms in abnormal facilities.
Each of these techniques contributes to mitigating the three types of liquidity risk described How liquidity risk is managed above.
Our insurance manufacturing subsidiaries primarily Every quarter, our insurance manufacturing fund cash outflows arising from claim liabilities subsidiaries are required to complete and submit from the following sources of cash inflows: liquidity risk reports to Group Insurance Head Office premiums from new business, policy renewals for collation and review by the Group Insurance and recurring premium products: Market and Liquidity Risk Meeting.
Liquidity risk is assessed in these reports by measuring changes interest and dividends on investments and in expected cumulative net cash flows under a principal repayments of maturing debt series of stress scenarios designed to determine the investments: effect of reducing expected available liquidity and cash resources: and accelerating cash outflows.
This is achieved, for example, by assuming new business or renewals are the sale of investments.
168 lower, and surrenders or lapses are greater, than period of risk.
There is a greater spread of expected expected.
maturities for the life business where, in a large proportion of cases, the liquidity risk is borne in The following tables show the expected conjunction with policyholders wholly in the case undiscounted cash flows for insurance contract of unit-linked business.
liabilities and the remaining contractual maturity of investment contract liabilities at 31 December 2010.
169 Shareholder Information Financial Statements Governance Operating & Financial Review Overview HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Report of the Directors: Operating and Financial Review continued Risk Risk management of insurance operations PVIF insurance business Economic assumptions Non-economic assumptions Present value of in-force long-term US$3.4bn 2009: US$2.8bn, representing the insurance business present value of the shareholders interest in the Audited profits expected to emerge from the book of in-force policies at that date.
Our life insurance business is accounted for using the embedded value approach which, inter alia, The following table shows the movements provides a comprehensive risk and valuation recorded during the year in respect of total equity framework.
To project these cash flows, a variety of subsidiaries.
assumptions regarding future experience is made by Due to certain characteristics of the contracts, each insurance operation which reflects local market the relationships may be non-linear and the results conditions and managements judgement of local of the stress-testing should not be extrapolated to future trends.
Some of the Groups insurance higher levels of stress.
In calculating the various operations incorporate risk margins separately in the scenarios, all assumptions are held stable except projection assumptions for each product, while when testing the effect of the shift in the risk-free others incorporate risk margins into the overall rate, when resultant changes to investment returns, discount rate.
Both factors are reflected in the wide risk discount rates and bonus rates are also range of risk discount rates applied.
The sensitivities shown are before actions that could be taken by management to Economic assumptions mitigate effects and before resultant changes in Audited policyholder behaviour.
The following table shows the effect on the PVIF of reasonably possible changes in the main economic 170 Sensitivity of PVIF to changes in economic would have a negative effect on profit.
Our main assumptions exposures to this scenario are in the UK, Hong Audited Kong, Latin America and Bermuda.
PVIF at 31 December 2010 2009 Mortality and morbidity risk is typically US$m US$m associated with life insurance contracts.
The effect on profit of an increase in mortality or morbidity 100 basis point shift in risk-free rate................ 231 212 depends on the type of business being written.
Our 100 basis point shift in largest exposures to mortality and morbidity risk risk-free rate................ 190 145 exist in France, Hong Kong, the UK and the US.
100 basis point shift in risk discount rate......... 179 140 Sensitivity to lapse rates depends on the type of 100 basis point shift in contracts being written.
For insurance contracts, risk discount rate......... 205 162 claims are funded by premiums received and income earned on the investment portfolio supporting the Non-economic assumptions liabilities.
For a portfolio of term assurance, an Audited increase in lapse rates typically has a negative effect We determine the policyholder liabilities and PVIF on profit due to the loss of future premium income by reference to non-economic assumptions which on the lapsed policies.
France, Hong Kong, the UK include, for non-life manufacturers, claims costs and and the US are where we are most sensitive to a expense rates and, for life manufacturers, mortality change in lapse rates.
and or morbidity, lapse rates and expense rates.
The Expense rate risk is the exposure to a change in table below shows the sensitivity of profit for 2010 expense rates.
To the extent that increased expenses and total equity at 31 December 2010 to reasonably cannot be passed on to policyholders, an increase in possible changes in these non-economic assumptions expense rates will have a negative impact on our at that date across all our insurance manufacturing profits.
The cost of claims is a risk associated with nonlife insurance business.
The policies cover ESG issues and set out operational procedures in Reputational risk all areas of reputational risk, including money Unaudited laundering deterrence, counter-terrorist financing, environmental impact, anti-corruption measures and The safeguarding of our reputation is of employee relations.
The policy manuals address risk paramount importance to our continued issues in detail and co-operation between GMO prosperity and is the responsibility of every departments and businesses is required to ensure a member of staff.
strong adherence to our risk management system and We regularly review our policies and procedures for our sustainability practices.
safeguarding against reputational and operational risks.
This is an evolutionary process which takes Pension risk account of relevant developments and industry Unaudited guidance such as The Association of British We operate a number of pension plans throughout Insurers guidance on best practice when responding the world, as described in Note 7 on the Financial to environmental, social and governance ESG Statements.
Some of them are defined benefit plans, risks.
of which the largest is the HSBC Bank UK Pension We have always aspired to the highest standards Scheme the principal plan.
of conduct and, as a matter of routine, take account In order to fund the benefits associated with of reputational risks to our business.
Reputational these plans, sponsoring Group companies and, risks can arise from a wide variety of causes, in some instances, employees make regular including ESG issues and operational risk events.
As contributions in accordance with advice from a banking group, our good reputation depends upon actuaries and in consultation with the schemes the way in which we conduct our business, but it can trustees where relevant.
The defined benefit plans also be affected by the way in which clients, to invest these contributions in a range of investments whom we provide financial services, conduct designed to meet their long-term liabilities.
The training of Directors on appointment includes reputational matters.
The level of these contributions has a direct impact on HSBCs cash flow and would normally Group functions with responsibility for activities be set to ensure that there are sufficient funds to that attract reputational risk are represented at the meet the cost of the accruing benefits for the future Group Reputational Risk Committee GRRC, service of active members.
However, higher which is chaired by the Group Chairman.
The contributions will be required when plan assets are primary role of the GRRC is to consider areas and considered insufficient to cover the existing pension activities presenting significant reputational risk and, liabilities as a deficit exists.
Contribution rates are where appropriate, to make recommendations to the typically revised annually or triennially, depending Risk Management Meeting and the GMB for policy on the plan.
The agreed contributions to the principal or procedural changes to mitigate such risk.
Reputational Risk Committees have been established in each of the Groups regions.
These committees A deficit in a defined benefit plan may arise from a number of factors, including are required to ensure that reputational risks are considered at a regional as well as Group level.
investments delivering a return below that required to provide the projected plan benefits.
This could arise, for Minutes from the regional committees are tabled at example, when there is a fall in the market value of equities, GRRC.
or when increases in long-term interest rates cause a fall in the value of fixed income securities held: Standards on all major aspects of business are set for HSBC and for individual subsidiaries, the prevailing economic environment leading to corporate failures, thus triggering write-downs in asset values both businesses and functions.
Reputational risks, equity and debt : including ESG matters, are considered and assessed a change in either interest rates or inflation which causes an by the Board, the GMB, the Risk Management increase in the value of the scheme liabilities: and Meeting, subsidiary company boards, Board committees and senior management during the scheme members living longer than expected known as longevity risk.
formulation of policy and the establishment of our standards.
These policies, which form an integral A plans investment strategy is determined after part of the internal control system see page 202, are taking into consideration the market risk inherent in communicated through manuals and statements of the investments and its consequential impact on policy and are promulgated through internal potential future contributions.
The long-term 172 investment objectives of both HSBC and, where hold the majority of assets in bonds, with the relevant and appropriate, the trustees are: remainder in a more diverse range of investments, and includes a commitment to undertake a to limit the risk of the assets failing to meet the programme of swap arrangements see Note 45 on liabilities of the plans over the long-term: and the Financial Statements by which the principal to maximise returns consistent with an plan makes LIBOR-related interest payments in acceptable level of risk so as to control the exchange for the receipt of cash flows which are long-term costs of the defined benefit plans.
based on projected future benefit payments to be made from the principal plan.
In pursuit of these long-term objectives, a benchmark is established for the allocation of the Sustainability risk defined benefit plan assets between asset classes.
Unaudited In addition, each permitted asset class has its own Assessing the environmental and social benchmarks, such as stock market or property impacts of providing finance to our valuation indices and, where relevant, desired levels customers has been firmly embedded into of out-performance.
The benchmarks are reviewed our overall risk management processes.
at least triennially within 18 months of the date at which an actuarial valuation is made, or more Sustainability risks arise from the provision of frequently if required by local legislation or financial services to companies or projects which run circumstances.
The process generally involves an counter to the needs of sustainable development: in extensive asset and liability review.
effect this risk arises when the environmental and social effects outweigh economic benefits.
Within Ultimate responsibility for investment strategy GMO, a separate function, Group Corporate rests with either the trustees or, in certain Sustainability, is mandated to manage these risks circumstances, a Management Committee.
The globally working through local offices as degree of independence of the trustees from HSBC appropriate.
Sustainability Risk Managers have varies in different jurisdictions.
For example, the regional or national responsibilities for advising on principal plan, which accounts for approximately and managing environmental and social risks.
70% of the obligations of our defined benefit pension plans, is overseen by a corporate trustee who Group Corporate Sustainabilitys risk regularly monitors the market risks inherent in the management responsibilities include: scheme.
This The principal plan holds a diversified portfolio includes oversight of our sustainability risk of investments to meet future cash flow liabilities standards, management of the Equator arising from accrued benefits as they fall due to be Principles for project finance lending, and paid.
The trustee of the principal plan is required to sector-based sustainability policies covering produce a written Statement of Investment Principles those sectors with high environmental or social which governs decision-making about how impacts forestry, freshwater infrastructure, investments are made.
chemicals, energy, mining and metals, and defence-related lending : undertaking an The DBS principal plan asset allocation independent review of transactions where 2010 2006 sustainability risks are assessed to be high, and % % supporting our operating companies to assess Equities 15.5 15.0 similar risks of a lower magnitude: Bonds... 56.5 50.0 93 building and implementing systems-based Alternative assets 10.5 10.0 processes to ensure consistent application of Property 9.0 10.0 Cash...... 8.5 15.0 policies, reduce the costs of sustainability risk reviews and capture management information to 100.0 100.0 measure and report on the effect of our lending For footnote, see page 174. and investment activities on sustainable development: and In 2006, HSBC and the trustee of the principal providing training and capacity building within plan agreed to change the investment strategy in our operating companies to ensure sustainability order to reduce the investment risk.
The target asset risks are identified and mitigated consistently to allocations for this strategy at that time and as either our own standards, international standards revised in 2010 are shown above.
The strategy is to or local regulations, whichever is higher.
173 Shareholder Information Financial Statements Governance Operating & Financial Review Overview HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Report of the Directors: Operating and Financial Review continued Risk Other material risks Residual value risk Footnotes to Risk Residual value risk the end of the lease terms the residual values Unaudited differ from those projected at the inception of the leases.
A significant part of a lessors return from operating leases is dependent upon its management of residual The sale of our rail finance business Eversholt value risk.
This arises from operating lease Rail Group during the year has significantly transactions to the extent that the values recovered reduced our exposure to residual value risk.
from disposing of leased assets or re-letting them at Footnotes to Risk Credit risk 1 The amount of the loan commitments reflects, where relevant, the expected level of take-up of pre-approved loan offers made by mailshots to personal customers.
In addition to those amounts, there is a further maximum possible exposure to credit risk of US$220.2bn 2009: US$62.3bn, reflecting the full take-up of such irrevocable loan commitments.
The take-up of such offers is generally at modest levels.
2 A change in the write-off period in North America during 2009 resulted in an acceleration of write-offs which reduced residential mortgages by US$1.9bn, other personal loans by US$1.3bn and total personal lending by US$3.3bn, with a corresponding reduction in impairment allowances.
There was no significant effect on net loans and advances or loan impairment charges.
3 Residential mortgages include Hong Kong Government Home Ownership Scheme loans of US$3.5bn at 31 December 2010 2009: US$3.5bn.
Where disclosed, earlier comparatives were 2008: US$3.9bn: 2007: US$3.9bn: 2006: US$4.1bn.
4 Other personal loans and advances include second lien mortgages and other property-related lending.
5 Other commercial loans and advances include advances in respect of agriculture, transport, energy and utilities.
6 Included within Total gross loans and advances to customers TGLAC is credit card lending of US$62bn 2009: US$68bn.
Where disclosed, earlier comparatives were 2008: US$75bn: 2007: US$83bn: 2006: US$75bn.
7 The above numbers for North America include a reclassification within the corporate and commercial lending category to reflect a more accurate presentation of lending in the region.
8 The impairment allowances on loans and advances to banks relate to the geographical regions, Europe, Middle East and North America.
9 These balances were between 0.75% and 1% of total assets.
All other balances were above 1%.
10 We do not have material retail exposures in any of the eurozone countries listed in this table.
11 Includes balances at central banks.
Lending to banks comprises non-trading loans and advances to banks including reverse repurchase transactions.
12 Derivative assets net of collateral and derivative liabilities for which a legally enforceable right of offset exists.
13 Includes residential mortgages of HSBC Bank USA and HSBC Finance.
14 Comprising Hong Kong, Rest of Asia-Pacific, Middle East and Latin America.
15 Negative equity arises when the value of the property used to secure a loan is below the balance outstanding on the loan, generally based on values at the balance sheet date.
16 Loan-to-value ratios are generally based on values at the balance sheet date.
17 HSBC Finance lending is shown on a management basis and includes loans transferred to HSBC USA Inc. which are managed by HSBC Finance.
18 Interest-only affordability mortgages are loans which are classified as interest only for initial period before reverting to repayment.
As a consequence, in the table Mortgage lending products on page 109 these balances are included in the category Affordability mortgages, including ARMs.
19 Stated income lending forms a subset of total mortgage services lending across all categories.
20 By states which individually account for 5% or more of HSBC Finances US customer loan portfolio.
21 The average loss on sale of foreclosed properties is calculated as cash proceeds after deducting selling costs, commissions and other ancillary costs, minus the book value of the property when it was moved to assets held for sale, divided by the book value of the property when it was moved to assets held for sale.
22 The average total loss on foreclosed properties sold includes both the loss on sale see footnote 21 and the cumulative write-downs recognised on the loans up to and upon classification as assets held for sale.
This average total loss on foreclosed properties is expressed as a percentage of the book value of the property prior to its transfer to assets held for sale.
23 Percentages are expressed as a function of the relevant loans and receivables balance.
24 At 31 December 2010 and 2009, real estate secured delinquency included US$4.2bn and US$3.3bn, respectively, of loans that we carried at the lower of cost on net realisable value.
25 We observe the disclosure convention that, in addition to those classified as EL9 to EL10, retail accounts classified EL1 to EL8 that are delinquent by 90 days or more are considered impaired, unless individually they have been assessed as not impaired see page 118, Past due but not impaired financial instruments.
26 The EL percentage is derived through a combination of PD and LGD, and may exceed 100% in circumstances where the LGD is above 100% reflecting the cost of recoveries.
27 Impairment allowances are not reported for financial instruments whereby the carrying amount is reduced directly for impairment and not through the use of an allowance account.
28 Impairment is not measured for assets held in trading portfolios or designated at fair value as assets in such portfolios are managed according to movements in fair value, and the fair value movement is taken directly to the income statement.
Consequently, we report all such balances under Neither past due nor impaired.
29 Loans and advances to customers includes asset-backed securities that have been externally rated as strong 2010: US$4.1bn: 2009: US$5.7bn, good 2010: US$627m: 2009: US$881m, satisfactory 2010: US$452m: 2009: US$311m, sub-standard 2010: US$669m: 2009: US$468m and impaired 2010: US$29m: 2009: US$460m.
30 Impaired loans and advances are those classified as CRR 9, CRR 10, EL 9 or EL 10 and all retail loans 90 days or more past due, unless individually they have been assessed as not impaired see page 118, Past due but not impaired financial instruments.
174 31 Collectively assessed loans and advances comprise homogeneous groups of loans that are not considered individually significant, and loans subject to individual assessment where no impairment has been identified on an individual basis, but on which a collective impairment allowance has been calculated to reflect losses which have been incurred but not yet identified.
32 Collectively assessed loans and advances not impaired are those classified as CRR1 to CRR8 and EL1 to EL8 but excluding retail loans 90 days past due.
33 Net of repo transactions, settlement accounts and stock borrowings.
34 As a percentage of loans and advances to banks and loans and advances to customers, as applicable.
35 Includes movement in impairment allowances against banks.
36 See table below Net loan impairment charge to the income statement by geographical region.
37 Collectively assessed impairment allowances are allocated to geographical segments based on the location of the office booking the allowances or provisions.
Consequently, the collectively assessed impairment allowances booked in Hong Kong may cover assets booked in branches located outside Hong Kong, principally in Rest of Asia-Pacific, as well as those booked in Hong Kong.
38 Total includes holdings of ABSs issued by Freddie Mac and Fannie Mae.
39 Directly held includes assets held by Solitaire where we provide first loss protection and assets held directly by the Group.
40 Impairment charges allocated to capital note holders represent impairments where losses would be borne by external third-party investors in the structures.
41 Mortgage-backed securities MBSs, asset-backed securities ABSs and collateralised debt obligations CDOs.
42 High grade assets rated AA or AAA.
43 Gains or losses on the net principal exposure footnote 49 recognised in the income statement as a result of changes in the fair value of the asset.
44 Fair value gains and losses on the net principal exposure footnote 49 recognised in other comprehensive income as a result of the changes in the fair value of available-for-sale assets.
45 Realised fair value gains and losses on the net principal exposure footnote 49 recognised in the income statement as a result of the disposal of assets or the receipt of cash flows from assets.
46 Reclassified from equity on impairment, disposal or payment.
This includes impairment losses recognised in the income statement in respect of the net principal exposure footnote 49 of available-for-sale assets.
Payments are the contractual cash flows received on the assets.
47 The gross principal is the redemption amount on maturity or, in the case of an amortising instrument, the sum of the future redemption amounts through the residual life of the security.
48 A credit default swap CDS gross protection is the gross principal of the underlying instrument that is protected by CDSs.
49 Net principal exposure is the gross principal amount of assets that are not protected by CDSs.
It includes assets that benefit from monoline protection, except where this protection is purchased with a CDS.
50 Carrying amount of the net principal exposure.
51 Net exposure after legal netting and any other relevant credit mitigation prior to deduction of the credit risk adjustment.
52 Cumulative fair value adjustment recorded against exposures to OTC derivative counterparties to reflect their creditworthiness.
53 Funded exposures represent the loan amount advanced to the customer, less any fair value write-downs, net of fees held on deposit.
Unfunded exposures represent the contractually committed loan facility amount not yet drawn down by the customer, less any fair value write-downs, net of fees held on deposit.
Liquidity and funding 54 2009 comparative data have been re-presented in line with the classification used in 2010.
This resulted in an increase in the On demand time band of US$273,078m for Loan and other credit-related commitments and US$10,450m for Financial guarantees and similar contracts.
There was an equivalent reduction across the other time bands.
55 Figures provided for HSBC Bank plc and The Hongkong and Shanghai Banking Corporation incorporate all overseas branches.
56 This comprises our other main banking subsidiaries and, as such, includes businesses spread across a range of locations, in many of which we may require a higher ratio of net liquid assets to customer liabilities to reflect local market conditions.
57 Unused committed sources of secured funding for which eligible assets were held.
58 Client-originated asset exposures relate to consolidated multi-seller conduits see page 363.
These vehicles provide funding to our customers by issuing debt secured by a diversified pool of customer-originated assets.
59 HSBC-managed asset exposures relate to consolidated securities investment conduits, primarily Solitaire and Mazarin see page 362.
These vehicles issue debt secured by ABSs which are managed by HSBC.
Of the total contingent liquidity risk under this category, US$8.1bn was already funded on-balance sheet at 31 December 2010 2009: US$7.6bn leaving a net contingent exposure of US$17.5bn 2009: US$21.5bn.
60 Other conduit exposures relate to third-party sponsored conduits see page 364.
61 The five largest committed liquidity facilities provided to customers other than facilities to conduits.
62 The total of all committed liquidity facilities provided to the largest market sector, other than facilities to conduits.
Market risk 63 The structural foreign exchange risk is monitored using sensitivity analysis see page 351.
The reporting of commodity risk is consolidated with foreign exchange risk and is not applicable to non-trading portfolios.
64 The interest rate risk on the fixed-rate securities issued by HSBC Holdings is not included in the Group VAR.
The management of this risk is described on page 149.
65 Credit spread sensitivity is reported separately for insurance operations see page 165.
66 The standard deviation measures the variation of daily revenues about the mean value of those revenues.
67 The effect of any month-end adjustments, not attributable to a specific daily market move, is spread evenly over the days in the month in question.
68 Trading intent portfolios include positions arising from market-making and position taking.
69 Trading credit spread VAR was previously reported in the Group trading credit VAR.
70 The total VAR is non-additive across risk types due to diversification effects.
It incorporates credit spread VAR.
175 Shareholder Information Financial Statements Governance Operating & Financial Review Overview HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Report of the Directors: Operating and Financial Review continued Risk Footnotes to Risk Capital Capital management 71 Investments in private equity are primarily made through managed funds that are subject to limits on the amount of investment.
Potential new commitments are subject to risk appraisal to ensure that industry and geographical concentrations remain within acceptable levels for the portfolio as a whole.
Regular reviews are performed to substantiate the valuation of the investments within the portfolio.
72 Investments held to facilitate ongoing business include holdings in government-sponsored enterprises and local stock exchanges.
73 Instead of assuming that all interest rates move together, HSBC groups its interest rate exposures into currency blocs whose rates are considered likely to move together.
Risk management of insurance operations 74 HSBC has no insurance manufacturing subsidiaries in the Middle East.
75 Insurance contracts and investment contracts with discretionary participation features DPF can give policyholders the contractual right to receive, as a supplement to their guaranteed benefits, additional benefits that may be a significant portion of the total contractual benefits, but whose amount and timing are determined by HSBC.
These additional benefits are contractually based on the performance of a specified pool of contracts or assets, or the profit of the company issuing the contracts.
76 Although investment contracts with DPF are financial investments, HSBC continues to account for them as insurance contracts as permitted by IFRS 4.
77 Net written insurance premiums represent gross written premiums less gross written premiums ceded to reinsurers.
78 Term assurance includes credit life insurance.
79 Other assets comprise shareholder assets.
80 Present value of in-force long-term insurance contracts and investment contracts with DPF.
81 Does not include associated insurance companies, Ping An Insurance, SABB Takaful Company and Bao Viet, or joint venture insurance companies, Hana Life and Canara HSBC Oriental Bank of Commerce Life Insurance Company Limited.
82 Does not include associated insurance companies, Ping An Insurance and SABB Takaful Company or joint venture insurance companies, Hana Life and Canara HSBC Oriental Bank of Commerce Life Insurance Company Limited.
83 Comprise life linked insurance contracts and linked long-term investment contracts.
84 Comprise life non-linked insurance contracts and non-linked long-term investment contracts.
86 Comprise mainly loans and advances to banks, cash and intercompany balances with other non-insurance legal entities.
87 The table excludes contracts where the risk is 100% reinsured.
88 Impairment is not measured for debt securities held in trading portfolios or designated at fair value, as assets in such portfolios are managed according to movements in fair value, and the fair value movement is taken directly to the income statement.
Consequently, we report all such balances under neither past due nor impaired.
89 Shareholders funds comprise solvency and unencumbered assets.
90 In most cases, policyholders have the option to terminate their contracts at any time and receive the surrender values of their policies.
These may be significantly lower than the amounts shown above.
91 Value of net new business during the year is the present value of the projected stream of profits from the business.
92 Experience variances include the effect of the difference between demographic, expense and persistency assumptions used in the previous PVIF calculation and actual experience observed during the year.
Pension risk 93 In 2010, alternative assets include ABSs, MBSs and infrastructure assets.
In 2006, alternative assets included loans and infrastructure assets.
