Categories Top and emerging risks Challenges to our business operations Challenges to our operating model in an economic downturn in developed countries and rapid growth in emerging markets Internet crime and fraud Challenges to our governance and internal control Level of change creating operational complexity systems Information security risk Macro-economic and geopolitical risk Potential emerging markets asset bubble Increased geopolitical risk in Asia-Pacific and Middle East regions Macro-prudential and regulatory risks to our business Regulatory change impacting our business model and Group profitability model Regulatory requirements affecting conduct of business Key performance indicators tier 1 capital has been added as a primary indicator of the strength of our capital base, and The Board of Directors and the Group Management its ability to support the growth of the business Board GMB monitor HSBCs progress against and meet regulatory capital requirements: its strategic objectives.
Progress is assessed by revenue growth, revenue mix factors and credit comparison with our strategy, our operating plan performance as measured by risk-adjusted targets and our historical performance using both margin have been replaced with risk-adjusted financial and non-financial measures.
revenue growth: Following a review of our high-level key the GMB will prioritise return on average total performance indicators KPIs, the GMB decided shareholders equity in place of return on to make the following changes to the Groups average invested capital, which has therefore published indicators in order to restrict their number been excluded: and to those which most accurately reflect its management priorities.
The Group now has seven customer transactions processed and percentage financial and three non-financial KPIs.
of information technology IT services meeting targets form part of management the ratio of advances to core funding has been information within our IT function.
However, added to highlight the relationship between the GMB decided that these measures, which we loans and advances to customers and core have previously disclosed, were not appropriate customer deposits in our principal banking proxies for assessing efficiencies and progress entities: with implementing standard systems architecture.
11 Shareholder Information Financial Statements Governance Operating & Financial Review Overview HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Report of the Directors: Overview continued Strategic objectives and KPIs Strategic objectives Deliver consistent earnings and superior risk-adjusted returns Risk-adjusted revenue growth Basic earnings Dividends per share per ordinary share growth 2010: underlying growth 15% 37 1.4 11.0 11.1 5.9 1.2 13 10 0.7 0.4 0.3 -28.9 -8 -46.9 -30 '06 '07 '08 '09 '10 '06 '07 '08 '09 '10 '06 '07 '08 '09 '10 Measure: percentage increase in reported Measure: US$ level of basic earnings Measure: percentage increase in net operating income after loan impairment generated per ordinary share.
dividends per share since last year, based and other credit risk charges since last on dividends paid in respect of the year to year.
Target: to deliver consistent growth in risk Target: to deliver consistent growth in Target: to deliver sustained dividend per adjusted revenues.
Outcome: reported risk-adjusted revenue Outcome: Earnings per share EPS Outcome: dividends per share increased increased, primarily due to a reversal of increased in 2010, reflecting significantly by 5.9%.
adverse movements in previous years on lower adverse movements on the fair value the fair value of own debt designated at of own debt due to credit spreads and fair value.
Both reported and underlying lower loan impairment charges, which risk-adjusted revenue increased primarily resulted in an increase in reported profit.
due to lower loan impairment charges.
Motivate staff to Strategic Enhance efficiency using objectives economies of scale deliver strategy Cost efficiency Employee engagement HSBC Actual 60.1 Financial Services Average Global Best in Class 55.2 77 75 74 52.0 51.3 72 71 49.4 68 67 65 64 63 63 60 '06 '07 '08 '09 '10 '07 '08 '09 '10 Measure: percentage total operating expenses divided by net Measure: percentage measure of employees emotional and operating income before loan impairment and other credit risk rational attachment to HSBC, a combination of advocacy, charges.
Target: to be between 48% and 52%, a range within which Target: to achieve a 72% global rating in 2010, with progressive business is expected to remain to accommodate both returns to improvement to best in class by 2011. shareholders and the need for continued investment in support of future business growth.
Outcome: the ratio was outside the target range in part due to Outcome: 68%, mirroring the fall in global best in class but one-off costs, but also increased investment in operational remaining well above the financial services average.
12 Key Performance Indicators Key Performance Indicators Key Performance Indicators Key Performance Indicators Strategic Maintain capital strength and strong liquidity objectives Return on average Tier 1 capital Advances to core funding ratio total shareholders equity 15.9 15.7 12.1 2009 2010 105.0 103.0 101.0 10.8 98.3 9.4 9.3 89.1 9.5 85.9 8.3 70.3 4.7 5.1 55.5 8 8 8 9 Other HBEU HBAP HBUS HBEU HBAP HBUS Other '06 '07 '08 '09 '10 '06 '07 '08 '09 '10 entities entities Measure: percentage profit attributable Measure: component of regulatory capital Measure: current loans and advances to to ordinary shareholders divided by comprising core tier 1 and other tier 1 customers as a percentage of the total of average total shareholders equity.
core customer deposits and term funding with a remaining term to maturity in excess of one year.
Target: to maintain a return in the medium Target: to maintain a strong capital base to Target: to maintain an advances to core term of between 15% and 19%.
In 2011, support the development of the business funding ratio below limits set for each we intend to replace the target with one in and meet regulatory capital requirements at entity.
the 12% to 15% range over the normal all times.
Outcome: return on equity was below the Outcome: the increase in tier 1 capital to Outcome: ratio within the limits set by the target range, but 4.4 percentage points 12.1% reflected the contribution of profit Risk Management Meeting for each site.
higher than in 2009. to capital, the issue of hybrid capital securities during the year, and careful management of RWAs.
Reach new customers and expand services to existing customers Strategic using the HSBC brand and global network objectives Brand perception Customer recommendation Business Business PFS PFS Banking Banking Target HSBC 9 9 8 7 7 7 6 6 6 6 6 6 5 4 4 33 3 2 2 2 2 1 0 '08 '09 '10 '08 '09 '10 '08 '09 '10 '08 '09 '10 Measure: an independent survey of brands around the world Measure: an independent survey of customers in up to which judges their relative strength.
The results are used to form 15 countries which judges how likely they are to recommend a a brand perception index, where the industry average is zero.
The results are used to create a customer recommendation index, where the industry average is zero.
Target: to meet or exceed targets based on performance against Target: to meet or exceed targets based on performance against key competitors and the industry average.
key competitors and the industry average.
Outcome: PFS and Business Banking customers judged HSBCs Outcome: Business Banking exceeded its target.
Personal brand to be six points stronger than the competitor average.
Our Financial Services fell short of its challenging target, but remained ratings met or exceeded our targets in 2010. well above the competitor average.
Reconciliation of reported and The foreign currency translation differences underlying profit before tax reflect the relative strengthening of the US dollar against the euro and sterling, which offset its relative We measure our performance internally on a likeweakness against currencies in Asia, Mexico and for-like basis by eliminating the effects of foreign Brazil during 2010. currency translation differences, acquisitions and The following acquisitions and disposals disposals of subsidiaries and businesses, and fair affected both comparisons: value movements on own debt attributable to credit spread where the net result of such movements will the acquisition of PT Bank Ekonomi Raharja be zero upon maturity of the debt: all of which Tbk Bank Ekonomi in May 2009: distort year-on-year comparisons.
We refer to this the gain on sale of our 49% interest in a joint as our underlying performance.
venture for a UK merchant acquiring business in Reported results include the effects of the above June 2009 of US$280m: items.
They are excluded when monitoring progress the gain of US$62m on reclassification of Bao against operating plans and past results because Viet Holdings Bao Viet from an availablemanagement believes that the underlying basis more for-sale asset to an associate in January 2010: accurately reflects operating performance.
the gain on sale of our stake in Wells Fargo Constant currency HSBC Trade Bank in March 2010 of US$66m: Constant currency comparatives for 2009 referred to in the commentaries are computed by retranslating into US dollars the gain on disposal of HSBC Insurance Brokers for non-US dollar branches, subsidiaries, joint ventures and associates: Limited of US$107m in April 2010: the income statements for 2009 at the average rates of the dilution gain of US$188m which arose exchange for 2010: and on our holding in Ping An Insurance Group the balance sheet at 31 December 2009 at the prevailing Company of China, Limited Ping An rates of exchange on 31 December 2010.
Insurance following the issue of shares by the No adjustment has been made to the exchange rates used to translate foreign currency denominated assets and liabilities company in May 2010: into the functional currencies of any HSBC branches, the loss of US$42m on the completion of the subsidiaries, joint ventures or associates.
When reference is made to constant currency in tables or commentaries, sale of our investment in British Arab comparative data reported in the functional currencies of Commercial Bank plc in October 2010: HSBCs operations have been translated at the appropriate exchange rates applied in the current period on the basis the gain on sale of Eversholt Rail Group of described above.
US$255m in December 2010: and the gain of US$74m on the deconsolidation of Underlying performance private equity funds following the management The tables below compare our underlying buy-out of Headland Capital Partners Ltd performance in 2010 and 2009 with reported profits formally known as HSBC Private Equity Asia in those years.
Additional information is available on the HSBC website www.
16 Reported profit before tax of US$19.0bn in 2010 Latin America, primarily in Mexico and Brazil, was 169% higher than in 2009, and 36% higher on reflecting a reduction in personal lending balances an underlying basis.
The difference between reported as selected portfolios were managed down, and an and underlying results is explained on page 14. improvement in credit quality as origination criteria Except where stated otherwise, the commentaries in were tightened and collection practices improved.
In the Financial Summary are on an underlying basis GB&M, loan impairment charges were significantly and references to HSBC Finance and HSBC Bank lower, reflecting the improvement in the credit USA are on a management basis, rather than a legal environment which resulted in fewer significant entity basis for details see page 37. charges than those taken in 2009 in relation to a small number of clients, notably in Europe and other Net operating income before loan impairment credit risk provisions fell in the available-for-sale charges and other credit risk provisions revenue asset-backed securities ABS portfolio due to a was lower than in 2009, notably due to a decline in slowing in the rate of anticipated losses in the balances in North America, lower trading income underlying collateral pools.
from adverse movements on non-qualifying hedges and a fall in revenue from GB&M.
In the former, we Underlying profit before tax rose by 36% as continued to reposition our core businesses and we a significant fall in impairment charges offset remained focused on managing down our run-off a decline in revenue.
As a consequence, revenue fell, reflecting declining balances in the run-off portfolios and in the Operating expenses were higher than in 2009, Card and Retail Services business, where revenue in part due to specific one-off items such as a was also adversely affected by new regulations.
In US$0.3bn charge for UK bank payroll tax in 2010 GB&M, lower revenue was generated in Balance and the non-recurrence of a pension accounting gain Sheet Management as higher yielding positions of US$0.5bn in 2009 relating to the treatment of staff matured and funds were invested in lower yielding benefits.
Excluding these items, operating expenses assets.
Trading income declined driven by increased rose in support of strategic growth initiatives in our competition and reduced margins across core target markets to invest in operational infrastructure products, and less favourable market conditions and the selective recruitment of customer-facing caused by the European sovereign debt crisis.
factors were partly offset by increased CMB revenue Income from associates increased, driven from balance sheet growth, particularly in Asia, and by strong results in Asia which reflected robust higher trade-related fees.
economic growth in mainland China.
Loan impairment charges were significantly In 2010, taxable profits were achieved in the lower than in 2009, with decreases across all regions US, principally as the result of a gain from an and customer groups as economic conditions internal reorganisation that was not recognised for improved.
The most significant decline in loan accounting purposes which increased the effective impairment charges was in North America, tax rate by 6.4 percentage points.
If this were reflecting lower balances due to increased excluded, the effective tax rate would be 19.1% repayments, an improvement in delinquency rates in which is in line with our geographical range of Card and Retail Services, and the continued run-off business activities.
Reported profit after tax was of balances in the Consumer Finance business.
Reported net interest income fell by 3% to US$39bn: Revenues in Balance Sheet Management the decline was 5% on an underlying basis.
This was decreased, as expected, from the strong levels of driven by the exceptionally low interest rate 2009 as higher yielding positions taken in prior years environment and by the effect of repositioning our matured and opportunities for reinvestment at customer assets towards secured lending as we equivalent yields were limited by the prevailing low reduced our higher risk and higher yielding interest rates and flatter yield curves.
18 The fall in income from interest-earning assets Lending and the sale of the vehicle finance was driven by declining yields on loans and portfolios.
advances to customers following the Groups Net interest income includes the expense of the decision to reposition the lending portfolio towards internal funding of trading assets, while related higher quality assets.
Higher yielding unsecured revenue is reported in trading income.
The cost of lending balances decreased, particularly in North funding these assets declined as a result of the low America, where the run-off portfolios continued to interest rates.
In reporting our customer group diminish and credit card balances fell as the number results, this cost is included within net trading of active accounts declined and repayments by income.
Certain higher risk portfolios were also managed down in Latin America, Asia and Net interest spread decreased due to lower the Middle East.
This reduction was partly offset by yields on loans and advances to customers, partly as commercial lending growth in CMB and GB&M, a result of the greater focus on secured lending.
In and growth in secured lending in the UK in addition, returns on financial investments and residential mortgages.
deposit spreads remained constrained due to low interest rates.
Our net interest margin fell by a lesser The interest expense on debt issued by the amount due to the benefit from an increase in net Group fell, largely due to a decline in average free funds as customers held more funds in liquid balances in debt securities in issue as HSBC non-interest bearing current accounts in the current Finances funding requirements continued to low interest rate environment.
In 2009 on both a reported and an underlying basis.
The the US, the decline resulted from lower sales of significant decrease in fee income in North America, credit protection products associated with the cards primarily in Card and Retail Services, was mostly business.
In the UK, income was lower on a reported offset by higher investment-related fees in Asia and basis due to the sale of the insurance brokerage Europe and an increase in trade-related fee income in business in the first half of 2010.
Overall, underwriting fee income declined, The significant fall in fee income from cards particularly in Europe as a result of reduced capital market activity in the uncertain economic occurred primarily in North America, driven by lower volumes, improved delinquency rates and the environment, although in Asia underwriting fees revision to charging practices following the increased following several notable transactions.
implementation of the Credit Card Accountability, Responsibility and Disclosure Act CARD Act.
19 Shareholder Information Financial Statements Governance Operating & Financial Review Overview HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Report of the Directors: Operating and Financial Review continued Financial summary Group performance Net fee income from sales of investment Credit facilities fees also rose, notably in Asia, products in Asia and Europe increased, driven by a as a result of an increase in loan syndication stronger investment performance in funds and transactions completed during the year.
improved customer sentiment which led to higher Net fee income from trade finance also volumes.
increased, particularly in Asia, reflecting a rise in trade activity.
Reported net trading income was US$7.2bn, 27% compared with 2009. lower than in 2009.
On an underlying basis, net In the Credit business, corporate bond trading trading income declined by 28% due to adverse volumes remained robust following investment in movements on non-qualifying hedges and lower electronic trading capabilities, though revenues were income from trading activities.
affected as margins declined and credit spread A US$1.1bn adverse fair value movement was movements were more favourable in 2009.
This was reported on non-qualifying hedges compared with a partly offset by gains on the legacy portfolio which favourable fair value movement of US$954m in 2009. included a net release of write-downs on legacy These instruments are derivatives entered into as part positions and monoline credit exposures of of a documented interest rate management strategy US$429m.
This compared with a reported for which hedge accounting was not, or could not be, write-down of US$331m in 2009. applied.
They are principally cross-currency and Rates income decreased, reflecting reduced interest rate swaps used to economically hedge fixed margins and increased risk aversion from customers rate debt issued by HSBC Holdings, floating rate debt due to economic uncertainty.
Turmoil in the eurozone issued by HSBC Finance and certain operating leased led to sovereign debt downgrades and falling asset assets.
The loss recognised on non-qualifying hedges prices in certain European countries, leading to was a result of fair value losses on these instruments, lower revenues in the trading portfolio.
These factors driven by the decrease in long-term US interest rates were partly offset by a small favourable fair value relative to sterling and euro rates.
In HSBC Finance, movement on structured liabilities, compared with the volume of non-qualifying hedge positions also an adverse movement in 2009. increased as the duration of the mortgage book lengthened and swaps were used to align more closely Lower net trading income was driven by a the duration of the funding liabilities.
The size and US$2.0bn adverse movement on nondirection of the changes in fair value of nonqualifying hedges from 2009. qualifying hedges which are recognised in the income statement can be volatile from year to year, but do not Performance in the Foreign Exchange business alter the cash flows expected as part of the remained strong, although was affected by a documented interest rate management strategy for competitive trading environment and tighter bidboth the instruments and the underlying economically offer spreads as competitors sought to rebuild their hedged assets and liabilities.
In addition, revenues fell as market volatility declined from the exceptional levels seen The remaining decline in net trading income in early 2009. was driven by increased competition and reduced margins across core products.
European sovereign The Equities business continued to increase debt concerns and increased economic uncertainty market share in its target markets, following resulted in less favourable market conditions 20 investment in the equities platform.
However, core corresponding losses reported in Net income from revenues fell, as overall market volumes and margins financial instruments designated at fair value.
Net interest income earned on trading activities Trading income benefitted from foreign decreased by 30%, driven by reduced holdings of exchange gains on trading assets held as economic debt securities.
The cost of internally funding these hedges of foreign currency debt designated at fair assets also declined, but this interest expense is value compared with losses on these instruments reported under Net interest income and excluded in 2009.
These gains were largely offset by from net trading income.
The accounting policies for the designation of rate management strategy.
As a consequence, fair financial instruments at fair value and the treatment value movements arising from changes in our own of the associated income and expenses are described credit spread on long-term debt and other fair value in Notes 2i and 2b on the Financial Statements, movements on the debt and related derivatives respectively.
are not regarded internally as part of managed performance and are therefore not allocated to The majority of the financial liabilities customer groups, but are reported in Other.
Credit designated at fair value relate to certain fixed-rate spread movements on own debt are excluded from long-term debt issues whose rate profile has been underlying results, and related fair value movements changed to floating through interest rate swaps as are not included in the calculation of regulatory part of a documented interest rate management capital.
The movement in fair value of these longterm debt issues includes the effect of our credit We reported net income from financial spread changes and any ineffectiveness in the instruments designated at fair value of US$1.2bn in economic relationship between the related swaps 2010 compared with a net expense of US$3.5bn in and own debt.
As credit spreads widen or narrow, 2009.
On an underlying basis, the equivalent figures accounting profits or losses, respectively, are were income of US$1.3bn in 2010 and US$2.9bn booked.
The size and direction of the changes in the in 2009.
The difference between the reported and credit spread on our debt and ineffectiveness, which underlying results arises from the exclusion from the are recognised in the income statement, can be latter of the credit spread-related movements in the volatile from year to year, but do not alter the cash fair value of our own long-term debt, on which we flows envisaged as part of the documented interest reported adverse fair value movements of US$63m 21 Shareholder Information Financial Statements Governance Operating & Financial Review Overview HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Report of the Directors: Operating and Financial Review continued Financial summary Group performance in 2010 and US$6.5bn in 2009.
In North America, a For investment gains or losses related to assets small favourable fair value movement was reported held to back investment contracts, the corresponding in 2010 as credit spreads widened marginally, in movement in liabilities to customers is also recorded contrast with a significant adverse fair value under Net income from financial instruments movement in 2009.
In Europe, significantly lower designated at fair value.
adverse fair value movements were reported in 2010 Investment gains or losses related to assets held as credit spreads tightened, but to a lesser extent than to back insurance contracts or investment contracts in the previous year.
with discretionary participation features DPF are Income arising from financial assets held to offset by a corresponding change in Net insurance meet liabilities under insurance and investment claims incurred and movement in liabilities to contracts reflected lower investment gains as the policyholders to reflect the extent to which unitgrowth in equity markets was less than that of 2009. linked policyholders, in particular, participate in the This predominantly affected the value of assets held investment performance of the associated asset to support unit-linked contracts in the UK, Hong portfolios.
Kong, Singapore and Brazil and participating contracts in France.
Management on disposals of available-for-sale debt On an underlying basis, excluding an accounting securities, mainly in Europe and Asia.
These were gain arising from the reclassification of Bao Viet as partly offset by a decrease in North America, where an associate following our purchase of additional net gains realised from the sale of mortgage-backed shares, they increased by 69%.
This was driven by securities and other ABSs in 2009 did not recur.
a decrease in the level of impairments on availableNet gains on the disposal of equity securities for-sale equity investments as market values increased, primarily in our private equity portfolio in improved, along with an increase in gains on the Europe, as the market offered greater opportunities disposal of equity and debt securities.
This was partly offset by the nonImpairments on equity investments declined recurrence of the gain on disposal of our holdings of markedly compared with 2009 as the improving Visa Inc. shares in 2009. economic situation resulted in a reduction in the level of write-downs required on private equity and other strategic equity investments.
Successful sales campaigns and the 22 recruitment of additional insurance sales managers contracts with DPF drove higher net earned increased net earned premiums in Hong Kong, premiums.
Strong sales activity also led to higher net particularly from deferred annuity and unit-linked earned premiums in our UK life insurance business.
products, and a life insurance product designed for This growth was partly offset by a reduction in high net worth individuals.
Higher sales were also non-life insurance premiums, primarily due to the reported in Malaysia, Taiwan and mainland China, run-off of the legacy motor book in the UK, which primarily from successful product launches and was closed during the second half of 2009, and the marketing campaigns.
decision taken during 2010 not to renew certain Net earned premiums in Latin America contracts in the Irish business.
increased marginally in the improved economic Net earned premiums in North America also conditions, driven by higher sales in Brazil, decreased, reflecting a decline in sales of payment Argentina and Mexico and repricing initiatives in protection products following the discontinuation of Argentina.
mortgage originations in HSBC Finance.
Income in 2010 included properties contrasted with losses in 2009.
This gains of US$188m following the dilution of our reflected improvements in the property markets in holding in Ping An Insurance, US$107m from the Hong Kong and the UK which led to net valuation sale of HSBC Insurance Brokers, US$66m from the gains on investment properties, compared with net disposal of our interest in the Wells Fargo HSBC valuation losses in 2009.
Trade Bank and US$255m from the sale of Eversholt A loss on sale of the US vehicle finance Rail Group.
In addition, we reported a gain of business contributed to a fall in Other US$74m resulting from the sale of HSBC Private operating income.
Equity Asia Ltd, partly offset by a loss of US$42m on the disposal of our shareholding in British Arab We recognised gains of US$194m and US$56m Commercial Bank plc.
Reported results in 2009 in 2010 on the sale and leaseback of our Paris and included a gain of US$280m from the sale of the New York headquarters buildings, respectively.
remaining stake in the card merchant-acquiring These compared with more substantial underlying business in the UK.
gains of US$667m US$686m as reported on the On an underlying basis, excluding the items sale and leaseback of 8 Canada Square and the sale referred to above, other operating income decreased of a property in Hong Kong in 2009. by 23%, primarily because gains on the sale of Strong sales of life insurance products, notably properties in London and Hong Kong in 2009 did in Hong Kong, resulted in favourable movements not recur.
in the present value of in-force PVIF long-term Net losses recognised on assets held for sale insurance business.
These were offset in part by increased, reflecting a US$207m loss on the sale the non-recurrence of gains recognised in 2009 of the US vehicle finance servicing operation and following the refinement of the income recognition associated US$5.3bn loan portfolio.
Net insurance claims incurred and movement in In Asia, the effect of the lower investment liabilities to policyholders decreased by 5% and 4% returns was more than offset by additional reserves on a reported and an underlying basis, respectively.
established for new business written, consistent with the increase in net insurance premiums earned, Lower investment returns than in 2009, particularly in Hong Kong, as a result of successful particularly in Asia, Europe and Brazil, led to sales campaigns and the recruitment of additional a decrease in the movement in liabilities to insurance sales managers.
policyholders on unit-linked insurance contracts and, to a certain extent, participating contracts, whose In addition, the increase in reserves in 2009 on policyholders share in the investment performance of the now closed UK motor insurance book, which the assets supporting their policies.
The gains or reflected the rising incidence and severity of claims losses experienced on the financial assets designated at that time, did not recur.
The decision taken in at fair value held to support insurance contract 2010 not to renew certain contracts in our Irish liabilities and investment contracts with DPF are business resulted in a further decrease in net reported in Net income from financial instruments insurance claims incurred and movement in designated at fair value.
This represented 2.2% of gross underlying basis.
There was improvement across loans and advances to customers net of reverse all regions and in all customer groups.
repos and settlement accounts compared with 3.0% at 31 December 2009.
24 We actively managed down some of our higher of certain mortgage service providers.
As a result, risk portfolios in all regions and enhanced credit we expect that the scrutiny of documents will quality through tighter underwriting and increased increase, and in some states additional verification of focus on the sale of secured products to customers information will be required.
If these trends continue where we already held a banking relationship.
there may be delays in their processing.
See page 83 Loan impairment charges in our CMB and GB&M for more information on the investigation into US businesses fell as economic conditions improved and foreclosure practices.
we recognised fewer large loan impairment charges In HSBC Bank USA, loan impairment charges against specific clients than in 2009. in PFS fell by 92% to US$50m, reflecting lower lending balances and improved credit quality in the Loan impairment charges and other credit residential mortgage portfolio.
risk provisions of US$14bn were 48% or US$12.8bn lower than in 2009.
In GB&M in the US, a net release of loan impairment charges and other credit risk provisions Impairments on available-for-sale debt reflected the improved credit environment and a securities declined markedly to US$472m from the release of impairments of available-for-sale ABSs as US$1.5bn reported in 2009, mainly reflecting a mentioned previously.
In CMB, loan impairment slowing in the rate of anticipated losses in the charges declined by US$194m as the improved underlying collateral pools.
economic conditions resulted in credit upgrades on certain accounts, and fewer downgrades across all The most significant decline in loan impairment business lines.
charges was in our HSBC Finance portfolios in the US, where lending balances reduced and In the UK, loan impairment charges in PFS and delinquency levels improved.
CMB declined as economic conditions improved and interest rates remained at low levels, resulting in an Loan impairment charges and other credit risk improvement in delinquency levels.
In PFS, loan provisions in the US declined by 48% to US$7.9bn, impairment charges fell by 35% to US$1.1bn as we the lowest level since 2006, representing 57% of the actively reduced our exposure to unsecured lending, Groups total reduction compared with 2009.
This while collections increased mainly due to programmes mainly occurred in the US PFS business, where loan implemented to improve performance.
In the UK impairment charges declined by US$6.1bn to secured lending book, credit quality continued to be US$8.0bn, primarily in the Card and Retail Services high and loan impairment charges remained at low business of HSBC Finance and, to a lesser extent, in levels.
In CMB, loan impairment charges declined the run-off consumer finance portfolios.
by US$159m due to strengthened credit risk In Cards and Retail Services, loan impairment management and improved collections, notably in charges declined by 57% to US$2.2bn.
This the UK property, retail and service sectors.
improvement reflected the continuing effects of Loan impairment charges and other credit additional steps taken from the fourth quarter provisions fell markedly in GB&M reflecting the of 2007 to manage risk, including tightening improved credit outlook, loan restructuring activity underwriting criteria, lowering credit limits and and the non-recurrence of significant charges against reducing the number of active cards.
An increased a small number of clients in the financial and focus by our customers on reducing outstanding property sectors.
Credit risk provisions on certain credit card debt helped improve delinquency levels.
Loan impairment charges in our Consumer Loan impairment charges and other credit risk Lending and Mortgage Services businesses declined provisions in Latin America declined by 44% to by 29% to US$5.7bn, due to the continued run-off US$1.5bn.
In PFS, loan impairment charges of of lending balances in these portfolios and lower US$1.2bn were 45% lower, mainly in Mexico due to delinquency balances.
Total loss severities on a reduction in balances and improved delinquency foreclosed loans improved compared with 2009, rates in our credit card portfolio.
In Brazil, they also reflecting an increase in the number of properties for declined as we managed down the size of certain which we accepted a deed in lieu of foreclosure or a consumer finance portfolios and economic short sale, both of which result in lower losses conditions improved.
In 2010, initiatives taken in the compared with loans which are subject to a formal region to improve the quality of the loan portfolios foreclosure process.
These steps included the tightening of During 2010, state and federal prosecutors underwriting criteria, reducing and, in some announced investigations into foreclosure practices 25 Shareholder Information Financial Statements Governance Operating & Financial Review Overview HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Report of the Directors: Operating and Financial Review continued Financial summary Group performance instances, eliminating the use of higher risk, nonreflected a reduction in collective impairment branch sales channels, and continued investment in charges and fewer specific loan impairment charges our collections infrastructure.
In our CMB portfolios, as economic conditions improved.
loan impairment charges and other credit risk In Rest of Asia-Pacific, loan impairment provisions declined by 50% to US$293m, as charges declined as the credit environment improved economic conditions and credit quality improved.
In India, loan impairment charges fell by resulted in lower specific impairment charges in all 83% to US$82m, mainly in PFS as certain unsecured sectors.
lending portfolios and the higher risk elements of the In the Middle East, loan impairment charges credit card portfolio were managed down, and and other credit risk provisions fell by 53% to economic conditions improved.
Impairment charges US$627m as lower loan impairment charges in both also declined in CMB, due to the non-recurrence of PFS and CMB were partly offset by an increase in charges against specific technology-related GB&M following restructuring activities.
Partly offsetting these increases PFS business, loan impairment charges declined were higher specific loan impairment charges in by 61% to US$227m, reflecting a marked decline GB&M.
in delinquency levels and lower lending balances, In Hong Kong, loan impairment charges fell by particularly in our credit card and unsecured 77% to US$114m, as economic conditions improved personal lending book, as a result of managing down and fewer large specific loan impairment charges higher risk portfolios.
Credit limits were tightened were reported against the CMB and GB&M and our customer acquisition strategy was revised in portfolios.
Loan impairment charges fell in PFS too, the region to concentrate on Premier and Advance mainly on unsecured lending as unemployment and customers.
This resulted in an improvement in credit bankruptcy levels reduced.
Excluding these items, on a reported basis and by 8% on an underlying expenses grew by 6% as we continued to invest in basis.
Significant one-off items included aggregate our operational infrastructure, customer-facing and payroll taxes of US$324m levied on 2009 bonuses in support staff, and GB&Ms capabilities and the UK and France, and the curtailment of certain platforms.
benefits delivered through pension schemes, which Employee compensation and benefits increased generated accounting credits of US$148m in the US by 7%, partly due to the net effect of the curtailment and US$480m US$499m as reported in the UK in gains and the payroll tax referred to above.
26 Excluding these items, staff costs rose by 3%.
following the sale and leaseback of 8 Canada Performance-related costs increased, primarily in Square, London and our headquarters buildings Asia, reflecting improved business performance and in the US and France, combined with business increased staff numbers.
While year-end staff expansion in Asia and Europe and refurbishment numbers increased as the pace of recruitment costs in Europe and Latin America.
This was partly accelerated in the second half of the year, average offset by lower costs in the US following the closure staff numbers remained below 2009 levels.
The of the Consumer Lending branch offices and the growth in staff numbers in Asia encompassed both non-recurrence of the related restructuring costs.
customer-facing and back-office staff supporting General and administrative expenses rose, business growth and increased operational capacity.
reflecting in part higher marketing and advertising In Latin America, staff costs grew following unioncosts.
These grew in North America in Card and agreed salary increases and the recruitment of Retail Services, partly from complying with the customer-facing and regional support staff, primarily CARD Act.
Marketing costs also rose in Asia and in the latter part of the year.
We also increased Latin America in support of the launch of Advance resources in our Global Service Centres as we and sales campaigns for credit cards and investment continued to move processes there.
Project costs increased from various Staff costs declined in the US due to the noninitiatives to enhance operational capabilities, in recurrence of restructuring costs associated with the connection with which consultancy and contractors closure of the Consumer Lending branch network in fees rose, primarily in the UK as GB&M continued 2009.
Also, headcount fell due to the sale of the to invest in strategic initiatives to drive future vehicle finance portfolio and related servicing revenue growth.
These included the development of platform.
Similarly, reported staff numbers fell in Prime Services and equity market capabilities, and Europe due to the sale of the insurance broking the expansion of the Rates and foreign exchange business in the UK and business reorganisation in e-commerce platforms.
France, though this was partly offset by higher Travel costs increased as we increased our focus numbers of customer-facing staff in the UK and on international connectivity and business growth.
Costs also increased due to litigation provisions in Premises and equipment costs increased as North America and Europe.
Operating expenses percentage points to 55.8% on an underlying basis.
remained broadly unchanged as a rise in costs in 27 Shareholder Information Financial Statements Governance Operating & Financial Review Overview HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Report of the Directors: Operating and Financial Review continued Financial summary Group performance Balance sheet Asia in support of business expansion was broadly In GB&M, the cost efficiency ratio deteriorated offset by strict cost control across the Group and by 12.1 percentage points reflecting the one-off lower costs in the US.
Revenue fell, largely in the payroll and bonus taxes in the UK and France.
run-off portfolio and in Card and Retail Services in Excluding them, the ratio deteriorated by 10.5 North America.
percentage points following a rise in costs related to higher support costs and continued investment in In CMB, the cost efficiency ratio deteriorated by strategic initiatives being undertaken to drive future 2.9 percentage points as we continued to invest for revenue growth.
Revenue fell during 2010 mainly future revenue growth in those markets that we see due to lower net interest income in Balance Sheet as central to international connectivity.
Revenue Management and lower trading income.
grew in all regions, albeit at a slower pace, resulting in a deterioration in the cost efficiency ratio, with the In GPB, the cost efficiency ratio deteriorated by exception of Hong Kong where strong revenue 5.3 percentage points as costs increased, reflecting growth led to an improvement of 1.5 percentage the hiring of front-line staff, investment in systems points.
and higher compliance costs coupled with lower revenue in the low interest rate environment.
mainland China capitalised on the improved These results were partly offset by a decrease in economic conditions in region.
our share of profits from The Saudi British Bank as Our share of profits in Ping An Insurance revenue declined amidst challenging economic increased due to strong insurance sales performance, conditions.
The most significant factor influencing the year on In 2010 HSBCs US operations achieved year changes to the effective tax rate is the changing taxable profits, principally as a result of realising a geographical split of profits, including the relative taxable gain from an internal reorganisation which proportion of tax on the share of profits in associates increased the effective tax rate by 6.4%.
If this was and joint ventures included within profit before tax.
excluded the effective tax rate would be 19.1% The impact of the tax on profit on associates and which is in line with the geographic profile of the joint ventures included within pre-tax profits was a Group.
reduction in the effective tax rate of 3.7% in 2010 and 7.1% in 2009.
A more detailed consolidated balance sheet is contained in the Financial Statements on page 240.
29 Shareholder Information Financial Statements Governance Operating & Financial Review Overview HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Report of the Directors: Operating and Financial Review continued Financial summary Balance sheet Movement in 2010 within the insurance business, particularly in Europe and Hong Kong, as market values recovered and Total assets amounted to US$2.5 trillion, 4% higher client risk appetite returned.
This was partly offset than at 31 December 2009.
Excluding the effect by the sale of European government debt securities of currency movements, underlying total assets by Balance Sheet Management.
This reflected higher mortgage lending in Hong Kong and the UK, strong demand Derivative assets rose by 8%.
This was for commercial loans and a rise in trading assets in driven by increases in the fair value of interest rate North America and Asia as a result of customer contracts as a result of downward shifts of major demand, supported by improved liquidity generated yield curves, offset by higher netting from increased by higher deposits and our debt issuance programme.
The notional value of outstanding contracts also rose, reflecting an The Groups reported tier 1 ratio increased from increase in the number of open transactions 10.8% to 12.1% due to the contribution from profits compared with 2009. attributable to shareholders for the year net of dividends paid, the issue of hybrid capital securities Loans and advances to banks increased by 16% net of redemptions, and a reduction in the reported due to higher placements with commercial and level of risk-weighted assets RWAs.
The latter central banks in Europe and Latin America.
was driven by a decline in some retail portfolio Loans and advances to customers grew by exposures in North America as a result of run-off, 8% as we targeted commercial loans and, in the partly offset by the effect of lending growth in Asia.
improved economic conditions, demand grew from Market risk RWAs decreased as a result of reduced customers, notably in Asia.
The increase in demand volatility and continuing exposure management.
For for credit, along with competitive pricing, also drove more details of capital and RWAs, see page 177. continued growth in mortgage lending in Hong Kong The following commentary is on an underlying and the UK, though mortgage balances declined in basis.
North America as the Consumer Lending and Mortgage Services portfolios continued to run off Assets and credit card lending fell.
Cash and balances at central banks decreased by 4% Financial investments rose by 9%, mainly in as a result of lower year-end cash balances in North North America and Europe, as Balance Sheet America as excess liquidity was redeployed into Management redeployed cash into available-for-sale highly-rated government debt securities.
This was treasury bills and government agency debt securities.
partly offset by higher year-end cash balances in This was partly offset by a decline in financial Europe.
investments in Asia, as a result of disposals and debt securities that matured and were not replaced to Trading assets fell by 6%, due to the support growth in commercial lending.
deconsolidation of the Constant Net Asset Value CNAV funds totalling US$44bn see Note 43 on Liabilities the Financial Statements.
This was offset, in part, by higher issuance of and customer demand for Deposits by banks decreased by 8%, reflecting a government and government agency debt securities, notable decline in central bank deposits in Europe particularly in North America and Asia, and an which was partly offset by an increase in central increase in holdings of equities to hedge derivative bank deposits in Asia.
positions arising from a rise in client trading activity.
Customer accounts were 7% higher, driven by Higher customer-driven trading volumes also an overall increase in savings and current accounts resulted in an increase in reverse repo balances in across most regions, particularly in Asia and Europe.
North America: this was partly offset by a reduction Growth in Premier and online savings contributed to in reverse repo balances in Europe due to market a significant increase in current account balances as uncertainty.
customers responded well to targeted promotional campaigns.
Strong increase in loans and advances to customers and customer accounts, notably Trading liabilities increased by 16%.
Higher in Asia, drove balance sheet growth.
repo balances in North America were reported as a result of increased trading volumes of treasury and Financial assets designated at fair value grew corporate bonds driven by market volatility in the by 3% due to an increase in volumes in equity funds bond market.
In Europe, short bond and equity and a rise in the fair value of equity securities held 30 positions used to hedge derivative transactions in Hong Kong following the launch of several new increased, reflecting higher client demand.
products, and gains on unit-linked products as investment market values improved.
Financial liabilities designated at fair value rose by 12% due to debt issuances by HSBC entities Other liabilities were 26% lower than at in Europe during 2010.
31 December 2009 due to the deconsolidation of the CNAV funds see Trading assets above.
Derivative businesses are managed within market risk limits and, as a consequence, the Equity increase in the value of derivative liabilities broadly matched that of derivative assets.
Total shareholders equity increased by 17%, driven by profits generated during the year and the issue of Debt securities in issue were in line with 2009, Perpetual Subordinated Capital Securities, a form of as new issuances of medium-term notes by HSBC tier 1 hybrid capital securities, in June 2010.
In entities in Europe during 2010 were offset by lower addition, the negative balance on the availablefunding requirements in North America as the for-sale reserve declined from US$10.0bn at 31 consumer finance portfolios in run-off declined.
December 2009 to US$4.1bn at 31 December 2010, Liabilities under insurance contracts grew by largely reflecting improvements in the market value 12%.
This was driven by strong life insurance sales of assets.
In 2010, the effect of acquisitions was not material.
31 Shareholder Information Financial Statements Governance Operating & Financial Review Overview HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Report of the Directors: Operating and Financial Review continued Financial summary Economic profit Critical accounting policies Economic profit the calculation.
The following commentary is on a reported basis.
Our internal performance measures include Our economic loss decreased by US$4.7bn to economic profit loss, a calculation which compares US$3.3bn as a result of an increase in profit the return on financial capital invested in HSBC by attributable to shareholders.
This was predominantly our shareholders with the cost of that capital.
We driven by lower loan impairment charges across all price our cost of capital internally and the difference regions and customer groups, notably in the US due between that cost and the post-tax profit attributable to lower balances and decreased delinquency rates to ordinary shareholders represents the amount of in Card and Retail Services, and the run-off of the economic profit loss generated.
Economic Consumer Lending and mortgage services portfolio.
profit loss generated is used by management as one input in deciding where to allocate capital and The increase in average invested capital other resources.
reflected higher retained earnings and a significant decrease in reserves representing unrealised losses In order to concentrate on external factors rather on available-for-sale securities due to a slowing in than measurement bases, we emphasise the trend in the rate of anticipated losses in the underlying economic profit loss ahead of absolute amounts collateral pools.
Our long-term cost of capital is reviewed annually and for 2010 it was revised to The return on invested capital increased by 11% from the 10% used in 2009.
We use a Capital 4.6 percentage points, although it remained below our Asset Pricing Model to determine our cost of capital.
The economic spread The main drivers of the increase were an increase in improved by 3.6 percentage points, the result of an the risk free rate and an increase in the betas used in increase in return on invested capital, partly offset by the rise in the cost of capital in 2010.
32 Critical accounting policies basis because of the large number of individually Audited insignificant loans in the portfolio.
Introduction The methods involve the use of statistically assessed historical information which is The results of HSBC are sensitive to the accounting supplemented with significant management policies, assumptions and estimates that underlie the judgement to assess whether current economic and preparation of our consolidated financial statements.
credit conditions are such that the actual level of The significant accounting policies are described in inherent losses is likely to be greater or less than that Note 2 on the Financial Statements.
In normal When preparing the financial statements, it is circumstances, historical experience provides the the Directors responsibility under UK company law most objective and relevant information from which to select suitable accounting policies and to make to assess inherent loss within each portfolio, though judgements and estimates that are reasonable and sometimes it provides less relevant information prudent.
The accounting policies that are deemed about the inherent loss in a given portfolio at the critical to our results and financial position, in terms balance sheet date, for example, when there have of the materiality of the items to which the policies been changes in economic, regulatory or behavioural are applied and the high degree of judgement conditions which result in the most recent trends in involved, including the use of assumptions and portfolio risk factors being not fully reflected in the estimation, are discussed below.
In these circumstances, the risk factors are taken into account by adjusting the Impairment of loans and advances impairment allowances derived solely from historical loss experience.
Our accounting policy for losses arising from the impairment of customer loans and advances is Risk factors include loan portfolio growth, described in Note 2g on the Financial Statements.
product mix, unemployment rates, bankruptcy trends, Loan impairment allowances represent geographical concentrations, loan product features, managements best estimate of losses incurred economic conditions such as national and local in the loan portfolios at the balance sheet date.
trends in housing markets, the level of interest rates, portfolio seasoning, account management policies Management is required to exercise judgement and practices, changes in laws and regulations, and in making assumptions and estimations when other influences on customer payment patterns.
calculating loan impairment allowances on both Different factors are applied in different regions individually and collectively assessed loans and and countries to reflect local economic conditions, advances.
Of the Groups total loans and advances laws and regulations.
The methodology and the to customers before impairment allowances of assumptions used in calculating impairment losses US$978bn 2009: US$922bn, US$15bn or 2% are reviewed regularly in the light of differences 2009: US$15bn: 2% were individually assessed between loss estimates and actual loss experience.
for impairment, and US$963bn or 98% 2009: For example, roll rates, loss rates and the expected US$907bn: 98% were collectively assessed for timing of future recoveries are regularly impairment.
benchmarked against actual outcomes to ensure they The most significant judgemental area is the remain appropriate.
calculation of collective impairment allowances.
The However, the exercise of judgement requires the geographical area with most exposure to collectively use of assumptions which are highly subjective and assessed loans and advances is North America, very sensitive to the risk factors, in particular to which comprised US$198bn or 21% 2009: changes in economic and credit conditions across US$219bn: 24% of the total.
Collective impairment a large number of geographical areas.
Many of the allowances in North America were US$9bn, factors have a high degree of interdependency representing 64% 2009: US$13bn: 68% of the total and there is no single factor to which our loan collectively assessed loan impairment allowance.
impairment allowances as a whole are sensitive.
They The methods used to calculate collective are particularly sensitive to general economic and impairment allowances on homogeneous groups credit conditions in North America, however.
For of loans and advances that are not considered example, a 10% increase in impairment allowances individually significant are disclosed in Note 2g on collectively assessed loans and advances in North on the Financial Statements.
They are subject to America would increase loan impairment allowances estimation uncertainty, in part because it is not by US$0.9bn at 31 December 2010 2009: US$1.3bn.
practicable to identify losses on an individual loan It is possible that the outcomes within the next 33 Shareholder Information Financial Statements Governance Operating & Financial Review Overview HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Report of the Directors: Operating and Financial Review continued Financial summary Critical accounting policies financial year could differ from the assumptions built During 2010, no impairment of goodwill was into the models, resulting in a material adjustment to identified 2009: nil.
In addition to the annual the carrying amount of loans and advances.
impairment test which was performed as at 1 July 2010, management reviewed the current and expected Goodwill impairment performance of the CGUs as at 31 December 2010 and determined that there was no indication of Our accounting policy for goodwill is described in potential impairment of the goodwill allocated to Note 2p on the Financial Statements.
However, in the event of a significant Financial Statements lists our cash generating units deterioration in economic and credit conditions CGUs by geographical region and global compared with those reflected by management in business.
HSBCs total goodwill amounted to the cash flow forecasts for the CGUs, a material US$22bn at 31 December 2010 2009: US$23bn.
adjustment to a CGUs recoverable amount may The review of goodwill impairment reflects occur which may result in the recognition of an managements best estimate of the following factors: impairment charge in the income statement.
the future cash flows of the CGUs are sensitive Note 24 on the Financial Statements includes to the cash flows projected for the periods for details of the CGUs with significant balances of which detailed forecasts are available and to goodwill, states the key assumptions used to assess assumptions regarding the long-term pattern the goodwill in each of those CGUs for impairment of sustainable cash flows thereafter.
Forecasts and provides a discussion of the sensitivity of the are compared with actual performance and carrying value of goodwill to changes in key verifiable economic data, but they necessarily assumptions.
and appropriately reflect managements view of future business prospects at the time of the Valuation of financial instruments assessment: and Our accounting policy for determining the fair value the rates used to discount future expected cash of financial instruments is described in Note 2d on flows are based on the costs of capital assigned the Financial Statements.
to individual CGUs and can have a significant The best evidence of fair value is a quoted price effect on their valuation.
The cost of capital in an actively traded market.
In the event that the percentage is generally derived from a Capital market for a financial instrument is not active, a Asset Pricing Model, which incorporates inputs valuation technique is used.
The majority of reflecting a number of financial and economic valuation techniques employ only observable market variables, including the risk-free interest rate in data and so the reliability of the fair value the country concerned and a premium for the measurement is high.
However, certain financial inherent risk of the business being evaluated.
instruments are valued on the basis of valuation These variables are subject to fluctuations in techniques that feature one or more significant external market rates and economic conditions market inputs that are unobservable.
Valuation beyond our control and therefore require the techniques that rely to a greater extent on exercise of significant judgement and are unobservable inputs require a higher level of consequently subject to uncertainty.
management judgement to calculate a fair value than A decline in a CGUs expected cash flows those based wholly on observable inputs.
and or an increase in its cost of capital reduces the Valuation techniques used to calculate fair CGUs estimated recoverable amount.
If this is values are discussed in Note 16 on the Financial lower than the carrying value of the CGU, a charge Statements.
The main assumptions and estimates for impairment of goodwill is recognised in our which management consider when applying a model income statement for the year.
with valuation techniques are: The accuracy of forecast cash flows is subject to the likelihood and expected timing of future a high degree of uncertainty in volatile market cash flows on the instrument.
In such market conditions, management are usually governed by the terms of the retests goodwill for impairment more frequently than instrument, although judgement may be required annually to ensure that the assumptions on which the when the ability of the counterparty to service cash flow forecasts are based continue to reflect the instrument in accordance with the current market conditions and managements best contractual terms is in doubt.
Future cash flows estimate of future business prospects.
may be sensitive to changes in market rates: 34 selecting an appropriate discount rate for At 31 December 2010, our total available-forthe instrument.
The determination of this rate sale financial assets amounted to US$381bn 2009: is based on an assessment of what a market US$352bn, of which US$373bn or 98% 2009: participant would regard as the appropriate US$342bn: 97% were debt securities.
The spread of the rate for the instrument over the available-for-sale fair value reserve relating to appropriate risk-free rate: and debt securities amounted to a deficit of US$6.2bn 2009: deficit of US$11.4bn.
A deficit in the judgement to determine what model to use to available-for-sale fair value reserve occurs on debt calculate fair value in areas where the choice of securities when the fair value of a relevant security valuation model is particularly subjective, for is less than its acquisition cost net of any principal example, when valuing complex derivative repayments and amortisation after deducting any products.
previous impairment loss recognised in the income When applying a model with unobservable statement, but where there is no evidence of any inputs, estimates are made to reflect uncertainties impairment or, if an impairment was previously in fair values resulting from a lack of market data recognised, any subsequent impairment.
inputs, for example, as a result of illiquidity in Management is required to exercise judgement the market.
For these instruments, the fair value in determining whether there is objective evidence measurement is less reliable.
Inputs into valuations that an impairment loss has occurred.
Once an based on unobservable data are inherently uncertain impairment has been identified, the amount of because there is little or no current market data impairment loss is measured with reference to the available from which to determine the level at which fair value of the asset.
More information on an arms length transaction would occur under assumptions and estimates requiring management normal business conditions.
However, in most cases judgement relating to the determination of fair there is some market data available on which to base values of financial instruments is provided above a determination of fair value, for example historical in Valuation of financial instruments.
data, and the fair values of most financial instruments are based on some market observable Deciding whether an available-for-sale debt inputs even when unobservable inputs are security is impaired requires objective evidence of significant.
both the occurrence of a loss event and a related decrease in estimated future cash flows.
The degree The value of financial assets and liabilities of judgement involved is less when cash flows measured at fair value using a valuation technique are readily determinable, but increases when was US$599bn 2009: US$599bn and US$499bn estimating future cash flows requires consideration 2009: US$447bn, respectively or 56% 2009: 56% of a number of variables, some of which may be of total financial assets and 77% 2009: 75% of unobservable in current market conditions.
total financial liabilities measured at fair value.
There is no single factor to which the Groups Disclosures of the types and amounts of charge for impairment of available-for-sale debt adjustments made in determining the fair value of securities is particularly sensitive, because of the financial instruments measured at fair value using various types of securities we hold, the range of valuation techniques, and a sensitivity analysis of geographical areas in which those securities are held, fair values for financial instruments with significant and the wide range of factors which can affect the unobservable inputs to reasonably possible occurrence of loss events and the cash flows of alternative assumptions can be found in Note 16 on securities, including different types of collateral.
Given the uncertainty and subjective nature of valuing financial instruments at The most significant judgements concern more fair value, it is possible that the outcomes in the next complex instruments, such as ABSs, where it is financial year could differ from the assumptions necessary to consider factors such as the estimated used, and this could result in a material adjustment future cash flows on underlying pools of collateral to the carrying amount of financial instruments including prepayment speeds, the extent and depth of measured at fair value.
market price declines and changes in credit ratings.
The review of estimated future cash flows on Impairment of available-for-sale financial underlying collateral is subject to uncertainties when assets the assessment is based on historical information on pools of assets, and judgement is required to Our accounting policy for impairment of availabledetermine whether historical performance remains for-sale financial assets is described in Note 2j on the Financial Statements.
35 Shareholder Information Financial Statements Governance Operating & Financial Review Overview HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Report of the Directors: Operating and Financial Review continued Financial summary Critical accounting policies Customer groups and global businesses representative of current economic and credit evidence, including historical financial performance, conditions.
projections of future taxable income, future reversals of existing taxable temporary differences, Further details of the nature and extent of our tax planning strategies and the availability of loss exposures to ABSs classified as available-for-sale carrybacks.
and a more detailed description of the assumptions and estimates used in assessing these securities for Projections of future taxable income in the impairment, together with a discussion of those US are based on business plans, future capital assets which are most sensitive to possible future requirements and ongoing tax planning strategies.
impairment, are provided in Securitisation These projections include assumptions about future exposures and other structured products on house prices, US economic conditions, including page 128. unemployment levels and their impact on loan impairment charges, and capital support from HSBC It is possible that outcomes in the next financial Holdings.
These forecasts are consistent with year could be different from those modelled when the assumption that it is probable that the results seeking to identify impairment on available-for-sale of future operations will generate sufficient taxable debt securities.
In this event, impairment may be income to support the deferred tax assets.
In identified in available-for-sale debt securities which managements judgement, recent market conditions, had previously been determined not to be impaired, which have resulted in losses being incurred in the potentially resulting in the recognition of material US, will create significant downward pressure and impairment losses in the next financial year.
volatility regarding the profit or loss before tax in the next few years.
To reflect this, the assessment of Deferred tax assets recoverability of the deferred tax assets in the US Our accounting policy for the recognition of deferred significantly discounts any future expected taxable tax assets is described in Note 2s on the Financial income and relies to a greater extent on capital Statements.
The recognition of a deferred tax asset support to the US operations from HSBC Holdings, relies on an assessment of the probability and including tax planning strategies implemented in sufficiency of future taxable profits, future reversals relation to such support.
of existing taxable temporary differences and The most significant tax planning strategy is the ongoing tax planning strategies.
investment of capital in our US operations to ensure The most significant judgements concern the US the realisation of the deferred tax assets.
The transfer deferred tax assets, given the recent history of losses of a subsidiary as part of an internal reorganisation on 31 January 2010 provided substantial support in our US operations.
Net US deferred tax assets amounted to US$4bn or 58% 2009: US$5.1bn: for the recoverability of the US deferred tax assets.
59% of deferred tax assets recognised on the Management expects that, with support, our US Groups balance sheet.
operations will continue to execute their business strategies and plans until they return to profitability.
Recognition of US deferred tax assets is If HSBC Holdings were to decide not to provide based on the evidence available about conditions ongoing support, the full recovery of the deferred tax at the balance sheet date, and requires significant asset may no longer be probable and could result in a judgements to be made regarding projections of loan significant reduction of the deferred tax asset which impairment charges and the timing of recovery in would be recognised as a charge in the income the US economy.
These judgements take into statement.
consideration the effect of both positive and negative 36 Basis of preparation Customer groups and global The results are presented in accordance with the accounting businesses policies used in the preparation of HSBCs consolidated financial statements.
Our operations are closely integrated and, Page accordingly, the presentation of customer group and global Summary 37 business data includes internal allocations of certain items of income and expense.
These allocations include the costs of Products and services 38 certain support services and GMO functions, to the extent that Personal Financial Services 40 these can be meaningfully attributed to operational business Commercial Banking. 42 lines.
While such allocations have been made on a systematic Global Banking and Markets 44 and consistent basis, they necessarily involve a degree of Global Private Banking........ 46 subjectivity.
Other 47 Where relevant, income and expense amounts presented include the results of inter-segment funding as well as interAnalysis by customer group and global business..... 48 company and inter-business line transactions.
All such transactions are undertaken on arms length terms.
Performance is discussed in this order because certain strategic themes, business HSBCs senior management reviews operating initiatives and trends affect more than one activity on a number of bases, including by geographical region.
All commentaries are on an geographical region and by customer group and underlying basis see page 14 unless stated global business.
Capital resources are allocated and otherwise.
All references to HSBC Finance and performance is assessed primarily by geographical HSBC Bank USA are also on a management basis as region, as presented on page 50. loans referred to HSBC Bank USA from HSBC Finance are managed by the latter and all costs and The commentaries below present customer benefits accrue thereto.
37 Shareholder Information Financial Statements Governance Operating & Financial Review Overview
