Investment Advisers Report The geographic focus for new opportunities remains the UK, Introduction Europe, Canada and Australia countries that have a developed The Group recorded a solid performance with the portfolio PFI PPP market.
providing a good cash yield in the year.
The cashflows from the portfolio have enabled the Company to meet its distribution Market target for the year.
The number of assets being put up for sale has increased compared to the prior year.
Both individual assets and portfolios Acquisitions in the year have increased the Groups portfolio to were marketed by contractors and financial institutions.
These comprise 32 PFI PPP increase in the supply of opportunities, the limited number of projects and a junior loan in Kemble Water, part of the Thames potential buyers and an increase in long term gilt rates, resulted Water group.
All the PFI PPP projects are operational and yielding in an increase in discount rates used to value these investments.
except Bradford Schools which is under construction, with completion due in 2011.
There are signs that the current return levels in the secondary PFI PPP market are attracting new entrants as well as the return The generally challenging economic environment in the UK has of previously active participants.
An example of this is the sale by not significantly impacted the portfolio.
The robustness of the Balfour Beatty plc of investments in two UK PFI projects.
The bid portfolios performance is supported by the underlying long term for these was won by a fund managed by AMP Capital Investors, contractual availability based revenues from public sector clients, but was subsequently sold to co-shareholders in each project, with no requirement for refinancing of a PFI PPP project to meet who exercised their pre-emption rights.
Investor interest in PFI its business plan.
investments is further evidenced by recent sales by companies such as John Laing plc and Interserve plc of PFI portfolios to their Operationally there are no significant matters to report on the pension funds.
The asset management team continues to work on a number of initiatives to enhance value and to integrate the new Current market intelligence suggests that the number of assets acquisitions into the portfolio.
being put up for sale is likely to increase as vendors seek sales of non-core assets to achieve profit targets and or reduce gearing The secondary market activity picked up in the year as the by the calendar year end.
recession motivated contractors and financial institutions to dispose of PFI PPP assets to enable them to generate profits on With the formation of a coalition government in the UK sale and fide-leverage or recycle capital.
This is a trend we see following elections on 6 May 2010, it is not yet clear what continuing in these uncertain economic times which we expect impact this will have on the supply of new PFI projects being will provide opportunities for the Group to make further procured by public sector clients.
Since the Group does not bid acquisitions in accordance with the Investment Policy.
for these new PFI projects, it is unlikely to affect the Groups pipeline of opportunities.
Strategy The Group remains focused on maintaining and creating value There was a greater number of sale processes involving from active asset management of the portfolio and securing new overseas PFI PPP P3 investments than in the prior year.
This is investments to enhance the portfolio.
a trend we expect to continue as these markets grow and mature as more projects become operational.
The PFI PPP P3 Successful service delivery is key to maximising value from the assets we have reviewed in the year were located in Europe, portfolio.
Working in partnership with our clients, and fostering Canada and Australia.
good working relationships are an integral part of our strategy.
Strong relationships developed by our asset management team, The secondary market in PV solar parks has been buoyant during we believe, will assist us to increase revenues through client the year.
We have evaluated a number of operational schemes variations and resolve issues successfully.
and in each case we were either outbid or we did not proceed for a number of reasons These included projects with short term The strategy for new investments is as documented in the debt that required refinancing by longer term debt with a banking November 2009 C share prospectus and the Chairmans market with selective appetite.
As a result, we are yet to find a statement we are concentrating on PFI PPP concessions, both solar PV asset suitable for the Group.
We continue to assess in operations and in construction, and other infrastructure assets opportunities in this sector carefully.
with comparable risk and return profiles.
Acquisitions will be selective with due consideration given to counter-party exposure We expect the flow of attractive investment opportunities to and project performance.
continue as economic pressures on vendors motivate them to redefine their core assets and seek disposals to reduce gearing or recycle capital.
10 HICL ANNUAL REPOR T & ACCOUNTS 2010 In September, at Colchester Garrison, significant savings were Portfolio performance achieved for the project and the MOD through an innovative The portfolio continues to perform in line with forecast and to financing initiative.
52m from surplus land sale proceeds was produce a growing yield.
The difficult economic environment has repaid to bondholders 2 years earlier than scheduled with a not impacted significantly on the projects.
In particular the 0.5% repayment premium.
The difference between the 5.4% absence of demand based projects in the portfolio, where bond interest coupon and 1% to 2% cash on deposit interest income is wholly dependent on usage, means that the portfolio rates less transaction costs provided the cost saving, which was is not exposed to changes in consumer usage or spending.
shared 50:50 with the MOD, the projects client.
On the Dutch High Speed Rail Link, the first scheduled train The PFI PPP projects in the portfolio all have long term debt in services commenced in September, and were then followed by place which does not need refinancing to meet their business scheduled high speed train services in December.
The weighted average PFI PPP project concession length affect the revenues for the project, which are paid dependent only remaining is 23.5 years at 31 March 2010 and the weighted on the availability of the track, power and signalling.
The projects average debt tenor is 21.8 years.
management is now working on a client-requested variation for an additional four signal stations.
This variation is being funded by the Weighted Averages Excluding Kemble Dutch state and will provide incremental revenues for the project.
26 Following the five new acquisitions in the year the portfolio 24 contains 33 investments, all operational and yielding with the 22 exception of Bradford BSF Schools Phase II project.
This project 20 is in construction with completion due in 2011.
As noted in the 18 16 Chairmans statement, construction is behind schedule, but this 14 delay is not expected to impact the value of the Groups 12 investment, since the project company has recourse against the 10 construction contractor in relation to the delay.
8 6 As reported in the Groups Interim Results, the value of the 4 Groups investment in the Blackburn Hospital project has 2 decreased due to the increase in the projects debt costs 0 because the monoline Ambac Assurance UK Limited Ambac Weighted Average Weighted Average Concession Length Debt Tenor was downgraded in the period.
Since the downgrade, Ambacs US parent company in March entered into rehabilitation In April 2010 the Government introduced legislation known as proceedings instigated by its US based regulator.
This has had no the carbon reduction commitment CRC, now renamed the impact on the Blackburn Hospital project and neither would any CRC Energy Efficiency Scheme with the aim of improving future downgrades of Ambac.
This is the only project in the energy efficiency and cutting emissions in large public and portfolio which is affected by Ambacs downgrade.
It works through payments and rebates for participants depending on their percentage carbon We continue to seek opportunities to maximise value across the emission reductions relative to other participants in the portfolio.
Our asset management team has individual business scheme.
The scheme is revenue neutral to the Government.
plans for each of the investments, prepared on acquisition and We do not expect the legislation to materially impact the updated periodically.
These plans cover incremental revenue portfolio but are working with stakeholders in each investment opportunities, cost savings, treasury management and financial to ascertain which project companies are required to participate optimisation.
For example in the year we have added to the within the scheme.
projects in the insurance arrangement where the Group buys insurance across a number of projects.
Adding to this Acquisitions arrangement reduces insurance premium and increases the economies of scale achieved.
As outlined in the Chairmans Statement, the Group made five new investments and three incremental acquisitions in the year.
Project variations provide further upside above those identified in the project business plans, as client changes to the scope of In June, the Group acquired a 30% interest in the Renfrewshire services generally provide some incremental revenue.
These Schools project for a consideration price of 6.8m.
The project vary greatly in size and scope, and can include a funding comprises ten primary and secondary schools, all located in requirement from shareholders.
In December, there was a Renfrewshire.
It was developed and built by Carillion and has shareholder funded variation on the Helicopter Training project been operational since January 2008.
A subsidiary of Amey plc for which the Group committed to invest an additional 2.1m.
operates the schools under a long-term services agreement.
This variation is to upgrade a Chinook simulator for the Royal Netherlands Air Force, which uses the facility in addition to the facilitys main customer, the Royal Air Force.
HICL ANNUAL REPOR T & ACCOUNTS 2010 11 Years Investment Advisers Report continued In July, the Group acquired a 50% interest in the second In December, the Group acquired a 50% interest in the Queens Highland Schools PPP project for a consideration price of Hospital PFI project in Romford for 23.9m.
The 30 year, all new build concession comprises five the design, build and finance of the Queens Hospital in Romford, primary schools, three secondary schools, a combined primary followed by the maintenance of the hospital and the provision of and secondary school, and a special needs school.
Construction non-clinical services for a term of 36 years from January 2004. was completed in September.
In March, the Group acquired a 50% interest in the Newcastle In September, the Group acquired a 34% interest in the Bradford City Libraries PFI project for 3.0m.
The project is a 25 year Schools project which had a funding commitment of 7.4m, the concession for the new city centre library in Newcastle and an majority of which is due at the end of the construction period in additional satellite library in High Heaton.
The scheme, which is part of the Bradford Building completed in March 2009.
Maintenance and other facilities Schools for the Future Programme, is for the provision of four management services are provided by Integral UK Limited.
Design and construction is by a joint venture between Costain and Ferrovial Agroman.
Amey Communities Counterparties will undertake the facilities management services and provide All the PFI clients are public sector bodies.
We maintain a risk the information and communications technology.
and control function that undertakes regular reviews of the portfolios counterparty exposure to both the operational supply In November, the Group acquired additional 22.92% interests in chain and the financial providers of bank deposit accounts and the equity and loan notes in the Metropolitan Police Training interest rate swaps.
Facilities, the Durham & Cleveland Firearms Training, and the Greater Manchester Police Authority PFI project for a total The facilities management services are carried out by a range of consideration of 8.0m.
This takes the Groups interests in these experienced providers including Bouygues, Sodexo, Mitie and projects to 72.92%.
We monitor project performance and are not aware of any service issues to date that indicate financial difficulties for any of the significant facilities management contractors.
The Groups portfolio has a diversified range of facility management suppliers with no over reliance on any one supplier.
Spread of contractors on the PFI PPP projects 4 4 6 1 1 1 4 1 7 2 2 1 1 1 2 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 Note to chart: Analysis of the various FM providers, shown by aggregate valuation of PFI PPP projects involved in, with the figure the number of projects involved in.
On some projects there is more than one service provider e. g. Dutch High Speed Rail where Royal BAM, Siemens and Fluor provide services: so that the sum of the bars is in excess of the Directors valuation.
Pale red is construction exposure.
12 HICL ANNUAL REPOR T & ACCOUNTS 2010 Relative exposure by portfolio valuation Amey Atkins Balfour Beatty Bovis Lend Lease Carillion Costain Ecovert FM Bouygues Ferrovial Fluor Honeywell Integral Interserve ISS John Laing Medirest Mitie Morrison Reliance Rockwell Collins Royal BAM Serco Siemens Sodexo TQ Education Vega This is the same method used at the time of launch and each Valuation subsequent six month reporting period further details can be We are responsible for carrying out the fair market valuation of found in the November 2009 C Share prospectus, available from the Groups investments which is presented to the Directors for the Companys website.
The valuation is carried out on a six monthly basis as at 31 March and 30 September each year.
The Directors Valuation of the portfolio as at 31 March 2010 is 509.6m including 8.3m of loan stock commitments.
This The Directors receive an independent third party report and portfolio valuation compares to 445.7m as at 31 March 2009 up opinion on these valuations.
14.3% and 250.4m at the time of launch a reconciliation between the valuation at 31 March 2010 and that shown in the For non-market traded investments, the valuation principles used financial statements is given in Note 1 to the unaudited are based on a discounted cash flow methodology, and adjusted consolidated proforma financial statements, the principle in accordance with the European Venture Capital Associations difference being the 8.3m of loan stock commitments on valuation guidelines where appropriate to comply with IAS 39, Bradford Schools and Helicopter Training projects.
given the special nature of infrastructure investments.
Where an investment is traded, such as the Kemble Water Junior Loan, a market quote is used.
Valuation movements in year from March 2009 to March 2010 520.0m 500.0m 39.2m 54.1m 68.0m 480.0m 22.5m 460.0m 6.3m 2.8m 509.6m 440.0m 420.0m 445.7m 400.0m 380.0m 31 Mar 09 Investments Cash Change in Economic FOREX Return 31 Mar 10 Distributions discount rate assumptions movement A breakdown in the growth in the Directors Valuation in the year is tabled below.
Valuation movement during the year to 31 March 2010 m Valuation at 31 March 2009 445.7 Investments 68.0 Cash receipts 39.2 Change in DCF rate 22.5 Economic assumptions 6.3 Forex movement on Dutch High Speed Rail Link 2.8 Return 54.1 Valuation at 31 March 2010 509.6 Netting out acquisitions in the period of 68.0m, and investment receipts of 39.2m, the growth over the rebased value of 474.4m was 7.4%.
This increase arose from a solid performance across the portfolio, revised economic assumptions inflation and deposit rates as outlined below and value uplifts from acquisitions and on the Kemble Water junior loan which more than off-set the effect of an increase of 0.5% in the discount rate used to value the operational PFI PPP projects.
HICL ANNUAL REPOR T & ACCOUNTS 2010 13 Investment Advisers Report continued Fair value for each investment is derived from the present value of the investments expected future cash flows, using reasonable assumptions and forecasts and an appropriate discount rate.
We exercise our judgment in assessing the expected future cash flows from each investment based on the detailed concession life financial models produced by each Project Company.
Discount rates The discount rates used for valuing each PFI PPP investment are based on the appropriate risk free rate derived from the relevant government bond or gilt and a risk premium.
The risk premium takes into account risks and opportunities associated with the project earnings e. g. predictability and covenant of the concession income, all of which may be differentiated by project phase, and market participants appetite for these risks.
The discount rates used for valuing the projects in the portfolio are as follows: Whole portfolio Excluding Kemble Water Junior Loan Period ending Range Weighted average Range Weighted average 31 March 2009 7.8% to 22.4% 8.3% 7.8% to 8.6% 8.1% 30 September 2009 8.2% to 17.1% 8.7% 8.2% to 11.0% 8.6% 31 March 2010 8.4% to 13.2% 8.8% 8.4% to 11.0% 8.7% We use our judgement in arriving at the appropriate discount rate.
This is based on our knowledge of the market, taking into account intelligence gained from bidding activities, discussions with financial advisers in the appropriate market and publicly available information on relevant transactions.
An analysis of the movements in the weighted average risk free rate and risk premium for the PFI PPP assets excluding the Kemble Water Junior Loan is shown below: Excluding Kemble Water Junior Loan 31 March 2010 31 March 2009 Movement Risk free rate 4.4% 4.1% 0.3% Risk premium 4.3% 4.0% 0.3% Discount Rate 8.7% 8.1% 0.6% As noted in the Market commentary above there has been an increase in long term gilt rates and an increased supply of PFI PPP assets to the market as contractors and financial institutions have sought to deleverage and realise profits by disposing of PFI PPP assets.
The effect of this has increased discount rates used to value these assets.
The average risk free rate, based on long term gilt and bond rates, has increased 0.3% in the year to 4.4%.
The risk premium necessary to reflect market pricing for an operational asset has been judged as 4.2% to give an average discount rate of 8.6% for operational assets an aggregate increase of 0.5% to 8.6%.
This and an increase of 0.1% due to the 11.0% discount rate applied to the asset in construction has resulted in an increase in the weighted average rate excluding Kemble of 0.6% to 8.7%.
Discount Rate Sensitivity 600m 560m 520m 509.6m 480m 440m 400m -1.0% -0.5% Base 0.5% 1.0% 8.7% Discount Rate Movement 14 HICL ANNUAL REPOR T & ACCOUNTS 2010 Valuation Inflation indexation Deposit rates The PFI projects in the portfolio have contractual income streams Each PFI project in the portfolio has cash held in bank deposits, with public sector clients, which are rebased every year for which is a requirement of their senior debt financing.
UK projects tend to use either RPI Retail Price Index or 31 March 2010 cash deposits for the portfolio were earning RPIx RPI excluding mortgage payments, and revenues are interest at a rate of 0.7% per annum on average.
either partially or totally indexed depending on the contract and the nature of the projects financing.
Facilities management The portfolio valuation assumes UK deposit interest rates are 1% sub-contracts have similar indexation arrangements.
This is a change from the March 2009 valuation which assumed 1% deposit interest rates The portfolio valuation assumes UK inflation of 2.75% per to March 2011 and 4.5% thereafter.
There is a consensus that UK annum, which is an increase from the March 2009 assumption of base rates will remain low for an extended period, with a current zero inflation to March 2011 and 2.75% thereafter.
This average forecast for UK base rates in December 2011 of 2.2%.
judgement has been applied in the light of short term economic forecasts and the long term Bank of England CPI target.
RPI and Each of the projects interest costs are at a fixed rate either RPIx as at March 2010 were 4.4% and 4.8% respectively.
The through fixed rate bonds or bank debt which is hedged with an current forecasts for RPI in December 2010 range from 1.9% to interest rate swap.
The projects sensitivity to interest rates 4.2% from 22 independent and City institutions as compiled by relates to the cash deposits which the projects are required to HM Treasury, with an average forecast of 3.1%.
maintain as part of their funding.
For example most projects would have a debt service reserve account in which 6 months of Inflation Sensitivity debt service payments are held.
Deposit Rates Sensitivity 610m 610m 570m 570m 530m 509.6m 530m 490m 509.6m 490m 450m 450m 410m -1.0% -0.5% Base 2.75% 0.5% 1.0% Sensitivity changing assumption each and every year to maturity 410m -1.0% -0.5% Base 1% 0.5% 1.0% Sensitivity changing assumption for next five years only then 4.5% Base Case thereafter HICL ANNUAL REPOR T & ACCOUNTS 2010 15 Valuation Valuation Investment Advisers Report continued Financing The Company successfully raised 126.3m net of expenses in the year from the 80m C share issue in December 2009 and the issue of 43.1m shares by way of tap issues under the Companys block listing.
The net proceeds from the share issues net of the cost of new investments have been used to reduce the Groups debt.
As at 31 March 2010, the Group had net cash of 11.0m and outstanding loanstock commitments on two projects totalling 8.3m.
The strategy is to use the Groups 200m revolving debt facility to fund new acquisitions, to provide letters of credit for future subscription obligations, and to provide a prudent level of debt for the portfolio to improve the operational gearing.
The Boards policy is that the Company should not be hold cash awaiting investment to any material extent above any outstanding contractual subscription obligations in respect of existing investments.
1 Future Cashflows The chart set out below is the expected future cashflows to be received by the Group from the portfolio and how the portfolio valuation is expected to evolve over time using current forecasts and assumptions, this is not a profit forecast, and there can be no assurance that these receipts will be achieved.
There can be no assurance that this target will be met.
2 Portfolio valuation assumes a Euro to Sterling exchange rate of 0.89 and a weighted average discount rate of 8.8 per cent.
These assumptions and the valuation of the current portfolio may vary over time.
3 The valuation is of the Current Portfolio of 33 investments and does not include other assets or liabilities of the Group, and assumes that during the period illustrated above, i no new investments are purchased, ii no existing investments are sold and iii the Group suffers no material liability to withholding taxes, or taxation on income or gains.
The spike in 2014 is the expected repayment of principal on the Kemble Junior Holdco Loan.
The chart shows the steady long term nature of the cashflows from the portfolio, coupled with a stable portfolio valuation to 2027.
From 2028, based on current forecasts, the portfolio will move into a capital repayment phase whereby capital is repaid and the portfolio valuation reduces as projects reach the end of their concession term, assuming that the proceeds are not invested in new investments, until in 2042 all capital is repaid.
16 HICL ANNUAL REPOR T & ACCOUNTS 2010 Project distributions m Portfolio value m
