Board of Directors The Directors, all of whom are non-executive and independent of the Investment Adviser, are listed below.
Mr Graham Picken 61 Chairman Appointed to the Board 12 January 2006 Graham Picken is an experienced banker and financial practitioner and has been Chairman of the Company since its launch.
Formerly, a non executive director of the Derbyshire Building Society, he was appointed Chief Executive of the Derbyshire in February 2008 and led the society to a merger with Nationwide Building Society in December 2008, standing down at the end of March 2009 to take on a short-term advisory role with the Bank of England.
Until 2003, Grahams career spanned over thirty years with Midland and HSBC Banks where, before he retired, he was General Manager of HSBC Bank plc responsible for commercial and corporate banking including specialised and equity finance.
Before that Graham was Chief Executive of Forward Trust Group, From left to right: Henri Grisius, Graham Picken, John Hallam and Sarah Evans an authorised bank, and Chairman of First direct, a division of HSBC Bank plc.
During his employment with HSBC, Graham never had any direct responsibility or involvement with the Mr Henri Grisius 66 Investment Adviser.
Graham has also been a non-executive Appointed to the Board 12 January 2006, and on 20 May 2010, director of HM Customs & Excise.
the Company announced that Henri will retire as a Director of the Company on 1 June 2010.
Graham has no other listed company directorships Henri lives in Luxembourg and is the founder and managing Mrs Sarah Evans 55 partner of RSM Henri Grisius & Associs Srl, and is a director of Appointed to the Board 9 June 2008 a number of international investment companies.
He is a former partner of Ernst & Young and BDO in Luxembourg.
Before that Sarah Evans is a Chartered Accountant and is a director of he set up the investment funds department of Banque fide several other listed investment funds, as well as an unlisted fund Luxembourg in Luxembourg.
He started his career with the of hedge funds.
She is a member of the Institute of Directors.
Sarah spent over six years with the Barclays Bank PLC group Henri has no other public company directorships from 1994 to 2001.
During that time she was a treasury director and from 1996 to 1998 she was Finance Director of Barclays Mercantile, where she was responsible for all aspects of financial control and operational risk management.
Prior to joining Barclays Sarah ran her own consultancy business advising financial institutions on all aspects of securitisation.
From 1982 to 1988 Sarah was with Kleinwort Benson, latterly as head of group finance.
She is resident in Guernsey.
Other public company directorships listed in London Crystal Amber Fund Limited listed on AIM Japanese Leisure Hotels Limited listed on AIM Phaunos Timber Fund Limited 32 HICL ANNUAL REPOR T & ACCOUNTS 2010 Mr John Hallam 61 Mr Chris Russell 61 Appointed to the Board 12 January 2006 On 20 May 2010, the Company announced that Chris Russell will join the Company as a Director on 1 June 2010.
John lives in Guernsey, is a Fellow of the Institute of Chartered Accountants in England and Wales and qualified as an accountant Chris is a Guernsey resident non-executive director of in 1971.
He is a former partner of  investment and financial companies in the US, UK, Hong Kong having retired in 1999 after 27 years with the firm both in and Guernsey.
He is also a director of the UK trade body, the Guernsey and in other countries.
He is currently Chairman of Association of Investment Companies.
Chris was formerly a Cazenove Absolute Equity Ltd and Partners Group Global director of Gartmore Investment Management Plc, where he Opportunities Ltd as well as being a director of a number of other was Head of Gartmores businesses in the US and Japan and financial services companies.
He served for many years as a before that was a holding board director of the Jardine Fleming member of the Guernsey Financial Services Commission from Group in Asia.
He is a Fellow of the UK Society of Investment which he retired in 2006, having been its Chairman for the Professionals and a Fellow of the Institute of Chartered previous three years.
Other public company directorships listed in London unless Other public company directorships listed in London unless noted otherwise noted otherwise BH Global Limited JP Morgan Fleming Japanese Smaller Companies Trust plc Cazenove Absolute Equity Limited Castle Asia Alternative pcc Ltd Develica Deutschland Limited listed on AIM F&C Commercial Property Trust Ltd Dexion Absolute Limited Korea Fund Inc listed in New York NB Private Equity Partners Limited Certain of the Directors maintain additional directorships that are also Partners Group Global Opportunities Limited listed in Ireland listed but not actively traded on various exchanges.
Details may be Standard Life Investments Property Income Trust Limited obtained from the Corporate Secretary.
Tapestry Investment Co PCC Limited HICL ANNUAL REPOR T & ACCOUNTS 2010 33
