Investment Policy and to a lesser extent but counting towards the same aggregate Investment objective 35 per cent.
and again at the time the relevant investment is The Company seeks to provide investors with long-term made in: distributions, at levels that are sustainable, and to preserve the capital value of its investment portfolio over the long-term with other funds that make infrastructure investments: and or potential for capital growth.
The Company targets a progressive financial instruments and securities issued by companies that distribution policy and growth of its annual distributions to 7p per make infrastructure investments, or whose activities are Ordinary Share by March 2013.
The Company is targeting an IRR similar or comparable to infrastructure investments.
on the original issue price of its Ordinary Shares in March 2006, to be achieved over the long-term via active management, including the acquisition by the Group Geographic focus being the Company and its wholly-owned subsidiaries of further The Directors believe that attractive opportunities for the Group investments to complement the Current Portfolio and by the to enhance returns for investors are likely to arise outside as well prudent use of gearing.
as within the UK where the majority of the projects in the Current Portfolio are based.
The Group may therefore make Investment criteria investments in the European Union, Norway, Switzerland, the The Groups Investment Policy is to ensure a diversified portfolio Americas and selected territories in Asia and Australasia.
The which has a number of similarly sized investments and is not Group may also make investments in other markets should dominated by any single investment.
The Group will seek to suitable opportunities arise.
acquire Infrastructure Equity with similar risk reward characteristics to the Current Portfolio, which may include but is The Group will seek to mitigate country risk by concentrating on not limited to : investment opportunities in jurisdictions where it considers that contract structures and enforceability are reliable, where to the public sector, government-backed or regulated revenues: extent applicable public sector obligations carry a satisfactory credit rating and where financial markets are relatively mature.
concessions which are predominantly availability based i. e. the payments from the concession do not generally depend Single investment limit and diversity of clients on the level of use of the project asset : and or and suppliers companies in the regulated utilities sector.
When any new acquisition is made, the Company will ensure that the investment acquired does not have an acquisition value or, if The Group will also seek to enhance returns for Shareholders by it is an additional stake in an existing investment, the combined acquiring more diverse infrastructure investments.
The Directors value of both the existing stake and the additional stake acquired currently intend that the Group may invest in aggregate up to greater than 20 per cent.
of the total gross assets of the 35 per cent.
of its total assets at the time the relevant Company immediately post acquisition.
investment is made in: The total gross assets will be calculated based on the last Project Companies which have not yet completed the published gross investment valuation of the portfolio plus construction phases of their concessions but where acquisitions made since the date of such valuation at their cost prospective yield characteristics and associated risks are of acquisition.
deemed appropriate to the investment objectives of the Company.
This may include investment in companies which The purpose of this limit is to ensure the portfolio has a number are in the process of bidding for concessions, to the extent of investments and is not dominated by any single investment.
that such companies form part of a more mature portfolio of investments which the Group considers it appropriate to In selecting new investments to acquire, the Investment Adviser acquire: and or will seek to ensure that the portfolio of investments has a range Project Companies with demand based concessions where of public sector clients and supply chain contractors, in order to the Investment Adviser considers that demand and stability of avoid over-reliance on either a single client or a single contractor.
revenues are not yet established, and or Project Companies which do not have public sector sponsored awarded or government-backed concessions 8 HICL ANNUAL REPOR T & ACCOUNTS 2010 Other investment restrictions The Company is subject to certain investment restrictions pursuant to the Listing Rules.
These are as follows: a The Companys primary objective is investing and managing the assets with a view to spreading or otherwise managing investment risk.
The Company must, at all times, invest and manage its assets in a way which is in accordance with the Investment Policy: b The Company will not conduct a trading activity which is significant in the context of the Group as a whole.
The Company will not cross-finance businesses forming part of the Groups investment portfolio: and c No more than 10 per cent.
in aggregate, of the Companys assets will be invested in other listed closed-ended investment funds.
The Listing Rules may be amended or replaced over time.
To the extent that the above investment restrictions are no longer imposed under the Listing Rules those investment restrictions shall not apply to the Company.
Gearing The Group intends to make prudent use of leverage to finance the acquisition of investments, to enhance returns to investors and to finance outstanding subscription obligations.
Under the Articles, the Groups outstanding borrowings, excluding intra-group borrowings and the debts of underlying investee companies but including any financial guarantees to support subscription obligations, are limited to 50 per cent.
of the Adjusted Gross Asset Value meaning the fair market value, without deductions for borrowed money or other liabilities or accruals, and including outstanding subscription obligations of its investments and cash balances at any time.
The Group may borrow in currencies other than pounds sterling as part of its currency hedging strategy.
Amendments Any material amendments to the Investment Policy will require the approval of Shareholders.
