98 British American Tobacco Annual Report 2010 Corporate governance Other statutory and regulatory information Nicola Snook Secretary Companies Act 2006 Share capital The Companies Act 2006 requires the Company to set out in this As at 31 December 2010, the Company had an allotted and fully report the development and performance of the business of the paid share capital of 2,025,756,358 ordinary shares of 25p each Group during the financial year ended 31 December 2010, including withan aggregate nominal value of 506 million including treasury an analysis of the position of the Group at the end of the financial shares and shares owned by the employee share trusts.
year, and a description of the principal risks and uncertainties facing Purchase of own shares the Group.
During the year ended 31 December 2010, the Company made Principal activities nopurchases of its own shares.
In February 2009, the Directors British American Tobacco p. l. c. is a holding company which owns, discontinued the share buy-back programme until further notice.
directly or indirectly, investments in the numerous companies The Directors intend for the share buy-back programme to be constituting the British American Tobacco Group of companies.
reinstated following the Companys Preliminary Announcement on The principal subsidiaries and associates are listed on the Principal 24 February 2011.
This on-market programme of buying back the subsidiary and associate undertakings pages.
All subsidiary Companys ordinary shares of 25p each will be conducted under the undertakings are involved in activities directly or indirectly related authority granted by shareholders at the 2010 Annual General to the manufacture, distribution or sale of tobacco products.
In the opinion of the Directors, the exercise of this Group results and dividends authority is likely to result in an increase in the Companys earnings The Group results are addressed fully in the financial statements and per share and will be in the interests of its shareholders generally.
in the Directors report: Business review.
The Board recommends to At the 2010 Annual General Meeting, the Company was given shareholders a final dividend of 81.0p per ordinary share of 25p for authority to purchase up to 199,600,000 of its ordinary shares.
If approved by shareholders at Theminimum price that may be paid for such shares is 25p and the the Annual General Meeting to be held on 28 April 2011, the maximum price is an amount equal to 105 per cent of the average dividend will be payable on 5 May 2011 to shareholders registered ofthe middle market prices shown in the quotation for an ordinary on either the UK main register or the South African branch register share as derived from the London Stock Exchange Daily Official List on 11 March 2011, the record date.
The ex-dividend trading dates for the five business days immediately preceding the day on which are 7 March 2011 on the JSE Limited JSE and 9 March 2011 on the the ordinary share is contracted to be purchased.
This present London Stock Exchange LSE.
As the Group reports in sterling, authority for the Company to purchase its own shares will expire dividends are declared and payable in sterling except for at the 2011 Annual General Meeting.
shareholders on the branch register in South Africa whose dividends are payable in rand.
In accordance with the Companys policy, any repurchased shares are held as treasury shares and as at 31 December 2010 the number A rate of exchange of :R 11.54580 as at 22 February 2011 the of treasury shares was 28,960,054.
While treasury shares are held no closing rate for that date as quoted on Bloomberg, results in an dividends are paid on them and they have no voting rights.
Treasury equivalent final dividend of 935.20980 SA cents per ordinary share.
shares may be resold at a later date.
From the close of business on 4 March 2011 until the close of In order that the Directors may further continue with the share business on 11 March 2011, no transfers between the UK main buy-back programme, it is proposed that the authority for the register and the South African branch register are permitted and no Company to purchase its own shares is renewed with the applicable shares may be dematerialised or rematerialised between 7 March resolution to be put to shareholders at the 2011 Annual General 2011 and 11 March 2011, both days inclusive.
Details of the resolution and explanatory notes are Further details of the total amounts of dividends paid in 2010 with contained in the Notice of Annual General Meeting which is sent 2009 comparatives are given in note 8 on the accounts.
toall shareholders and is also published on www.
com Business review Corporate governance Financial statements Other information British American Tobacco Annual Report 2010 99 Corporate governance Significant agreements change of control Articles of Association The following significant agreements contain certain termination The following description summarises certain provisions of the and other rights for our counterparties upon a change of control of Companys current Articles of Association as adopted by special the Company.
resolution at the Annual General Meeting on 28 April 2010, applicable English law and the Companies Act 2006 the Companies On 7 August 2007, British American Tobacco Mexico, S. A. fide C. V. Act.
This summary is qualified in its entirety by reference to the as borrower and the Company, B.
A. T. International Finance p. l. c. Companies Act and the Companys Articles of Association, a copy and B.
A. T Capital Corporation as guarantors entered into a term ofwhich is available on www.
com credit facility arrangement with Barclays Capital as mandated lead arranger, HSBC Bank plc as agent and certain financial institutions Share capital as lenders pursuant to which the lenders agreed to make available All of the Companys ordinary shares are fully paid and, accordingly, to the borrower US$690 million to refinance existing facilities and no further contribution of capital may be required by the Company for general corporate purposes the Facility.
Pursuant to the Facility, from the holders of such shares.
should the borrower cease to be a direct or indirect subsidiary of the Objects and purposes Company, the borrower shall immediately repay any outstanding The Company is incorporated under the name of British American amounts.
Where there is a change of control in respect of the Tobacco p. l. c. and is registered in England and Wales under Company, the lenders can require all amounts outstanding under registered number 3407696.
Under the Companies Act 2006, the the Facility to be repaid.
On 10 July 2009, British American Tobacco Ttn Mamulleri Sanayi Directors: appointment and retirement five Ticaret Anonim Sirketi as borrower, the Company and B.
A. T. The Companys Articles of Association provide for a Board of Directors, International Finance p. l. c. as guarantors entered into a term credit consisting unless otherwise determined by ordinary resolution of facility agreement with Barclays Bank PLC as agent and certain the shareholders of not fewer than five Directors, not subject to any financial institutions as lenders pursuant to which the lenders maximum, who shall manage the business of the Company.
agreed to make available to the borrower 700 million to refinance existing facilities and for general corporate purposes the Facility.
In The Directors and the Company by ordinary resolution may December 2010, the borrower prepaid 250 million of the appoint a person who is willing to act as a Director, either to fill a outstanding amount.
Pursuant to the Facility, should the borrower vacancy or as an additional Director.
A Director appointed by the cease to be a direct or indirect subsidiary of the Company, the Directors shall retire at the next Annual General Meeting and will borrower shall immediately repay any outstanding advances.
Where put himself herself forward to be reappointed by the shareholders.
there is a change of control in respect of the Company, the lenders Such a Director shall not be taken into account in determining the can require all amounts outstanding under the Facility to be repaid.
number or identity of the Directors to retire by rotation at that next Annual General Meeting.
A. T. International Finance p. l. c. and British American Tobacco Holdings The Netherlands B. V. At each Annual General Meeting, all Directors shall retire from office as borrowers and, in the case of the Company, as a borrower and by rotation who: 1 held office at the time of each of the two guarantor entered into a revolving credit facility agreement with preceding Annual General Meetings and who did not retire at either HSBC Bank plc as agent and certain financial institutions as of them: and 2 if the number of Directors retiring in 1 above is lenders pursuant to which the lenders agreed to make available less than one-third of the Directors who are subject to retirement by to the borrowers 2 billion for general corporate purposes the rotation or, if their number is not three or a multiple of three, is less Facility.
Pursuant to the Facility, should a borrower other than the than the number which is nearest to but does not exceed one-third Company cease to be a direct or indirect subsidiary of the of the Directors, such additional number of Directors as shall, Company, such borrower shall immediately repay any outstanding together with the Directors retiring under 1 above, equal one-third advances made to it.
Where there is a change of control in respect of the Directors or, if their number is not three or a multiple of of the Company, the lenders can require all amounts outstanding three, the number which is nearest to but does not exceed one-third under the Facility to be repaid.
Details of the change of control provisions contained in Subject to the provisions of the Companies Act and the Articles of the Companys Long-Term Incentive Plans are given in the Association, the Directors to retire at an Annual General Meeting Remuneration report.
under 2 above will be those who have been in office the longest since their appointment or last reappointment.
Contractual arrangements Individual operating companies in the Group have contractual and Notwithstanding these provisions contained in the Articles of other arrangements with many third parties in support of the Association, the Company is not restricted to the number of Groups business activities including those covering input materials Directors who may retire and seek re-election each year.
The Articles filter tow, tobacco leaf and wrapping materials, logistics and of Association merely set a minimum number of Directors who must distribution and information technology.
Such contracts and be subject to retirement by rotation each year.
As a result, since the arrangements may be deemed to be essential to one or more new UK Corporate Governance Code provides that all Directors of operating companies but there are no contracts or arrangements FTSE 350 companies should be subject to annual re-election by considered to be essential to the operation and understanding of shareholders, all of the Directors of the Company will be subject to the business or the Group as a whole.
either election i. e. those Directors appointed by the Board of 100 British American Tobacco Annual Report 2010 Corporate governance Other statutory and regulatory information continued Directors during the year or re-election at the forthcoming Annual 6. any arrangements which relate in any way to a retirement General Meeting to be held on 28 April 2011. benefits scheme or any arrangement for the benefit of the employees of the Company or any of its subsidiaries including A Director who retires at an Annual General Meeting and is not but without being limited to an employees share scheme, which reappointed shall retain office until the meeting elects someone in does not accord to any Director any privilege or advantage not his place or, if it does not do so, until the conclusion of the meeting.
generally accorded to the employees and or former employees In addition to any power of removal under the Companies Act, the to whom the arrangement relates: and Company may, by special resolution, remove a Director before the 7. any transaction or arrangement with any other company, being expiration of his period of office and, subject to the Articles of a company in which the Director is interested only as an officer, Association, may by ordinary resolution, appoint another person creditor or shareholder, provided that he is not the holder of or who is willing to act as a Director, and is permitted by law to do so, beneficially interested in onepercent or more of the equity to be a Director instead of him.
A person so appointed shall be share capital of that company or of any other company through subject to retirement as if he had become a Director on the day on which his interest is derived and not entitled to exercise which the Director in whose place he is appointed was last onepercent or more of the voting rights available to members appointed or reappointed a Director.
of the relevant company disregarding, for the purposes of this Fees for Non-Executive Directors and the Chairman shall be proviso: i any shares held by a Director as bare or custodian determined by the Directors but shall not exceed in aggregate an trustee and in which he has no beneficial interest: ii any shares annual sum of 2,500,000, unless determined otherwise by ordinary comprised in an authorised unit trust scheme in which the resolution of the shareholders.
The remuneration of the Executive Director is interested only as a unit holder: and iii any shares of Directors is determined by the Remuneration Committee which is that class held as treasury shares.
comprised of independent Non-Executive Directors.
The Company may by ordinary resolution suspend or relax to any Directors: meetings and voting extent, either generally or in respect of any particular matter, any The quorum for meetings of Directors is two Directors.
The Directors provision of the Articles prohibiting a Director from voting at a may delegate any of their powers which are conferred upon them meeting of the Directors or of a committee of the Directors.
under the Articles of Association to such person or committee as Directors: borrowing powers they consider appropriate.
Without prejudice to their general powers, the Directors may The Articles of Association place a general prohibition on a Director exercise all the powers of the Company to borrow money and to voting at a meeting of the Directors on any resolution concerning a mortgage or charge its undertaking, property, assets present and matter in which he has an interest other than by virtue of his interest future and uncalled capital or any part thereof, and subject to in shares in the Company.
However, in the absence of some other theprovisions of the Articles of Association to issue debentures, interest not indicated below, a Director is entitled to vote and to be debenture stock and other securities whether outright or as counted in a quorum for the purpose of any vote relating to a securityfor any debt, liability or obligation of the Company or resolution concerning the following matters: ofanythird party.
1. t he giving to him of a guarantee, security or indemnity in Directors: interests respect of money lent to, or an obligation incurred by him for Provided that the Director has disclosed to the other Directors the the benefit of, the Company or any of its subsidiaries: nature and extent of any material interest of his, a Director, notwithstanding his office: 2. t he giving to a third party of a guarantee, security or indemnity in respect of an obligation of the Company or any of its 1. may be a party to, or otherwise interested in, any transaction or subsidiaries for which the Director has assumed responsibility in arrangement with the Company or in which the Company is whole or part and whether alone or jointly with others under a otherwise interested: guarantee or indemnity or by the giving of security: 2. may be a Director or other officer of, or employed by or may be 3. t he giving to him of any other indemnity which is on a party to, or otherwise interested in, any transaction or substantially the same terms as indemnities given, or to be arrangement with any body corporate promoted by the given, to all of the other Directors and or to the funding by the Company or in which the Company is otherwise interested: Company of his expenditure on defending proceedings of the 3. shall not, by reason of his office, be accountable to the Company doing by the Company of anything to enable him to avoid for any benefit which he derives from any such office or incurring such expenditure where all other Directors have been employment or from any such transaction or arrangement or given, or are to be given, substantially the same arrangements: from any interest in any such body corporate: 4. any proposal concerning the purchase of Directors and officers 4. shall not infringe his duty to avoid a situation in which he has, or liability insurance: can have, a direct or indirect interest that conflicts, or may 5. any proposal concerning his being, or intending to become, a possibly conflict, with the interests of the Company as a result of participant in the underwriting or sub-underwriting of an offer any such office or employment or from any such transaction or of any such shares, debentures or other securities for arrangement or from any interest in any such body corporate: subscription, purchase or exchange: Business review Corporate governance Financial statements Other information British American Tobacco Annual Report 2010 101 Corporate governance 5. shall not be required to disclose to the Company, or use in If a matter, or office, employment or position, has been authorised performing his duties as a Director of the Company, any by the Directors then subject to such terms and conditions, if any, confidential information relating to such office or employment if as the Directors may think fit to impose from time to time, and to make such a disclosure or use would result in a breach of duty subject always to their right to vary or terminate such authorisation or obligation of confidence owed by him in relation to or in or the permissions set out below : connection with that office or employment: 1. the Director shall not be required to disclose any confidential 6. may absent himself from discussions and exclude himself from information relating to such matter, or such office, employment information, which will or may relate to that office, employment, or position, to the Company if to make such a disclosure would transaction, arrangement or interest: and result in a breach of a duty or obligation of confidence owed by him in relation to or in connection with that matter, or that 7. no such transaction or arrangement will be liable to be avoided office, employment or position: because of any such interest or benefit.
2. the Director may absent himself from discussions, whether in For the purposes of the Articles, a general notice given to the meetings of the Directors or otherwise, and exclude himself Directors that he is to be regarded as having an interest of the from information which will or may relate to that matter, or that nature and extent specified in the notice in any transaction or office, employment or position: and arrangement in which a specified person or class of persons is interested is deemed to be a disclosure that the Director has an 3. a Director shall not, by reason of his office as a Director of the interest in any such transaction of the nature and extent so specified.
Company, be accountable to the Company for any benefit which he derives from any such matter, or from any such office, An interest of which a Director has knowledge and of which it is employment or position.
unreasonable to expect him to have knowledge is not treated as an interest: an interest which consists of a Director being a Director or Dividend rights other officer of, or employed by any subsidiary of the Company is Holders of the Companys ordinary shares may, by ordinary not deemed to be a material interest: a Director need not disclose an resolution, declare dividends but may not declare dividends in interest if it cannot be reasonably regarded as likely to give rise to a excess of the amount recommended by the Directors.
The Directors conflict of interest: and a Director need not disclose an interest if, or may also pay interim dividends if it appears that such dividends are to the extent that, the other Directors are already aware of it.
justified by the profits available for distribution.
No dividend shall be paid otherwise than out of profits available as specified under the A Director will no longer be regarded as having an interest in a provisions of the Companies Act.
transaction by virtue of a person connected to the Director having a relevant interest.
However, the Director and the Company must still The Directors may, with the sanction of an ordinary resolution of the take a view each time a matter is being considered as to whether the shareholders, offer any holders of ordinary shares the right to elect interests of the Directors connected persons mean that a Director to receive ordinary shares credited as fully paid instead of cash in should be treated as interested in a transaction.
respect of the whole or part of all such dividends as may be specified by the resolution.
Any general meeting declaring a dividend may, The Directors may subject to such terms and conditions, if any, as upon the recommendation of the Directors, direct payment or they may think fit to impose from time to time, and subject always satisfaction of such dividend to be wholly or partly by the to their right to vary or terminate such authorisation authorise, to distribution of specific assets.
Where difficulty arises in regard to the fullest extent permitted by law: distribution, the Directors may ignore fractions or issue fractional 1. any matter which would otherwise result in a Director infringing certificates, fix the value for distribution of any assets and may his duty to avoid a situation in which he has, or can have, a determine that cash shall be paid to any shareholder in order to direct or indirect interest that conflicts, or possibly may conflict, adjust the rights of such members.
with the interests of the Company and which may reasonably be Any dividend which has been unclaimed for 12 years from the date regarded as likely to give rise to a conflict of interest including a when it became due for payment shall, if the Directors so resolve, be conflict of interest and duty or conflict of duties : forfeited and shall cease to be owed by the Company.
2. a Director to accept or continue in any office, employment or The Company can cease sending dividend warrants and cheques by position in addition to his office as a Director of the Company post or otherwise if these have been returned undelivered to, or left and may authorise the manner in which a conflict of interest uncashed by, the shareholder on at least two consecutive occasions, arising out of such office, employment or position may be dealt or, if following one such occasion, reasonable enquiries have failed with, either before or at the time that such a conflict of interest to establish the members new address.
No dividend shall bear arises, provided that the authorisation is only effective if: interest against the Company, unless provided by the rights i a ny requirement as to the quorum at the meeting at attached to the share.
which the matter is considered is met without counting The Directors may elect to make payments of dividends to the Director in question or any other interested Director: shareholders by bank or electronic transfer only.
Amounts due to and shareholders who provide no, or invalid, account details may be held ii t he matter was agreed to without their voting or would in an account in the Companys name until such shareholders have been agreed to if their votes had not been counted.
The Company shall not be a trustee of any such monies, shall be deemed to have discharged its payment 102 British American Tobacco Annual Report 2010 Corporate governance Other statutory and regulatory information continued obligations by paying the relevant monies into such account and in person or by proxy or by a duly authorised representative s of a interest will not accrue for shareholders on any such monies pending corporation which is a shareholder and entitled to vote.
When convening a meeting the Company may specify a time not Voting rights more than 48 hours before the time of the meeting excluding any Voting at any general meeting of shareholders is by a show of hands part of a day that is not a working day by which a person must be unless a poll is demanded.
On a show of hands, every shareholder entered on the register of members in order to have the right to who is present in person at a general meeting has one vote attend or vote at the meeting.
regardless of the number of shares held by the shareholder.
Winding-up Every proxy appointed by a shareholder and present at a general If the Company is wound up, the liquidator may, with the sanction meeting has one vote, except that if the proxy has been duly of a special resolution and any other sanction required by law, appointed by more than one shareholder entitled to vote on the subject to the provisions of the Companies Act, divide among the resolution and is instructed by one or more of those shareholders to shareholders the whole or any part of the assets of the Company, vote for the resolution and by one or more others to vote against it, and may, for that purpose, value any assets and determine how the or is instructed by one or more of those shareholders to vote in one division is to take place as between the shareholders or different way and is given discretion as to how to vote by one or more others classes of shareholders.
Alternatively, with the same sanction, the and wishes to use that discretion to vote in the other way he has liquidator may vest the whole or any part of the assets in trustees one vote for and one vote against the resolution.
upon trusts for the benefit of the shareholders, but no shareholder will be compelled to accept any asset upon which there is a liability.
On a poll, every shareholder who is present in person or by proxy has one vote for every share held by the shareholder.
A shareholder Transfer of shares or his duly appointed proxy entitled to more than one vote need Shares may be transferred by an instrument of transfer in any usual not use all his votes or cast all the votes he uses in the same way.
form or in any other form which the Directors may approve and shall Apoll may be demanded by any of the following: be executed by or on behalf of the transferor and, where the share is not fully paid, by or on behalf of the transferee.
The Directors can, in 1. t he Chairman of the meeting: their absolute discretion, refuse to register the transfer of a share in 2. t he Directors: certificated form which is not fully paid, provided that such a refusal would not prevent dealings in shares in certificated form which are 3. n ot less than five shareholders having the right to vote at not fully paid from taking place on a proper basis.
The Directors may themeeting: also refuse to register a transfer of a share in certificated form 4. a shareholder or shareholders representing not less than whether fully paid or not unless the instrument of transfer: one-tenth of the total voting rights of all shareholders having 1. is lodged, duly stamped, and is deposited at the registered office the right to vote at the meeting excluding any voting rights of the Company or such other place as the Directors may attached to treasury shares : or appoint and is accompanied by a certificate for the shares to 5. a shareholder or shareholders holding shares which confer a which it relates and such other evidence as the Directors may right to vote on the resolution at the meeting being shares on reasonably require to show the right of the transferor to make which an aggregate sum has been paid up equal to not less than the transfer: one-tenth of the total sum paid up on all shares conferring that 2. is in respect of only one class of share: and right excluding any voting rights attached to treasury shares.
3. is in favour of not more than four transferees.
Matters are transacted at general meetings of the Company by proposing and passing of two kinds of resolutions: In the case of uncertificated shares, transfers shall be registered onlyin accordance with the terms of the Uncertificated Securities 1. o rdinary resolutions, which can include resolutions for the Regulations 2001 so that Directors may refuse to register a appointment, reappointment and removal of Directors, the transferwhich would require shares to be held jointly by more receiving of the Annual Report, the declaration of final thanfour persons.
dividends, the appointment and reappointment of the external auditor, the authority for the Company to purchase its own If the Directors refuse to register a transfer of shares, they must give shares and the grant of authority to allot shares: and the transferee notice of this refusal as soon as practicable and in any event within two months of the instrument of transfer being lodged 2. s pecial resolutions, which can include resolutions amending the with the Company.
No fees may be charged for the registration of a Companys Articles of Association and resolutions relating to transfer of shares.
certain matters concerning a winding-up of the Company.
Pre-emptive rights and new issues of shares An ordinary resolution requires the affirmative vote of a simple While holders of ordinary shares have no pre-emptive rights under majority of the votes cast at a meeting at which there is a quorum in the Articles of Association, the ability of the Directors to cause the order to be passed.
Special resolutions require the affirmative vote of Company to issue shares, securities convertible into shares or rights not less than three-quarters of the votes cast at a meeting at which to shares, otherwise than pursuant to an employee share scheme, is there is a quorum in order to be passed.
The necessary quorum for a restricted.
Under the Companies Act, the Directors of a company meeting of the Company is a minimum of two shareholders present are, with certain exceptions, unable to allot any equity securities Business review Corporate governance Financial statements Other information British American Tobacco Annual Report 2010 103 Corporate governance without express authorisation, which may be contained in a indicate whether or not that is the case and, if that person does or companys Articles of Association or given by its shareholders in did hold an interest in the Companys shares, to provide certain general meeting, but which in either event cannot last for more than information as set out in that Act.
The Disclosure and Transparency five years.
Under the Companies Act, a company may also not allot Rules further deal with the disclosure by persons of interests in shares for cash otherwise than pursuant to an employee share shares or debentures of the companies of which they are Directors scheme without first making an offer to existing shareholders to and certain associated companies.
allot such shares to them on the same or more favourable terms in The City Code on Takeovers and Mergers also imposes strict proportion to their respective shareholdings, unless this requirement disclosure requirements with regard to dealings in the securities of is waived by a special resolution of the shareholders.
an offeror or offeree company on all parties to a takeover and also Alteration of share capital on their respective associates during the course of an offer period.
The Company may, from time to time, by ordinary resolution: General meetings and notices 1. consolidate and divide all or any of its shares into shares of a An Annual General Meeting and all other general meetings of the larger amount than its existing shares: Company must be called by at least 21 clear days written notice.
However, the Companies Act allows for this period of notice for 2. sub-divide any of its shares into shares of smaller amount than meetings other than Annual General Meetings to be reduced to its existing shares: and 14clear days notice provided that two conditions are met: 3. determine that, as between the shares resulting from such a 1 acompany must allow shareholders to make proxy appointments sub-division, any of them may have any preference or advantage via a website such as that hosted by its share registrars : and as compared with the others.
2 shareholders must pass a special resolution at the Annual General Meeting every year approving that shortening of the notice period Subject to the provisions of the Companies Act: to 14 days.
A special resolution enabling the Company to hold 1. the Company may reduce its share capital, its capital general meetings other than Annual General Meetings on 14 days redemption reserve and any share premium account in any way: notice will be proposed at the Annual General Meeting to be held and on 28 April 2011.
2. the Company may purchase its own shares, including Subject to the resolution being passed, the approval of the redeemable shares, and may hold such shares as treasury shares shortening of the notice period will be effective until the Companys or cancel them.
next AGM, when it is intended that the approval be renewed.
The shorter notice period would not be used as a matter of routine.
Disclosure of interests in the Companys shares Rather the Directors will consider on a case-by-case basis whether There are no provisions in the Articles of Association whereby the use of the flexibility offered by the shorter notice period is persons acquiring, holding or disposing of a certain percentage of merited, taking into account the circumstances, including whether the Companys shares are required to make disclosure of their the business of the meeting is time sensitive, and is thought to be to ownership percentage, although there are such requirements under the advantage of shareholders as a whole.
Further, the shorter notice statute and regulation.
The basic disclosure requirement under Part 6 period would not be used unless both of the conditions as stated of the Financial Services and Markets Act 2000 and Rule 5 of the above are met.
Disclosure and Transparency Rules made by the Financial Services Authority imposes a statutory obligation on a person to notify the Variation of rights Company and the Financial Services Authority of the percentage of If the capital of the Company is divided into different classes of the voting rights in the Company he directly or indirectly holds or shares, the rights attached to any class of shares may only be varied, controls, or has rights over, through his direct or indirect holding of either in such a manner as provided by those rights or in the certain financial instruments, if the percentage of those voting rights: absence of any provision, with the consent in writing of threequarters in nominal value of the issued shares of that class or with 1. reaches, exceeds or falls below 3 per cent and or any subsequent the sanction of a special resolution passed at a separate meeting of whole percentage figure as a result of an acquisition or disposal holders of such shares.
At any separate meeting, the necessary of shares or financial instruments: or quorum is two persons together holding or representing by proxy at 2. reaches, exceeds or falls below any such threshold as a result of least one-third in nominal amount of the issued shares of the class any change in the number of voting rights attached to shares in but at an adjourned meeting shall be any one person holding the Company.
shares of the class or his proxy.
The Disclosure and Transparency Rules set out in detail the Unless otherwise expressly provided by the rights attached to any circumstances in which an obligation of disclosure will arise, as well shares, those rights shall be deemed to be varied by the reduction of as certain exemptions from those obligations for specified persons.
the capital paid up on those shares and by the creation or issue of further shares ranking in priority for payment of a dividend or in Under Section 793 of the Companies Act, the Company may, by respect of capital or which confer on the holders voting rights more notice in writing, require a person that the Company knows or has favourable than those conferred by the first-mentioned shares, but reasonable cause to believe is or was during the three years shall not otherwise be deemed to be varied by the creation or issue preceding the date of notice interested in the Companys shares, to of further shares ranking pari passu with them or subsequent to them.
104 British American Tobacco Annual Report 2010 Corporate governance Other statutory and regulatory information continued Repurchase of shares Subject to authorisation by shareholder resolution, the Company may purchase its own shares in accordance with the Companies Act.
Any shares which have been bought back may be held as treasury shares or, if not so held, must be cancelled immediately upon completion of the purchase, thereby reducing the amount of the Companys issued share capital.
There is no longer a requirement for public companies to have specific authorisations in their articles of association to undertake these actions.
Creditor payment policy Given the international nature of the Groups operations, there is nota global standard code for the Group in respect of payments to suppliers.
In the UK, the operating subsidiaries have signed up to theBetter Payment Practice Code under which each company undertakes to: 1 seek agreement on payment terms with its suppliers at the outset of each transaction: 2 explain its payment procedures to its suppliers: 3 pay bills in accordance with the agreed terms and all legal requirements: and 4 inform suppliers without delay when contesting an invoice and settle disputes quickly.
Details of the Code are available on the website, www.
co. uk Non-UK operating subsidiaries are responsible for agreeing terms and conditions for their business transactions when orders for goods and services are placed, ensuring that suppliers are aware of the terms of payment and including the relevant terms in contracts where appropriate.
These arrangements are adhered to provided that suppliers meet their contractual commitments.
Creditor days have not been calculated for the Company as it is aninvestment holding Company and had no trade creditors at 31December 2010.
Intra-Group pricing The prices agreed between Group companies for Intra-Group salesof materials, manufactured goods, charges for royalties, commissions, services and fees are based on the normal commercial practices which would apply between independent businesses.
On behalf of the Board Nicola Snook Secretary 23 February 2011 British American Tobacco p. l. c. Registered in England and Wales No.
