Business review Corporate governance Financial statements Other information British American Tobacco Annual Report 2010 31 Business review Eastern Europe Where we are located The region includes the following major markets: Kazakhstan Romania Russia Ukraine Uzbekistan Profit in the Eastern Europe region decreased In Ukraine, market share increased strongly, by 51 million to 358 million.
This was and excellent profit growth was achieved as principally due to lower volumes and the a result of an improved product mix, led by adverse impact of exchange rates, mainly growth in Global Drive Brands and stronger inUzbekistan, although this was partly pricing.
At constant rates Results improved in Kazakhstan due to ofexchange, profit would have increased higher margins.
Market share was up as a by19 million, or 5 per cent.
Volumes at result of a strong performance by Kent and 128 billion were 2 per cent lower, mainly Pall Mall.
The decrease of the Premium We have achieved good market share due to industry declines in Romania.
Market segment resulted in slightly lower volumes.
growth in both premium and local brands share grew in the majority of markets and and there are very encouraging signs of regional share was also higher.
In Uzbekistan, market share grew strongly, economic recovery in the region.
driven by the growth of Kent and Pall Mall.
Price increases and the improved product However, industry volumes were lower Des Naughton mix in Russia increased profit.
Market share asaresult of an excise increase and profit Director Eastern Europe grew, despite volumes being in line with wassignificantly impacted by adverse lastyear.
The Group achieved leadership exchange rates.
inthe Premium segment and market shareleadership in Moscow as a result of 18% continued excellent performances by Kent Percentage of Group volume and Dunhill.
Market share in Romania was up strongly, with an impressive performance by the 358m market leader, Kent.
Increased illicit trade 7% of Group adjusted profit due to numerous large excise-driven price increases meant industry volumes declined significantly.
The volume decline was only partially offset by price increases, leading toa lower profit.
GDBs perform well in Ukraine Ukraine gained significant market share in 2010.
This increase was largely a result of strong performances by Pall Mall as well as by Kent Convertibles, which has achieved over four times the market share of its nearest competitor.
