28 British American Tobacco Annual Report 2010 Business review Regional review continued Asia-Pacific Where we are located The region includes the following major markets: Australia New Zealand Bangladesh Pakistan Indonesia South Korea Japan Taiwan Malaysia Vietnam In Asia-Pacific, profit was up 184 million grew.
Kent returned to share growth, driven to 1,332 million as a result of strong by the successful launch of Nanotek, and performances in Japan, Australia, New Kool continued to grow share.
Favourable Vietnam had a solid performance with exchange rates and the acquisition of market share gains and good volume Bentoel were also contributing factors.
growth, mainly due to Craven A.
At constant rates of exchange, profit would have increased by 47 million, or South Korea closed the year with market share 4 per cent.
Volumes were 2 per cent higher at a record high, supported by the successful Were having success with innovations on at 188 billion, due to increases in Bangladesh launch of Kent and the growth of Dunhill in powerful brands, and it shows in our and Vietnam and the additional volumes the second half of the year.
However, volumes market share growth.
from Bentoel, although these were partially were lower due to the contraction of the offset by lower volumes in Australia, Japan, industry.
Profit decreased as a result of lower David Fell Taiwan and Pakistan.
volumes and investment into the launches Director Asia-Pacific of Kent and Dunhill innovations.
Australia achieved strong profit growth through higher pricing and continued Excise and inflation-led price increases costsaving initiatives.
Good performances inPakistan, combined with supply chain 27% from both Pall Mall and Winfield led to disruption caused by floods, led to lower Percentage of Group volume anincrease in market share, although volumes and accelerated down-trading an ad-hoc excise increase in May 2010 tothe Low-Price segment and the illicit resulted in a drop in industry volumes.
Profit was adversely affected by 1,332m themix deterioration, increased costs 27% of Group adjusted profit In New Zealand, profit increased due andlowervolumes.
tobeneficial exchange rate movements andstrong growth in share by Pall Mall.
Bangladesh achieved significantly higher However, volumes were lower, impacted market share.
Operating profit was higher, byan ad-hoc excise increase and a tax reflecting improved volumes and the impact equalisation for roll-your-own products.
of excise-led price increases, as well as a tight control on costs.
Market share in Malaysia was up, although the share gained by Peter Stuyvesant and Volumes, market share and profit in Indonesia the resilient performances by Kent and grew through the acquisition of Bentoel and Dunhill were partially offset by the impact the subsequent integration with the existing of down-trading.
Profit grew strongly on a comparable lower due to both legal industry volume basis as a result of higher volumes, price decreases as a result of hefty excise rises, increases and synergy savings resulting from and increased illicit trade.
Profit was up as the integration.
Share growth in South Korea a result of exchange rate movements and In 2010 we launched Kent Convertibles price increases, partially offset by lower inSouth Korea, to great success.
The volumes and higher marketing investment.
innovative menthol-flavoured capsule Profit grew strongly in Japan, benefiting technology not only saw us grow market from increased margins, exchange rate share, it also contributed to us finishing movements and lower overheads.
Although the year at an all-time high level of share industry volumes were down, following the in the country.
excise rise on 1 October 2010, market share
