20 British American Tobacco Annual Report 2010 Business review Global market overview The tobacco industry remains relatively resilient to global economic pressures, but recession inevitably impacts consumer confidence and disposable incomes.
While this has seen volumes decline, the overall value of the industry continues to grow.
Illicit trade in tobacco products The global tobacco market Cigarettes are among the most commonly traded products on the black market due Global marketplace tohigh profit margins, the relative ease of The global tobacco industry produces production and movement, and low morethan 5,400 billion cigarettes a year.
The biggest single market is China, where the industry is state-owned, with some The principal drivers of illicit trade are 350million smokers who account for more economic cheaper cigarettes for than 40 per cent of the global total.
consumers and profits for the smugglers and counterfeiters.
Contributory factors include Four international tobacco companies sudden increases in excise, weak border Philip Morris International, British American controls and ineffective sanctions.
Tobacco, Japan Tobacco and Imperial Tobacco account for some 45 per cent of Estimates suggest that up to 660 billion The demand for our the global market, or around three-quarters illegal cigarettes are smoked every year.
of the market outside China.
Thishas a negative impact on consumers, international brands is growing retailers, governments and tobacco companies.
The illicit trade in tobacco products is Our international brand volumes and For consumers, illegal cigarettes can mean aserious problem in many countries market shares are increasing in many fake products with no quality controls, no meaning that up to 12 per cent of global markets.
This trend, supported by health warnings or, where genuine products volume is traded on the black market.
consumer-relevant innovation, can are smuggled, health warnings that do not increase our sales and profits, even where Economic outlook meet local government regulations.
overall market volumes are declining.
The global economic environment remains It is estimated that governments worldwide tough and uncertain.
While some emerging are losing up to 24 billion a year in excise economies may grow fast in 2011, recovery and other taxes, while the loss to legitimate in advanced economies is likely to be fragile tobacco companies could be as much as for some time and high unemployment 6billion a year in revenue.
We believe tackling this illegal trade effectively Value of the industry requires cooperation between the industry, All the big four tobacco companies face regulators and enforcement authorities.
an increasingly competitive marketplace We support governments establishment of but the overall value of the industry is still appropriate tax policies, strong regulation growing.
There are big opportunities and effective enforcement.
In 2010, we toimprove the product and price mix, signed a cooperation agreement with the primarily in developing markets.
European Commission and the member We believe consumers are increasingly states of the European Union to tackle the looking for and expecting real value, so problem of illicit trade.
quality and innovation both play a key role in delivering market share.
Consumer focus Understanding smokers preferences and buying behaviour is the starting point with innovations.
We aim to develop product and packaging developments that will be truly relevant to consumers tastes, attitudes, disposable income and purchasing patterns.
Business review Corporate governance Financial statements Other information British American Tobacco Annual Report 2010 21 Business review to produce and branded illicit products Industry outlook thatdo not comply with regulations could become more attractive to consumers.
World consumption Trends indicate that individual smokers will Retail display bans could also lead to an consume fewer cigarettes each and smaller increase in illicit trade by driving the sale percentages of populations will smoke.
ofthe legal product under the counter However, with the worlds population andcould also distort competition among predicted to increase to seven billion by the tobacco companies.
end of 2012 and nine billion by the end of Excise 2050, we believe that there will be a very Many national governments use tobacco sustainable and important tobacco industry taxation as a key instrument to reduce rates for a long time to come.
of smoking, while also raising significant Increasing regulation excise revenue.
However, sudden increases Regulation is becoming increasingly in excise rates can destabilise markets and stringent, supported by the World Health result in consumers switching to cheaper Organisations Framework Convention on illicit products.
Gradual and predictable increases in excise Appropriate health warnings on packs and can be more effective for governments, other primary packaging have been part of helping to maintain an orderly market that Irelands illegal cigarette trade the industry for decades.
However, a move both enables tax revenues to be increased towards plain packaging for tobacco and supports public health policy.
It is estimated that one in four cigarettes products could make criminals lives easier.
consumed in Ireland have been Counterfeit products would become easier smuggled into the country.
This illegal trade accounts for around 1.5 billion cigarettes, costing the country 6.5 billion in lost tax revenue.
Focus on excise Ireland has the most expensive cigarettes in the EU due to high excise, with prices more than double the EU average.
The Minister for Finance decided not to increase excise in 2010, acknowledging 36% that the high prices were giving rise to massive cigarette smuggling.
In January 2010, illicit cigarettes in Romania reached a peak market share of 36 per cent, over double their 2008 share of 16 per cent.
This was largely the result of a sharp rise in excise, which significantly increased the price of cigarettes.
Rather than generate the expected revenue, this meant that the Romanian Government stood to lose 1 billion in unpaid taxes in 2010 if illicit trade remained at the same level.
For more information about tobacco taxes, see www.
