52 British American Tobacco Annual Report 2010 Corporate governance Management Board The role of the Management Board The Management Board, chaired by the Chief Executive, comprises the Executive Directors of British American Tobacco p. l. c. together with the executives shown on these pages.
The Management Board has delegated responsibility for overseeing the implementation by the Groups operating subsidiaries of the policies and strategy set by the Board of Directors and for creating the conditions for their successful day-to-day operation.
Jack Bowles 47 Mark Cobben 54 Position Director, Western Europe Position Director, Americas Nationality French Nationality Dutch Jack joined the Management Board as Mark was appointed Director, Americas Director, Western Europe in October in January 2009, having joined the 2009.
Hejoined the Group in 2004 and Management Board as Regional became President of British American Director for Latin America and the Tobacco France in 2005.
Jack became Caribbean in October 2007.
After a Managing Director of the Companys career at Unilever and Colgate he publicly listed subsidiary, British cameto the Group in 1993 and has American Tobacco Malaysia, in 2007. held a number of senior management positions including General Manager inSwitzerland, Argentina, Russia andGermany.
David Fell 50 Andrew Gray 46 Position Director, Asia-Pacific Position Director, Eastern Europe, Nationality British Middle East and Africa Nationality Brazilian British David became Director, Asia-Pacific in September 2010, moving from the Andrew was appointed Director, same role in Eastern Europe he had Eastern Europe, Middle East and Africa heldsince April 2008.
He joined British on 1 January 2011 having joined the American Tobacco in 1989 and has Management Board as Director, Africa helda variety of marketing positions in and Middle East in January 2008.
Europe and South East Asia.
He was Hejoined British American Tobacco then appointed President of British 24years ago andhas held a variety American Tobacco Japan in 2000 ofsenior marketing and general beforebeing made Area Director, management roles in South America British American Tobacco Australasia including President of Souza Cruz and Managing Director, British andalso in Central America, the American Tobacco Australia in Caribbean and Malaysia.
You can read more about our governance at: www.
com governance Business review Corporate governance Financial statements Other information British American Tobacco Annual Report 2010 53 Corporate governance Rudi Kindts 53 Jean-Marc Lvy 48 Des Naughton 44 Position Group Human Position Group Marketing Director Position Group Operations ResourcesDirector Nationality Swiss DirectorDesignate Nationality Belgian Nationality British Jean-Marc was appointed Group Rudi joined British American Tobacco Marketing Director in January 2010 Des was appointed Group Operations in1988.
He has held a number of after joining the Management Board as Director Designate on 1 January 2011 seniorhuman resources roles across Director, Western Europe in April 2008. having joined the Management Board theGroup including Europe, Africa, Jean-Marc began his career with the asDirector, Eastern Europe in the MiddleEast and Central and Kraft-Jacobs-Suchard Group and joined September 2010.
He has been Group British American Tobacco in 1994 as Regional Head of Marketing, Africa and HumanResources Director since Marketing Director in Switzerland.
Since joining the Group in July 2004.
Rudiwill be leaving the went on to hold a variety of marketing 1995, he has held a number of general Group on28February 2011. and general management roles in management andmarketing roles Europe and South East Asia.
across the world including Global Brand Director for Dunhill and General Manager, SouthKorea.
Michael Prideaux 60 Peter Taylor 58 Neil Withington 54 Position Group Corporate and Position Group Operations Director Position Group Legal and Security Regulatory Affairs Director Nationality British Director and General Counsel Nationality British Nationality British Peter joined British American Tobacco Michael was appointed Group in 1980 and worked in a variety of Neil was appointed Group Legal and Corporate and Regulatory Affairs operational and general management Security Director and General Counsel Director in 1998 following the demerger roles across the Group.
He was of British American Tobacco in 2000, of B.
He had previously appointed Group Operations Director having previously been the Groups joined B.
Peter will retire from British Deputy General Counsel.
Hejoined the Charles Barker, a leading financial and American Tobacco at the end of Group in 1993 after a career at the Bar corporate public relations, advertising May2011.
and in the chemical and pharmaceutical and design agency, where he was industries with ICI.
Director of Reynolds American Inc. since 2004.
