Business review Corporate governance Financial statements Other information British American Tobacco Annual Report 2010 11 Business review Strategic review Our consistent strategy for delivering our vision isbased on growth, funded by productivity and delivered by a winning organisation that acts responsibly at all times.
Our strategy The capsule can be crushed at any time during Growth the smoke, giving consumers the freedom to Our strategy is designed to deliver our Our business is operating in a landscape change their taste experience anytime.
vision and, as a result, build shareholder of challenging economic conditions, excise value.
It is based ongrowth, funded by This innovation helped strengthen the rises above inflation, increasing regulations productivity and delivered by a winning pioneering image of the brand, expanded and changing consumer behaviours.
In the organisation that acts responsibly at its footprint in new markets and generated face of these challenges it is all the more alltimes.
stronger momentum with consumers in the important that we focus on achieving Adult Smokers Under 30 ASU30 segment.
Lucky Strike, a brand particularly successful We have a great portfolio of brands, in the ASU30 market, launched Click & Roll encompassing not only our Global Drive Our vision in 2010 using similar technology.
It was Brands GDBs and other international successfully launched in several markets brands, but also strong local brands across a Growth throughout the year, including launches diverse geography.
The focus of our strategy throughout the Americas region.
is to build our premium brands across our Winning entire portfolio, with a focus on our GDBs, Productivity Responsibility Click & Roll performed very strongly, far organisation but we also seek growth in our Value-Forexceeding our own high expectations and Money VFM and Low-Price segments.
helped to deliver 2 per cent total organic volume growth for Lucky Strike globally.
Our industry-leading brand innovations Our vision Itsshare reached record levels in a number were highly successful in a wide range of To achieve leadership of the global tobacco of key markets as a result of this innovation.
consumer value and increased market share, Growth further driving our commercial growth and Our strategy for growth aims to increase helping to move us towards attaining our ourmarket share, with a focus on our Global vision of achieving leadership of the global DriveBrands.
Productivity Our commitment to productivity provides the Growth through innovation resource we need to invest in our brands and Our growth in 2010 has been driven by growshare in our key markets, helping us to packand product innovations throughout increase profit.
many markets across our range of GDBs.
Winning organisation Dunhill, our most prestigious brand, Being a winning organisation ensures that we continued its strong share growth in key attract, develop and retain the people we need markets in 2010, driven by the success of todeliver growth.
Reloc, the re-sealable pack exclusive to Responsibility Dunhill.
Good organic growth in key markets Our companies and people act responsibly and successful brand migrations to Dunhill atall times and we seek to reduce the harm in Brazil and South Africa continued to caused by our products.
confirm the brands consumer relevance, with overall volume growing in 2010.
Dunhill Reloc Kent, our most innovative brand, achieved market share growth in 2010 with the Exclusive to Dunhill, Reloc re-sealable successful launch of Convertibles in South packs helped drive brand growth in 2010 Korea, Russia, Ukraine and Turkey.
Kent and it is now in 66 markets worldwide.
Convertibles feature a menthol-flavoured Key markets to launch the new pack in capsule that can be activated by the 2010 included Mexico and Australia.
consumer to release a refreshing taste.
12 British American Tobacco Annual Report 2010 Business review Strategic review continued Global Drive Brand volume Pall Mall is our key VFM brand and it Customer management Billion delivered total volume growth of 8 per cent Building relationships with retailers makes in 2010.
This took its success torecord up a large part of our trade marketing 208 195 levels, and including sales from activities.
We work with our retail 187 161 our associates, Pall Mall is now the third partners to ensure that at all times they 146 largest cigarette brand in the world, can profitablymeet the expectations of excluding China.
adult smokers with regards to availability, pricing and brand quality.
This strong performance was achieved through significant growth in Western We regularly survey our international 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 Europe, Pakistan and Chile, as well as a customers and benchmark our performance successful migration in Denmark.
Driven across different trade channels against bythe product innovations of Pocket, competitors and other blue-chip Fast Other international brand volume Nanokings and Super Slims, the Pall Mall Moving Consumer Goods FMCG companies.
Billion Slims category grew volume by 18 per cent The 2010 results show that half of the 150 in 2010 and now accounts for 9 per cent of 147 141 143 retailers in the 33 markets surveyed rate 134 our global Pall Mall volume.
British American Tobacco as the best Trade marketing and distribution consumer goods company to do business Our Trade Marketing & Distribution with.
When evaluating distribution TM&D is responsible for the development specifically, almost two out of three retailers of our brands and delivery of our products rate us as the best company they deal with.
to retail customers, as well as engagement Markets surveyed included Germany, 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 with retailers on issues such as youth France, Italy, the UK, Belgium, Poland, smoking prevention.
Romania, Switzerland, Malaysia, Bangladesh, Vietnam, Pakistan, Canada, Chile, Colombia, Route to market South Africa, Egypt and Nigeria.
Our routes to market are a critical enabler ofour growth strategy.
They allow us to Global retail customers quickly roll out innovations on a global scale We make a special effort to understand and and to fully meet consumer demand at the develop joint programmes with global retail point of sale.
We are constantly reviewing partners in order to reach adult smokers our routes to market to ensure we remain inkey channels such as global travel retail competitive.
This includes examining our and convenience.
relationships with wholesalers, distributors During 2010, we received several accolades and logistics providers.
from trade organisations operating in these Where appropriate, we believe that direct to channels.
After being nominated three times store sales DSS are the most effective way for the Frontier Awards the travel retail of serving retailers and building sustainable industrys most prestigious awards in business partnerships.
DSS gives us visibility 2010British American Tobacco won the and control over the sales and distribution Star Product of the Year category.
process, allowing us greater access to both the market and consumer information.
It also provides a direct commercial link to our most strategic retail accounts.
Half of our volume globally is sold to retailers through our own distribution capability in key markets including Canada, Brazil, South Korea, Australia, Russia, Romania, South Africa and Nigeria.
Business review Corporate governance Financial statements Other information British American Tobacco Annual Report 2010 13 Business review Productivity savings from the supply chain in 2010 327 million Brand growth demand and supply.
This has enabled Productivity  on innovations, Our commitment to productivity provides aswell as more productive investment the resource we need to invest in our andsourcing decisions.
brands and grow share in our key markets.
As a result, we have been able to optimise An effective, globally-integrated supply Including sales from our associates, Pall Mall our cigarette production footprint.
Over the chain is therefore critical to us as a business.
is now the third largest cigarette brand in the last 10 years we have reduced the number Its complexity and scale, combined with world, excluding China offactories from 87 to 45, including theneed to deliver vital business benefits, acquisitions.
In 2010, we ceased production means that it will carry on evolving.
in five locations: Tire in Turkey, Cirebon in We continue to build a consumer-led, Indonesia, Lecce in Italy, Jawornik in Poland customer-focused supply chain, dedicated and Soeborg in Denmark.
This is a key aspect ofour Group strategy and we Dunhill grew volume by 18 per cent in 2010, Consolidation of factories around the Group intend to furtherleverage the global scale following 9percent growth in 2009 has been undertaken responsibly and with of our supply chain.
care for affected employees and local communities.
It has removed much of our Productivity savings previous excess capacity and means that As a commercial business, we are focused on more of our factories are now serving a improving effectiveness and efficiency.
The larger number of markets.
Consequently, savings generated are a source of operating Kent grew market share in six of its Top 10 wehave built capability in above-market profit growth and cash for reinvestment in markets during 2010 planning, which has also allowed us to roll the business.
Our focus is on smart cost out innovations faster and implement machine management, marketing efficiency and technology standards improving our capital effectiveness.
This includes reducing capital effectiveness and sourcing flexibility.
unnecessary complexity to save costs and using our cash and assets more effectively.
Our supply chain is organised globally in amatrix of regional service centres that deliver to markets.
A global centre unlocks the benefits of scale and manages centres of Click & Roll helped Lucky Strike achieve record expertise for the benefit of the whole Group.
market share in five key markets in 2010 In 2010, productivity savings from the supply chain, including indirect material procurement and overhead savings, amounted to 327 million at constant rates of exchange.
Since 2008, supply chain efficiencies have delivered over 800 million of savings, surpassing our announced savings target two years ahead of schedule.
Transforming procurement We are confident that we can continue to deliver efficiencies for the foreseeable future The global transformation of and hit our target operating margin of at procurement to an above-market least 35 per cent by 2012. modelenables us to focus on delivering supplier-sourced innovation, improved Optimising resource allocation internal service and better quality Marketing and the supply chain help deliver products.
It also allows us to take the growth agenda for the Group.
We have advantage of scale and expertise.
established common processes and systems and now have global transparency of 14 British American Tobacco Annual Report 2010 Business review Strategic review continued Procurement joint venture Diversity and equality Winning organisation Our procurement joint venture with brewing British American Tobacco is dedicated Our employees come from diverse cultures company AB Inbev expanded its activities to providing equal opportunities to each and backgrounds, and our business benefits into new categories of above-market cost employee.
We do not discriminate when from the breadth of ideas and experiences management including travel, fleet, HR making decisions on hiring, promotion they bring.
We aim to recognise individuality professional services and IT.
This allows us or retirement on the grounds of race, and encourage people to perform at totake advantage of scale and expertise, colour, gender, age, social class, religion, their best.
helping us to deliver increased value from smoking habits, sexual orientation, politics our spending.
or disability subject to the inherent In attracting, developing and retaining requirements of the role to be performed.
talented individuals, we have the opportunity Leaf supply chain to build a winning organisation.
Having a Leaf is critical to supporting consumer We are committed to providing training strong and clearly differentiated reputation preferences for different blends and tastes.
and development for people with as an employer is therefore critical to our We have the most vertically integrated leaf disabilities, tailored where appropriate.
supply chain in the industry and believe If a British American Tobacco employee thatthis continues to provide a competitive becomes disabled while in our employment, Recruitment and induction advantage to us as a business.
It also we willdo our best to retain them and make Our employer proposition, which is based enhances our product portfolio and appropriate adjustments and provisions.
on the experiences of existing employees, providesus with a strong position from was rolled out in all but one market in 2010, We continue to support the career which we can address the effects of where we are expecting full alignment by development of our talented female product-based regulation.
the end of 2011. managers, with a view to increasing the Our current leaf-growing footprint provides number of women in senior management.
As well as launching a Group-wide long-term sustainability of supply and This includes tracking development plans programme for new joiners that includes guaranteed access to quality sources of forour senior women, assigning mentors a standard 90-day induction plan, we leaf.
It also gives us the ability to manage and encouraging recruitment consultancies conduct exit interviews for all of our losses short-term variations in pricing driven to draw up gender-balanced shortlists of at management level.
We hope that by byexternal commodity price pressures.
candidates when we recruit externally.
better understanding their reasons for leaving, we will be able to further improve Business continuity our retention of key talented employees.
The robustness of the above-market operating model was tried and tested in Learning and development 2010 as we successfully maintained supply In 2010, we introduced a combination despite a number of significant challenges.
offace-to-face and online development These included port strikes in Nigeria and programme for managers at global, natural disasters around the world, such regionaland local levels.
We are also asthe earthquake in Chile and floods in developing a global training management Pakistan and Mexico.
system that gives our regions and functions a clearer view of the capability gaps in Supplier partnerships theiroperations.
As part of our philosophy to expand our supplier partnership to wider aspects of the It is our long-term aim to have succession supply chain, we built upon the strategic plans in place for every senior role, with at Framework Agreement we signed with Best place to work least one local successor ready in the short Cranfield School of Management in 2009. term and two local successors identified We won several awards around the Within this framework, we established for long-term development.
worldin 2010 for being a great place crossindustry collaboration research groups towork.
This included Top Employer and commissioned a number of long-term accolades in Ukraine and Spain, and research studies aimed at developing a aBest Place to Work award in Central leading edge supply chain strategy.
Business review Corporate governance Financial statements Other information British American Tobacco Annual Report 2010 15 Business review Lost Workday Case Incident Rate LWCIR Work environment Employee opinion survey LWCIR: Lost workday cases through injury Our environmental health & safety EHS Our Your Voice employee opinion survey is x 200,000 total hours worked policy sets out detailed requirements for conducted every two years and benchmarks all Group companies and applies across our our performance against a comparator 2007 0.39 own activities as well as our approach to group of FMCG companies.
The survey 2008 0.40 managing our supply chains.
It requires our wasconducted in 2010, with 90 per cent 2009 0.37 companies, as well as complying with all ofemployees participating.
applicable laws and regulations, to establish 2010 0.38 In all 11 categories, employee opinion of procedures for regularly assessing and 2010 0.27 British American Tobacco was more positive reviewing the EHS impacts of their present than the benchmark for businesses in the excludes Indonesia and future activities.
They must also identify FMCG sector.
We either maintained or includes Indonesia cost-effective measures to safeguard the improved on our 2008 scores in eight of physical environment and the health and the 11 categories.
safety of all personnel on company premises.
Employee engagement The Groups Lost Workday Case Incident British American Tobacco is committed Rate LWCIR in 2010 was 0.27, an to employee engagement throughout the improvement on 0.37 in 2009.
However, this business and this includes acting on areas was largely the result of the acquisition of identified as needing improvement in our our business in Indonesia, which significantly employee survey.
increased the total hours worked for the Group.
Excluding Indonesia, the Groups Employees are kept well informed of the LWCIR is 0.38 a small increase from 2009. strategy, performance and objectives of the Group through communication cascades The number of actual lost workdays atkey points in the year, which involve increased to 212 compared to 206 in 2009, videobroadcasts from the Chief Executive, however, 62 per cent of our sites were face-to-face presentations and Q&A accident-free in 2010. discussions.
Global, regional and local The highest proportions of injuries were intranets, web-based meetings and vehicle-related at 25 per cent 2009: presentations, and electronic employee 25percent, manual activity at 25 per cent magazines also provide important information, 2009: 20 per cent and slips and trips at while feedback is encouraged through open 21per cent 2009: 22 per cent.
accidents decreased to 9 per cent 2009: All UK employees are eligible to join our 12per cent.
Sharesave Scheme, our Partnership Share There were 29 serious accidents in 2010, Scheme, as well as the Share Reward Scheme.
involving 25 employees and four contractors.
In addition, senior management participate Of these, four were fatalities three employees in our executive share incentive schemes.
and one contractor, compared to three in UKemployees on international assignment 2009 all employees.
One was the result of are eligible to join the International Share a fall from height and the remaining three Reward Scheme.
We greatly regret this loss of life.
We systematically review every major incident to identify any ways in which we can prevent a recurrence.
16 British American Tobacco Annual Report 2010 Business review Strategic review continued Research and development Group energy use Responsibility Gigajoules per million cigarettes equivalent Our Group Research & Development R&D Responsibility is integral to everything we activities are concentrated on our harm do, and is especially important to a business reduction efforts but also encompass the such as ours where our products pose real 12.21 12.08 11.82 exploration of new products and innovative 11.14 11.12 risks to health.
Our determination to act technologies.
Our Group R&D function also responsibly spans the whole business, from provides guidance on the use of ingredients our commitment to addressing the issues to ensure our products comply with ofchild labour and working with farmers, nationallegislative requirements and tolooking at how we can reduce the ourown Group standards.
harmof our products and lessen our 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 Our principal R&D facilities are located at environmental impact.
Southampton and Cambridge in the UK Group energy use is the energy used by the Our Business Principles and our Standards of andat Cachoeirinha in Brazil.
In 2010, Group in its own operations, business travel Business Conduct set out what we require of investment in Group R&D was 117 million, and freight.
We do not include energy used our companies and our employees in terms an increase of 5 million from 2009. to produce and deliver purchased energy.
of responsible corporate behaviour and Responsible marketing personal integrity.
We believe that for a business such as We also support regulation that maintains ours, responsible marketing is paramount.
Carbon dioxide equivalent CO e 2 abalance between consumer preferences Tonnes CO e per million cigarettes equivalent Thisiswhy we voluntarily adhere to our 2 andthe interests of society, enabling our International Marketing Standards IMS business to continue to compete commercially.
togive us a consistent, principled approach 0.94 tomarketing across the Group.
Harm reduction 0.88 0.87 0.86 0.85 Tobacco harm reduction involves the Our IMS state that marketing should be research, development and test-marketing targeted at adult consumers and not of innovative tobacco products that be misleading about the health risks of potentially offer reduced health risks.
Where local law is less stringent Being the first tomarket with a range of than our standards we adhere to our IMS.
reduced risk products also has advantages 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 In 2010, six companies reported instances for commercial sustainability.
of non-adherence to our IMS.
Four of these We believe we are continuing to make were resolved so that by the end of 2010 all Group CO e is calculated from the energy used in 2 a significant contribution to the science Group operations, business travel and freight and our companies except two reported full IMS needed to assess potentially reducedincineration and landfill.
This included Indonesia where exposure products.
In 2010, we completed the market is very lightly regulated.
However, the analysis of two studies begun in Italy we comply with the law and we aim for full in2008 and 2009.
We also finished our adherence with our IMS by March 2012, two Water use analysisof a 2009 study of a range of Cubic metres per million cigarettesequivalent years after taking control of the business.
prototype cigarettes designed to have Environmental performance lowerlevels of smoke toxicants than As a business with an agricultural supply conventional cigarettes.
5.18 chain, we depend heavily on natural 4.85 4.73 We continue to publish and present our 4.41 resources and ecosystems.
We therefore 4.15 scientific results whenever we can and recognise the need to manage our engage with regulators.
environmental footprint in a strategic and sustainable way.
It not only makes good economic and environmental sense for us touse raw materials, energy and water 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 efficiently, it is our responsibility.
Business review Corporate governance Financial statements Other information British American Tobacco Annual Report 2010 17 Business review Research & Development expenditure in2010 117 million Our key environmental issues are energy Biodiversity Partnership Waste to landfill Tonnes per million cigarettes equivalent consumption, water use, waste and our Since 2001, we have worked with three wider contribution to climate change.
non-government organisations in the British We also endeavour to minimise any American Tobacco Biodiversity Partnership: 0.025 0.024 0.023 negative impacts on biodiversity.
Fauna & Flora International, the Tropical Biology Association and Earthwatch 0.019 0.018 All environmental figures quoted for 2010 Institute.
Through the Partnership, we are exclude performance data from the Bentoel involved in more than 30 biodiversity business that we took control of in Indonesia projects worldwide.
We donated 1 million per year to the Energy use Partnership in its first five years, and 1.5 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 We decreased absolute energy consumption million per year for the five years from 2006. by 1.5 per cent in 2010, driven by In 2010, we agreed the scope of work for energy reduction programmes and site the next five years of the Partnership, with a rationalisation.
However, Group energy Recycling commitment of 1.5 million per year.
There Percentage of waste recycled use was up by 0.2 per cent from 2009, will be fewer, but larger projects, focusing to 11.14gigajoules per million cigarettes on biodiversity in agricultural landscapes equivalent produced.
This was mainly 85.2 and the ecosystems on which they depend.
Eliminating child labour Carbon dioxide equivalent CO e 2 Child labour is a key human rights issue for Group CO e was down in 2010 by 1.2 per 2 any industry that has an agricultural supply cent from 2009 to 0.85 tonnes per million chain and tobacco growing is no exception.
The decrease was largely due to similar reasons as those for We tackle the problem through our Social 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 energy reduction, as well as sites switching Responsibility in Tobacco Production SRTP to less carbon-intensive forms of energy.
programme and through our continued active involvement in the Eliminating Water use ChildLabour in Tobacco Growing Group water use was down by 5.9 per cent ECLT Foundation, which brings from 2009, at 4.15 cubic metres per million  of all the major cigarettes equivalent produced, exceeding manufacturers and leaf suppliers, tobacco our 2012 target.
This was largely due to growers, trade unions and the International anincreased re-use of water, improved Labour Organisation ILO.
measurement due to the introduction ofwater meters and site rationalisation.
Corporate social investment Our corporate social invesment CSI Landfill and recycling activities include a range of community Group waste to landfill decreased in 2010 andcharitable projects, centred on by5.3 per cent to 0.018 tonnes per million empowerment giving people training, cigarettes equivalent produced, largely education and opportunities to help them Recognition of our work due to an increase in recycling and more develop, civic life activities that aim to detailedmeasurement allowing for In 2010, The Economics of Ecosystems enrich public and community life and efficiency improvements.
and Biodiversity TEEB initiative, led by sustainable agriculture and environment the United Nations Environment contributions to local agriculture.
Programme, recognised our Biodiversity Our global CSI expenditure in 2010 was Partnership and Social Responsibility 15.4 million 2009: 14 million as defined inTobacco Production SRTP as an by the statutory reporting criteria for effective example of how businesses To find out more about charitable donations.
canaddress the issue of biodiversity.
our sustainability activities go to: www.
