50 British American Tobacco Annual Report 2010 Corporate governance Board of Directors Board Committees Committee membership is indicated by the following symbols: n Nominations Committee s Audit Committee l Remuneration Committee u Corporate Social  Richard Burrows 65 n Sir Nicholas Scheele 67 nsl Paul Adams 57 Position Chairman Position Senior Independent Position Chief Executive Nationality Irish Non-Executive Director Nationality British Nationality British US He has been a Director since September He was appointed a Director in March 2009 and Chairman since November Nick was appointed a Director in 2005 2001 and Chief Executive in January 2009 and serves as Chairman of the and Senior Independent Director in 2004.
Paul joined British American Nominations Committee.
He also serves as a member of Tobacco in July 1991 and held senior executive career has been with Irish the Audit, Nominations and Remuneration appointments as Regional Director, Distillers, where he was Chief Executive Committees.
Nick was President and Asia-Pacific and Regional Director, from 1978-2000 and at Pernod Ricard, Chief Operating Officer of Ford Motor Europe prior to becoming Deputy where he was Co-Chief Executive from Company until his retirement in 2005.
Managing Director in June 2001 and 2000-2005, based in Paris.
His current He was Chancellor of Warwick Managing Director in January 2002. non-executive roles include Rentokil University from 2002 until2008.
Paul will retire as an Executive Director Initial and Carlsberg.
He was Governor Nick is Chairman of The Cambridgeand Chief Executive on 28February 2011. of the Bank of Ireland from 2005 MIT Institute, Key Safety Systems, Inc. until2009.
USA and Global Metalsa SA fide CV Richard is a member of the Trilateral Mexico and a Director of Grupo Commission which fosters closer Proeza Mexico.
He was knighted in co-operation among democratic 2001 for services to British exports.
industrialised nations and has also served as President of the Irish Business and Employers Confederation, Chairman of the National Development Corporation and Chairman of the Scotch Whisky Association.
Nicandro Durante 54 Ben Stevens 51 John Daly 54 Position Chief Executive Designate Position Finance Director and Position Chief Operating Officer Nationality Brazilian Italian ChiefInformation Officer Nationality Irish Nationality British He will become Chief Executive He was appointed as an Executive on 1March 2011 having been He has been Finance Director since Director and Chief Operating Officer in Chief Executive Designate since 2008 and took on the additional role of September 2010, having originally been 1 September 2010.
Nicandro was Chief Information Officer in September appointed to the Management Board as appointed an Executive Director and 2010.
Ben was appointed to the Regional Director for Asia-Pacific in Chief Operating Officer in 2008 having Management Board in 2001 as October 2004.
Following the departure previously been Regional Director for Development Director and as Director, of the Group Human Resources Africa and Middle East and a member Europe in 2004.
Director, John will assume temporary of the Management Board since 2006. responsibility for that function from Ben is a graduate of Manchester He has also held senior general 1March 2011.
University and the Manchester Business management roles in Brazil including School in the UK and, since joining He was appointed a Director of the President of Souza Cruz and in the UK British American Tobacco in 1990, has Groups associate company, Reynolds and Hong Kong.
held a number of senior finance and American Inc. in December 2010.
Nicandro holds degrees in finance, general management roles around John joined the Group in 1994 and has economics and business administration theworld including Head of Merger held a number of senior management and, having joined British American Integration following the merger with roles in Europe and the Far East Tobacco in 1981, has wide experience Rothmans and Chairman and Managing including Area Director for the Middle in senior international finance and Director of the Pakistan Tobacco East and North Africa in 2001. management roles within the Group.
Company and Managing Director of British American Tobacco Russia.
Business review Corporate governance Financial statements Other information British American Tobacco Annual Report 2010 51 Corporate governance Karen fide Segundo 64 nul Robert Lerwill 59 nsl Dr Ana Maria Llopis 60 unl Christine Morin-Postel 64 nsl Position Non-Executive Director Position Non-Executive Director Position Non-Executive Director Position Non-Executive Director Nationality Dutch Nationality British Nationality Spanish Nationality French Karen was appointed a Director in 2007 Robert was appointed a Director in Ana Maria was appointed a Director in Christine was appointed a Director in and serves as Chair of the Corporate 2005 and serves as Chairman of the 2003 and serves as a member of the 2007 and serves as a member of the Social Responsibility Committee and as Audit Committee and as a member of Corporate Social Responsibility, Audit, Nominations and Remuneration a member of the Nominations and the Nominations and Remuneration Nominations and Remuneration Committees.
She previously held a Remuneration Committees.
He is currently Chairman Committees.
She is Founder and number of executive positions Shell in 1971 and gained valuable of Synergy Health plc and a NonExecutive Chairman of Global ideas4all, including Chief Executive of Socit experience in senior executive roles in Executive Director of Transcom Executive Deputy Chairman of the Gnrale fide Belgique, Executive several countries before retiring as CEO Worldwide S. A. J F Llopis Foundation and a Director of Vice-President and member of the of Shell International Renewables and Service Point Solutions, S. A. Spain.
Executive Committee of Suez and Robert is a chartered accountant.
He President of Shell Hydrogen in 2005.
Ana Maria was a member of the Good Chairman and CEO of Crdisuez S. A. was formerly a Director of Cable & Governance Working Group for Spanish before her retirement in 2003.
Karen is currently a Non-Executive Wireless plc and WPP Group PLC where listed companies and has served as CEO Director of Lonmin plc, Ensus Holdings he was instrumental in developing and Christine is currently a Non-Executive of OpenBank part of Banco Santander Limited, E. ON AG, Pyry Oyj and Royal managing major international Director of Royal Dutch Shell PLC, and as a Non-Executive Director of ABN Ahold NV.
She is a Council Member of businesses for both companies.
Robert EXOR S. p. A. Italy and 3i Group plc.
AMRO Bank from 2007 until March 2010. the Anglo Netherlands Society.
also served as Chief Executive of Aegis Group plc until 2008.
Ana Maria will retire as a Non-Executive Director at the conclusion of the AGM on 28 April 2011.
Dr Gerry Murphy 55 nul Kieran Poynter 60 nu Anthony Ruys 63 nsl Position Non-Executive Director Position Non-Executive Director Position Non-Executive Director Nationality Irish Nationality British Nationality Dutch Gerry was appointed a Director in Kieran was appointed a Director on Anthony was appointed a Director in 2009and serves as a member of 1 July 2010 and serves as a member of 2006 and serves as Chairman of the theCorporate Social Responsibility, the Corporate Social Responsibility and Remuneration Committee and as a Nominations and Remuneration Nominations Committees.
He is a member of the Audit and Nominations Committees.
He is a Senior Managing Non-Executive Director of International Committees.
He is a member of the Director at The Blackstone Group Consolidated Airlines Group S. A.
Supervisory Boards of the Rijksmuseum having previously been Chief Executive Nomura International PLC, F&C Asset and JANIVO Holdings BV NL and is a Officer of Kingfisher plc, Carlton Management PLC and The Royal Director of Lottomatica S. p. A. Italy.
Communications plc, Exel plc formerly Automobile Club Limited and has Anthony worked at Unilever for nearly NFC plc and Greencore Group plc.
His served on the Presidents Committee of 20 years before joining Heineken in earlier career included various the Confederation of British Industry.
1993 as a member of its Executive management roles at Grand Board, becoming Vice Chairman in Kieran, a chartered accountant, retired Metropolitan plc now Diageo plc 1996 and Chairman in 2002, before as Chairman and Senior Partner of inIreland, the UK and the US.
 in 2008 after Gerrys previous non-executive 37 years with the firm during which In 2009 he was appointed a appointments have included Reckitt time he lead the successful integration Non-Executive Director of the Groups Benckiser plc, Abbey National plc, of Price Waterhouse and Coopers & Indian associate, ITC Limited, and, also Novar plc and PJ Carroll Holdings plc, Lybrand following their merger in 1998. in 2009, he became Chairman of the an Irish subsidiary of British Supervisory Board of NV Luchthaven AmericanTobacco.
