30 British American Tobacco Annual Report 2010 Business review Regional review continued Western Europe Where we are located The region includes the following major markets: Belgium The Netherlands Denmark Poland France Spain Germany Sweden Greece Switzerland Italy United Kingdom Profit in Western Europe increased by Profit was maintained in Switzerland, 60 million to 1,054 million, mainly as a benefiting from price increases and lower result of strong performances in Germany, costs.
Volumes were lower, impacted by Belgium, Spain, Poland, Sweden and the industry contraction.
Market share was Netherlands, although this was partially down although Parisienne maintained its offset by declines in Denmark, Italy and overall share at an historic high.
At constant rates of exchange, The restructuring of the commercial units profitwould have increased by 87 million, of Belgium and the Netherlands into one or 9per cent.
Regional volumes were organisation was completed on 1 June 2010.
Weve made excellent progress on our 8percent lower at 119 billion as a result There was a good growth in profit as a result operating margin and we achieved good of declines in Poland, Germany, Switzerland of higher pricing and lower costs.
market share performance in the second and the Netherlands.
Profit increased strongly in Poland as two price In Italy, an improved mix, coupled with a increases more than offset the impact of lower Jack Bowles price increase and lower costs, offset some industry volumes.
Market share decreased Director Western Europe of the volume decline, although profit was despite the strong growth of Viceroy.
depressed by an adverse exchange rate.
Market share was slightly down on last In Greece, industry volume declined due to year, despite share growth of Global Drive excise and VAT increases during the first half 17% Brandsand overall share increasing over of the year and lower consumer disposable Percentage of Group volume the last quarter.
Although market share was up, volumes were slightly lower.
Profit dropped Profit in Germany increased as a result of significantly due to competitor pricing and 1,054m higher margins from price increases in 2009 as a result of lower volumes.
21% of Group adjusted profit and lower costs, despite the termination of the Gauloises licence agreement at the end Volumes and profit in Denmark were lower of March.
Market share was the same as due to the rationalisation of various tail lastyear.
On a like-for-like basis, volumes brands and down-trading following two were slightly down in a contracting market, significant excise increases.
despite an excellent performance by Market share grew and volume increased PallMall.
in the United Kingdom, mainly as a result Volumes in France were stable, which of the good performance of Pall Mall, which keptprofit in line with last year.
Improved resulted in a significant increase in profit.
pricingand lower product costs were offset by an unfavourable product mix and marketing investment.
Spain grows market share Profit and market share were both up strongly in Spain, driven by a favourable Spain grew market share from 9 per cent pricing environment and good performances to 13 per cent in 2010, driven by both by Pall Mall and Lucky Strike.
Volumes were Pall Mall and Lucky Strike.
Pall Mall grew slightly down in a declining total market.
share through distribution expansion and the successful launch of Semi Slims, while Lucky Strike gained market share through the launch of Click & Roll.
