32 British American Tobacco Annual Report 2010 Business review Regional review continued Africa and Middle East Where we are located The region includes the following major markets: Egypt The Gulf Cooperation Council GCC Nigeria South Africa Turkey Profit from the Africa and Middle East An aggressive excise-driven price increase region grew by 134 million to 858 million in Turkey in January 2010 led to an almost in 2010.
At constant rates of exchange, doubling of illicit trade.
Nevertheless, profit profit would have improved by 69 million, rose as price increases, favourable exchange or 10 per cent, mainly driven by Nigeria movements and reduced production and the Gulf Cooperation Council overheads offset the impact of lower GCC.
Volumes were 2 per cent lower volumes.
The brand portfolio acquired at 124billion, following declines in Turkey, in the Tekel transaction was particularly Iranand South Africa.
However, these were affected by the growth in illicit trade Weve had strong profit and market share partially offset by increases in the GCC, and competitor pricing.
growth in a number of key markets.
In Egypt, volumes and market share Andrew Gray In South Africa, market share grew following continued their impressive growth trend, Director Africa and Middle East strong performances by Peter Stuyvesant despite the excise-led price increases and Kent, aided by the successful migration in July.
However, profit was adversely of Courtleigh to Dunhill.
Volumes were impactedas the excise increase was only down after an almost doubling of illicit partially recovered through higher prices.
However, the profit impact of this Rothmans had a good performance, Percentage of Group volume wasmitigated by increased pricing and expanding its leadership position among cost reduction initiatives, helped by a international brands.
858m 17% of Group adjusted profit Nigeria achieved strong volume growth.
Coupled with higher prices and cost reductions, this led to an impressive profit performance.
A reduction in illicit trade, rural market expansion and effective distribution across all channels contributed to volume growth.
Market share also grew strongly, with excellent performances from Dunhill and Pall Mall.
In the GCC markets, volume, market share and share in the Premium segment grew strongly, with Dunhill and John Player Gold Leaf the main contributors.
Profit Strong performance in Nigeria was significantly higher, benefiting from volume growth and stronger pricing.
British American Tobacco Nigeria had anoutstanding year in 2010 and has In the rest of the Middle East volumes were positioned itself as undisputed leader lower, although this was partially offset by a inone of the worlds most challenging strong performance in the Levant.
As well as delivering profit, lower as a result of a decline in volumes and market and volume growth in 2010, higher brand investment in the Levant.
thecountry has also seen a reduction inillicittrade.
