Business review Corporate governance Financial statements Other information British American Tobacco Annual Report 2010 29 Business review Americas Where we are located The region includes the following major markets: Argentina Colombia Brazil Mexico Canada Venezuela Chile In Americas, profit rose by 196 million However, profit was impacted by lower to 1,382 million.
This was mainly due to volumes and higher marketing investment.
strong performances from Canada, Brazil Volumes increased in Chile, driven mainly by and Chile, an improved product mix and strong performances from Lucky Strike and exchange rate benefits.
At constant rates Pall Mall.
Profit grew significantly as a result, of exchange, profit would have risen by enhanced by price rises ahead of an excise 62 million, or 5 per cent.
Volumes were increase, an improved product mix and down 1 per cent at 149 billion, with the lower overheads.
small decreases experienced in Brazil and We had an excellent year in the Americas Venezuela as a result of industry declines Market share in Venezuela was up in in 2010, driven by market share growth almost offset by higher volumes in Canada a contracted market.
However, price and Global Drive Brand performance.
increases did not cover the impact of currency devaluation on costs, higher Mark Cobben Profit growth in Brazil was driven by higher expenses and lower volumes, which Director Americas pricing, an improved product mix and a resulted in a lower profit.
Market share stronger local currency.
Market share in and volumes in Colombia were maintained, the Premium segment grew due to solid although profit was slightly down.
performances from Lucky Strike as well as 21% Dunhill after the migration from Carlton.
Percentage of Group volume Overall market share was higher, although price increases led to lower industry volumes.
1,382m Profit in Canada was higher, with the effect 28% of Group adjusted profit of reduced illicit trade, price increases and exchange rate benefits more than offsetting continued down-trading.
Substantial progress was also made on the cost base.
Volume grew following a significant reduction in illicit trade due to the enforcement activities of authorities.
The Group gained leadership in all cigarette segments in Canada, which contributed to a significant market share improvement, driven by John Player Standard.
In Mexico, profit was higher as a result of an improved operating margin and volume stability after many years of market decline, driven by trade-stocking in December 2010 Innovation drives growth in anticipation of a price increase.
Market share stabilised with good performances The Americas region led the way in the from Pall Mall and Montana and the roll-out of the new Lucky Strike Click & launch of Dunhill in the third quarter.
Click & Roll was launched in five countries during In Argentina, Dunhill was launched in the the year.
This led to significant growth last quarter of the year, and Lucky Strike across the region for the year.
showed strong volume and share growth asit capitalised onconsumers up-trading.
