ICAP in ten Business review Governance Financial statements Information for shareholders 01 15 17 41 43 63 65 140 141 143 01 Welcome to ICAP in ICAP is the worlds premier voice and electronic interdealer broker and provider of post trade risk and information services.
In this section we provide a ten-point overview of ICAP, what we do and how we have performed.
ICAP plc Annual Report 2010 02 ICAP in ten R Group revenue from continuing operations rose to 1 1,605 million with profit before tax of 333 million 1 R Electronic revenue of 252 million produced operating profit of 100 million R Post trade risk and information revenue rose to 142 million 1 and produced operating profit of 69 million R Electronic broking and post trade risk and information 1 contributed 48% of Group operating profit R Continued progress in new businesses during the period.
However, expansion into full service agency cash equities in Europe and Asia Pacific failed to match up to our expectations Highlights and was closed: 18 million of post-tax losses have been recorded as discontinued operations R Post-tax exceptional costs of 52 million, related to the costs Read more of closing the European and Asia Pacific full service agency 9 on page 24 cash equities businesses and settling an SEC investigation 2 R On an underlying basis revenue fell by 6% and operating 2 profit by 13% 1 R The Groups operating profit margin was 22% 2009 23%, reflecting the early stage of some acquisitions and investments 3 R Free cash flow of 219 million 2009 296 million.
4 Net debt of 148 million 31 March 2009 net debt 126 million after making acquisition related payments of 149 million and paying 92 million in dividends R The directors recommend a final dividend per ICAP share of 12.44p, which will be paid on 20 August 2010.
The full year dividend will be 17.55p compared with 17.05p per share in 2008 09 ICAP in ten Business review Governance Financial statements Information for shareholders 01 15 17 41 43 63 65 140 141 143 ICAP plc Annual Report 2010 03 2010 2009 Variance Continuing operations m m % Revenue 1,605 1,585 1 1 Operating expenses 1,270 1,243 2 Other income 19 23 17 1 Operating profit 354 365 3 Net finance costs 28 24 17 1 Associates net of tax 7 9 22 1 Profit before tax 333 350 5 Profit before tax 3 statutory 247 285 13 Financial Variance pence pence % Summary Dividend per share 17.55 17.05 3 Earnings per share total operations Read more 9 on page 38 Basic 18.0 27.6 35 Adjusted basic 32.3 34.1 5 Earnings per share continuing operations Adjusted basic 35.1 34.7 1 Variance Total operations m m % Net assets 1,215 1,140 7 4 Free cash flow 219 296 26 5 Net debt 148 126 17 Group revenue from continuing operations remained stable at 1 1,605 million and operating profit declined to 354 million, primarily as a result of investment in new businesses.
However, ICAP has demonstrated that, as a result of investments made Notes: over a long period, its overall business is in good shape and 1 From continuing operations excluding amortisation and is more broadly based than it has ever been.
By following impairment of intangibles arising on consolidation and exceptional items.
a clear growth and diversification strategy ICAP is well 2 From continuing operations excluding amortisation and impairment of intangibles arising on consolidation and positioned to take advantage of any changes in exceptional items and adjusted to exclude the impact of FX.
Total statutory profit after tax the structure and regulation of the financial for the year of 116 million included a loss from discontinued services industry.
operations and exceptional items after tax of 48 million.
4 Free cash flow is net cash flow from operating activities adjusted for capital expenditure and dividends received from associates and other investments.
5 Net debt is cash and cash equivalents less long-term and short-term borrowings and overdrafts.
ICAP plc Annual Report 2010 04 ICAP in ten ICAP in ten ICAP is the worlds premier voice and electronic interdealer broker and provider of post trade risk and information services.
The Group is active in the wholesale markets in interest rates, credit, commodities, FX, emerging markets and equity derivatives.
What we do Read more 9 on page 24 Customer A Dealer 1 Customer A is interested in Dealer 1 places a sell selling certain securities order with ICAP and contracts to dealer 1 ICAP in ten Business review Governance Financial statements Information for shareholders 01 15 17 41 43 63 65 140 141 143 ICAP plc Annual Report 2010 05 Electronic and voice broking An interdealer broker draws together willingness to buy and sell in wholesale markets.
ICAP uses voice broking or electronic networks to bring these buyers and sellers together, facilitating price discovery and receiving a commission when a transaction is entered into.
In many of the markets where ICAP operates, voice brokers help to create liquidity and facilitate the price discovery process.
This is particularly important in non-standardised, bespoke markets where the number of parties willing to enter certain transactions may be limited.
In more standardised markets with higher and more frequent participation, such as spot FX and government bonds, ICAP operates electronic broking platforms.
ICAPs combined solution offers access to markets across all asset classes and levels of liquidity.
Voice broking Dealer 2 Customer B The dealer who buys the Customer B buys the securities will in turn sell securities from dealer 2 them on to a customer Electronic broking Post trade risk Post trade risk ICAP also provides a range of post trade risk services to help its customers reduce operational and systemic risk in their markets.
This increases their capacity, reduces their costs and creates new trading opportunities, which in turn benefits ICAP.
As regulatory and market demand for such products and services increases, ICAP expects this business to grow.
ICAP plc Annual Report 2010 06 ICAP in ten Our divisions Our business is managed across the following divisions: R core voice broking by geographic region R electronic broking R post trade risk and information R new businesses Core voice broking Voice brokers help to create liquidity in wholesale markets by bringing together buyers and sellers, creating liquidity and easing the price discovery process.
This is particularly important in Diversity of non-standardised, bespoke markets as well as innovative new markets where there may be less liquidity.
In challenging market our business conditions voice brokers offer a very valuable service to the dealer community.
Electronic broking When markets are more liquid and products more standardised, they are most efficiently traded on electronic broking platforms.
Read more about 9 Voice broking ICAP offers a number of electronic broking platforms, the on page 24 largest of which are the EBS platform for spot FX and the BrokerTec platform for fixed income products.
ICAP also offers platforms for electronic broking of interest rate and credit Read more about default swaps.
In addition to efficiency benefits for customers, 9 Electronic broking electronic broking has many transparency and audit benefits, on page 25 which are of particular interest to regulators.
ICAPs electronic broking networks are often integrated with our customers post trade networks.
Read more about 9 Post trade risk and information Post trade risk and information on page 26 Post trade risk and information services help customers reduce operational and systemic risk in their markets.
This includes services such as portfolio reconciliation and compression, netting and aggregation services and information data services Read more about 9 New businesses that offer regulators and market participants greater insight into on page 27 the markets.
New businesses The breadth and diversity of ICAPs business is one of the key drivers of its success.
ICAP continues to expand and diversify through a series of investments, despite sometimes challenging conditions in many of these markets.
This segment includes businesses that have been acquired or set up within the past two years.
Examples of these businesses are shipping, equity derivatives, base metals and our investment in Brazil.
ICAP in ten Business review Governance Financial statements Information for shareholders 01 15 17 41 43 63 65 140 141 143 ICAP plc Annual Report 2010 Our key markets 07 ICAP is active in a broad range of markets, including interest Revenue comparison from rates, credit, commodities, FX, emerging markets and equity continuing operations by derivatives, and post trade risk and information services.
asset class ICAP continues to have the potential for further growth and we have invested ahead of our competitors.
Factors that Rates FX Equities support this growth include: Emerging markets Credit Commodities R instability in currencies, interest rate and credit markets 2005 06 2009 10 leading to price volatility and forming the basis for further growth in interest rate and credit derivatives, 9% 11% FX, commodities and listed financial markets: 14% 13% R demand for improved operational and capital efficiency 11% for bank and hedge fund traders in these markets: 9% R 10% use of derivatives to manage efficiently and hedge risk 6% 8% exposure to changes in interest rates and FX, commodity 18% 52% and other price fluctuations: R continuing high levels of government and corporate bond 39% issuance as structural change reducing bank lending to corporates: R reallocation of capital to commoditised flow markets and the structural shift away from complex structured products: 100% 919m 100% 1,605m R continuing regulatory pressure on financial market participants to overhaul OTC market infrastructure, reducing systemic and operational risk by improving back office procedures and reducing systemic and counterparty risk: R clearing of OTC derivatives trades to reduce risk, improve market efficiency and reduce costs: R increased political pressure for new regulations requiring more electronic trading, improved transparency and higher capital requirements for OTC trades that are not cleared: and R continued liberalisation of emerging markets.
Economic growth and increasing sophistication are driving growth in onshore and offshore interest rate, FX and credit markets in these countries.
Our geographic regions ICAPs businesses are distributed across more than 70 locations in 32 countries worldwide with a strong presence in all major financial centres in EMEA, the Americas and Asia Pacific.
Our largest offices are in the UK, the US and Brazil.
ICAP plc Annual Report 2010 08 ICAP in ten ICAPs strategic goals are clear.
We want to be: R the leading global intermediary: R the leading post trade risk provider: and R the main infrastructure provider to the worlds wholesale financial markets.
We aim to have at least 35% of overall interdealer market revenues and to generate operating profit evenly distributed between voice broking, electronic broking and post trade risk and information.
Our strategic There are three components to our strategy: R the expansion of our leading voice broking business: goals R the growth of our global electronic broking business both through increasing volumes of existing products and by developing new markets: and Read more 9 on page 19 R the development of our post trade risk and information businesses to provide innovative services that enable our customers to reduce their costs and risks and to increase their efficiency, return on capital and capacity to process trades.
ICAP in ten Business review Governance Financial statements Information for shareholders 01 15 17 41 43 63 65 140 141 143 ICAP plc Annual Report 2010 09 The charts below show a number of the key performance indicators which ICAP uses to measure the progress we are making towards our financial and strategic goals.
The breadth of ICAPs business is a key driver of its success.
We believe that the percentage of our revenue derived from businesses acquired or started during the previous two years is an important indicator of our commitment to new initiatives to diversify and grow the business.
In our core voice broking division we consider revenue per voice broker a key performance indicator of our productivity.
Technology spend as a percentage of revenue is a measure of our commitment to building and improving our competitiveness in electronic broking.
How we measure our Share of the global financial market 2008 20%-22% 2009 21%-23% progress 2010 22%-24% Operating profit Voice Electronic Post trade risk and information Read more 9 on page 29 2008 61% 26% 13% 2009 59% 24% 17% 2010 52% 29% 19% New business 2008 17% 2009 14% 2010 10% Voice revenue per voice broker 2008 498,000 2009 542,000 2010 544,000 Technology spend as percentage of revenue 2008 12% 2009 11% 2010 11% 1 From continuing operations excluding amortisation and impairment of intangibles arising on consolidation and exceptional items.
2 Percentage of revenue generated from new business started or acquired during the preceding two years, previously three years and revised to more closely align the metric with the new business segment.
ICAP plc Annual Report 2010 10 ICAP in ten Core voice broking 1 1 Revenue and operating profit from ICAPs core voice broking businesses were slightly lower than in 2008 09 when the markets were exceptionally active.
This was particularly the 1 1 case in EMEA.
Revenue and operating profit in the Americas increased slightly and profitability in Asia Pacific improved markedly.
After consecutive years of extremely strong growth and volatility, in 2009 10 the interest rate markets returned to more normal and stable trading conditions with lower levels of volatility in the markets.
In EMEA and the Americas, revenue growth in the credit markets continued to be driven by corporate bond trading, offsetting slower activity levels in the credit How we have default swap market.
The commodities division generated another year of good performed revenue growth in both EMEA and the Americas, driven primarily by oil, electricity, natural gas and coal.
This division has generated positive revenue growth in each of the past four years.
Read more 9 on page 24 Electronic broking 1 Electronic broking had a resilient year in terms of revenue and 1 its operating profit benefited from strong cost control.
We have Key achievements 2009 10 seen recovery in the electronic fixed income markets and, more recently, in the spot FX markets.
R established our domestic Brazilian business: Customer activity has increased and traditional market players that were adversely affected by the dislocations in the markets R strong performance from post are re-establishing themselves, joined by new market participants.
trade risk: Post trade risk and information R completed the acquisition of ICAPs post trade risk and information division has developed 100% of TriOptima: and well and in the first full financial year that the division has R extended the product coverage reported separately, it contributed 19% of ICAPs operating on our electronic broking 1 profit.
As regulatory and market demand for systems and platforms to include broking methodologies that reduce operational and systemic risk in credit derivatives in the US.
the markets increases, ICAP expects the division to continue to increase its contribution.
Reset, the market leading expert for interest rate reset risk management, accounts for the largest proportion of our post trade risk and information revenue and operating profit.
It has seen some slowdown in the second part of the year as short-term interest rates remain low and stable.
ReMatch, the bulk risk mitigation service for credit derivative portfolios, launched in October 2009, is showing initial promise.
1 Continuing operations excluding amortisation and impairment of intangibles arising on consolidation and exceptional items.
ICAP in ten Business review Governance Financial statements Information for shareholders 01 15 17 41 43 63 65 140 141 143 Divisional performance ICAP plc Annual Report 2010 Traiana, the post trade netting and aggregation service, saw 11 Divisional performance revenue very strong growth.
It has continued to build out its offering from continuing operations to both the buy and sell side, with increased volumes and a growing number of participants on the Harmony Network.
An FX joint venture with settlement bank, CLS Group, Voice broking is expected to reduce banks costs and processing burdens 1,036m associated with high velocity trading by up to 90%.
In March 2010 we completed the acquisition of the 61.78% of the share capital of market infrastructure provider, TriOptima, Electronic broking we did not already own.
TriOptima, whose services are aimed at reducing risk and helping financial institutions to manage their 252m OTC derivative portfolios more efficiently, is performing well.
ICAP information collects data from ICAPs global voice and electronic broking operations covering more than 32 Post trade risk and information countries from 50 locations in the three trading zones, EMEA, 142m the Americas and Asia Pacific.
This business has seen strong revenue and profit growth, driven by increased demand for independent trading data for regulatory purposes and the rise in algorithmic trading.
New businesses New businesses 175m ICAP continues to expand and diversify its business through a series of investments.
For 2009 10 the new business segment includes the Groups investment in a number of new initiatives which have been started or acquired over the past two years.
Despite recording an operating loss in 2009 10, many of these new businesses are expected to be profitable in the coming years.
During the year the Group announced its decision to discontinue its European and Asia Pacific integrated full service agency cash equities business.
Market conditions in equity derivatives were more difficult than in recent years, but Link continued to hold its position as the leading global equity derivatives broker and the business continued to make a material profit contribution.
ICAPs expansion into Brazil continues apace and has yielded good initial results in its first year of operation, despite showing an operating loss.
Brazil is now ICAPs third largest whollyowned office by head count with more than 250 brokers and support staff.
In Shipping, the business made a small operating loss due to difficult market conditions.
However, it is well positioned for an upturn in the shipping cycle.
ICAPs London Metal Exchange base metals broking business provided a strong performance.
ICAP plc Annual Report 2010 12 ICAP in ten A regulatory and reputational spotlight is being aimed at all financial services companies.
The scale of ICAP means our profile is high and we must demonstrate leadership in setting and achieving the highest ethical and professional standards by our staff, management and directors.
We are committed to strengthening our control environment, both geographically and across product lines and have continued to make substantial progress in the past year.
The directors believe that a sound control environment and robust risk management are fundamental to ICAPs business.
The significant risks of the Group are continually monitored, assessed and managed at the relevant level.
Managing As a broker, intermediating flow between trading counterparties, the Group does not aim to take proprietary risk positions in any of its businesses and is not, by the nature of its activities, risk exposed to significant market or credit risk.
The principal risks that the Group faces have not changed during the year.
Read more 9 on page 30 The Group continues to classify its exposures into eight risk categories: operational, regulatory and compliance, credit, liquidity, reputational, market, financial and strategic of which we consider the first two to be our principal risks.
ICAPs risk management framework is built on four complementary pillars risk governance, risk management, risk measurement and risk infrastructure.
The Group is committed to building on its already strong control environment, both geographically and across product lines.
ICAP in ten Business review Governance Financial statements Information for shareholders 01 15 17 41 43 63 65 140 141 143 ICAP plc Annual Report 2010 13 The policy behind the executive directors remuneration is aligned with the interests of shareholders.
Performance-related pay is the main component of overall remuneration.
The principles of the directors remuneration policy have been developed over a number of years to recognise and reward the substantial growth of the Group.
The charts set out the performance-related and the share-based elements of the remuneration of the four executive directors.
Performance-related pay How we are Michael Spencer Group Chief Executive Officer rewarded Matthew Lester Group Finance Director Read more John Nixon Chief Executive Officer ICAP Electronic Broking 9 on page 56 Mark Yallop Group Chief Operating Officer Fixed percentage Performance-related percentage Share-based remuneration Michael Spencer Group Chief Executive Officer Matthew Lester Group Finance Director John Nixon Chief Executive Officer ICAP Electronic Broking Mark Yallop Group Chief Operating Officer Cash percentage Share-based percentage ICAP plc Annual Report 2010 14 ICAP in ten Board and management ICAP is managed by an experienced board of directors who are responsible for ICAPs strategy and long-term business objectives, acquisitions and major investments.
The board also oversees ICAPs risk management, control and compliance functions.
There is a clear division between the roles and responsibilities of the Chairman and Group Chief Executive Officer.
The Chairman is responsible for leadership of the board and ensuring effective communication with shareholders and the Group Chief Executive Officer is responsible for leading and managing the business.
A number of our non-executive directors are retiring in Our key 2010 11.
This creates an opportunity to refresh the board with relevant skills and experience for the current environment.
resources ICAP has built a very strong competitive position with a very capable management team, led by the Global Executive Management Group.
This group consists of the four executive directors of ICAP and six members of senior management.
Board Non-executive directors Charles Gregson Chairman James McNulty William Nabarro John Sievwright Executive directors Michael Spencer Matthew Lester John Nixon Read more Mark Yallop 9 Global Executive on page 44 Management Group Senior management David Casterton Gil Mandelzis Stephen McDermott Doug Rhoten Kim Rosenkilde Read more 9 David Rutter on page 22 ICAP in ten Business review Governance Financial statements Information for shareholders 01 15 17 41 43 63 65 140 141 143 ICAP plc Annual Report 2010 Staff 15 ICAP employs approximately 4,500 people worldwide.
Of this number, more than 2,500 are brokers, sales and customer support staff and over 800 are employed in IT and the development of our electronic broking platforms.
As the Group has expanded and grown, ICAP has attracted people with a broader range of skills in both technology and in the original broking businesses.
Our brokers and their managers comprise the largest group of our staff.
They are highly entrepreneurial, dynamic, team spirited individuals with extremely strong networking and interpersonal skills.
Our technology professionals, sales, marketing and support staff also contribute greatly to our overall success.
Technology ICAPs various businesses are leaders in the use of technology.
During the year we spent 11% of our revenue from continuing operations on technology and our advances are key to the success, efficiency and responsiveness of our operating businesses.
We continue to achieve significant economies of scale by leveraging internally developed and externally acquired trading platforms in a global IT network of more than 800 IT professionals based in EMEA, the Americas and Asia Pacific.
ICAPs strong technological capability ensures that not only can we meet the needs of our customers but also that we are able to anticipate their requirements in a rapidly changing business and regulatory environment.
Suppliers We rely on a number of key suppliers to help us carry out our business.
We have put in place procedures to ensure that purchasing decisions balance cost against other factors including service quality, global reach and resilience.
