Business Review: KEY PERFORMANCE INdICAtORS KPI description of KPI and how we use it Key Performance Financial Indicators KPIs Represents revenue from commissions, spreads and financing on client trades, net of gains and losses on positions entered into Trading revenue by the Group to hedge open client positions in our Financial or Sport businesses.
This is used as a measure of underlying business profitability.
It also facilitates year-on-year profitability comparison.
It is Adjusted profit before taxation calculated as profit before taxation excluding amortisation and impairment of intangible assets arising on consolidation.
IG Groups Board of Directors This is calculated as adjusted profit before taxation expressed as a percentage of trading revenue and facilitates year-on-year Adjusted profit before performance comparison, as well as against the performance of our peer group.
and senior management utilise taxation margin both financial and non-financial EBITDA represents operating profit before depreciation, amortisation of intangible assets, amortisation and impairment of EBITDA intangibles arising on consolidation and amounts written-off property, plant and equipment and intangible assets.
EBITDA margin is used by the Group to assess the relative performance of our regional businesses.
It is expressed as EBITDA as EBITDA margin a percentage of trading revenue.
These are described in this The Group seeks to maximise the growth in earnings per share over time in order to maximise shareholder value.
Our long-term Adjusted diluted earnings section, with the actual results incentive plans LTIPs and Directors bonuses are linked to growth in adjusted diluted earnings per share and growth in our share per share price.
Adjusted basic earnings per share is calculated by dividing the profit for the year before amortisation and impairment for the financial year discussed of intangibles arising on consolidation and related tax adjustments attributable to ordinary equity holders of the parent by the weighted average number of ordinary shares in issue during the year, excluding ordinary shares purchased by the Group in the Operating and Financial and held as own shares in employee benefit trusts.
Adjusted diluted earnings per share is calculated using the same profit, but adjusts the weighted average number of ordinary shares outstanding to assume conversion of all dilutive ordinary shares arising Review on page 19. from share schemes.
A reconciliation to statutory earnings per share is included in note 12 to the Financial Statements.
Monitoring our regulatory capital adequacy is key to satisfying regulatory requirements.
This KPI is calculated as our consolidated Regulatory capital adequacy capital resources expressed as a percentage of our Pillar 1 consolidated capital resources requirement calculated under the rules of the UKs Financial Services Authority.
Total available liquidity is the total of net working capital and undrawn facilities.
This is analysed further in the Operating and Total available liquidity Financial Review section on page 29.
Client Average revenue per client comparisons provide useful indicators of business development on a total and geographical basis.
Average revenue per financial client It is calculated as total trading revenue excluding Sport revenue divided by the number of financial clients dealing.
Number of financial clients dealing represents the total number of financial clients who have opened a trade in the financial year.
Number of financial clients dealing The number of clients dealing is a key driver of revenue growth and reflects the underlying growth of the business.
Although year-on-year comparisons of this KPI can be distorted during sustained periods of high financial market volatility, these provide useful indicators of business development on a total and geographical basis.
Over the medium and long-term, the growth of our client base is a key driver of revenue growth.
The number of accounts New financial client opened and the number of accounts dealing for the first time are leading indicators of future prospects.
These are analysed account openings on both a total and a geographical basis.
Number of new financial accounts dealing for the first time The Group monitors a range of client service metrics to ensure that we continue to maintain a high level of client service.
Client service 11 | IG Group Holdings plc | Annual Report 2010 12 Business Review: ChAIRMANS StAtEMENt As I made clear last year, we have focused on the further Board composition Chairmans Statement development of our established and newer businesses, and I am very pleased to welcome David Currie to the Board to replace improving our performance in Japan.
Our aim is that many of our Sir Alan Budd who has become the Chairman of the Office of newer markets should ultimately reach the scale and performance Budgetary Responsibility.
that we have achieved in the UK and Australia.
Your Board is very fortunate to have found David, an excellent We continue to evaluate the opportunity to enter new markets and, replacement for Sir Alan Budd, whose wisdom and guidance will be to this end, we have opened offices in Portugal, Sweden and China missed.
David has considerable knowledge of financial markets and representative in the past year.
We continue to focus on investment extensive government experience.
He has advised two Conservative in high quality dealing platforms, a broad range of products and Chancellors and three Labour Shadow Chancellors.
He is presently excellent customer service provided to our expanding client base.
It is my pleasure to make this annual statement Chairman of the International Centre for Financial Regulation, a NonAt the forthcoming AGM, your Board will recommend the payment executive Director of the Royal Mail and Chairman of Semperium after another record year for the Group.
Our annual of a final dividend of 13.5p per share.
This will bring the total dividend Investment Partners.
for the year to 18.5p, an increase of 23.3% on last year.
This represents As I mentioned in my statement last year, the Board has also approximately 60% of our adjusted earnings for the year, which is revenue has increased 16.1% to 298.6m 2009: commenced a search for an additional independent non-executive consistent with the policy that the Board announced three years ago.
director who will further extend the range of skills and experience 257.1m, whilst adjusted diluted earnings per share possessed by the Board.
We very much hope to be able to make Board evaluations an announcement on a new appointment prior to our AGM.
Rob In our previous financial year, your Board decided to commission Lucas has expressed a desire to step down from your Board at increased 24.4% to 30.77p 2009: 24.74p.
the Institute of Chartered Secretaries and Administrators ICSA, this years AGM, due to his substantial commitments as the Senior an external consultant, to conduct a full evaluation of the Board in Partner of CVC Europe.
Your Board has accepted Robs decision with accordance with Principle A.
6 of the Combined Code on Corporate understanding and regret.
Your Board does not consider it necessary to undertake Rob will be a great loss to our Board and we thank him for all the such an external review every year and this year have performed our insights, professionalism and wisdom that he has imparted to us over review of performance internally.
Following on from the recommendations made by the ICSA and this The effect of Robs retirement and the anticipated arrival of a new years internal review, I believe that we will continue to make ongoing independent non-executive director means that we will have made improvements to ensure the Board continues to operate effectively in substantial progress towards becoming more compliant with Code the coming year.
Remuneration As previously announced, Steve Clutton, who has been Finance One matter which remains at the top of many investor agendas is Director for the last four years, will be leaving the Group shortly, that of remuneration.
As I mentioned in my Chairmans Statement last having effected an orderly handover of his responsibilities.
The year, following consultation with some of our larger shareholders, we search for his successor is underway.
We have enjoyed working with agreed that the Remuneration Committee, under the Chairmanship Steve and thank him for his significant contribution in managing the of Roger Yates, our Senior Independent Director, should undertake an Groups impressive growth over the last four years.
We wish him well annual review of the pay of all Executive and Non-executive Directors.
We have again consulted with many of our leading shareholders Our results of the past year could not have been achieved without about the increases which are set out in the Directors Remuneration the dedication and skill of all our employees throughout the world.
We continue with an element of deferral in the bonus and my fellow Directors would like to express our thanks to them all structure, reflecting the UKs Financial Services Authoritys guidance for their personal contributions to these excellent results.
on best practice and in line with our commitments in previous I and all my colleagues look forward to working towards another reports.
successful year for the Group and all its shareholders.
In light of feedback from some of our shareholders that they would prefer an element of relative rather than absolute share price performance in our long-term incentive schemes, we have designed a new long-term incentive scheme, which will be put to shareholders for approval at the AGM.
The new scheme enables Executive Directors and senior staff to share in the creation of shareholder Jonathan Davie, Chairman value, over and above the total shareholder return of the FTSE 350 20 July 2010 Financial Services Index, and a 12% compound growth in adjusted profit before tax.
We believe that this new scheme provides greater alignment of long-term management incentives with shareholder interests.
Further details of this proposed scheme are set out in the Directors Remuneration Report.
13 | IG Group Holdings plc | Annual Report 2010 14 13 | IG Group Holdings plc | Annual Report 2010
