Business Review: OPERAtING ANd FINANCIAL REVIEW Operating and Financial Review As such, we need regulatory authorisation to conduct our Introduction Our business and products This section reviews the Groups business in all of the jurisdictions in which we operate.
Regulatory compliance is vitally important for our business This Operating and Financial Review OFR has been prepared The Group operated in two principal areas of activity operating performance and and we invest a significant amount of resources to ensure solely to provide additional information to shareholders to throughout the year: Financial and Sport.
Further information that we comply with both the letter and the spirit of the assess our strategies and the potential for those strategies to on our business and our competitive advantage is included in financial results for the year.
regulations that govern our global business.
The OFR should not be relied on by any other party the What we do section on pages 3 to 6. or for any other purpose.
The recent financial crisis and subsequent economic downturn Financial has increased regulatory scrutiny on firms within the financial The OFR contains certain forward-looking statements.
These Contracts for Difference CFDs and spread bets on equities, services industry, and there are currently a number of different statements are made by the Directors in good faith based equity indices, commodities, forex, interest rates and other policy initiatives and proposals being discussed that may on the information available to them up to the time of their financial markets.
Examples of such upcoming changes are: approval of this report.
Such statements should be treated with caution due to the inherent uncertainties, including CFDs and spread bets on options and binary options on In Japan, the Financial Services Agency has announced both economic and business risk factors, underlying any such certain of these markets.
leverage limits on forex trading, equity CFDs and index forward-looking information.
We already operate under existing leverage limits The operation of a regulated futures and options exchange.
in certain jurisdictions e. g. Singapore which has not had The Directors, in preparing the OFR, have sought to comply a material impact on the popularity of the CFD product.
with the guidance set out in the Accounting Standards Boards Sport Reporting Statement: Operating and Financial Review.
The The European Commission is considering regulations on Spr ead bets and fixed-odds bets on sporting and other Directors also believe they have adequately discharged their the clearing of OTC derivatives, aimed at bringing the events and the operation of an online casino.
responsibilities under Section 417 3 of the Companies Act G20s proposed OTC reforms into effect.
The aim of these 2006 in providing this business review.
new regulations is to reduce systemic risk.
We will monitor Competitive environment any proposed legislation and maintain dialogue both Our Strategy and Key Performance Indicators are described directly and via industry associations with the European on pages 9 to 12, and our business risks and their mitigation We enjoy leading positions in many of the markets in which we Commission.
described on pages 33 to 38. operate, markets that experience high degrees of competition.
The FSA has recently issued revised guidelines on how Critical accounting estimates and judgements made, together We have often been the first entrant in a number of new spread betting and CFD firms must protect client money.
with new and amended accounting standards adopted in the countries, and we embrace competition as it serves to expand We already protect our clients money to the full extent of preparation of the Financial Statements, are set out in note 2 the overall market by increasing awareness of the CFD these regulations and therefore these new guidelines will to the Financial Statements.
The new guidelines may, however, have an impact on the competitive landscape of the UK CFD We have continued to deliver growth through all stages of and spread-betting industry.
the economic cycle, achieving strong financial performance, high margins and strong cash generation.
We therefore operate in a dynamic financial services industry experiencing constant regulatory change and development.
We work closely with our regulators to ensure both that we Regulatory environment operate to the highest regulatory standards and that we can Our products have several key features which make them adapt to regulatory change, however, we can provide no higher risk from a retail clients perspective: our products are certainty that potential regulatory changes will not have an not listed on any exchange and are not assignable or tradable adverse impact on our business.
with any other third party: our products are derivatives and are therefore complex in nature: and our products are leveraged meaning risk to a clients equity is increased.
19 | IG Group Holdings plc | Annual Report 2010 19 | IG Group Holdings plc | Annual Report 2010 20 Business Review: OPERAtING ANd FINANCIAL REVIEW Operating and Financial Review continued We also remain the clear market leader in several other The Group continues to develop its partners business, seeing Macro-economic how did we perform against markets including France, Spain and Italy and are challenging 41.6% growth in revenue this year.
For example, during the environment our strategy?
the current market leader in Germany.
year, we announced a partnership alliance with Monex Inc, one of Japans major online financial services brokers.
Market conditions, which influence clients propensity to trade, Our strategy is detailed on pages 9 and 10.
In this section, Progress in other markets was positive.
In Japan, FXOnline were mixed.
The start of the year benefited from continued we describe how we performed against the key elements of faced a challenging competitive environment of reduced We also further enhanced our Partners website dedicated to strengthening of equity markets, which encouraged clients to our strategy.
spreads and aggressive marketing but responded by highlighting the benefits of partnering with us through our trade equity CFDs and spread bet through the first half of the repositioning its brand.
This was achieved by an increased range of partnership models see the What we do section on The Chief Executives Review provides an overall assessment of financial year.
This was followed by a period of range-bound focus on the quality of our trade execution and the page 3. our progress during the year and prospects for the future with markets with a tail-off in volatility, resulting in a reduction introduction of our wide range of CFD and binary products to reference to the business strategies outlined below.
White-labelling opportunities where our products are in client activity.
The year ended strongly, with higher client the Japanese market, a retail market traditionally focussed on branded and distributed in the name of third parties continue activity boosted by increased volatility levels in both equity forex trading.
This revised strategy achieved positive returns, Maintaining market-leading positions to extend the reach of our products.
particularly in the second half of the financial year.
We are the market-leading CFD provider in a number of the In the US, we are now allowed to admit futures brokers to the Although leverage restrictions are to be introduced on retail Low volatility of trading revenue countries in which we operate, as well as being recognised as membership of our Nadex Exchange prior to this, Nadex was forex and equity CFD trading in Japan, it remains a significant the market leader in the UK financial spread betting market.
We do not take proprietary market positions based on the only permitted to admit retail clients for membership.
iii market opportunity for the Group.
Research on the Japanese expectation of market movements and this is a significant i ii Independent research confirmed our market-leading online forex market undertaken in 2009 highlighted our contributory factor to trading revenue stability.
This is Delivering product and technological positions in the UK and Australia.
The UK, our most established very high rate of order execution, in contrast to that of our discussed further in the Our Business Risks section on page 33. market, continues to show good growth evidenced by client competitors.
This research confirmed that the real spread innovation recruitment averaging over 3200 new clients per month, an paid by our clients is extremely competitive in comparison to The stability of our revenue is illustrated in the chart below, During the year, we introduced our Autochartist pattern increase of 3% on the prior year, a year which had benefited our competitors, who tend to advertise lower spreads, but are which shows the distribution of daily trading revenue during recognition tool, which automatically alerts clients to from periods of extreme volatility.
In Australia, we gained a often unable to fill client orders at their advertised spreads or the financial year.
The Group did not experience a single day customisable charting patterns and trading opportunities.
market-leading position as the primary account provider for prices.
of negative trading revenue during the financial year 2009: nil We will launch a new iPhone App for our UK spread betting active CFD traders.
business in the near future, and a CFD version of the App is Expanding our global reach directly or expected later in 2010. through partnership 20 The Groups clients gained access to the best prices from 20 We now have offices in 14 countries, with clients located in Europes top three Multilateral Trading Facilities MTFs, namely 18 18 over 123 countries worldwide.
In January 2010, for example, they 16 16 accounted for almost 39% of total FTSE 100 liquidity.
The Group continues to expand its non-UK office client base 14 14 and in the year ended 31 May 2010, revenue from these Continuing high standards of client 12 clients grew to 43.6% of total trading revenue 2009: 38.0%.
12 International expansion continues with new offices opened in service 10 10 Sweden and Portugal, key developments in the Scandinavian 8 Our commitment to client service has been recognised in 8 and Iberian markets.
We also commenced marketing in New i ii recent surveys and we endeavour to maintain the highest 6 Zealand and opened a representative office in China.
4 4 The Group has exchanged contracts to acquire the business of We monitor a range of KPIs covering client service and 2 2 Ideal CFD Financial Services Pty Limited, a South Africa based treating customers fairly standards in support of this.
0 introducing broker of the Group.
This acquisition will further 0 strengthen our position in this high-growth market.
i Investment Trends: 2009 UK Spread Betting and CFD Report November 2009.
0.0m 0.5m 1.0m 1.5m 2.0m ii Investment Trends: May 2010 Australia CFD Report July 2010.
Daily trading revenue bands m iii Yano Research Institute.
21 | IG Group Holdings plc | Annual Report 2010 22 Daily occurrences
