Business Review: ChIEF ExECUtIVES REVIEW Chief Executives Review uK excluding Sport Australia Europe excluding UK Rest of the World Trading Revenue 8.0% Trading Revenue 63.4% Trading Revenue 57.2% Trading Revenue 11.0% It is now five years since our Initial Public Offering.
At that remains much to be done in Japan, where we face a IG Group clients IG Group clients but no betting clients Our strategy has two key elements continuing to time, in the year to 31 May 2005, our total trading revenue was challenging competitive and regulatory environment.
The 62m and Australia, our only office outside the UK, accounted first of a number of leverage restrictions comes into force at grow our existing businesses whilst also extending for only 6% of revenue.
Over the intervening five years, we the beginning of August and it is inevitable that this will have have grown trading revenue almost five-fold to 298.6m, an immediate adverse impact on our revenues.
We are doing we now have offices in 14 countries and almost half of our what we can to mitigate this impact.
We continue to make good progress revenue comes from outside the UK.
We have continued to A significant proportion of our partners business comes achieve strong growth in the UK, with the trading revenue of on both fronts.
from advisory brokers who are interested primarily in equity our UK financial business growing more than three-fold from markets.
As a result, our partners business grew strongly this less than 52m in 2005 to over 162m in 2010.
Both Australia year driven by the equity market rally and revenue was up and mainland Europe are now substantial businesses.
Partners accounted for 16.3% of our trading revenue, year to 31 May 2010, they achieved revenues of 45.7m and compared to 13.4% in the previous year.
With the highest growth rates in the Group, they are both rapidly approaching the scale that our A more detailed analysis of our financial performance is set UK financial business had at the time of our IPO.
out in the Operating and Financial Review on page 19.
Performance of our main business units International expansion continues The UK is our longest established business.
In the previous We have continued with our strategy of international financial year, we suffered a loss of clients in the extreme expansion.
We opened an office in Sweden in August 2009 volatility of October 2008 and it was a satisfactory and commenced marketing into New Zealand from our achievement that revenue in the first half of this year was Australian office in October 2009.
Shortly after the year-end, flat, reflecting the rebuilding of our client base.
Once the we opened an office in Portugal, a country which we were anniversary of October 2008 was behind us, year-on-year previously marketing into from our office in Spain.
These new growth resumed and in the second half of the year, we grew ventures are all making encouraging progress.
to evaluate new countries and expect to open an office in at least one additional country during the coming year.
Our Australian business was established eight years ago.
It achieved very strong growth this year with revenue increasing During the year, we also opened a representative office by 63.4% from 27.9m to 45.7m.
We are the largest retail CFD in Beijing.
As I indicated in January, this is a long-term firm in Australia and recent market research indicates that we opportunity and we do not expect to generate material have opened up a decisive market lead during the year.
revenue from China in the short or medium term.
Revenue from our European offices also grew rapidly, up We have exchanged contracts on the acquisition of the 57.2% from 30.2m to 47.4m.
Our main European businesses business of Ideal CFDs, our white-label partner in South Africa in Germany, Italy, France and Spain were established between and will complete shortly.
The consideration is 1.6m for the two-and-a-half and four years ago, and all of these markets business and the vendor will retain a 20% interest in our South are therefore at a very early stage and still growing rapidly.
African business, which is subject to call and put options in Germany is the most established of these markets and 2013.
This is an interesting emerging market and the financial achieved the highest growth rate this year.
performance of Ideal to date has been all the more impressive because it has been achieved with minimal marketing Our Japanese business made a good recovery in the final expenditure.
With the resources of the Group behind them, quarter of the year, vindicating our strategy of re-positioning I am hopeful that we can build a more substantial business in the business to appeal more to established traders.
There South Africa over time.
15 15 | IG Gr | IG Group Holdings plc | Annual R oup Holdings plc | Annual Repor eport 2 t 2010 010 16 Business Review: ChIEF ExECUtIVES REVIEW Chief Executives Review continued The US Our client offering Investment in IT development Current trading and outlook At the start of the year we re-named HedgeStreet, our Over the last fifteen months, we have been progressively Maintaining our product and technological lead over our We are well placed competitively and have extended our CFTC-regulated exchange in the US, as Nadex the North improving our product offering.
This began towards the competitors is key to the Groups continued success.
The market lead in several of our key markets over the last year.
Nadex now offers exchangeend of our previous financial year with the introduction of major part of our IT development is carried out in-house by have demonstrated continued growth from our UK business traded options and futures over forex, equity indices and variable spreads on forex, making our forex offering much our dedicated development team.
We continue to increase and strong growth from both Europe and Australia, which are commodities as well as some event markets such as economic more competitive.
We then enhanced our shares offering our investment in this key area and at the year-end, 184 staff now businesses of significant scale.
Our strategy for Nadex is for the majority of clients with the introduction of tiered-margin rates, enabling us 2009: 161 were involved in IT development, equivalent to all continue to deliver good levels of growth, underpinned to trade on it through brokers.
Our own broker, IG Markets to reduce margin rates for the vast majority of our clients.
21% of our total year-end employee headcount 2009: 20%.
In the longer term, we have a Inc, is already connected to the exchange and giving its More significantly, we have connected to the main European significant opportunity in the US with Nadex.
clients access to it, but has only a small client base.
Before Multilateral Trading Facilities, or MTFs, enabling us to pass New London headquarters The new financial year has started well, with the elevated other brokers with much larger client bases can be added, on to our clients the benefit of the tighter spreads on UK Next month we will be moving to new headquarters in the volatility levels of May continuing into early June and helping the software firms which provide their trading platforms and and European shares.
We believe we are currently the only City of London.
This will give us over 50% more space than our to stimulate client activity.
It remains difficult, however, to back office solutions must connect their technology to Nadex.
spread betting or retail CFD firm connected to these MTFs current offices and a much better working environment.
More predict future trends in volatility or client reaction to changing Some of this integration work is already underway, but it is and that this makes our pricing significantly more attractive importantly we will initially all be on just two adjacent floors, market and economic conditions.
likely to be a few months before the first brokers are able to than that of our competitors.
Finally, in the second half of the enhancing internal communication and leading to further start offering Nadex products to their clients.
I believe that year, we improved our equity index offering in Germany, the operating efficiencies.
I look forward to the coming year with confidence.
the ultimate potential of Nadex could be significant, but this UK and Australia by cutting our spreads on the main equity will not be achieved overnight and we are likely to see the indices.
This has positioned us more competitively and has We run regular seminars in our offices and hope that many of business build steadily over the next few years.
driven significant increases in volume.
Over the longer term, our clients will take the opportunity to visit our new London we anticipate it driving further market share gains in these headquarters in the coming months for one of these seminars.
We also welcome visits from our institutional shareholders, believing that time spent on our dealing floor can be helpful We are continually developing our award-winning trading Tim Howkins, Chief Executive in understanding how our business operates.
In a few days we will release a new iPhone App 20 July 2010 for our UK spread betting business, which will be available Regulation free from Apples App Store.
This App provides full dealing Our UK regulator, the FSA, has recently published a functionality for clients and gives non-clients access to a consultation paper on the treatment of client money.
We give selection of live prices, which we hope will make it a useful all of our retail clients in the UK and Europe full client money client recruitment tool as well as a valuable trading platform.
In contrast, a number of our competitors do not A CFD version of the App will follow shortly.
fully protect client money, so that their clients may be at risk of financial loss should the firm fail.
We have always taken our responsibility to protect client money extremely seriously and I am delighted that the FSA has indicated an intention to force our competitors to adopt the same high standards that we adhere to.
A similar situation exists in Australia, where most of our competitors do not afford their clients the same full client money protection that we do.
I am hopeful that our Australian regulator, ASIC, will also enforce strict client money rules in due course.
17 17 | IG Gr | IG Group Holdings plc | Annual R oup Holdings plc | Annual Repor eport 2 t 2010 010 18
