FINANCIAL STATEMENTS: StAtEMENtS OF ChANGES IN ShAREhOLdERS EQUItY Statements of Changes in Shareholders Equity Statements of Changes in Shareholders Equity for the year ended 31 May 2010 for the year ended 31 May 2010 Equity Equity share Share Other Retained Shareholders Minority Total share Share Other Retained Total capital premium reserves earnings equity interests equity capital premium reserves earnings equity 000 000 000 000 000 000 000 000 000 000 000 000 Group Note 24 Note 24 Note 26 Company Note 24 Note 24 Note 26 At 1 June 2008 16 125,235 11,576 107,849 244,676 40 244,716 At 1 June 2008 16 125,235 7,402 176,806 309,459 Profit for the period - - - 77,986 77,986 666 78,652 Profit for the period - - - 51,600 51,600 Other comprehensive income for the period - - 32,437 - 32,437 315 32,752 Other comprehensive income for the period - - - - - Total comprehensive income for the period - - 32,437 77,986 110,423 981 111,404 Total comprehensive income for the period - - - 51,600 51,600 Shares issued 2 82,199 - - 82,201 - 82,201 Shares issued 2 82,199 - - 82,201 Share issue costs - 1,188 - - 1,188 - 1,188 Share issue costs - 1,188 - - 1,188 Minority interest arising on acquisition - - - - - 1,528 1,528 Equity-settled employee share-based payments - - 3,256 - 3,256 Equity-settled employee share-based payments - - 3,256 - 3,256 - 3,256 Purchase of own shares - - 258 - 258 Excess of tax deduction benefit on share-based Equity dividends paid - - - 44,016 44,016 payments recognised directly in shareholders equity - - 1,730 - 1,730 - 1,730 Movement in shareholders equity 2 81,011 2,998 7,584 91,595 Purchase of own shares - - 258 - 258 - 258 Equity dividends paid - - - 44,016 44,016 - 44,016 At 31 May 2009 18 206,246 10,400 184,390 401,054 Movement in shareholders equity 2 81,011 33,705 33,970 148,688 2,509 151,197 Profit for the period - - - 81,090 81,090 Other comprehensive income for the period - - - - - At 31 May 2009 18 206,246 45,281 141,819 393,364 2,549 395,913 Total comprehensive income for the period - - - 81,090 81,090 Profit for the period - - - 101,281 101,281 205 101,486 Other comprehensive income for the period - - 27,009 - 27,009 425 27,434 Equity-settled employee share-based payments - - 4,782 - 4,782 Purchase of own shares - - 175 - 175 Total comprehensive income for the period - - 27,009 101,281 128,290 630 128,920 Exercise of US share incentive plans - - 16 - 16 Equity-settled employee share-based payments - - 4,782 - 4,782 - 4,782 Equity dividends paid - - - 57,657 57,657 Excess of tax deduction benefit on share-based Movement in shareholders equity - - 4,591 23,433 28,024 payments recognised directly in shareholders equity - - 2,861 - 2,861 - 2,861 Purchase of own shares - - 175 - 175 - 175 At 31 May 2010 18 206,246 14,991 207,823 429,078 - - 16 - 16 - 16 Exercise of US share incentive plans Equity dividends paid - - - 57,657 57,657 - 57,657 The notes on pages 67 to 120 are an integral part of these Financial Statements.
63 | IG Group Holdings plc | Annual Report 2010 64 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS: CASh FLOW StAtEMENtS FINANCIAL STATEMENTS: INdEx tO NOtES tO thE FINANCIAL StAtEMENtS Cash Flow Statements Index to Notes to the Financial Statements for the year ended 31 May 2010 for the year ended 31 May 2010 Group Company 2010 2009 2010 2009 note Page 000 000 000 Note 000 1.
Authorisation of Financial Statements and statement of compliance with IFRS 67 Operating activities 2.
Revenue 74 Adjustments to reconcile operating profit to net cash flow from operating activities: Net interest income on segregated client funds 5,470 7,600 - - 4.
Segment information 75 Depreciation of property, plant and equipment 6,175 5,402 - - 5.
Operating profit 78 Total amortisation of intangible assets 19,728 15,597 - - 6.
Exceptional items 78 Non-cash foreign exchange gains in operating profit 11,382 4,640 - - Share-based payments 4,782 3,256 - - 7.
Auditors remuneration 79 Write off - property, plant and equipment 49 36 - - 8.
Staff costs 79 Recovery impairment of trade receivables 1,064 18,168 - - 9.
Finance revenue 80 Increase decrease in trade and other receivables 19,162 88,686 96,461 77,919 10.
Finance costs 80 Increase decrease in trade and other payables 92,153 159,585 34,293 795 Increase in provisions 3,156 - - - 11.
Earnings per ordinary share 84 Income taxes paid 47,719 20,274 - - 13.
Dividends 85 Interest received on segregated client funds 5,745 12,670 - - 14.
Property, plant and equipment 86 Interest paid on segregated client funds 332 5,007 - - 15.
Intangible assets 87 Net cash flow from operating activities 186,648 56,759 58,638 74,568 16.
Investments in subsidiaries 88 Investing activities 17.
Impairment of goodwill 90 Interest received 2,557 3,429 1 1,065 Purchase of property, plant and equipment 2,669 5,897 - - 18.
Trade receivables 92 Payments to acquire intangible fixed assets 2,369 2,142 - - 19.
Cash and cash equivalents 92 Purchase of subsidiary undertaking - 121,643 - - 20.
Trade payables 92 Investment in subsidiary undertaking - - - 111,234 21.
Other payables 93 Net cash acquired on purchase of subsidiary undertaking - 68,202 - - 22.
Provisions 93 Net cash flow from investing activities 2,481 58,051 1 110,169 23.
Redeemable preference shares 94 Financing activities 24.
Equity share capital 95 Interest paid 1,317 1,074 918 1,059 Equity dividends paid to equity holders of the parent 57,657 44,016 57,657 44,016 25.
Own shares held in Employee Benefit Trusts 96 Proceeds from the issue of shares - 81,013 - 81,013 26.
Other reserves 97 Purchase of own shares 175 258 175 258 27.
Employee share plans 99 Payment of redeemable preference share dividends 3 3 3 3 28.
Capital commitments 102 Net cash flow from financing activities 59,152 35,662 58,753 35,677 29.
Obligations under leases 102 Net increase decrease in cash and cash equivalents 125,015 34,370 114 76 30.
Contingent liabilities 103 Cash and cash equivalents at the beginning of the period 520,421 471,722 122 46 Exchange gains on cash and cash equivalents 33,128 14,329 - - 31.
Related party transactions 103 Cash and cash equivalents at the end of the period 19 678,564 520,421 8 122 33.
Financial instruments 104 The comparative Group Cash Flow Statement has been restated such that interest on segregated client funds is included within net cash 34.
Financial risk management 108 flow from operating activities.
Refer to notes 2 and 3 for more information.
Capital management and resources 120 The notes on pages 67 to 120 are an integral part of these Financial Statements.
Subsequent events 120 65 | IG Group Holdings plc | Annual Report 2010 66 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS: NOtES tO thE FINANCIAL StAtEMENtS Property, plant and equipment 2.
Accounting policies Notes to the Financial Statements Property, plant and equipment are stated at cost less accumulated continued depreciation and accumulated impairment losses.
Cost comprises the aggregate amount paid and the fair value of any other The interest of minority shareholders is stated at the minoritys consideration given to acquire the asset and includes costs directly As permitted by Section 408 1 b, 4 of the Companies Act 2006, proportion of the fair values of the identifiable assets, liabilities 1.
Authorisation of Financial attributable to making the asset capable of operating as intended.
Losses applicable to the the individual income statement of IG Group Holdings plc has minority in a consolidated subsidiarys equity may exceed the Depreciation is provided on all property, plant and equipment at Statements and statement of not been presented in these Financial Statements.
The amount minority interest in the subsidiarys equity.
The excess, and any rates calculated to write off the cost, less estimated residual value of profit after taxation for the financial year dealt with in the compliance with IFRS based upon estimated useful lives.
Estimated residual value and further losses applicable to the minority, are allocated against Financial Statements of IG Group Holdings plc is 81,090,000 2009: the majority interest, except to the extent that the minority has a useful lives are reviewed on an annual basis and residual values are 51,600,000.
A statement of comprehensive income for The Financial Statements of IG Group Holdings plc the Company binding obligation and is able to make an additional investment to based on prices prevailing at the statement of financial position IG Group Holdings plc has also not been presented in these and its subsidiaries together the Group for the year ended date.
Depreciation is charged on a straight-line basis over the cover the losses.
If the subsidiary subsequently reports profits, such Financial Statements.
No items of other comprehensive income 31 May 2010 were authorised for issue by the Board of Directors profits are allocated to the majority interests until the minoritys expected useful lives as follows: arose in the year 2009: nil.
on 20 July 2010 and the Statements of Financial Position signed on share of losses previously absorbed by the majority has been the Boards behalf by TA Howkins and S Clutton.
Leasehold improvements - over the lease term of The Group and Company Financial Statements are presented in recovered.
up to 15 years sterling and all values are rounded to the nearest thousand pounds IG Group Holdings plc is a public limited company incorporated Office equipment, fixtures and fittings - over 5 years Minority interests represent the portion of profit or loss and net 000 except where otherwise indicated.
and domiciled in England and Wales.
The Companys ordinary Computer and other equipment - over 2, 3 or 5 years assets in subsidiaries that is not held by the Group and is presented shares are traded on the London Stock Exchange.
Motor vehicles - over 4 years Going concern within equity in the consolidated statement of financial position, The Group and Company Financial Statements have been prepared separately from parent shareholders equity.
The Directors have prepared the Financial Statements on a going The carrying values of property, plant and equipment are reviewed in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards concern basis which requires the Directors to have a reasonable for impairment when events or changes in circumstances indicate The results of subsidiaries acquired or disposed of during the IFRS as adopted by the European Union EU as they apply to the expectation that the Group has adequate resources to continue in the carrying value may not be recoverable, and are written down year are included in the consolidated income statement from the Financial Statements of the Group and of the Company for the year operational existence for the foreseeable future.
effective date of acquisition or up to the effective date of disposal, immediately to their recoverable amount.
ended 31 May 2010 and applied in accordance with the provisions as appropriate.
An item of property, plant and equipment is derecognised upon of the Companies Act 2006.
The principal accounting policies Basis of consolidation Where necessary, adjustments are made to the Financial disposal or when no future economic benefits are expected to adopted by the Group and the Company are set out in note 2.
The Group Financial Statements consolidate the Financial Statements of subsidiaries to bring the accounting policies used arise from the continued use of the asset.
The gain or loss arising Statements of IG Group Holdings plc and the entities it controls its on derecognition of an asset is determined as the difference into line with those used by other members of the Group.
Accounting policies subsidiaries made up to the reporting date as listed in note 16. between the sale proceeds and the carrying amount of the Foreign currencies Subsidiaries are consolidated from the date of their acquisition, asset and is included in the income statement in the period of Basis of preparation derecognition.
being the date on which the Group obtains control, and continue The functional currency of each company in the Group is that of The accounting policies which follow, have been applied in to be consolidated until the date that such control ceases.
Control the country of incorporation as disclosed in note 16 as this is Goodwill preparing the Financial Statements for the year ended comprises the power to govern the financial and operating policies consistent with the primary economic environment in which the 31 May 2010. of the investee so as to obtain benefit from its activities and is entity operates.
The Groups most significant functional currency Goodwill arising on consolidation represents the excess of achieved through direct or indirect ownership of voting rights: is sterling.
Transactions in other currencies are initially recorded in the cost of acquisition fair value of consideration paid over The Group has presented its consolidated income statement in a currently exercisable or convertible potential voting rights: or by the Groups interest in the fair value of the identifiable assets, the functional currency by applying spot exchange rates prevailing columnar format.
This enables the Group to continue its practice way of contractual agreement.
The Financial Statements of the on the dates of the transactions.
At each statement of financial liabilities and contingent liabilities of a subsidiary at the date of of improving the understanding of its results by presenting profit subsidiaries used in the preparation of the consolidated Financial position date, monetary assets and liabilities denominated in acquisition.
Goodwill is recognised as an asset and is allocated to for the year before amortisation and impairment of intangibles Statements are prepared for the same reporting year as the parent cash-generating units for purposes of impairment testing.
Cashforeign currencies are retranslated at the functional currency arising on consolidation certain items.
This is the profit measure company and are based on consistent accounting policies.
All rate of exchange prevailing on the same date.
Non-monetary generating units represent the smallest identifiable group of assets used to calculate adjusted EPS see note 12 and is considered inter-company balances and transactions between Group entities, assets and liabilities carried at fair value that are denominated in that generates cash inflows that are largely independent of the to be the most appropriate measure as it better reflects the including unrealised profits arising from them, are eliminated on cash inflows from other assets or groups of assets.
foreign currencies are translated at the rates prevailing at the date Groups underlying cash earnings.
Profit before amortisation and consolidation.
when the fair value was determined.
Gains and losses arising on impairment of intangibles arising on consolidation is reconciled to Business combinations are accounted for using the purchase translation are taken to the income statement, except for exchange profit before tax on the face of the income statement.
On acquisition, the assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities method.
Any excess of the cost of the business combination over differences arising on monetary assets and liabilities that form part of a subsidiary are measured at their fair values at the date of the Groups interest in the net fair value of the identifiable assets, The amortisation of separately identifiable intangible assets and of the Groups net investment in a foreign operation.
The cost of an acquisition is measured at the fair value liabilities and contingent liabilities is recognised in the statement any impairment of goodwill including any tax effect is included in taken directly to equity until the disposal of the net investment, at of consideration paid including an estimate of any contingent or of financial position as goodwill and is not amortised.
To the the income statement within the column certain items.
Intangible which time they are recognised in profit or loss.
deferred consideration and the directly attributable costs of the extent that the net fair value of the acquired entitys identifiable assets arising on consolidation represent goodwill and other acquisition.
Contingent or deferred consideration is re-measured On consolidation, the assets and liabilities of the Groups overseas assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities is greater than the cost separately identifiable intangible assets on business combinations at each statement of financial position date.
Any excess of the operations are translated into sterling at exchange rates prevailing of the investment, a gain is recognised immediately in the income since 1 June 2004. cost of acquisition over the fair values of the identifiable net assets statement.
Any goodwill asset arising on the acquisition of equity on the statement of financial position date.
Income and expense acquired is recognised as goodwill.
Any deficiency of the cost accounted entities is included within the cost of those entities.
items are translated at the average exchange rates for the period.
of acquisition below the fair values of the identifiable net assets Exchange differences arising, if any, are classified as equity and After initial recognition, goodwill is stated at cost less any acquired discount on acquisition is credited to the profit and loss taken directly to a translation reserve.
Such translation differences accumulated impairment losses, with the carrying value being in the period of acquisition.
are recognised as income or as expenses in the period in which reviewed for impairment, at least annually and whenever events or the operation is disposed of.
Goodwill and fair value adjustments changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying value may be arising on the acquisition of a foreign entity are treated as assets impaired.
and liabilities of the foreign entity and translated at the closing rate.
67 | IG Group Holdings plc | Annual Report 2010 68 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS: NOtES tO thE FINANCIAL StAtEMENtS continuing involvement in the asset.
Accounting policies Notes to the Financial Statements that takes the form of a guarantee over the transferred asset is continued measured at the lower of the original carrying amount of the asset continued and the maximum amount of consideration that the Group could be required to repay.
Financial instruments Impairment of assets 2.
Accounting policies The Group determines the classification of its financial instruments Financial liabilities At least annually, or when impairment testing is required, the at initial recognition in accordance with the categories outlined continued A financial liability is derecognised when the obligation under the Directors review the carrying amounts of the Groups tangible and below and re-evaluates this designation at each financial yearliability is discharged or cancelled or expires.
Where an existing intangible assets to determine whether there is any indication end.
When financial instruments are recognised initially, they are For the purpose of impairment testing, goodwill is allocated to the financial liability is replaced by another from the same lender on that those assets have suffered an impairment loss.
If any such measured at fair value, being the transaction price plus, in the case related cash-generating units monitored by management, usually substantially different terms, or the terms of an existing liability are indication exists or at least annually for goodwill, the recoverable of financial assets and financial liabilities not at fair value through at business segment level or statutory company level as the case substantially modified, such an exchange or modification is treated amount of the asset is estimated in order to determine the extent profit or loss, directly attributable transaction costs.
Where the recoverable amount of the cash-generating as a derecognition of the original liability and the recognition of of the impairment loss if any.
Where the asset does not generate instruments are disclosed in note 33 to the Financial Statements.
unit is less than its carrying amount, including goodwill, an a new liability, such that the difference in the respective carrying cash flows that are independent from other assets, the Group impairment loss is recognised in the income statement.
amounts together with any costs or fees incurred are recognised in estimates the recoverable amount of the cash-generating unit to Financial assets and financial liabilities at fair value through profit or loss.
The carrying amount of goodwill allocated to a cash-generating profit or loss which the asset belongs.
unit is taken into account when determining the gain or loss on Financial assets and financial liabilities classified as held for trading, The recoverable amount is the higher of fair value less selling costs Trade receivables and trade payables disposal of the unit, or of an operation within it.
or designated as such on inception, are included in this category and value-in-use.
In assessing value-in-use, the estimated future Assets or liabilities resulting from profit or losses on open positions and relate to trade receivables and trade payables as shown in the cash flows are discounted to their present values using a pre-tax Intangible assets are carried at fair value.
Amounts due from or to clients and statement of financial position.
Financial instruments are classified discount rate.
This rate reflects current market assessments of the brokers are netted against other assets and liabilities with the same Intangible assets are carried at cost less accumulated amortisation as held for trading if they are expected to settle in the short-term.
time value of money as well as the risks specific to the asset for counterparty where a legally enforceable netting agreement is in and accumulated impairment losses.
The Group uses derivative financial instruments, in order to hedge which the estimates of future cash flows have not been adjusted.
place and where it is anticipated that assets and liabilities will be derivative exposures arising from open client positions, which are Intangible assets acquired separately from a business are carried If the recoverable amount of an asset is estimated to be less than netted on settlement.
also classified as held for trading.
An intangible asset acquired as part of a business its carrying amount, the carrying amount of the asset is reduced Trade receivables represent balances with counterparties and combination such as a trade name or customer relationship is All financial instruments at fair value through the profit and loss are to its recoverable amount.
Impairment losses are recognised as an clients where the combination of cash held on account and the recognised at fair value outside goodwill if the asset is separable carried in the statement of financial position at fair value with gains expense immediately.
valuation of financial derivative open positions result in an amount or arises from contractual or other legal rights and its fair value or losses recognised in the income statement.
A provision for impairment is established where An assessment is made at each reporting date as to whether there can be measured reliably.
Expenditure on internally developed there is objective evidence of non-collectability.
Reference is is any indication that previously recognised impairment losses may intangible assets, excluding development costs, is taken to the Determination of fair value no longer exist or may have decreased.
If such indication exists, made to an aged profile of debt and the provision is subject to income statement in the year in which it is incurred.
Development Bets and other derivative financial instruments are stated at fair management review.
the recoverable amount is estimated.
A previously recognised expenditure is recognised as an intangible asset only after all the value determined by reference to third party market values bid impairment loss is reversed only if there has been a change in following criteria are met: prices for long positions and offer prices for short positions.
Trade payables represent balances with counterparties and clients the estimates used to determine the assets recoverable amount where the combination of cash held on account and the valuation For all other derivative financial instruments, where there is no The projects technical feasibility and commercial viability can be since the last impairment loss was recognised.
If that is the case, of financial derivative open positions results in an amount payable underlying active market, the fair value is determined using an demonstrated the carrying amount of the asset is increased to its recoverable by the Group.
appropriate valuation technique as determined by the Group at The availability of adequate technical and financial resources and amount.
That increased amount cannot exceed the carrying the year-end.
an intention to complete the project have been confirmed amount that would have been determined, had no impairment Prepayments and other receivables loss been recognised for the asset in prior years.
A reversal of an The correlation between development costs and future revenue Derecognition of financial assets and liabilities Prepayments and other receivables are non-derivative financial impairment loss is recognised as income immediately, although has been established assets with fixed or determinable payments that are not quoted A financial asset or liability is generally derecognised when the impairment losses relating to goodwill may not be reversed.
in an active market, do not qualify as trading assets and have not Following initial recognition, the historic cost model is applied, contract that gives rise to it is settled, sold, cancelled or expires.
been designated as fair value through profit and loss.
Such assets with intangible assets being carried at cost less accumulated Investments in subsidiaries are carried at amortised cost using the effective interest method Financial assets amortisation and accumulated impairment losses.
Investments in subsidiaries are stated at cost less accumulated A financial asset is derecognised where the rights to receive cash if the time value of money is significant.
Gains and losses are Intangible assets with a finite life are amortised over their expected impairment losses.
recognised in income when the receivables are derecognised or flows from the asset have expired: the Group retains the right to useful lives, as follows: impaired, as well as through the amortisation process.
A provision receive cash flows from the asset, but has assumed an obligation Operating leases Client lists - straight-line basis over the expected for impairment is established where there is objective evidence of to pay them in full without material delay to a third party under a Leases are classified as operating leases where the lessor retains trading life of up to 5 years non-collectability.
pass-through arrangement: or the Group has transferred its rights substantially all the risks and benefits of ownership of the asset.
Development costs - straight-line basis over 3 years to receive cash flows from the asset and either a has transferred Software and licences - straight-line basis over the contract Lease payments under an operating lease are recognised as an Cash and cash equivalents substantially all the risks and rewards of the asset, or b has neither term of up to 5 years expense on a straight-line basis over the lease term unless another transferred nor retained substantially all the risks and rewards of Cash comprises cash in hand and demand deposits which may be Trade names - sum of digits method over 2 years systematic basis is more representative of the time pattern of the the asset, but has transferred control of the asset.
Cash equivalents comprise short-term Customer relationships - sum of digits method over 5 years users benefit.
highly liquid investments with a maturity of less than three months Where the Group has transferred its rights to receive cash flows from the date of acquisition.
For the purposes of the consolidated The carrying value of intangible assets is reviewed for impairment from an asset and has neither transferred nor retained substantially cash flow statement, net cash and cash equivalents consist of cash whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate the carrying all the risks and rewards of the asset nor transferred control of and cash equivalents as defined above, net of outstanding bank value may not be recoverable.
In addition, the carrying value of the asset, the asset is recognised to the extent of the Groups overdrafts.
capitalised development expenditure is reviewed for impairment annually before being brought into use.
69 | IG Group Holdings plc | Annual Report 2010 70 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS: NOtES tO thE FINANCIAL StAtEMENtS At each statement of financial position date before vesting, the 2.
Accounting policies Notes to the Financial Statements cumulative expense is calculated representing the extent to which the vesting period has expired and managements best estimate continued continued of the achievement or otherwise of non-market conditions Finance revenue and interest income on segregated client funds is determining the number of equity instruments that will ultimately The carrying amount of deferred tax assets is reviewed at each accrued on a time basis, by reference to the principal outstanding vest.
The movement in cumulative expense since the previous 2.
Accounting policies and at the effective interest rate applicable.
The effective interest statement of financial position date and reduced to the extent statement of financial position date is recognised in the income continued that it is no longer probable that sufficient taxable profits will be rate is the rate which exactly discounts estimated future cash statement as part of administrative expenses, with a corresponding available to allow all or part of the asset to be recovered.
receipts over the expected life of the financial asset to that assets entry in equity.
The Group holds money on behalf of clients in accordance with net carrying amount.
Interest income on segregated client funds Deferred tax assets and liabilities are measured on an undiscounted the client money rules of the UKs Financial Services Authority is disclosed within revenue and therefore operating profit as this is Changes in accounting policies basis at the tax rates that are expected to apply when the related FSA and other regulatory bodies.
This money is included within consistent with the nature of the Groups operations.
The accounting policies adopted in the preparation of Financial asset is realised or liability is settled, based on tax rates and laws cash and cash equivalents on the statement of financial position Dividends receivable are recognised when the shareholders right Statements are consistent with those followed in the preparation enacted or substantively enacted at the statement of financial and the corresponding liability to clients is included in trade and of the Groups Annual Report for the year ended 31 May 2009, position date.
Deferred tax is charged or credited in the income to receive the payment is established.
The return received on managing client balances is statement, except when it relates to items credited or charged other than as set out below: included within operating income.
Operating profit directly to equity, in which case the deferred tax is also dealt with The Group has made presentational changes in order to disclose in equity.
Operating profit is the sum of the results of the principal activities Other payables interest income and expense on segregated client funds within of the Group after charging depreciation of property, plant and operating profit as opposed to finance revenue or finance costs.
Deferred tax assets and liabilities are offset when they relate to Non-trading financial liabilities are recognised initially at fair value equipment, amortisation of intangible assets, operating lease This change has been made in order to present operating profit on income taxes levied by the same taxation authority and the Group and carried at amortised cost using the effective interest rate rentals on land and buildings, foreign exchange differences, a basis more consistent with the nature of Groups operations and intends to settle its current tax assets and liabilities on a net basis.
method if the time value of money is significant.
profit or loss on sale of property, plant and equipment and other to increase comparability with the Groups peers.
This has resulted administrative expenses.
Classification of shares as debt or equity in an increase in reported operating profit and revenue for the year Provisions ended 31 May 2010 of 5,470,000 and 5,791,000 respectively and When shares are issued, any component that creates a financial Provisions are recognised when the Group has a present legal or Exceptional items of 7,600,000 and 12,888,000 for the year ended 31 May 2009 liability of the Group is presented as a liability in the statement of constructive obligation as a result of past events: it is probable that Exceptional items are those items of income and expense respectively.
There has been a corresponding decrease in finance financial position: measured initially at fair value net of transaction an outflow of resources will be required to settle the obligation: that the Group considers are material and or of such a nature costs and finance revenue for each year.
There is no change to costs and thereafter at amortised cost until extinguished on and the amount can be reliably estimated.
Where material, that they merit separate presentation in order to aid a readers profit before taxation or on earnings per share for either of these conversion or redemption.
The corresponding dividends relating provisions are discounted and recognised at the present value of understanding of the Groups financial performance.
to the liability component are charged as interest expense in the expenditures expected to settle the obligation with the unwind of income statement.
the discount recognised as an interest expense.
Finance costs and interest expense on segregated New and amended standards adopted by the Group Equity instruments issued by the Company are recorded as the client funds The following new or amended standards have been adopted by Taxation proceeds received, net of direct issue costs.
Equity instruments the Group: The interest cost recognised in the income statement is accrued The income tax expense represents the sum of tax currently are classified according to the substance of the contractual on a time basis by reference to the principal amount charged at IFRS 7 Financial Instruments Disclosures amendment : The payable and movements in deferred tax.
An equity instrument is any contract the effective interest rate applicable.
The effective interest rate is that evidences a residual interest in the assets of the Group after amended standard requires enhanced disclosures about fair The tax currently payable is based on taxable profit for the period.
the rate that exactly discounts the future expected cash flows to value measurement and liquidity risk.
As a disclosure standard deducting all of its liabilities.
Taxable profit differs from net profit as reported in the income the carrying amount of the liability.
Issue costs are included in the the adoption of IFRS 7 has had no impact on the results or the statement because it excludes items of income or expense that determination of the effective interest rates.
Own shares held in Employee Benefit Trusts financial position of the Group.
are taxable or deductible in other periods and it further excludes Interest expense on segregated client funds is disclosed within Shares held in trust by the Company for the purposes of employee items that are never taxable or deductible.
The Groups liability for IFRS 8 Operating Segments: This new standard replaces IAS 14 operating profit as this is consistent with the nature of the Groups share schemes are classified as a deduction from shareholders Segment Reporting and requires a management approach current tax is calculated using tax rates that have been enacted or operations.
equity and are recognised at cost.
Consideration received for the substantively enacted by the statement of financial position date.
under which segment information is presented on the sale of such shares is also recognised in equity, with any difference same basis as that used for internal reporting purposes.
As a Deferred tax is generally accounted for on all temporary differences Retirement benefit costs between the proceeds from the sale and the original cost being disclosure standard, the adoption of IFRS 8 has had no impact between the carrying amount of assets and liabilities in the taken to revenue reserves.
No gain or loss is recognised in the The Group operates defined contribution schemes.
Contributions on the results or the financial position of the Group.
A revised Financial Statements and the corresponding tax basis used in the income statement on the purchase, sale, issue or cancellation of are charged to the income statement as and when they become segmental note along with restated comparative information is computation of taxable profit.
In principle, deferred tax liabilities equity shares.
payable according to the rules of the schemes.
The adoption of IFRS 8 has also required the are recognised for all temporary differences and deferred tax assets Group to review the identification of cash-generating units for are recognised to the extent that it is probable that taxable profits Revenue recognition Share-based payments the purposes of the goodwill impairment review exercise - see will be available, against which deductible temporary differences Revenue is recognised when it is probable that economic benefits The Company operates two employee share plans: a Share note 17. may be utilised.
Such assets and liabilities are not recognised if the associated with the transaction will flow to the Group and the Incentive Plan SIP and a Long-Term Incentive Plan LTIP both of temporary difference arises from goodwill or negative goodwill or IAS 1 revised, Presentation of Financial Statements: The revised revenue can be reliably measured.
The cost of these awards is measured from the initial recognition other than in a business combination standard prohibits the presentation of non-owner items of at fair value based on the market price of the Companys shares Rendering of services includes gains and losses on the running income and expense in the consolidated statement of changes of other assets and liabilities in a transaction that affects neither the at the date of the grant and are recognised as an expense in the of betting markets and trading in financial markets, net of tax profit nor the accounting profit.
in equity, requiring such items to be presented in a statement of income statement on a straight-line basis over the vesting period commissions expensed.
Open positions are carried at fair market comprehensive income.
As a disclosure standard the adoption of Deferred tax liabilities are recognised for taxable temporary based on the Companys estimate of the number of shares that will value and gains and losses arising on this valuation are recognised IAS 1 revised has had no impact on the results or the financial differences arising on investments in subsidiaries and associates, eventually vest.
in revenue as well as gains and losses realised on positions that position of the Group.
except where the Group is able to control the reversal of the have closed.
temporary difference and it is probable that the temporary difference will not reverse in the foreseeable future.
71 | IG Group Holdings plc | Annual Report 2010 72 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS: NOtES tO thE FINANCIAL StAtEMENtS 2.
Accounting policies continued Notes to the Financial Statements IAS 38 amendment Intangible assets.
The amendment clarifies guidance in measuring fair value of an intangible asset acquired in continued a business combination and permits grouping of intangible assets as a single asset if each asset has similar useful economic lives.
The Group will apply the amendment from the same date as IFRS 3 revised.
The amendment will not impact the Groups currently held intangible assets.
Accounting policies continued IFRS 5 amendment Measurement of non-current assets or disposal groups classified as held for sale.
The amendment provides The following new standards and interpretations are also effective for accounting periods beginning 1 June 2009 but have not had a clarification to the existing standard disclosure requirements and will not result in a material impact to the Groups Financial Statements.
material impact on the presentation of, nor the results or financial position of the Group: The Group will apply IFRS 5 amendment from 1 July 2010.
This amendment clarifies that vesting conditions are service and performance conditions IAS 1 amendment Presentation of Financial Statements.
The amendment provides clarification that the potential settlement of a only.
It also specifies that all cancellations should receive the same accounting treatment whether cancelled by the entity or by other liability by the issue of equity is not relevant to its classification as current or non-current.
The Group will apply IAS1 amendment from parties.
It is not expected to have a material impact on the Groups Financial Statements.
IAS 32 Amendment Financial Instruments: Presentation and IAS 1 Amendment Presentation of Financial Statements Puttable IFRS 2 amendments Group cash-settled share-based payment transactions.
The amendments include IFRIC 8 and 11 and expand the Instruments and Instruments with obligations arising on Liquidation.
guidance in IFRIC 11 to address the classification of group arrangements not previously covered.
The new guidance is not expected to IAS 36 Amendment Impairment of assets.
The amendment requires that where fair value less costs to sell is calculated based on have a material impact on the Groups Financial Statements.
discounted cash flows disclosures equivalent to those for a value-in-use calculation should be made.
Critical accounting estimates and judgements IAS 38 Amendment Intangible Assets.
The amendment allows the recognition of a prepayment only in the event that payment has The preparation of financial statements requires management to make estimates and assumptions that affect the amounts reported for been made in advance of obtaining right of access to goods or receipt of services.
assets and liabilities as at the year-end and the amounts reported for revenues and expenses during the year.
The nature of estimates IAS 19 Amendment Employee benefits.
The amendment clarifies certain accounting and valuation of defined benefit plans and alters means that actual outcomes could differ from those estimates.
the distinction of short-term and long-term employee benefits.
In the Directors opinion, the accounting estimates or judgements that have the most significant impact on the Financial Statements are the IAS 39 Amendment Financial Instruments: Recognition and Measurement.
The amendment clarifies certain definitions and aligns the impairment of trade receivables see note 5, the calculation of the Groups taxation charge see note 11 c and 11 f, the measurement and example of a segment with IFRS 8. impairment of goodwill see note 17, the estimation of the onerous lease liability see note 22, the estimation of share-based payment costs IAS 23 Amendments Borrowing Costs.
The amendments to the standard require an entity to capitalise borrowing costs directly see note 27 and the assessment of net market risk and associated disclosures see note 34. attributable to the acquisition, construction or production of a qualifying asset one that takes a substantial period of time to get ready for use or sale as part of the cost of that asset.
IAS 16 Amendment Property plant and equipment and consequential amendment to IAS 7 Statement of cash flows.
Revenue amendment relates to entities whose ordinary activities are renting and subsequently selling assets.
Trading revenue represents the net trading income from financial instruments carried at fair value through profit and loss.
Revenue from IAS 28 Amendment Investments in Associates.
The amendment requires that the investment in an associate is treated as a single external customers includes interest income on segregated client funds and is analysed as follows: asset for the purposes of impairment testing.
IAS 29 Amendment Financial reporting in hyperinflationary economies.
2010 2009 000 000 IAS 31 Amendment Interests in joint ventures.
The amendment deletes wording that states that there is rarely, if ever support for use of a Trading revenue method of amortisation that results in a lower rate than the straight-line method.
Financial Spread betting 104,605 109,396 IAS 40 Amendment Investment Property.
The amendment brings property that is under construction or development for future use Contracts for difference 177,414 128,945 as an investment property within the scope of IAS 40.
The amendment relates to the valuation methodologies for biological assets.
Total Financial 292,619 248,346 IAS 20 Amendment Accounting for government grants and disclosure of government assistance.
The amendment relates to accounting for the benefit of a below market rate government loan.
Sport 5,932 8,743 IFRIC 15 Agreements for the Construction of Real Estate.
Total trading revenue 298,551 257,089 IFRIC 17 Distributions of Non-cash Assets to Owners.
Interest income on segregated client funds 5,791 12,888 The following standards, amendments and interpretations have been published and are mandatory for the Groups accounting periods Revenue from external customers 304,342 269,977 beginning or after 1 June 2010 or later period, but the Group has not early adopted them: IAS 27 revised Consolidated and separate Financial Statements.
The revised standard requires the effects of all transactions with nonIn addition to the above finance revenue is disclosed in note 9. controlling interests to be recorded in equity if there is no change in control.
The Group will apply IFRS 3 revised prospectively to all transactions with non-controlling interests from 1 July 2010.
The revised standard requires that all acquisition costs be expensed and that all payments to purchase a business are to be recorded at fair value at the acquisition date.
Any contingent payments are classified as debt and re-measured through the income statement.
Non-controlling interests may be measured either at fair value or at the non-controlling interest proportionate share of the acquirees net assets.
The Group will apply IFRS 3 revised prospectively to all business combinations from 1 July 2010.
73 | IG Group Holdings plc | Annual Report 2010 74
