Business Review: WhAt WE dO... What we do...
Award-winning business and recognised In this section we describe our Market-leading brands Focus on our clients market leader Providing online derivatives trading to a global client base: We are committed to providing our clients with a consistent, business and the factors that IG Group brands have been recognised with a number of world-class service.
In 2009, independent research by i ii awards.
In 2009 IG Index was awarded Best Spread Betting contribute to our success.
Investment Trends confirmed IG Markets as the largest Firm by Shares Magazine and Best Online Provider at the single provider of CFD accounts in the UK and Australia, Contracts for Difference CFD trading on forex, shares, indices, MoneyAM Online Finance Awards.
Our cutting-edge charting while IG Index is the UKs largest spread-betting company.
commodities and options, plus a full Direct Market Access DMA package, DealThru Charts, was also recognised with the Best service Online Product Innovation award.
A commitment to client education i Investment Trends: 2009 UK Spread Betting and CFD Report November 2009.
Principal offices in London, Dsseldorf, Lisbon, Madrid, The Group monitors a range of key performance indicators ii Investment Trends: May 2010 Australia CFD Report July 2010.
Melbourne, Milan, Paris and Singapore to ensure we continue to deliver high-quality client service and maintain our reputation for fair treatment of clients.
Clients in over 123 countries and a network of global partners This commitment includes educating clients throughout their trading life.
We provide all new clients with our established TradeSense education programme.
TradeSense covers a number of key The largest and longest-running spread betting company in topics, and offers reduced trade sizes for the duration of the the world six-week course, promoting responsible trading and building Spread betting on forex, indices, commodities, binaries and client confidence.
thousands of global shares We also offer a range of seminars, both online and at our Multi-award-winning and recently confirmed as UK market offices, designed by our team of financial experts led by i leader our Chief Market Strategist.
CFD trading and margined forex Based in Tokyo, acquired by IG Group in 2008 Nadex offers limited-risk derivative contracts on indices, commodities and forex as well as direct-access browser-based trading Futures brokers can now trade on Nadex following a change in regulatory designation in April 2010 Sports spread betting, fixed-odds, binaries and an online casino, all from one account 3 | IG Group Holdings plc | Annual Report 2010 4 Business Review: WhAt WE dO... What we do... continued Competitive and transparent Advanced and robust Financial strength Partners and institutional pricing technology business We offer transparent prices that are competitively low, while We provide our clients with a fast, reliable and secure trading Since IG Index was established in 1974, our operations In addition to our focus on the recruitment and servicing of maintaining our trademark quality of service and trade environment.
Over 45,000 clients use our trading platforms have expanded and we are now a global leader in online direct retail clients, we also have a diversified base of over execution.
Spreads on EUR USD, for example, start at just one on a daily basis, utilising super-quick pricing and one-click CFD trading and spread betting.
We are a multinational 370 global partners.
pip, while our commission rates start at 0.1% for UK equities.
dealing, and over 99% of all trades are executed automatically.
organisation supporting over 120,000 clients worldwide Partner relationships can take a number of forms: who carry out millions of transactions per month.
New Smart Order Routing The PureDeal trading platform A third party introduces the client, but is not actively The IG Group is built on solid financial foundations: During the year, we introduced Smart Order Routing to source Our in-house IT team has developed an award-winning trading involved in the ongoing relationship.
prices from Europes top three Multilateral Trading Facilities platform to keep us at the forefront of the industry.
Some of Constituent of the FTSE 250 A third party has an ongoing involvement in the client MTFs : Chi-X, Turquoise and BATS.
This provides our clients the platforms key features include: IG Group is listed on the London Stock Exchange where it relationship.
This may be management of the underlying with greater liquidity and better prices.
In addition to MTFs, Fully customisable interface so clients can easily monitor is a constituent of the FTSE 250.
Our market capitalisation investment under a power of attorney, or more general we also source prices from major European exchanges, such their favourite markets at 31 May 2010 was 1.4bn 2009: 0.8bn.
In some cases, all client contact as the London Stock Exchange and Euronext, in search of the is via the intermediary.
Our pricing is then derived from the Trading tools including Reuters news feeds, research and Client money protection best bid and offer prices to be found in the underlying market.
market analysis A white-label arrangement is created where clients of a third We adopt a best-practice approach to client money party trade on our PureDeal platform, but under the third Extensive charting packages including real-time charts, protection.
We follow the client asset rules set by the UKs partys trading banner.
in-built trading pattern software and DealThru Charts Financial Services Authority FSA, segregating all retail clients funds in client money bank accounts, in contrast FlX is an industry standard protocol for systems connectivity Mobile dealing on iPhone, BlackBerry and smartphones to a number of our competitors.
that enables direct electronic access to our pricing and trade execution technology.
This enables firms with their Direct Market Access solutions Risk management and corporate own trading platform to offer IG Group products.
We offer Direct Market Access DMA through a choice of governance browser-based and downloadable platforms.
DMA offers a IG Group has a strong and effective enterprise-wide risk number of advantages to traders, including the ability to trade management and corporate governance framework.
straight into the order book of equity exchanges and view full Our centralised operating model allows our experienced market depth.
management team to effectively control our global operations.
Capital resources IG Group is strongly capitalised and highly cash generative.
At 31 May 2010, consolidated regulatory capital resources represented 338.1% 2009: 253.3% of capital resources requirement and total equity amounted to 474.6m 2009: 395.9m.
5 | IG Group Holdings plc | Annual Report 2010 6 Business Review: BOARd OF dIRECtORS Board of directors Jonathan davie tim howkins Steve Clutton Peter hetherington Andrew MacKay Finance Director, 49 years old Chief Operating Officer, 41 years old Non-Executive Chairman, 63 years old Chief Executive, 47 years old Head of Asia Pacific, 44 years old Steve gained a first class degree in Chemistry Peter read Economics at Nottingham University and Jonathan qualified as a Chartered Accountant.
He Tim has a first class degree in Mathematics and Andrew has a Masters in History from St Andrews from Nottingham.
After qualifying as a Chartered has a Masters in Finance from the London Business joined George M. Hill and Co, a jobber on the London Computer Science from Reading.
He qualified as a University and completed the Law Society Finals Accountant with KPMG, he spent five years in School.
Peter was an officer in the Royal Navy Stock Exchange in 1969.
The firm was acquired by Wedd Chartered Accountant with Ernst & Young and is also examination at the College of Law in London.
He corporate finance with Barclays fide Zoete Wedd.
before joining IG Index, as a graduate trainee, in Durlacher Mordaunt and Co where Jonathan became a member of the Chartered Institute of Taxation.
Tim qualified as a lawyer with Linklaters and worked a partner in 1975.
Jonathan was the senior dealing In 1994 he joined British Telecom heading up its 1994.
He became head of financial dealing in 1999 was one of a group of partners and staff who left there for seven years, principally in the litigation and partner of the firm on its acquisition by Barclays Bank internal corporate finance team before becoming and was appointed a director of IG Group in 2002, Ernst & Young in 1990 to form Rees Pollock, a firm of financial services practices.
In 1998, Andrew moved to form BZW in 1986.
Jonathan developed BZWs Fixed the Chief Financial Officer of BTs international since when he has performed the role of Chief chartered accountants targeted at entrepreneurial, to LIFFE as market investigations manager before Income business prior to becoming CEO of the Global business based in Virginia, USA.
Tim was a partner in joining the IG Group as Legal Counsel in March 1999.
In 1996 Jonathan became and 2004, Steve was Finance Director of Interoute Rees Pollock for seven years and was the partner Andrew was appointed a director of IG Group in Deputy Chairman of BZW and then Vice Chairman of Communications Ltd, a private equity backed responsible for the Groups audit.
Following the Groups acquisition of FXOnline Credit Suisse First Boston in 1998 on their acquisition of supplier of telecoms services with operations IG Group as Finance Director in 1999, and became in October 2008, Andrew moved to Tokyo to assume most of BZWs businesses.
Jonathan is presently a nonthroughout Europe.
Steve joined IG Group in Chief Executive in 2006.
During the year, Tim was the role of Head of Asia Pacific.
executive director of Persimmon plc and Infrastrata plc October 2006 from Barclays Bank plc, where he was appointed as a Board Member of the Futures and and Chairman of First Avenue Partners, an alternatives Finance Director of UK Retail Banking.
david Currie Martin Jackson Robert Lucas Nat le Roux Roger Yates Non-Executive Director, 63 years old Non-Executive Director, 61 years old Non-Executive Director, 47 years old Non-Executive Deputy Chairman, 53 years old Senior Independent Non-Executive Director, 53 years old David Currie Lord Currie of Marylebone was the Martin was appointed a non-executive director of Robert read Electrical Engineering at Imperial Nat was Chief Executive of IG Group for four years founding Chairman of Ofcom, where he served from IG Group and chairman of the Audit Committee in College, London.
He joined Marconi post before becoming Non-Executive Deputy Chairman Roger joined the board as non-executive and Senior 2002 to 2009.
He was also previously a non-executive April 2005.
He was the group Finance Director of graduation until 1987, when he moved into private in 2006.
He initially joined the Group as Financial Independent Director in February 2006.
Roger read director of Abbey National plc from 2001 to 2002: a Friends Provident plc between 2001 and 2003 and equity investment with 3i plc.
In 1996, he joined Dealing Director in 1992 after a career in futures Modern History at Worcester College Oxford, and has founder and Chairman of the International Centre of Friends Provident Life Office between 1999 and CVC Capital Partners Limited and, in 2004, he broking and stock broking.
Nat holds an MA in 28 years experience in the fund management industry Financial Regulation and Chairman of Independent 2001.
Prior to that, he was the group Finance Director became a Managing Partner.
Robert is a nonLaw from Cambridge University and an MSc in as an investment professional and business manager.
Between 2001 and 2007 at London & Manchester Group plc from 1992 to executive director of a number of companies in Anthropology from University College London.
Previously he was Chief Investment Officer of Invesco David was the Dean of Cass Business School.
Prior to 1998 up to the date of its acquisition by Friends which funds managed or advised by CVC Capital He is an independent director of the London Global and held senior roles for fund management that, at the London Business School, he was Deputy Provident Life Office.
He is a non-executive director Partners Limited or its affiliates have invested, Metal Exchange.
companies LGT and Morgan Grenfell.
He joined Dean, Professor of Economics, and headed the Centre and chairman of the Audit Committee of Admiral including AA Saga.
He became a non-executive Henderson Global Investors as Chief Executive in 1999, for Economic Forecasting and the Regulation Initiative.
Group plc and is a fellow of the Institute of Chartered director of IG Group in 2003. and in 2003 led the fide-merger of Henderson from He is currently a non-executive director of Royal Mail Accountants.
its then parent AMP, becoming Chief Executive of Holdings plc, the Dubai Financial Services Authority the resulting listed entity, now Henderson Group plc, and the London Philharmonic Orchestra as well as until November 2008.
In June 2009, he also became a Chairman of Semperium PPP Investment Partners.
non-executive director of F&C Asset Management plc, and laterly, CEO of Pioneer Investments, a part of the UniCredit Group.
7 | IG Group Holdings plc | Annual Report 2010 8 Business Review: StRAtEGY Strategy Our strategy comprises four elements: Maintaining market-leading Expanding our global reach delivering product and Continuing high standards of positions directly or through partnership technological innovation client service IG Group is the leading provider of CFD trading and spread The Group is committed to maintaining its strong global The Group has a culture of innovation and is at the forefront In addition to spread betting in the UK, the Group provides a betting products to retail investors, and our brands hold position and our strategy is to target new markets where of the market in terms of product offering and technology complete CFD service to clients globally, including enhanced market-leading positions in the global markets in which we believe there is a sizeable long-term opportunity and platforms.
Our trading platforms are based on award-winning websites, dealing platforms, 24-hour customer support and we operate.
technology and provide clients with state-of-the-art features telephone dealing in 11 languages.
The key focus of our in an easy-to-use way, while maintaining high levels of customer service strategy is the ability to treat clients fairly and We seek to have a decisive retail market lead in every country We believe CFD products have the potential to reach market platform resilience and speed of trade execution.
For higher frequency in which we operate.
penetration levels in most of the markets in which we operate trading clients, we offer access to a nominated sales trader.
similar to those seen in the UK and Australia, the Groups most developed markets.
In addition, we also see significant further IG Group businesses offer near-instantaneous execution, partnering opportunities, which complement our direct retail with around 99% of client orders accepted automatically.
Partnering can be used to develop business in countries where we do not currently have a local presence.
9 | IG Group Holdings plc | Annual Report 2010 10
