6661 Impax R&A 2010 Text:6661 Impax R&A 2010 Text 31 3 11 13:43 Page 6 MANAGERS REPORT Following the global financial crisis of 2007 and 2008, the last two years have been particularly challenging for investors charged with interpreting rapidly changing macro-economic fundamentals.
Investing in environmental markets has been no different, with these complexities compounded by significant developments in government policy affecting the sector.
In this context, although IEM marginally under-performed the MSCI World Index during 2010, we were encouraged by the years result, which was significantly ahead of both the peer group and 1 the FTSE ET50 Index, which was down 2.3% for the year.
Drivers of Environmental Markets in 2010 Environmental policy and regulation remained a key driver for the Company, as governments sought to improve the efficient use of resources, reduce geopolitical supply risks and lower the environmental impact of economic growth.
The Asia-Pacific region saw ongoing implementation of new policies, as governments became increasingly concerned about the resource, infrastructure and environmental challenges faced by the region.
However, investors were unnerved by statements from some European governments concerning retrospective changes to subsidies for renewable energy, and by the failure of the US government to progress material environmental policy in advance of the mid-term elections.
Signs of economic recovery were positive for the Company during 2010.
Rising commodity prices, particularly for oil, paper and metals bolstered margins in energy efficiency and recycling markets, while anticipation of a recovery in construction activity also provided support, in particular for water infrastructure and buildings energy efficiency holdings.
Finally, the superior growth of environmental markets has proved to be attractive to corporate as well as to private equity buyers.
In this context, three companies held by IEM were taken over during 2010, and, as balance sheets of key consolidators are restored, we expect more corporate activity in 2011.
Alternative Energy and Energy Efficiency 42% portfolio weighting at 31 December 2010 i Renewable and Alternative Energy RAE 17% weighting The RAE sector continued to be weak during 2010.
Power markets provided a challenging backdrop, with lower demand and increasing supply of gas leading to pressure on power prices.
Regulatory uncertainty and overcapacity also contributed to negative performance.
In the solar sector, several European governments announced plans to reduce subsidies for new projects in line with falling equipment supply costs.
However, the Spanish government, which, unusually, passes the subsidy burden to the taxpayer rather than to the consumer, took the unprecedented step of applying retrospective changes to subsidies awarded in 2008.
Investors worried that other countries could follow suit, and there was a widespread sell-off of solar stocks such as Sunpower US.
In contrast, Asian solar companies outperformed in challenging markets due to the cost advantages of manufacturing in the region.
Notable beneficiaries included Renesola and Trina Solar both China.
Nevertheless, we believe the outlook for the solar sector remains challenging, with a risk of oversupply and consequent pressure on margins.
In the wind sector, the lack of progress in developing new Federal renewable energy targets in the US, weak demand for power, reduced utility capital expenditure and industry overcapacity contributed to sluggish market growth.
This negatively impacted both original equipment manufacturers OEMs such as Vestas and Gamesa wind turbines, Denmark and Spain and independent power producers IPPs such as EDP Renovaveis Portugal.
Although we believe 1 The FTSE ET50 Index comprises the 50 largest stocks in the universe of stocks that the Company can invest in.
6 IMPAX ENVIRONMENTAL MARKETS PLC Job No.
: 6661 Proof Event: 7 Park Communications Ltd Alpine Way London E6 6LA Customer: Impax Project Title: Annual Report T: 020 7055 6500 F: 020 7055 6600 6661 Impax R&A 2010 Text:6661 Impax R&A 2010 Text 31 3 11 13:43 Page 7 MANAGERS REPORT CONTINUED the long-term investment proposition for wind remains intact, we have consolidated the Companys holdings in this area and have shifted the focus in favour of IPPs, which we believe are better placed to take advantage of current market circumstances.
We continue to closely monitor the RAE sector with a view to increasing our exposure as the sector recovers.
ii Energy Efficiency EE 25% weighting Benefiting from rising oil prices and new government policy, energy efficiency generated the strongest sub-sector performance in 2010.
The most notable development in this area was Chinas latest Five Year Plan, which singled out energy efficiency as a key area for strategic investment.
In December, the UK introduced an Energy Bill with a focus on energy efficiency, including an innovative scheme known as the Green Deal, which will provide attractive finance to support domestic energy efficiency investments.
The EE sector also benefited from a strong recovery in industrial activity and an anticipated recovery in construction activity.
This led to strong performance by industrial energy efficiency holdings such as LEM power electronics, Switzerland and Regal Beloit electric motors, US, as well as buildings energy efficiency holdings such as Nibe heat pumps, Sweden.
Increasing traction of LED technology in lighting applications led to strong performance of Dialight LED, UK.
As noted in the Half-yearly Financial Report, M&A activity made a positive contribution to performance, with Emerson acquiring Chloride uninterruptible power supply, UK.
Waste Technologies and Resource Management 32% portfolio weighting at 31 December 2010 i Waste Management & Technologies WMT 27% weighting The WMT sector generally performed well during 2010, with mixed results at the stock level.
Under the umbrella of the European Unions Landfill Directive, the UK announced further increases to its landfill tax escalator, driving waste volumes to higher value disposal solutions: in addition, France made further progress in rolling out its five-year plan, Grenelle Environnement, with a new set of stringent regulations expected to lead to further closures of non-compliant waste facilities, benefiting Sch Environnement waste management, France.
The US hazardous waste segment generated strong performance, partly reflecting upgrades following the oil spill in the Gulf of Mexico, but also reflecting the strong market position and consequent pricing power of key holdings Stericycle medical waste, US and Clean Harbors hazardous waste, US.
Separately, the Environmental Protection Agency EPA announced proposals for rules that would designate coal combustion ash as a hazardous waste: if adopted, this would increase opportunities for Headwaters recycled materials, United States.
The value added waste processing sub-sector was also strong, with high commodity prices and increased use of recycled parts leading to strong performance of LKQ auto parts recycling, US.
Rising commodity prices and continued industrial recovery also benefited Newalta industrial waste recycling, Canada.
The diversified waste management segment was lack-lustre, due to continued uncertainty around the pace of economic growth and resulting waste volumes, and Lassila & Tikanoja waste management, Finland and Shanks waste management, UK, were consequently weak.
7 IMPAX ENVIRONMENTAL MARKETS PLC Job No.
: 6661 Proof Event: 7 Park Communications Ltd Alpine Way London E6 6LA Customer: Impax Project Title: Annual Report T: 020 7055 6500 F: 020 7055 6600 6661 Impax R&A 2010 Text:6661 Impax R&A 2010 Text 31 3 11 13:43 Page 8 MANAGERS REPORT CONTINUED ii Environmental Support Services ESS 5% weighting We remain positive on the ESS sector, in particular on environmental consultants on the basis of compelling valuations and earnings that are showing early signs of recovery after three years of downgrades.
Nevertheless, budget constraints in both the public and private sectors led to weak overall performance in this sector during 2010.
Elsewhere in this sub-sector, uncertainty surrounding the carbon credit markets and carbon pricing following the UN Cancun conference in December 2010 impacted portfolio holding Camco carbon consultancy, China.
Water Treatment and Pollution Control 26% portfolio weighting at 31 December 2010 i Water Infrastructure & Technologies WIT 20% weighting Water scarcity remains a global theme, with increasingly uneven water distribution exacerbated by extreme weather patterns in 2010, including droughts in the US and China and flooding in Pakistan and Australia.
Investment in the sector continues to be strong with Chinas 12th Five Year Plan aiming to double water infrastructure investments to a total of RMB 4 trillion over the next 10 years.
Additionally, in the US the EPA recently issued a Clean Water and Drinking Water Infrastructure Sustainability Policy with the goal of increasing the sustainability of water and wastewater infrastructure in the United States.
Water treatment equipment companies performed strongly, with Nalco water treatment chemicals, US benefiting from the clean-up of the Gulf of Mexico oil spill and demonstrating strong organic growth.
Pall Corporation water filtration, US also had a good year, delivering well against its strategic plan and benefiting from takeover speculation.
Water infrastructure companies saw mixed performance in 2010.
Companies with value added products and strong market positions, such as Geberit Switzerland, performed well in what are still challenging construction markets.
Companies with commoditised products and limited pricing power fared less well, including Mueller Water US.
M&A activity was also a key theme in the sector, with the takeover of Spice utility services, UK by a private equity fund.
ii Pollution Control PC 6% weighting The PC segment continued to perform well, with policy makers continuing to set aggressive goals for emissions reduction.
The European Commission called for a 60% cut in CO emissions from 2 transport by 2050, while in the US the EPA is moving to regulate CO under the Clean Air Act, albeit 2 against strong opposition.
M&A activity was also a key driver of performance in this sub-sector, for example as Dionex environmental testing, US was approached by Thermo Fisher in the US.
Clarcor engine filtration, US performed well due to its exposure to the recovering automotive industry and status as a possible takeover target.
Companies such as Horiba testing and monitoring, Japan, that were able to quickly satisfy orders from customers expanding their manufacturing capacity, also contributed to performance.
Portfolio Activity and Current Structure excluding unquoted companies The Company started the year with 84 listed companies.
Since that time we have sold out of 12 companies and invested in 6 new companies.
As a result the Company held a total of 78 listed companies as at 31 December 2010.
8 IMPAX ENVIRONMENTAL MARKETS PLC Job No.
: 6661 Proof Event: 7 Park Communications Ltd Alpine Way London E6 6LA Customer: Impax Project Title: Annual Report T: 020 7055 6500 F: 020 7055 6600 6661 Impax R&A 2010 Text:6661 Impax R&A 2010 Text 31 3 11 13:43 Page 9 MANAGERS REPORT CONTINUED We continue to focus on profitable companies, which represented 94% of the portfolio at year end.
As highlighted above, the portfolio remains diversified by sub-sector.
At year end, 3% of the portfolio was invested in micro caps with a market capitalisation of less than 100 million, 49% in companies between 100 million and 1 billion and 44% in companies above 1 billion.
The median market cap was 504 million and the weighted average 1.4 billion.
The Company has systematically increased its exposure to Asia-Pacific markets over the last two years in order to take advantage of superior growth opportunities in this region, and exposure to this region now stands at 23%.
The remaining funds are invested 39% in Europe and 38% in North America.
Unquoted Companies At 31 December 2010, the value of the Companys investments in unquoted companies stood at 16.6 million, representing 4% of the portfolio.
The tentative signs of improvement in the financing markets in late 2009 were not sustained, and the year continued to present challenging conditions for private companies seeking new funds, whether debt or equity.
Consequently, during the year, we believed it was prudent to reduce the value of the unlisted portfolio by a net 1.6 million.
We continued to work with other shareholders to support our portfolio holdings, making five incremental investments totaling 1.9 million.
Each investment provided essential funding to support business development and thereby raise the prospects for a successful exit when market circumstances allow.
Following the end of the period, further net aggregate write downs of 3.5 million have been made in response to specific events post the year end at two companies: fundraising at a discounted price by Nordic and an incident at one of Sterecycles facilities.
We are not currently intending to add any new unquoted companies to the IEM portfolio.
Outlook for 2011 As highlighted in the Chairmans Statement, recent international events have further reinforced several of the drivers behind environmental markets, and we are confident about the prospects for the portfolio, particularly in light of the current valuation.
We continue to favour energy efficiency stocks as well as those in the water, pollution control, waste and support services sub-sectors.
Although we are optimistic about the longer term prospects for renewable energy, we do not yet see sufficient positive catalysts to justify building up the Companys exposure to this sector.
The Companys portfolio valuation continues to be at the lower end of the normal historical range and is considered attractive in the light of accelerating earnings and the likely additional contribution from continued M&A activity.
We will continue to post monthly updates on sector news and on the Companys performance at www.
Impax Asset Management Limited 1 April 2011 9 IMPAX ENVIRONMENTAL MARKETS PLC Job No.
: 6661 Proof Event: 7 Park Communications Ltd Alpine Way London E6 6LA Customer: Impax Project Title: Annual Report T: 020 7055 6500 F: 020 7055 6600
