6661 Impax R&A 2010 Text:6661 Impax R&A 2010 Text 31 3 11 13:43 Page 23 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE INTRODUCTION This Corporate Governance statement forms part of the Directors Report.
The Board has considered the principles and recommendations of the AIC Code of Corporate Governance AIC Code by reference to the AIC Corporate Governance Guide for Investment Companies AIC Guide as issued in March 2009.
The AIC Code, as explained by the AIC Guide, addresses all the principles set out in Section 1 the Combined Code of Corporate Governance the Combined Code, as issued by the Financial Reporting Council FRC in 2008, as well as setting out additional principles and recommendations on issues that are of specific relevance to the Company.
The Board considers that reporting against the principles and recommendations of the AIC Code, and by reference to the AIC Guide which incorporates the Combined Code, will provide more appropriate information to shareholders.
The Company has complied with the recommendations of the AIC Code and the relevant provisions of Section 1 of the Combined Code, except as set out below.
The Combined Code includes provisions relating to: the role of the chief executive executive directors remuneration the need for an internal audit function For the reasons set out in the AIC Guide, and in the preamble to the Combined Code, the Board considers these provisions are not relevant to the position of the Company, being an externally managed investment company.
The Company has therefore not reported further in respect of these provisions.
The structure of the Board is such that it is considered unnecessary to identify a senior non-executive director other than the Chairman.
All other directors are, however, available to shareholders if they have concerns over issues that they feel have not been dealt with through the normal mode of communication with the Chairman.
THE BOARD Composition At the date of this report, the Board consists of seven non-executive directors including the Chairman.
Mr Bernays and Mr Niven were appointed as directors of the Company upon its incorporation.
Dr Arnott was appointed as a director by the Board on 8 January 2002.
Mr Brown was appointed as a director by the Board on 31 January 2002 and Mr Berry was appointed by the Board on 1 October 2007.
Mrs Le Blan and Mr Rickett were appointed on 27 January 2011.
All the directors have served during the entire period since their appointment.
The Board believes that during the year ended 31 December 2010 its composition was appropriate for an investment company of this nature and size.
Notwithstanding this, the Board agreed on a programme of refreshment of the Board during the year under review which is detailed further below.
As a result, two new directors have been appointed since the year end and one director will stand down at the Annual General Meeting.
All the directors are independent of the investment 23 IMPAX ENVIRONMENTAL MARKETS PLC Job No.
: 6661 Proof Event: 7 Park Communications Ltd Alpine Way London E6 6LA Customer: Impax Project Title: Annual Report T: 020 7055 6500 F: 020 7055 6600 6661 Impax R&A 2010 Text:6661 Impax R&A 2010 Text 31 3 11 13:43 Page 24 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE CONTINUED manager.
The directors have a broad range of relevant experience to meet the Companys requirements and their biographies are given below.
Richard Bernays Chairman, aged 68 Mr Bernays is chairman of Gartmore Global Trust plc and Throgmorton Trust plc and a director of Charter Pan-European Trust plc.
Mr Bernays retired in March 2001 from the post of chief executive of Old Mutual International after 30 years in the financial services industry.
Following a number of years in advertising, Richard Bernays joined Mercury Asset Management in 1971 and was responsible for the establishment and development of its unit trust arm from 1975 to 1985.
He was vice chairman of Mercury Asset Management from 1987 to 1991 when he left to become chief executive of Hill Samuel Asset Management.
He joined Old Mutual International in 1998.
He is also a director of WNS Group, a New York Stock Exchange listed company.
Dr Robert Arnott aged 53 Following a D. Phil.
in geology he joined Shell International in 1983 and worked in exploration and as an economist for Shell Expro.
In 1991 he joined Hoare Govett as an oil analyst, and subsequently worked for UBS Warburg, Goldman Sachs and Morgan Stanley Dean Witter.
In October 2000 he joined HSBC Investment Bank plc as head of Global Energy Equity Research.
In December 2001 Dr Arnott joined the Oxford Institute for Energy Studies where he is currently a Senior Research Adviser.
Dr Arnott has written two books on the valuation of oil and gas companies.
He is also a director of Petroceltic International PLC and Spring Energy AS.
Charles Berry aged 58 Mr Berry is chairman of eaga plc and Drax Group plc.
He is also a non-executive director of the Securities Trust of Scotland plc.
Until September 2005 he was a Director of Scottish Power plc responsible for the UK energy businesses of Generation, Energy Management and Supply.
He joined ScottishPower in November 1991 and was appointed to the Board in April 1999.
Prior to joining ScottishPower, he was Group Development Director of Norwest Holst, a subsidiary of Compagnie Gnral des Eaux, and prior to that held management positions within subsidiaries of Pilkington plc.
He holds a BSc First Class Hons in Electrical Engineering from the University of Glasgow and a Masters Degree in Management from the Massachusetts Institute of Technology.
Bill Brown aged 48 Mr Brown is a founder and partner of Bluehone Investors, a specialist smaller companies investment boutique.
He has been involved in the fund management sector since 1988, initially as a venture capitalist, and since 1995 has specialised in small publicly traded companies.
He was responsible for the launch of four investment trusts including Active Capital Trust plc of which he remains manager.
Julia Le Blan aged 56 Mrs Le Blan is a chartered accountant and has worked in the financial services industry for over 30 years.
She retired from Deloitte in 2009, where she had been a Tax Partner since 1990.
During that time, she acted as tax adviser to international financial institutions, including clients in banking, securities and fund management and she led the mergers and acquisitions function for financial services tax.
She was also the firms expert on the taxation of investment trust companies.
Mrs Le Blan is also a non-executive director of Investors Capital Trust plc.
Keith Niven aged 62 Mr Niven retired from Schroder Investment Management Limited SIM in October 2001.
He joined Schroders in 1973 and was appointed a director of SIM, its fund management arm, in 1985.
Mr Niven held a number of posts in SIM, becoming joint vice chairman in 2000.
He is non-executive chairman of Matrix Income & Growth VCT PLC and a non-executive 24 IMPAX ENVIRONMENTAL MARKETS PLC Job No.
: 6661 Proof Event: 7 Park Communications Ltd Alpine Way London E6 6LA Customer: Impax Project Title: Annual Report T: 020 7055 6500 F: 020 7055 6600 6661 Impax R&A 2010 Text:6661 Impax R&A 2010 Text 31 3 11 13:43 Page 25 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE CONTINUED director of two other investment trusts: Schroder Income Growth Fund plc and Schroder UK Growth Fund plc.
Mr Niven is also an investment adviser to the Rolls Royce Pension Fund.
William Rickett aged 58 Mr Rickett, C. B. was Director General, Energy in the Department of Energy & Climate Change and chairman of the Governing Board of the International Energy Agency until October 2009.
He had previously been a Director General in the Department for Transport and in the Cabinet Office.
He started his civil service career in the Department of Energy in 1975 and, among other things, led the team privatising the electricity industry from 1987 to 1990.
He was Private Secretary to the Prime Minister from 1981 to 1983 and also spent two periods on secondment to the private sector.
He is now Senior Adviser to Cambridge Economic Policy Associates Ltd and a Director of the National Renewable Energy Centre Ltd and of Eggborough Power Ltd.
The Board does not believe that the service tenure of non-executive directors should be strictly limited to nine years.
The Board recognises the benefits to the Company of having longer serving directors together with progressive refreshment of the Board.
The Company has just entered its tenth year of operations.
Mr Bernays, Dr Arnott, Mr Brown and Mr Niven were appointed shortly before the Companys shares were listed on the London Stock Exchange in February 2002.
The Board does not believe that the current length of service affects the independence of those directors and believes that they provide an appropriate level of experience and ability to the Company.
Mr Berry was appointed in October 2007 and Mrs Le Blan and Mr Rickett were appointed in January 2011.
Mr Brown will retire at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting and not put himself forward for re-election.
The Board confirms that the performance of the directors was formally considered during the year.
The evaluation concluded that they are effective in their roles and make significant contributions to the Boards decision making process.
As stated above, since the year end, the Board has appointed two new directors.
A new director search was conducted with the assistance of a third party recruitment consultant.
The process included a careful consideration of the future requirements of the Company and the necessary skills and experience required from prospective directors.
Upon the recommendation of the nominations committee, the Board appointed Mrs Le Blan and Mr Rickett with effect from 27 January 2011.
In line with current best practice, the Board has decided that each director should be subject to annual re-election by shareholders, although this is not required by the Companys Articles of Association.
All the directors of the Company will stand for re-election at the Annual General Meeting.
The Board recommends all the directors for re-election for the reasons highlighted above.
The directors have appointment letters which do not state any specific term.
They are subject to re-election by shareholders at a maximum interval of three years.
Copies of the directors appointment letters are available on request from the Company Secretary.
A policy of insurance against directors and officers liabilities is maintained by the Company.
A procedure has been adopted for directors, in the furtherance of their duties, to take independent professional advice at the expense of the Company.
25 IMPAX ENVIRONMENTAL MARKETS PLC Job No.
: 6661 Proof Event: 7 Park Communications Ltd Alpine Way London E6 6LA Customer: Impax Project Title: Annual Report T: 020 7055 6500 F: 020 7055 6600
