This constitutes the Annual Report of British Sky Broadcasting Group plc the Company in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS and with those parts of the Companies Act 2006 applicable to companies reporting under IFRS and is dated 28 July 2010.
This Annual Report makes references to various Company websites.
The information on our websites shall not be deemed to be part of, or incorporated by reference into, this Annual Report.
FORWARD LOOKING STATEMENTS This document contains certain Although the Company believes Information on the significant forward-looking statements that the expectations reflected risks and uncertainties with respect to our financial in such forward-looking associated with our business is condition, results of operations statements are reasonable, described in Directors report and business, and our strategy, these statements and all other Review of the business plans and objectives.
These forward-looking statements Principal risks and statements include, without contained in this document are uncertainties in this document.
limitation, those that express not guarantees of future No part of these results forecasts, expectations and performance and are subject to constitutes, or shall be taken to projections, such as forecasts, risks, uncertainties and other constitute, an invitation or expectations and projections factors, some of which are inducement to invest in the with respect to the potential for beyond our control, are difficult Company or any other entity growth of free-to-air and pay to predict and could cause and must not be relied upon in television, fixed line telephony, actual results to differ any way in connection with any broadband and bandwidth materially from those expressed investment decision.
All forward requirements, advertising or implied or forecast in the looking statements in this growth, Direct-to-Home DTH forward-looking statements.
document are based on customer growth, Multiroom, These factors include, but are information known to us on the Sky, Sky HD and other not limited to, the fact that we date hereof.
Except as required services penetration, churn, operate in a highly competitive by law, we undertake no DTH and other revenue, environment, the effects of laws obligation publicly to update or profitability and margin growth, and government regulation revise any forward-looking cash flow generation, upon our activities, our reliance statements, whether as a result programming costs, subscriber on technology, which is subject of new information, future management and supply chain to risk, change and events or otherwise.
costs, administration costs and development, failure of key other costs, marketing suppliers, our ability to continue expenditure, capital expenditure to obtain exclusive rights to programmes and proposals for movies, sports events and other returning capital to programming content, risks shareholders.
inherent in the implementation of large-scale capital expenditure projects, our ability to continue to communicate and market our services effectively, and the risks associated with our operation of digital television transmission in the United Kingdom UK and Republic of Ireland Ireland.
2 BRITISH SKY BROADCASTING GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2010
