26 Intermediate Capital Group PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2010 Our progress.
Priorites for 2010 Market drivers and opportunities Progress p Monitor and manage p Although well diversified and with a defensive p Close monitoring and proactive management the portfolio bias, our portfolio was not immune to the of the portfolio by our local investment global economic downturn.
The severity and teams, with additional support provided by duration of the recession has impacted the a dedicated restructuring team, enabled us trading environment of our portfolio companies.
to identify and respond to issues early.
The stabilisation of the economy in the second p Early and decisive action by our restructuring half of our financial year provided a more team enabled us to negotiate favourable positive backdrop which led to early signs economics in a significant proportion of of improvements in performance.
However, restructurings: 18.5 million of write backs the recent crisis triggered by sovereign debt achieved in the financial year.
concerns serves as a reminder of the fragility of this recent recovery.
p Gross provisions for portfolio companies were 32 per cent lower at 180.3 million compared to 266.2 million, and showing a continuing downward trend in the second half of the year.
p Maintain a strong p The decline and subsequent turbulence of p Raised 351 million via a rights issue in July balance sheet equity markets at the start of the financial year, 2009 to take advantage of opportunities in the combined with the negative impact of the current cycle.
recession on portfolio companies earnings, p Extension of 545 million of existing debt significantly reduced exit activity from private facilities to June 2013.
As a result, early repayments was extended in May 2010, thereby bringing dried out almost entirely, which limited the the total debt extension of 612 million to June investment capacity of the balance sheet.
2013: highlighting the strength of relationships p Structural changes in the banking market with our core bank lenders.
have adversely affected the funding market for p Actively managed exits which resulted in companies.
The unlimited availability of cheap 224 million of repayments for the balance debt from global syndicates is unlikely to be sheet and 79 million of capital gains a feature of the market going forward.
excluding Geoservices and Sebia : well on our way to exceed our exit target to realise 400 million by June 2011. p Low gearing at 127 per cent.
p Highly liquid balance sheet with 729 million of undrawn debt facilities.
p Further strengthen our fund p As a leading manager of alternative assets, p Further strengthened our Investor management franchise we are committed to providing high quality Management team in order to deliver against service to our investors.
our ambition to become a leading global alternative asset manager.
p Enhanced service levels to existing and potential investors.
Business review Business review 27 Priorites for 2010 Market drivers and opportunities Progress p Continue to raise third p Many investors have suffered material losses p Successfully closed the ICG Recovery Fund party funds in the last three years and there is a flight to attracting 843 million in total in third party quality in favour of managers with a long track fund commitments: 368 million during the record of outperformance, strong operational financial year.
excellence and a clear strategy for success.
p Attracted new and geographically diverse p Given the reduced yield across other asset fund investors including two new sovereign classes, alternative investment opportunities wealth funds, our first US state pension that offer a higher yield are attractive to investor, and a US gatekeeper.
However, investment p Established relationships with potential decisions currently take a much longer fund investors in Europe, the US and the period of time, given the limited visibility of Middle East.
the economic outlook and the volatility of markets.
p Seeded a dedicated high yield fund.
p Laid out our strategy to double AuM over the next five years.
p Invest cautiously in the p Limited appetite by banks and dormant credit p Invested in the senior debt securities of secondary markets funds to refinance existing buyout debt is Icopal, at discount to par.
beginning to give rise to attractive investment p Increasing momentum in pipeline of opportunities.
recovery investments, where we are well p Increasing focus on private equity sponsors positioned to optimise the capital structure who are proactively looking for solutions of existing buyouts.
to strengthen the capital structure of their portfolio companies ahead of future refinancing requirements.
p Enhance operational p Our scale, processes and operational p Completed the roll out of a company wide excellence efficiency can provide an important technology platform to further enhance competitive advantage.
operational excellence, and to support our investment teams and portfolio managers.
Priorites for 2011 p We will continue to lay the foundations of our fund management franchise with a view to increase AuM to 24 billion by 2015.
Given the fragility of the recent economic recovery we will remain entirely focused on managing our portfolio and crystallising its value.
We have seen a marked increase in our transaction pipeline and will continue to invest cautiously as attractive opportunities arise.
