64 Intermediate Capital Group PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2010 Board of Directors.
01 02 03 04 05 06 07 08 09 10 Governance Governance 65 01 Tom Attwood 06 Philip Keller Managing Director, Age 57 Managing Director, Age 44 Tom is Chairman of ICGs Executive Committee and is responsible Philip is Finance Director and responsible for the ICGs finance, for fund investors.
He also sits on the Companys Investment compliance and operations.
He is also a member of the Committees.
Prior to joining ICG in 1996, Tom was a director of Executive Committee.
Previous positions he has held include James Capel & Co where he worked for eight years.
Finance Director at ERM Holdings Ltd, and a number of financial directorships in the GlaxoSmithKline and Johnson & Johnson groups.
02 Jean-Daniel Camus Non Executive Director Age 64 Jean-Daniel was a Founding Partner of Orium, a proprietary 07 John Manser, cbe dl investment firm and previously worked for LBO France.
He started Chairman outgoing his career in the French civil service and served as a special Non Executive, Age 70 adviser to the Department of the General Secretary to the John is currently Chairman of Shaftesbury PLC, Deputy Chairman French President.
of Colliers CRE PLC and a Non Executive Director of SAB Miller PLC.
He was formerly Chairman of Robert Fleming Holdings Limited.
He is a Fellow of the Institute of Chartered Accountants 03 Justin Dowley in England and Wales.
Chairman incoming Non Executive Director, Age 54 Justin is Chairman of the ICG Audit Committee.
He is Vice 08 Franois fide Mitry Chairman of Nomura International plc which recently acquired Managing Director, Age 44 Tricorn Partners LLP, the independent advisory firm which he Franois joined ICG in 1997.
He is responsible for the Companys co founded in 2003, and a Non Executive Director of Ascot mezzanine and growth capital business, and sits on the Authority Holdings Ltd.
He was previously head of investment Mezzanine Investment Committee.
Franois is also a member of banking at Merrill Lynch Europe and a Director of Morgan the Executive Committee.
Prior to joining the Company he worked Grenfell, and is a Chartered Accountant.
04 Christophe Evain 09 James Nelson Chief Executive Officer Non Executive Director, Age 62 Managing Director, Age 48 James is the Chairman of ICGs Remuneration Committee.
Christophe has been with ICG for 16 years and a Managing He is a Non Executive Director of Henderson Smaller Companies Director since 2005.
In addition to his strategic remit as Chief Investment Trust plc.
He was a founding partner of Graphite Capital Executive Officer, Christophe will chair the Companys Investment Management LLP and formerly the Chairman of the BVCA.
Christophe was responsible for the establishment of ICGs international franchise, opening the Paris office in 1995, 10 Kevin Parry Hong Kong office in 2001 and New York office in 2007.
Prior to Non Executive Director, Age 48 joining ICG, he worked for Banque fide Gestion Prive in Paris.
Kevin was appointed to the Board of ICG in June 2009.
He is Chief Financial Officer at Schroders plc, the FTSE 100 asset 05 Peter Gibbs management and private banking group, and was Chairman of Non Executive Director, Age 52 their Audit Committee from 2003 to 2008.
He was previously Chief Peter was appointed to the Board of ICG in March 2010.
He was Executive at Management Consulting Group plc and a managing until 2005 Chief Investment Officer of Merrill Lynchs Investment partner at KPMG.
He is a chartered accountant with extensive Management activities outside the US, and prior to this Co-Head experience of auditing and advising large international groups.
He currently serves as a Non Executive Director of Evolution Group plc, Impax Asset Management Group plc, Director of Merrill Lynch UK Pension Plan Trustees Ltd and as a Director of UKFI.
