DIRECTORS REPORT GOVERNANCE Board of Directors Jeremy Darroch age 48 David F. DeVoe age 63 James Murdoch age 37 Nicholas Ferguson age 61 Non-Executive Director and Chairman Executive Director and Chief Executive Non-Executive Director Deputy Chairman and Senior Officer Independent Non-Executive Director James Murdoch was appointed as a David F. DeVoe was appointed as a Director of the Company on 13 February Remuneration Committee Chairman Jeremy Darroch was appointed as a Director of the Company on Director of the Company on 16 August 2003 and Chairman on 7 December 15 December 1994.
Mr DeVoe has been a Nicholas Ferguson was appointed as 2007.
He was appointed CEO on Director of News Corporation and its a Director of the Company on 7 December 2007, having previously December 2007 he was Chief Executive CFO since October 1990.
Mr DeVoe has 15 June 2004, Senior Independent Officer CEO of the Company, a role he been Chief Financial Officer CFO since served as Senior Executive Vice Non-Executive Director on 12 June 2007 2004.
Prior to joining the Company, relinquished on his appointment as President of News Corporation since and Deputy Chairman on 16 June 2010.
Mr Murdoch is Mr Darroch was Group Finance Director January 1996.
Mr DeVoe has been a Mr Ferguson is Chairman of SVG Capital of DSG International plc DSG, formerly Chairman and CEO, Europe and Asia, at Director of NDS Group Limited since plc, a publicly-quoted private equity News Corporation and is a member of Dixons Group plc.
Prior to DSG, Mr October 1996. group, and was formerly Chairman of Darroch spent 12 years at Procter & News Corporations Board of Directors Schroder Ventures.
He is also Chairman and Executive Committee.
Between May Gamble in a variety of roles in the UK and of the Courtauld Institute of Art and the Europe.
Mr Darroch is a Non-Executive 2000 and November 2003, he was Institute of Philanthropy.
Chairman and CEO of Star Group Director and the Chairman of the Audit Committee of Marks & Spencer plc.
Mr Murdoch was appointed a Non-Executive Director of He is also a Board Member of the charity Youth Sport Trust and a Council GlaxoSmithKline plc in May 2009 and as a Non-Executive Director of Sothebys in Member of the Council for Industry and Higher Education.
David Evans age 70 Andrew Griffith age 39 Andrew Higginson age 53 Allan Leighton age 57 Executive Director and Chief Financial Independent Non-Executive Director Independent Non-Executive Director Independent Non-Executive Director Officer Audit Committee Chairman David Evans was appointed as a Director Allan Leighton was appointed as a Andrew Griffith was appointed as CFO of the Company on 21 September 2001.
Director of the Company on Andrew Higginson was appointed as and a Director of the Company on Mr Evans was President and CEO of 15 October 1999.
Mr Leighton joined a Director of the Company on 7 April 2008.
Mr Griffith joined Sky in Crown Media Holdings, Inc. and its ASDA Stores Limited as Group Marketing 1 September 2004.
Mr Higginson is October 1999 and held a number of predecessor company, Hallmark Director in March 1992 and was Chief Executive of Retailing Services and finance roles prior to his appointment Entertainment Networks, from March appointed CEO in September 1996.
Group Strategy Director of Tesco plc as CFO.
Mr Griffith previously worked 1999 to October 2007.
Prior to that, In November 1999 he was appointed Tesco.
Mr Higginson was appointed to at the investment bank Rothschild, Mr Evans was President and CEO of President and CEO of Wal-Mart Europe.
the Board of Tesco in 1997, having where he advised a range of clients Tele-Communications International, Inc. Mr Leighton resigned from all of these previously been the Group Finance in the technology, media and TINTA from January 1998.
Prior to positions in September 2000.
Director of the Burton Group plc.
Mr Griffith joining TINTA, from July 1996, Mr Evans Mr Leighton is currently Deputy is a member of the 100 Group of Finance held various senior roles at News Chairman of Selfridges & Co. Limited, Directors.
He is currently a Director George Weston Limited and Loblaws of Village Roadshow Ltd, Village Companies Limited.
Mr Leighton was a Roadshow Entertainment Group and Director of Bhs Limited until January Concord Music.
2008 and was Chairman of The Royal Mail Group until March 2009.
34 BRITISH SKY BROADCASTING GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2010 Business review Financial review Governance Financial statements Shareholder information Glossary of terms Thomas Mockridge age 55 Jacques Nasser age 62 Daniel Rimer age 39 Dame Gail Rebuck age 58 Non-Executive Director Independent Non-Executive Director Independent Non-Executive Director Independent Non-Executive Director Thomas Mockridge was appointed as Jacques Nasser was appointed as a The Bigger Picture Committee Chairman Daniel Rimer was appointed as a a Director of the Company on Director of the Company on Director of the Company on 7 April 2008.
Dame Gail Rebuck was appointed as 10 February 2009.
Mr Mockridge is the 8 November 2002.
Mr Nasser served as Mr Rimer is a General Partner of the a Director of the Company on CEO of Sky Italia and Chief Executive, a Member of the Board of Directors, and venture capital firm Index Ventures 8 November 2002.
Dame Gail is European Television of News as President and CEO of Ford Motor Management Limited Index Ventures Chairman and CEO of The Random Corporation where he oversees News Company from 1998 to 2001.
Mr Nasser and established the firms London office.
House Group Limited Random House, Corporations television operations in is the Chairman of BHP Billiton, and a He currently serves on a number of one of the UKs leading trade publishing Europe, outside the UK.
Prior to joining Partner of One Equity Partners.
He also boards including RightScale Inc. Oanda companies.
Dame Gail is a Director of Sky Italia, Mr Mockridge held various serves on the International Advisory Corporation, FON Wireless Limited, Skillset, a Trustee of the National roles at Star Group Limited and was Board of Allianz A. G. Until January 2008, Stardoll Inc. and Viagogo Limited.
Prior to Literacy Trust, and sits on the Council of previously CEO of Foxtel, News Mr Nasser served on the Board of joining Index Ventures, Mr Rimer was a the Royal College of Art.
Dame Gail was Corporations Pay-TV joint venture Brambles Limited and Quintiles General Partner of The Barksdale Group awarded a CBE in the 2000 New Years with Telstra.
and, previously, Managing Director of Honours List and was made a Dame in Hambrecht & Quists now JP Morgan the 2009 Queens Birthday Honours Equity Research Group.
Dame Gail was also named 2009 Veuve Clicquot Business Woman of the Year.
Alternate Directors Committee Membership A Director may appoint any other Audit Committee Director or any other person to act as Remuneration Committee his Alternate.
An Alternate Director shall Corporate Governance and be entitled to receive notice of and Nominations Committee attend meetings of the Directors and committees of Directors of which his The Bigger Picture Committee appointer is a member and not able to attend.
The Alternate Director shall be entitled to vote at such meetings and generally perform all the functions of his Arthur Siskind age 71 Lord Wilson of Dinton age 67 appointer as a Director in his absence.
Non-Executive Director Independent Non-Executive Director On the resignation of the appointer for Arthur Siskind was appointed as a Corporate Governance and any reason the Alternate Director shall Director of the Company on Nominations Committee Chairman cease to be an Alternate Director.
Mr Siskind has been Lord Wilson of Dinton was appointed appointer may also remove his Alternate the Senior Advisor to the Chairman of as a Director of the Company on Director by notice to the Company News Corporation since January 2005.
Lord Wilson was Secretary signed by the appointer Mr Siskind has been an Executive appointed Secretary to the Cabinet and making or revoking the appointment.
Director of News Corporation since 1991 Head of the Home Civil Service in An Alternate Director shall not be and was Group General Counsel of News January 1998.
Lord Wilson retired from entitled to fees for his service as an Corporation from March 1991 until the Civil Service in 2002 after serving Alternate Director.
Mr Siskind has been 36 years in a number of UK Government James Murdoch, David DeVoe, Arthur a member of the Bar of the State of departments.
Since his retirement Siskind and Thomas Mockridge have New York since 1962. in September 2002, Lord Wilson has appointed each of the others to act as been Master of Emmanuel College, their Alternate Director.
In October 2006, he became appointed Allan Leighton as his Non-Executive Chairman of C. Hoare and Alternate Director.
From April 2003 until October 2007, Lord Wilson was a Non-Executive Director of Xansa plc.
Lord Wilson was made a peer in November 2002.
ANNUAL REPORT 2010 BRITISH SKY BROADCASTING GROUP PLC 35
