46 Intermediate Capital Group PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2010 Our investment culture.
Flexibility and experience to invest across the capital structure Our investment process ICG is adept at identifying investment opportunities that offer investors attractive returns regardless of where that value may lie in a companys capital structure.
Through the investment expertise of our Mezzanine, Growth Capital and Credit Funds teams we have the flexibility to invest in senior loans, high yield, Deal sourcing mezzanine and minority equity in well managed businesses across Europe, Asia Pacific and North America.
This flexibility Review and due diligence coupled with our investment experience positions us well to take advantage of the opportunities emerging from the current economic environment.
Investment Committee approval Entrenched credit discipline Over our 21 year investment track record we have consistently outperformed the market over several Managing investments economic and debt cycles.
Our success is measured not only by the companies we invest in, but also by those we choose to Realisation avoid.
We are committed to maintaining our credit culture and adhering to the discipline with which we identify, select and manage our investments.
Record of recoveries By abiding to a stringent credit process throughout the life of an investment, from origination to exit, we have established a track record of defaults and recoveries which is considerably better than the industry average.
The annual default rate for our mezzanine and growth capital business is approximately 4.3 per cent and our historical recovery rate on realised, defaulted assets is 48.4 per cent.
Similarly, our Credit Funds business has achieved an annualised default rate of 4.5 per cent, which is less than half that experienced by the industry.
Local insights, knowledge and relationships Our 55 investment executives are based in nine countries and provide us with a powerful advantage throughout the life of an investment from origination through to exit.
They represent 14 nationalities, speak 28 different languages and manage investments in over 20 countries.
Their local insights, specialist knowledge and longstanding relationships with local private equity sponsors, market participants and management teams means they are respected in their local business communities and viewed as a genuine investment partner.
Operational excellence We believe our operational platform is essential to enabling the business to achieve its full potential.
We have consistently sought the highest standards in our governance, risk management, IT, human resources, finance and fund administration to ensure they are best in class and further enhance the effectiveness and efficiency of the Company.
Funds and Portfolio Funds and Portfolio 47 Credit Funds Management Mezzanine and Growth Capital Since 1999, ICG has been a pioneer in shaping the institutional For over two decades, ICG has been at the forefront of mezzanine market in European secured loans and high yield bonds.
We were one of the first independent providers of mezzanine the longest track record of any European institutional investor finance in both Europe and Asia Pacific.
Our investment expertise developed through multiple cycles.
now spans mezzanine and minority equity, whereby we seek to invest in mid market companies across Europe, Asia Pacific and Investment philosophy Our Credit Funds Management CFM North America.
teams investment philosophy is based on the belief that risk in the European leveraged finance markets is persistently mispriced.
Investment philosophy Our team seeks to invest in proven mid These mispricings are driven by a variety of structural inefficiencies market companies, with leading positions in their local market, in the market that we seek to exploit through our rigorous bottom strong management teams and financial sponsors that we know up research and an analysis of the fundamentals of the underlying well.
As a patient, long term investor, we invest in companies that companies.
We seek to invest in companies with sustained have not reached their full potential and have strong prospects outperformance, where our deep sector or company specific for recovery and or growth.
knowledge provide us with a competitive and information advantage.
Investment approach Our Mezzanine and Growth Capital Funds Investment approach Our Credit Funds tend to invest in more tend to invest for the medium to long term.
We typically take a seat liquid assets, such as senior loans and high yield bonds, where on the Board of the companies that we invest in.
This enables us we have limited influence on the strategic decisions of the business to work in close partnership with management teams and sponsors but benefit from the protection of our seniority in the capital to identify and address issues early: a key driver of our strong track structure, security and covenants.
Initially we invest and hold our record.
We currently hold Board positions on approximately 80 of investments, but we also actively manage our portfolios and seek our portfolio companies, acting as either an active Board member to take advantage of shifts in relative value that arise in a liquid or as a Board observer.
We adopt a rigorous monitoring process market.
Given the nature of these funds, portfolio construction throughout the life of a Mezzanine or Growth Capital investment.
and management techniques are combined with individual asset To ensure continuity, ultimate responsibility for monitoring resides analysis and monitoring to achieve optimal fund performance.
with the investment team which originated it.
