48 48 Intermediate Capital Group PLC Intermediate Capital Group PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2010 Annual Report & Accounts 2010 Funds overview.
ICG provides asset management services for institutional investors wishing to invest in the alternative assets markets in Europe, Asia Pacific and North America.
We serve a diverse range of institutional investors located in over 25 countries including sovereign wealth funds, insurance companies, charitable foundations, fund of funds, and government and corporate pension funds.
Mezzanine and Growth Capital Funds Mezzanine and Growth Capital Funds We offer institutional investors the opportunity to invest in a range 3.6bn of co-investment funds.
Mezzanine Growth Capital European Mezzanine Investment Funds European Minority Partner and Recovery Funds Intermediate Capital Managers Limited ICML is the investment In addition to the European Mezzanine Investment Funds, advisor to three of ICGs four European mezzanine investment ICML also acts as investment advisor to ICGs Minority Partner funds with aggregate funds under management of 2 billion.
They represent further funds under ICMLs mezzanine funds are structured as limited partnerships management 1 billion.
and principally invest in mezzanine assets alongside ICGs ICG Minority Partners Fund 2008 has a total size of 132 million of balance sheet.
The fund held a first close in ICG European Fund 2006 is Europes largest independent May 2008 and makes mezzanine and minority equity investments mezzanine and related finance fund.
The fund held a first to support European management teams in acquiring control of close in November 2006 and is a total size of 2.15 billion, their businesses.
The fund has made four investments and is comprising 1.25 billion limited partner equity commitments 84 per cent invested.
and a 900 million debt facility at close, which we subsequently ICG Recovery Fund 2008 held a final close in March 2010 with decided to reduce to 450 million.
The fund is 68 per cent a total size of 843 million.
The fund comprises limited partner invested in 41 portfolio companies.
equity commitments of 643 million and a debt facility of ICG Mezzanine Fund 2003 has a total size of 1.4 billion 200 million.
The fund seeks to exploit market dislocation comprising 668 million of limited partner equity commitments in buyout debt in Europe by investing in secondary credit and a 750 million debt facility at close, which we subsequently opportunities at discounted prices supports the restructuring decided to reduce.
The fund has made a total of 80 investments, of private equity backed companies that may benefit from a of which 47 have been fully realised, and has returned 96 per cent change in their capital structure and the fund is 26 per cent of capital to its limited partner investors.
The fund is closed to invested.
Asia Pacific Mezzanine Funds ICG Mezzanine Fund 2000 closed with 307.5 million of limited Intermediate Capital Asia Pacific Limited ICAP acts as partner equity commitments and a 80 million debt facility.
investment advisor to ICGs two dedicated Asia Pacific funds.
The fund invested in 50 mezzanine transactions between 2000 Intermediate Capital Asia Pacific Fund 2008 held a final close and 2003, and has returned 161 per cent of capital to its limited in October 2008.
The fund is the largest dedicated Asia Pacific partner investors.
There is a 4 million residual portfolio mezzanine fund with US$600 million of third party equity outstanding and the fund is closed to new investment.
The fund has invested US$153 million and ICG Mezzanine Fund 1998 was ICGs first mezzanine fund and is 25 per cent invested.
closed with 57.5 million of limited partner equity commitments.
Intermediate Capital Asia Pacific Mezzanine Fund 2005 held a The fund invested in 25 transactions during 1998 and 1999 and first close in December 2005 with US$300 million limited partner is now nearly fully realised.
The fund is closed to new investment.
The fund was the largest dedicated panAsian mezzanine fund and focused on buyout and growth expansion capital investment opportunities in the region.
The fund has returned US$109 million of capital to limited partners and is closed to new investment.
Funds and Portfolio Funds and Portfolio 49 Our fund managers Jason Block Jeff Boswell Benoit Durteste Investor Management Group Senior Portfolio Manager Southern European Investments North American Investments Senior Loans Funds managed: Investment experience: Funds managed: ICG Recovery Fund 2008 15 years Senior loan funds Investment experience: Investment experience: 16 years 13 years Garland Hansmann Chris Heine Dagmar Kent-Kershaw Senior Portfolio Manager Asia Pacific Investments Credit Fund Management High Yield Funds managed: Investment experience: Funds managed: Intermediate Capital Asia Pacific 18 years High Yield Fund Mezzanine Fund 2005, Intermediate Capital Asia Investment experience: Pacific Fund 2008 13 years Investment experience: 22 years Piers Millar Rolf Nuijens Minority Partners Investments Northern European Investments Funds managed: Funds managed: ICG Minority Partners Fund ICG Mezzanine Fund 2000, 2008 ICG Mezzanine Fund 2003, ICG European Fund 2006 Investment experience: 18 years Investment experience: 16 years Credit Funds Management Credit Funds The Credit Fund Management team manages 15 credit funds.
They specialise 4.7bn in senior loans and high yield bonds.
Senior loans High yield bonds Credit Funds Eurocredit CDO IV BV Eurocredit CDO IV closed in November The CFM team manages 15 Credit Funds, which includes 10 2004.
It is a 355 million fund invested predominantly in senior CLOs, several institutional mandates, a Unit Trust and a High Yield loans, with some exposure to mezzanine and high yield bonds.
The CFM team specialises in investments in primary and Eurocredit CDO IV is rated by S&P and Moodys.
secondary senior and subordinated debt in leveraged buyouts, Eurocredit CDO V PLC This transaction is the successor vehicle as well as high yield bonds.
Closed in September 2006, it is a 600 million ICG European Loan Fund is a listed unit trust product intended fund invested predominantly in senior loans, with some exposure to provide institutional investors with access to the European loan to mezzanine and high yield bonds.
Eurocredit CDO V is rated by markets.
The fund holds a diverse portfolio of predominantly senior S&P and Moodys.
secured loans and has performed strongly over the last 12 months.
Eurocredit CDO VI PLC Closed in December 2006, Eurocredit The fund offers investors regular liquidity and a choice of different CDO VI is a 500 million fund invested predominantly in senior currency share classes.
loans, with some exposure to mezzanine and high yield bonds.
ICG European High Yield Bond Fund 1 was launched in December Eurocredit CDO VI is rated by S&P and Moodys.
The funds investment objective is to seek to provide a return Eurocredit CDO VII PLC Eurocredit CDO VII closed in April 2007. which exceeds the performance of the European High Yield Securities It is a 585 million fund invested predominantly in senior loans, market by holding a diversified portfolio of primarily sub-investment with some exposure to mezzanine and high yield bonds.
Eurocredit CDO VII is rated by S&P and Moodys.
Eurocredit CDO I BV Eurocredit CDO I closed in September 1999.
Eurocredit CDO VIII PLC Eurocredit CDO VIII closed in December It was originally a 417 million fund and was the first arbitrage cash 2007.
It is a 636 million fund invested predominantly in senior flow CDO to be based on European loan, bond and mezzanine loans, with some exposure to mezzanine.
The fund is a mix of high yield bonds and leveraged loans is rated by S&P and Moodys.
The reinvestment period for this fund expired in September 2004 and the transaction is now Market Value Funds amortising.
Eurocredit CDO I is rated by Moodys.
Eurocredit Opportunities Fund 1 PLC Eurocredit Opportunities Fund 1 PLC closed in November 2005, with three subsequent Eurocredit CDO II BV This 370 million fund was ICMLs second tap issues.
Originally a market value fund, Eurocredit Opportunities cash flow CDO with a similar mix of high yield bonds, senior converted to a cash flow based fund holding a combination of leveraged loans and mezzanine and closed in October 2000. senior loans, mezzanine investments and high yield bonds.
The reinvestment period for this fund expired in October 2005 and the tranches are now amortising.
Eurocredit CDO II is rated Eurocredit Opportunities Parallel Funding 1 Eurocredit by Moodys.
Opportunities Parallel Funding 1 is a 450 million fund investing in leveraged loans.
Eurocredit CDO III BV Eurocredit CDO III closed in September 2003.
It is a 250 million fund invested predominantly in senior In addition the CFM team manages dedicated institutional loans, with a basket for mezzanine investments.
period for this fund expired in October 2008 and the transaction is now amortising.
The reinvestment period for this fund expired in February 2010 and the tranches are now amortising.
Eurocredit CDO III is rated by S&P and Moodys.
