Business review Financial review Governance Financial statements Shareholder information Glossary of terms DIRECTORS REPORT FINANCIAL REVIEW the Secretary of State for Business, Innovation and Skills relating to Introduction the Groups investment in ITV.
The placing by the Group of The following discussion and analysis is based on, and should be 404 million ITV shares at 48.5 pence per share resulted in read in conjunction with, the consolidated financial statements, aggregate consideration of 196 million.
A profit of 115 million was including the related notes, included within this Annual Report.
realised on disposal being the excess of the consideration above The consolidated financial statements have been prepared in the impaired value of the shares.
The Group continues to hold just accordance with IFRS as issued by the IASB and as adopted by under 7.5% of ITV.
On 31 March 2010, Ofcom published a statement regarding the Overview and recent developments outcome of its investigation into the UK pay TV industry.
In its statement it confirmed the imposition of wholesale must-offer During the current year, total revenue increased by 10% to 5,912 million, compared to the year ended 30 June 2009 the obligations on the Group under its sectoral powers in relation to Sky Sports 1 and Sky Sports 2.
The Group has appealed Ofcoms prior year.
Operating profit for the current year was 1,096 million, decision for further details see Directors report Business review resulting in an operating profit margin of 19%, compared to 15% in Review of the business.
Profit for the year was 878 million, generating basic earnings per share of 50.4 pence, compared to a profit of On 30 April 2010, the Group announced its intention to delist its 259 million and earnings per share of 14.9 pence in the prior year.
American Depositary Shares ADSs from the New York Stock At 30 June 2010, the total number of DTH customers in the UK and Exchange and to terminate its registration and reporting obligations under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 the Ireland was 9,860,000, representing a net increase of 418,000 Exchange Act.
Each ADS represents four Sky ordinary shares, customers in the current year.
At 30 June 2010, the total number of Sky HD customers was 2,939,000, representing 30% of total DTH evidenced by American Depositary Receipts ADRs.
On 19 May 2010, the listing of the Companys ADSs on the New York Stock customers.
This represents growth in Sky HD customers of 124% in Exchange terminated and on 21 May 2010, the Company filed a the current year.
The number of Multiroom customers also certification on Form 15F with the U. S. Securities and Exchange continued to grow, increasing by 286,000 in the current year to 2,121,000: 22% penetration of total DTH customers.
Cable Commission SEC to terminate the registration of its ordinary shares under Section 12 g of the Exchange Act and to terminate its subscribers to the Groups channels increased to 4,312,000 reporting obligations under Sections 13 a or 15 d of the Exchange compared to 4,271,000 in the prior year.
The Companys SEC reporting obligations are suspended upon DTH churn for the current year was 10.3% which is in line with the the filing, and the terminations are expected to become effective prior year 2009: 10.3%.
on or about 18 August 2010 90 days after the filing of Form 15F.
Sky Broadband continues to grow strongly, increasing by 421,000 The Company has maintained its ADR facility as a Level 1 ADR customers in the current year to 2,624,000.
By the end of the programme.
This means that the Companys ADSs are traded on current year, we had unbundled 1,227 telephone exchanges the US over-the-counter market and are quoted on OTCQX.
The number of Sky Talk Companys ordinary shares will continue to trade on the London customers reached 2,367,000, representing an increase of 517,000 Stock Exchange.
The number of Line Rental customers increased On 4 June 2010, the Group reached an agreement with VM for the by 769,000 in the current year to 1,686,000 of which approximately acquisition of Virgin Media Television VMtv which completed on 883,000 customers are on Metallic Path Facilities MPF.
12 July 2010, following regulatory approval in the Republic of Ireland.
Corporate In completing the acquisition, the Group paid VM initial consideration of 105 million and an additional amount of up to The Board of Directors is proposing a final dividend of 11.525 pence 55 million will be paid on receipt of UK regulatory approval.
VMtv per ordinary share, resulting in a total dividend for the year of 19.40 has now been renamed the Living TV Group.
pence, representing growth of 10% over the prior year full year dividend.
The ex-dividend date will be 20 October 2010 and, subject On 15 June 2010, News Corporation announced a proposal relating to shareholder approval at the Companys Annual General Meeting to a possible offer for the entire issued share capital of the AGM, the dividend will be paid on 12 November 2010 to Company not already owned by News Corporation the Proposal.
shareholders of record on 22 October 2010.
The Company announced on the same date that the Proposal, which is not a formal offer, is subject to regulatory and financing On 26 January 2010, the Technology and Construction Court pre-conditions, which add considerable uncertainty to when and TCC gave judgment in the litigation between Electronic Data whether any formal offer could be made and that the Independent Systems EDS and the Group.
The litigation related to EDS former Directors of the Company, who have been so advised by Morgan role as a supplier to the Group as part of the Groups customer Stanley and UBS Investment Bank, unanimously considered the relationship management project.
On 7 June 2010, EDS and the terms of the Proposal to undervalue significantly the Company.
For Group fully and finally settled the litigation between them and all further details see note 30 of the consolidated financial related claims including for damages, costs and interest for a total statements.
On 16 June 2010 Nicholas Ferguson was appointed Deputy On 27 January 2010, Daniel Rimer was appointed as a member of Chairman of the Company.
On 19 June 2009, the Company entered into a 750 million forward On 8 February 2010, the Group placed a shareholding of 10.4% in starting syndicated credit facility available for drawing from 30 July ITV in accordance with the final undertakings given by the Group to ANNUAL REPORT 2010 BRITISH SKY BROADCASTING GROUP PLC 27 DIRECTORS REPORT FINANCIAL REVIEW continued Other revenue includes income from betting and gaming activities, Introduction online advertising and mobile TV services as well as conditional continued access, access control and electronic programme guide fees from 2010 and expiring on 31 July 2012.
This forward starting facility was customers on the Sky digital platform.
The facility was extended by one year to Operating expense 31 July 2013 and the start date brought forward to June 2010.
At Our operating expense arises from programming, direct networks, the same time the existing facility was cancelled.
transmission, technology and fixed networks, marketing, subscriber On 21 July 2010 the Group announced that it had reached an management and supply chain and administration costs.
agreement over the sale of its business-to-business Programming costs include payment for: i licences of television telecommunications operation, Easynet Global Services Easynet, rights from certain US and European film licensors including the to Lloyds TSB Development Capital LDC.
LDC will pay the Group results of foreign exchange programme hedges: ii the rights to 100 million for the business on completion of the transaction, televise certain sporting events: iii other programming acquired subject to regulatory approval.
The Group will retain the UK network from third party licensors: iv the production and commissioning of assets that it acquired as part of the original acquisition of Easynet original programming: and v the rights to retail the Sky Group in 2005.
As part of the sale, the Group and LDC will enter into Distributed Channels to DTH customers and Sky Player customers.
a long-term supply agreement to grant Easynet continued access The methods used to amortise programming inventories are to the Groups fibre network and Easynet will also continue to be a described in section v of note 1 to the consolidated financial key supplier to the Group.
statements Critical accounting policies and the use of judgment.
Operating results Under our current pay television agreements with the US major Revenue movie studios, we generally pay a US dollar-denominated licence Our revenue is principally derived from retail subscription, wholesale fee per current movie, calculated on a per movie subscriber basis.
fees, advertising on our wholly-owned channels, the provision of During the year, we managed our US dollar pound sterling exchange services by Easynet and installation, hardware and servicing.
risk primarily by the purchase of forward foreign exchange contracts and currency options collars for up to five years ahead Our retail subscription revenue is a function of the number of DTH see note 24 to the consolidated financial statements.
customers residential and commercial, the mix of services provided and the rates charged.
Revenue from the provision of payUnder the DTH distribution agreements for the Sky Distributed per-view services, which include Sky Box Office, is included within Channels, we generally pay a monthly fee per subscriber for each retail subscription or wholesale subscription revenue, as channel, the fee in some cases being subject to periodic increases, appropriate.
Retail subscription revenue also includes retail or we pay a fixed fee or no such fee at all.
A number of our broadband subscription and Sky Talk revenue.
distribution agreements are subject to minimum guarantees, which are linked to the proportion of the total number of customers Our wholesale subscription revenue, which is currently revenue receiving specific packages.
Our costs for carriage of the Sky derived from the supply of Sky Channels to cable and Internet Distributed Channels will where a monthly per subscriber fee is Protocol Television IPTV platforms, is a function of the number of payable continue to be dependent on changes in the subscriber subscribers on cable and IPTV operators platforms, the mix of base, contractual rates, viewing performance and or the number of services taken by those subscribers and the rates charged to those channels distributed.
We are currently a leading supplier of premium pay television programming to cable operators in the UK and Ireland for Direct network costs include costs directly related to the supply of re-transmission to cable subscribers, although not all cable broadband and telephony services to our consumer and businessoperators carry all Sky Channels.
This includes call costs, monthly wholesale access fees and other variable costs associated with our network.
Our advertising revenue is mainly a function of the number of commercial impacts, defined as individuals watching one thirty Transmission, technology and fixed network costs include costs second commercial on our wholly owned channels, together with that are dependent upon the number and annual cost of the the quality of impacts delivered and overall advertising market satellite transponders that we use.
Our transponder capacity is conditions.
Advertising revenue also includes net commissions primarily supplied by the SES Astra and Eutelsat Eurobird satellites.
earned by us from the sale of advertising on those third-party Transmission, technology and network costs also include the costs channels for which we act as sales representative.
associated with transmission, uplink and telemetry facilities.
Easynet revenue is derived from the provision of services for public Marketing costs include: i above-the-line spend which promotes and private sector customers in the UK, Europe, Asia and the US.
our brand and range of products and services generally : ii belowThe services provided include managed network services, managed the-line spend which relates to the growth and maintenance of hosting including co-location, dedicated complex hosting and the customer base, including commissions payable to retailers and managed security services and managed virtual meetings via high other agents for the sale of subscriptions and the costs of our own definition telepresence suites.
direct marketing to our existing and potential customers : and iii the cost of providing and installing digital satellite reception Installation, hardware and service revenue includes income from equipment to customers in excess of the relevant amount actually set-top box sales and installation including the sale of Sky HD, received from customers for such equipment and installation.
Sky and Multiroom set-top boxes, and broadband, service calls and warranties.
Subscriber management and supply chain costs include customer management costs, supply chain costs and associated 28 BRITISH SKY BROADCASTING GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2010
