12 Intermediate Capital Group PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2010 Strategy.
Our vision Fundraising The fundraising market remains difficult as many institutions are Our vision is to be the leading global still considering future allocations in light of the continued volatility.
alternative asset manager specialising Against this backdrop, fundraising volumes remain very low.
However there are a number of long term developments in the private equity in mezzanine finance, growth capital, and alternative asset fund management space that we believe will buyout debt and related asset classes.
The severity of the crisis has tempered the rapid growth of commodity financing which fuelled fundraising in the credit space in the lead up to the crisis.
At ICG we stated as early as 2006 that this situation was not only unviable but damaging to the market in the long run, with credit risk being ignored in favour of volume.
While the private equity market still benefits from considerable unutilised resources due to the large amount of capital raised ahead of the Lehman bankruptcy, the next round of fundraising will reshape the competitive landscape.
Track record, stability of management, reputation and depth of experience will be foremost in the minds of investors.
Investors will be extremely selective in future allocations and although it will be extremely difficult and time consuming to raise new funds we are confident that we hold long term and sustainable advantages over our competitors and that these will lead to the continued growth of our fund management business.
We have consistently delivered top quartile investment returns both in our mezzanine and debt businesses.
As the market consolidates further, this will be a defining factor in our future success.
The size of the final close of our Recovery Fund is testament to the growing attraction of the ICG brand name to new investors.
Outlook for growth AuM AuM 3.
Growth of existing business 2015 Managing Directors strategic review Managing Directors strategic review 13 Meanwhile banks, which constitute a large source of leveraged Our objectives loans, now have a limited appetite for the asset class.
Lending levels are therefore likely to remain constrained as they focus on 1.
Grow our existing business deleveraging their own balance sheets and seek to respond to the Mezzanine and Growth Capital As the global independent leader changing regulatory environment.
Some banks are also reducing in mezzanine finance, we believe there are further opportunities their exposure to what they perceive to be the riskier end of lending to grow our existing mezzanine and growth capital business.
In most cases the underlying assets, generally leveraged The flexibility and stability of mezzanine as an asset class is loans, will still exist and have to be managed.
This presents us with recognised by investors as an attractive and less volatile a number of opportunities to acquire, on behalf of third party investors, complement to private equity funds.
Opportunities to invest portfolios of loans from managers and banks that no longer have mezzanine in recovery deals, mid sized buyouts and growth the appetite or resources to manage them.
We are one of a handful capital will allow us to deploy capital on behalf of investors and of firms that have the skills and experience to source, assess and our shareholders.
price these portfolios particularly given the illiquid nature of the As the current environment favours long established, underlying company loans.
successful players, we intend to maintain our leadership position Our extensive network of investment professionals apply the in Europe and Asia Pacific, and make significant strides in the US same rigorous credit analysis to assessing the underlying credit where the use of mezzanine finance has recovered.
quality of portfolio opportunities as they do with individual investments.
Indeed we are currently assessing a few such portfolios, which may Credit Funds Management Investor appetite for traditional meet investors appetite for yield generating products.
structured funds such as CDOs is limited.
However there continues to be interest from yield seeking investors, such as pension funds 3.
Expand our business and insurance companies, in lowly levered loan funds.
In response to this we seeded our first dedicated high yield fund in December, ICG has developed expertise in a number of complementary asset and continue to explore new fund structures that will meet the classes.
From its origins in mezzanine finance, ICG has successfully needs of investors.
expanded into leveraged loans, high yield bonds, growth capital investments and more recently recovery assets.
Opportunistic growth Common to all of these asset classes is our ability to originate, assess and price risk across the capital structure of sub investment The dramatic shift in the European credit market may also give grade companies.
As we grow our business and fundraising rise to some unique opportunities in the coming years.
Prior to capabilities, we will consider how those skills and discipline can the credit bubble bursting, a wave of managers of CDOs and credit be successfully applied to other asset classes.
We will do so with hedge funds entered the credit market, primarily investing in buyout the same degree of careful consideration and prudence that we debt.
Many of these managers are finding it difficult to operate have exercised over the last 21 years.
under the current market conditions and will not be able to raise further funds.
Indeed many do not have the requisite platform, infrastructure, governance or resources to manage some of their loans.
These funds are likely to be sold, liquidated over time, or become dormant with little prospect of revival.
Consequently we hope to see opportunities to acquire small to mid sized fund managers that complement our existing business model, culture and international network.
14 Intermediate Capital Group PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2010 Strategy.
Case study: Recovery Fund ICG closed its 843 million Recovery Fund in March 2010.
Along with ICG PLCs co-investment and its third party funds, ICG now has approximately 1.5 billion to invest in European recovery opportunities.
This is believed to be one of the largest pools of capital targeting recovery opportunities in Europe raised since the onset of the credit crisis.
Despite a challenging fundraising environment, the fund attracted a significant number of new third party investors to ICG including its first US state pension investor and two new sovereign wealth funds.
Managing Directors strategic review Managing Directors strategic review 15 Key priorities for growth Key priorities for growth We have set three key priorities to grow our business: place fund marketing and product innovation at the core of our growth strategy: take advantage of the investment opportunities that emerge from these market conditions both on and off balance sheet: and finally Fund marketing Investment Organisational to align the entire organisation to our vision of being one of the and product strategy alignment largest independent alternative asset managers globally.
In this innovation respect, the Board has revisited our incentive schemes to ensure a further alignment of our employees with ICGs strategic objectives and shareholder interests.
The new schemes will be proposed to shareholders at the forthcoming AGM on 13 July 2010.
Looking ahead we believe opportunities will develop across a broader range of asset classes which will play to our strengths Sustainable growth in assessing and pricing corporate risk.
We remain confident of our ability to raise third party funds, and have renewed our focus on establishing sustainable and long term investor relationships.
We are committed to our co-investment model for mezzanine and growth capital funds and will continue to maximise the size of our balance sheet while operating within a prudent funding framework through the debt cycles.
We will also continue to provide seed capital to support our loans and high yield funds as well as expand into new geographies and asset classes.
For reporting purposes and to provide greater transparency on each of these businesses we have separated the Investment Company and the Fund Management Company, as defined on page 32.
While we are acutely aware that volatility has returned to the market, we take great pride in the fact that we have emerged from this cycle stronger than when we entered it.
With the backing of our shareholders, bankers and investors, we have the agility and financial stability to take advantage of investment opportunities that will emerge.
We believe that this is due to our unique proposition, continued discipline, judgement and the quality and commitment of our people.
16 16 Intermediate Capital Group PLC Intermediate Capital Group PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2010 Annual Report & Accounts 2010 Business review.
We are encouraged by the operational performance of our portfolio, which benefited from a recent improvement in the broader economy.
Below left to right: Franois fide Mitry, Philip Keller, Christophe Evain and Tom Attwood Business review Business review 17 The year started in the depths of one of the most severe Monitor and manage the portfolio economic downturns experienced by the financial markets.
Improvement in portfolio performance Overall we are encouraged The speed and global scale of the downturn was acute by the improvement in the operational performance of our and our top priorities were to: portfolio over the last 12 months, which benefited from a recent improvement in the broader economy.
This has started to translate p Monitor and manage the portfolio into improved portfolio statistics, with 59 per cent of portfolio companies now performing at or ahead of last year, compared to p Maintain a strong balance sheet 53 per cent in September.
p Continue to raise third party funds More significantly, these performances were driven by top line growth rather than through the cost savings that were prevalent p Invest selectively in secondary loans earlier in our financial year.
The improvement in trading has also led to a reduction in We are pleased to report that we were successful in our gross provisions for our portfolio, which were 32 per cent lower achievements against these priorities, aided by a stabilisation compared to the previous year.
Although provisions remain high, of the economic environment in the second half of the year.
we expect that they will continue to trend down.
We also wrote back 18.5 million from previously written down assets.
As of today the number of assets of immediate concern has reduced.
However, visibility on the sustainability of the recent improvement in the economic environment remains limited, with the recent crisis triggered by sovereign debt concerns serving as a reminder of the fragility of the recovery.
Our mezzanine portfolio remains highly diversified both by geography and sector.
It comprises 92 assets based in 17 countries across Europe, Asia Pacific and North America.
France represents our largest country exposure with 39 per cent of assets by value, followed by the UK with 16 per cent.
We have less than 10 per cent of our investments located in Spain and Italy and no exposure to Greece, Portugal or Ireland.
The portfolio is, as we have detailed in previous statements, defensive with limited cyclical exposure.
The portfolio is also highly diversified by sector.
Our largest sector is business services accounting for 21 per cent, followed by healthcare at 17 per cent.
Our top 20 assets account for 48 per cent of our portfolio.
Among these large assets, there is a bias towards business services, healthcare and utilities.
Our largest asset, Medi Partenaires, is a private clinics operator in France and accounts for just under 4 per cent of our investment portfolio.
Our 10 largest equity investments account for 50 per cent of our equity portfolio 10 per cent of total investments and are showing strong resilience, with eight of these assets performing above last years level.
18 Intermediate Capital Group PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2010 Business review.
Maximising recoveries Maximising recoveries and preserving the Our experience over the last 12 months has shown that a proactive value of our portfolio was our highest priority over the year.
and solution led approach is just as important in influencing the While the severity and speed of the financial crisis resulted in outcome of a restructuring as the legal framework.
The result is the abrupt decline in performance of our weakest assets in the that we were able to negotiate favourable economics in a significant last half of the previous financial year, this years restructurings proportion of restructurings, thus maximising the prospect of were less dramatic.
Our weak assets experienced a softening of recoveries across the portfolio.
This, in time, may enable us to performance rather than any liquidity issues, and as such a broader recover some of the provisions we have taken against weak assets.
range of restructuring options was available to us.
There are, indeed, some signs of recoveries.
The sale of our Our portfolio benefited from the focus of our dedicated mezzanine investment in Gala Coral above our net carrying value restructuring team, consisting of 10 of our most senior investment generated a write back.
In addition, the pending sale of Helicon professionals from around the world.
By working closely with our to a trade buyer, which is due to complete in August subject to local investment teams, they were well placed to identify issues regulatory approval, will result in a full repayment of our mezzanine among our weakest assets and to swiftly implement recovery plans.
investment, and has led to a further write back.
Both assets The teams focus and proactive approach has enabled us delivered a money multiple of greater than our original investment to identify potential issues early, and in many cases, take a lead role when taking into account interest received.
in determining the nature of a restructuring with our counterparties.
Although the economic environment has improved, we will Where appropriate, we have introduced operational turnaround continue to closely monitor our portfolio and in particular our most specialists to provide additional support to management teams.
We are mindful that current economic conditions are fragile, and that monetary and budget imbalances across Europe may lead to a relapse.
Performance of assets performing above prior year in % 100 90 80 70 60 50 40 30 20 10 0 % Source: ICG Sep 07 Dec 07 Mar 08 Jun 08 Sep 08 Dec 08 Mar 09 Jun 09 Sep 09 Dec 09 Mar 10 Current Business r Business review eview Business review 19 2.7bn Balance sheet investments Case study: Marken In January 2010, ICG made a full exit from its investment in Marken, a specialist pharmaceuticals logistics and support services company, which generated the largest ever capital gain achieved in a single transaction for ICG.
ICG created a financial structure that provided the management team with the freedom and flexibility to substantially grow the business.
That the company continued to perform strongly throughout the global economic crisis is testament to the strength of both Markens business and ICGs minority partnership model.
20 Intermediate Capital Group PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2010 Business review.
Case study: Icopal The company is an international manufacturer of roofing and waterproofing products with a presence throughout Europe and the US.
In addition, Icopal offers roofing installation and other related services.
The business operates within a sector that is largely driven by maintenance and repair, where spend is more resilient in an economic downturn than new construction.
It is the market leader in almost all of the markets it operates in.
Through our relationship with the financial sponsor, we were presented with the opportunity to purchase debt from an existing lender to further strengthen the lender group.
ICG invested in 83 million of first-lien senior debt in the company at a negotiated discount which is expected to deliver an attractive return for our investors.
Business review Business review 21 Maintain a strong balance sheet Continue to raise third party funds Thanks to the ongoing support of our shareholders and bank lenders, Mezzanine and Growth Capital Although there are no official we raised 351 million via a rights issue in July, and extended benchmarks for mezzanine fund performance, our fund investors 545 million of our existing debt facilities to June 2013.
This, combined consistently confirm that the performance of our funds places us in with a return to profitability, saw shareholders funds at 31 March the top quartile of our industry.
We outperform the average buyout 2010 increase to 1,184 million.
In May 2010, we extended an funds while delivering more stable income.
additional 67 million of bank debt to June 2013 bringing the total At 31 March 2010, ICG European Fund 2006 was 68 per cent extension to 612 million and further demonstrating the support of invested in 41 portfolio companies, and our second Asia Pacific our relationship banks.
Fund, the Intermediate Capital Asia Pacific Fund 2008, was 25 per The uplift in bond and equity markets, together with improving cent invested in three portfolio companies.
In line with our ambition economic conditions and a renewed appetite for investments across to accelerate the growth of the fund management business, the private equity industry, spurred a strong flow of realisations investors in our flagship European Fund 2006 and Asia Pacific in the second half of the year which resulted in repayments of Fund 2008 agreed in September 2009 to increase the proportion 224 million for the balance sheet and capital gains of 99 million.
of assets to be allocated to the funds relative to ICGs balance We achieved our first realisation in November 2009 when Easycash sheet.
In exchange we have agreed to reduce the fees charged was sold to a trade buyer.
This was quickly followed by the sale of to these funds by 25bps.
We also decided to cancel the undrawn Marken to Apax Partners, the first sizeable buyout in Europe since debt facilities of the ICG European Fund 2006. the bankruptcy of Lehman.
The sale of Marken generated 68 million Older funds which are closed for new investments have of capital gains for the Investment Company, the largest capital benefited from the recent series of realisations, in particular ICG gain generated by a single transaction in our history.
This fund has now returned 96 per cent Additional large repayments during the year included: Springer, of capital to its investors, having realised 47 of its 80 investments, which was refinanced: Medica, which was listed on Euronext: and a performance which will go a long way to help us raise our Gala, where we sold our investments.
In addition, since year end next fund.
we have realised our equity position in Geoservices and expect Fundraising Despite the year being widely regarded as one to complete the exit of Sebia, which will result in an additional of the most challenging for fundraising, ICG made great 24 million of capital gain in the first half of the year to 31 March 2011. strides establishing relationships with a number of leading Following these exits, we will have exceeded our target of realising institutional investors and gatekeepers from around the world.
As a consequence, our investor base is broader and more As a result, net debt stood at 1,504 million at 31 March 2010 geographically diverse than ever before, as new investors down 28 per cent from last year.
from Asia Pacific, the US and the Middle East committed to our Net debt to shareholder funds was 127 per cent, down from funds in total.
270 per cent at the end of last year and 150 per cent at 30 September The successful close of the ICG Recovery Fund has been 2009.
Undrawn debt capacity stood at 729 million at year end.
encouraging, having attracted 843 million of third party funds in total.
The fund attracted a significant number of new third party investors to ICG, notably from the US, Asia and the Middle East, including our first commitment from a US state pension fund, and two new sovereign wealth funds.
The fund is already 26 per cent invested, with its most recent investment made in March 2010 in Icopal, a specialist European manufacturer of building protection.
Moreover, through this fundraising cycle, we have established relationships with a number of quality prospective investors who have indicated their interest in future ICG funds.
22 Intermediate Capital Group PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2010 Business review.
Credit Funds Management Our Credit Funds continue ICG Senior Loans Default vs market rates % ICG to outperform the market due to our lower default rates.
S&P The 12 month default rate for S&P Leveraged Loan Market rate 14 peaked at 15.8 per cent in December 2009 and then fell to 12 10.8 per cent at the end of March.
In contrast, our Credit Funds Management CFM team achieved a default rate that was less 10 than half this at 4.5 per cent for the 12 months to March, having 8 peaked at 7.6 per cent in December 2009.
In addition our credit funds are starting to benefit from the improving earnings trend in 6 the buyout market, which should in due course, translate to rating upgrades of portfolio companies.
4 In December we launched a dedicated high yield fund to 2 take advantage of the resurgence of the European high yield market.
As one of the first investors in European high bonds, 0 ICG has a strong track record, consistently outperforming industry 2000 2001 2002 2003 2004 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 benchmark indices over the past 10 years.
The fund is in Source: ICG and S&P development stage having received seed financing from ICGs balance sheet.
This fund will provide investors with direct access to our high yield capabilities for the first time.
With over 10 years ICG High Yield Default vs market rates % ICG High Yield of experience investing in high yield bonds, our CFM team is well S&P High Yield placed to capitalise on this opportunity.
14 12 10 8 6 4 2 0 2000 2001 2002 2003 2004 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 Source: ICG and S&P Business review Business review 23 7.3bn Third party funds under management Case study: CPA Global ICG completed its investment in the Jersey based business, CPA Global, taking a significant minority equity stake in February 2010.
CPA Global is a leader in the fast growing market for outsourced legal services and the investment allowed a large shareholder base to achieve a partial realisation and support the business for the next stage of its development.
ICG was well positioned to invest in CPA Global given its track record of successful minority equity investments.
24 Intermediate Capital Group PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2010 Business review.
Case study: Geoservices ICG made a full exit from its investment in Geoservices, a French service provider in the upstream oil industry, generating an attractive return to our shareholders and fund investors.
ICG invested in the mezzanine and equity in July 2005 in support of French private equity sponsor, Astorg.
Over the life of the investment, the company significantly increased earnings in response to a growing demand in the exploration of oil wells and by streamlining its operations.
Moreover the management team was further strengthened providing additional momentum to the growth of the company.
The investment highlights our ability to select assets with the potential for further growth.
Business review Business review 25 Investment rate Due to the high level of uncertainty over the Invest selectively in secondary loans economic outlook we adopted an extremely cautious approach to The marked improvement in the economic environment has also investing throughout 2009.
In addition market activity was muted.
led to a sharp recovery in the senior loans market.
In the short term However we saw an increase in transaction opportunities at the this has reduced the opportunity to generate equity like returns by start of 2010. purchasing senior loans at a discount in the open market.
We made two investments during the second half of the year.
However the competitive landscape continues to change in our We acquired a significant minority stake in CPA Global, the market favour as large financial institutions are increasingly inclined to reduce leader in global intellectual property services and one of the worlds their leveraged loan books and or divest non core assets.
This has leading providers of legal services outsourcing, and a purchase given rise to opportunities to acquire portfolios of loans through our of discounted senior debt in Icopal, the world leader in specialist close relationships with financial institutions.
In these situations we building protection.
As a result we invested 254 million over the apply the same rigorous credit process that we do when investing year, of which 234 million was invested in the second half on in individual loans, thereby maintaining our credit discipline.
behalf of ICG and its third party Mezzanine and Growth Capital We are currently assessing a number of portfolios and expect Funds.
97 million was invested on behalf of the Investment these opportunities to grow as banks appetite to hold these Company and the balance on behalf of our third party Mezzanine assets softens.
We expect this rate of investment to be maintained over the coming financial year.
At the time of the rights issue in July we highlighted that over 200 billion of European buyout debt is due to be repaid in the next seven or so years.
There will be limited appetite by banks to refinance some of this debt when it falls due, creating an opening for ICG to refinance market leading, quality companies that are cash generative and well managed.
Our current pipeline reflects this trend, and we expect a greater proportion of our investments to have these recapitalisation characteristics over the coming years as traditional buyouts remain relatively scarce.
We also expect a greater proportion of investments to come from Asia Pacific and North America.
