Group at a glance Key messages A robust and Scaling the business Despite the challenges of the successful global economic downturn, we have continued our commitment to investing in future growth.
Through our Global b u s iness m o d e l Change Management Programme we are proactively improving the efficiency and effectiveness of our home credit business model and creating a We are an international provider of home credit.
platform for growth that will transform Our business model is well established, profitable our business.
We are making good progress on our journey to reshape and has proven to be robust in the face of the and modernise the business as our global recession.
We have carefully managed results demonstrate.
the business and emerged successful, delivering Go to page 16 How we do business a record profit in 2010.
Go to page 14 Our business model Profit margin Pre-tax profit increase 15.1% 49.3% 04 International Personal Finance plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2010 Directors Report: Business Review Attractive cust o m er pr oposition Customer satisfaction and loyalty are key to Listening to our customers the long-term success of our business.
Home We work hard to get to know our customers, listening to their needs and credit is well liked by our customers.
They value developing products and services that the personal, convenient and friendly home they value.
This year, we introduced our service provided by their agent and the fact that Customer Service Score which involves interviews with more than 30,000 they can borrow a small amount of money with customers every month.
This provides manageable and flexible repayments.
an objective assessment of how well Go to page 20 Home credit and the customer we are delivering our services and how we can improve delivery further.
We do this because we realise that excellent customer service will increase loyalty.
We have rolled out our flexible product in all our European markets.
This has been driven by our Treating Customers Customer retention Customers Fairly programme which places responsible lending at the heart of our business and provides a core framework 52.7% 2.2m of principles which drive decision making.
Go to page 21 Responsible lending www.
co. uk Directors Report: Business Review 05 Group at a glance Key messages Good growth Positive impacts We believe that growing our business prospects will have a positive impact on society.
By expanding, we will help more customers on lower incomes to be included in the financial mainstream.
We have a clear and consistent strategy and In emerging markets, many consumers an established record of delivery.
We have have less access to financial services returned to growth and, looking to the future, because they have no credit history.
there are significant long-term opportunities Our business model enables us to serve customers with limited access to other to develop our business further.
We focus on forms of credit in a responsible and emerging markets where consumer lending professional way.
This is positive given is relatively underserved and which offer the economic opportunities our loans the prospect of profitable growth.
Our controlled expansion will also enable us to provide global career Go to page 12 Our strategy prospects to thousands of employees.
Go to page 21 Responsible lending Customer growth Total population of markets 7.5% 193m 06 International Personal Finance plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2010 Directors Report: Business Review Strong financial profile The home credit business model is capital Diversified funding generative and profitable.
Our balance During 2010, we completed our refinancing programme providing sheet continues to strengthen with equity diversified funding to support growth to receivables of 54.5%, gearing at 1.0 times through to November 2013.
In August, and borrowings reduced to 304.3 million.
we issued 225 million 193 million of five-year bonds under the Euro Medium We have committed funding from a range Term Note Programme.
In October of sources to support our growth plans.
we issued 200 million zloty 43 million We employ a prudent provisioning methodology.
In November, we Go to page 54 Financial review secured 198 million of three-year committed bank facilities.
This funding will be used to support our business expansion strategy to grow in our existing markets and to enter new markets when the time is right.
Go to page 54 Financial review Equity to receivables Gearing 54.5% 1.0x www.
co. uk Directors Report: Business Review 07
