Directors Report: Governance Our Senior Management Group David Parkinson Russell Johnsen John Saville Country Manager Poland Country Manager Romania Information Technology Director David joined the international Russell joined the international John joined the Group in 2007 having team in 2003 as Field Development team in 1997 and played a key role previously worked for companies Manager and was appointed in establishing the businesses in including HBOS, Telewest, Vodafone, Country Manager of the Czech Poland and the Czech Republic.
Cable & Wireless and Lehman Republic and Slovakia in January 2008 and Country In 2007 he joined Provident Mexico as Business Brothers.
John is responsible for all aspects of IT Manager of Poland in February 2010.
He was appointed Country across the Group.
held various operational roles within the UK home Manager of Romania in February 2009.
He previously credit division of Provident Financial plc before held various field-based management roles within the serving as Head of Communications, Head of Training UK home credit division of Provident Financial plc.
and Head of Agent Support.
Chris Wheeler Fred Forfar Davie Thompson Country Manager Czech Republic Group Development Director Field Operations Director and Slovakia Fred joined the international team Davie joined the Group in January Chris joined the international team in 2003 having previously served 2011 having previously spent in June 2001, working in operations as Deputy MD, HR director and 29 years at Provident Financial plc in the Czech Republic, Slovakia Marketing and Commercial working at all levels of operational and Poland.
In 2005 he moved to Mexico to lead the director of the UK home credit division of Provident management in addition to managing a range expansion into the Guadalajara region and in January Financial plc.
He was responsible for new market of central functions.
He is responsible for the 2008 was appointed Country Manager of Russia.
development at IPF before being appointed Group overall management, development, delivery and He was appointed Country Manager of the Czech Development Director in August 2010.
He has implementation of the Global Change Management Republic and Slovakia in February 2010.
He previously responsibility for the development of the Groups Programme.
held various management positions within the UK Operational Strategies and the Global Change home credit division of Provident Financial plc.
Fred is also responsible for the identification, researching and opening of new markets.
He is a member of the Executive Committee.
Botond Szirmak John Mitra Helen Thornton Country Manager Hungary Corporate Affairs Director Human Resources Director Botond joined the international John joined the international team Helen joined the Group in 2009 team in Hungary in February 2002 as Marketing and Communications having previously worked for as a Development Manager, Director in 2004 having previously National Express East Coast, moving to Area Manager, Regional worked for global companies British Airways and as HR Director Operations Manager and Divisional Operations including Rothmans, Sheaffer and Bic.
She is responsible for the development Manager.
He was appointed Operations Director Corporate Affairs Director in August 2010.
John is and implementation of an effective HR strategy for in 2006 and in February 2008 he became Country responsible for developing and delivering the Group the business.
corporate communications strategy to optimise the regulatory and reputational aspects of the business and minimise regulatory risk.
Kenny McPartland Simon Quick John Williams Country Manager Mexico Group Marketing Director Credit Director Kenny joined the international Simon joined the Group in February John joined the international team team in 1998 as Field Development 2011 having previously undertaken in 2005 having previously worked Manager in the Czech Republic.
a range of senior marketing for companies including GUS, The He was appointed Country Manager and general management roles Associates and Marks & Spencer.
of Slovakia in 2001 and moved to be Country Manager at Hearthstone Investments plc, AEGON Direct His role includes managing all aspects of credit risk of the Czech Republic in 2003.
He took charge of both Marketing Services, Norwich Union Life, Barclays, across all markets.
In January 2008 he was TSB and Dixons.
He is responsible for developing appointed Country Manager of Mexico.
He previously and implementing the marketing strategy for held various operational roles within the UK home the business.
credit division of Provident Financial plc.
co. uk Directors Report: Governance 61
