Chief Executive Officers review Home credit and the customer We have 2.2 million customers who use home credit to manage the ups and downs of their weekly finances.
Our customers are looking to borrow Our customers are generally between 35 and 65 years old.
Across all our small sums of money markets, approximately 60% are women and the households we serve have to meet an immediate, average to slightly below average incomes.
specific purpose and Typically, customers will be employed or have a regular secure income from therefore do not want self-employment or pensions.
We do not lend to customers whose only source to borrow more than of income is unemployment benefit.
We have found that our customers are they need.
looking to borrow small sums of money to meet an immediate, specific purpose and therefore do not want to borrow more than they need.
Demand is highest at periods such as Christmas, for buying presents, Easter, for family celebrations, summer, for holidays, and autumn, for back-to-school expenditure.
Our typical customer is underserved by mainstream lenders, often has no credit history and may be taking a loan from a financial organisation for the first time.
Those who have used credit before may have used store credit to purchase household items or would have borrowed from friends and family.
With busy home and work lives, home credit customers like the fact that they can access a cash loan typically within 48 hours from initial contact.
This can be much quicker than mainstream lenders who in these emerging markets do not have the usual sources of information on which to make credit decisions, such as well-established credit bureau or bank account data.
Customers who opt for the home collection service also like the convenience of being able to arrange loans and make repayments in their own home, at a time that suits them.
The agent calls at the same time every week and saves them having to travel to a bank to make payments.
They also take comfort in the fact that typically the amount they owe does not increase as a result of missed payments, and they like the flexibility to miss the occasional payment without penalty.
20 International Personal Finance plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2010
