Directors Report: Governance Our Board and Committees as at 2 March 2011 Christopher Rodrigues CBE Charles Gregson John Lorimer Non-Executive Chairman, age 61 Non-executive director, Independent non-executive age 64 director, age 58 Christopher joined the Board of International Personal Finance plc Charles joined the Board of John joined the Board of International Personal Finance plc International Personal Finance plc as in 2007 at the time of the demerger from Provident Financial plc, as a non-executive director in 2007. a non-executive director in May 2010. serving as Executive Chairman until October 2008 Qualifications: Graduated in History and Law and Qualifications: Graduated in Commerce.
when the chairmanship became a non-executive role.
Other appointments: Chairman of CAF Bank Ltd and a Qualifications: Graduated in Economics and Economic Other appointments: Non-Executive Chairman of trustee of the Charities Aid Foundation, and a director History and has an MBA.
ICAP plc and CPPGroup Plc, and a non-executive of Aberdeen New Dawn Investment Trust PLC.
He is Other appointments: Chairman of VisitBritain and director of Caledonia Investments plc and St. Jamess also a director of Welsh National Opera Limited.
a non-executive director of Ladbrokes plc.
Previous appointments: senior positions with Previous appointments: Chief Executive of Thomas Previous appointments: Chief Executive of PR Standard Chartered Bank most recently as Cook, Chief Executive of Bradford and Bingley, board Newswire Association Inc, director of United Business Group Head of Compliance and Regulatory Risk member of the Financial Services Authority, President Media plc, non-executive director and Deputy later and Citigroup.
and Chief Executive of Visa International and Joint Joint Deputy Chairman of Provident Financial plc.
Deputy Chairman of Provident Financial plc.
John Harnett Tony Hales CBE Nicholas Page Chief Executive Officer, age 56 Senior independent non-executive Independent non-executive director, age 62 director, age 58 John joined the Board of International Personal Finance plc in Tony joined the Board of Nicholas joined the Board of 2007 and served as Chief Operating International Personal Finance plc International Personal Finance plc Officer until October 2008 when he as a non-executive director in 2007. as a non-executive director in 2007. was appointed Chief Executive Officer.
Qualifications: Graduated in Philosophy, Politics and Qualifications: Graduated in Business Studies and Economics and is a Fellow of the Institute of Chartered Other appointments: Chairman of British Waterways is a chartered accountant.
Accountants in England and Wales.
and Workspace Group plc and a non-executive Previous appointments: Finance Director of Holliday director of SSVC Limited.
He is also a director Other appointments: Non-executive director of Chemical Holdings plc, Finance Director of Allied of Welsh National Opera Limited.
Colloids PLC and Finance Director of Provident Previous appointments: Chief Executive of Allied Previous appointments: Chief Operating Officer of Financial plc, later Managing Director of its Domecq plc, Chairman of NAAFI Limited, and a Travelex plc, Managing Director of Hambro Insurance International Division.
non-executive director of Provident Financial plc, Services plc, executive director of Hambros Bank and Welsh Water plc, Aston Villa plc, HSBC Bank plc Joint Deputy Chairman of Hambro Group Investments, and Reliance Security Group plc.
and non-executive director of MoneyGram International Limited.
David Broadbent Edyta Kurek Finance Director, age 42 Independent non-executive director, age 44 David joined the Board of International Personal Finance plc Edyta joined the Board as Finance Director in 2007. of International Personal Finance plc as a non-executive Qualifications: Graduated in director in February 2010.
Classics, has an MBA and is a chartered accountant.
Qualifications: Graduated in Nuclear Engineering.
Previous appointments: Senior Manager with , Financial Controller and Other appointments: Vice President East Central later Finance Director of the International Division Europe and Middle East, and General Manager of Provident Financial plc.
Previous appointments: positions in Oriflame Poland Sp.
Executive Committee Disclosure Committee Nomination Committee Remuneration Committee Audit and Risk Committee John Harnett Chairman John Harnett Chairman Christopher Rodrigues Tony Hales Chairman Nicholas Page Chairman David Broadbent David Broadbent Chairman John Lorimer Tony Hales Fred Forfar Rosamond Marshall Smith Tony Hales Nicholas Page John Lorimer John Harnett Edyta Kurek John Lorimer Nicholas Page 60 International Personal Finance plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2010
