Chief Executive Officers review O ur s t r a t e g y Our aim is to drive shareholder value and deliver sustainable long-term profit growth by substantially expanding our business in emerging markets.
We have developed a We have continued to make good progress and there are considerable long-term programme of projects development opportunities for our business.
Today, we serve more than 2.2 million and initiatives to create a customers in six countries and, despite the challenging economic environment, more sustainable business all our businesses traded profitably in 2010.
We focus on delivering high levels for the future.
The Global of customer service and, as a result, more customers are taking loans with us.
Change Management Programme will ensure Our strategy is clear and consistent.
We plan to grow the business significantly that our business model by focusing on four areas: is as efficient and effective optimising returns from our established markets: as possible, complies with realising the profit potential of our developing markets: all relevant legislation and regulation, and that best entering new markets that offer the prospect of future profit growth: and practice is consistently ensuring our business model is sustainable.
Established markets Consumer demand for home credit is high in our established markets of Poland, the Czech Republic, Slovakia and Hungary.
Our strategic marketing efforts have helped build well recognised brands and levels of competition have reduced as a result of the global recession.
Developing markets In Mexico and Romania we intend to achieve growth through expanding our geographic coverage which currently stands at 37% in Mexico and 70% in Romania.
The maturing of the customer base with repeat customers taking larger loans will increase revenue further.
New markets Our past performance demonstrates our ability to introduce home credit businesses successfully in new, emerging markets.
This year we expanded into Monterrey, our third region in Mexico.
Looking ahead we plan to enter further new countries, as conditions permit, to achieve our growth objectives.
Sustainable business We have developed a programme of projects and initiatives to create a more sustainable business for the future.
The Global Change Management Programme will ensure that our business model is as efficient and effective as possible, complies with all relevant legislation and regulation, and that best practice is consistently applied.
Our responsible business practices will also help align the interests of customers, society and investors so sustaining shareholder value in the long term.
12 International Personal Finance plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2010 Directors Report: Business Review Our strategy Our strategic goals How we deliver them Strategic success 2010 Grow customer numbers.
Profit before tax 99.8 million Optimise the profitability up 30.5%.
Increase receivables per customer of our established to reflect rising per capita income Customer numbers up 2.8% to businesses in Central and a maturing of the loan portfolio.
Europe Poland, the Improve cost-efficiencies as Czech Republic, Slovakia a result of scale economies and and Hungary.
M exico profit before tax up from Realise profit potential 0.3 million to 3.5 million.
in our developing markets Romania maiden full year profit before Increase receivables per customer of Mexico and Romania.
tax 1.7 million up from a loss of as the loan portfolio matures.
Continually investigate new markets O pened in Monterrey our third Enter new markets.
Undertake carefully monitored pilot operations to assess potential of new markets.
Continual improvement through our Compliance rates on operational Ensure our business change programme.
processes, 95% July to December 2010. model is sustainable.
P lanned and consistent customer-led Pilot of handheld agent technology processes and procedures.
I nvest in our people through training Talent management framework and development.
Customer Service Scorecard introduced, interviewing 30,000 I nvest in our brand to strengthen customers every month.
Priorities for 2011 As part of our plans for the future, we will continue our journey of growing and improving our business.
We will continue to research new markets in 2011 and plan to evaluate the use of handheld technology which has the potential to transform our business.
co. uk Directors Report: Business Review 13
