Independent assurance report to the directors of International Personal Finance plc on selected performance information We have been engaged by the directors of International limited testing, on a selective basis at central and country Personal Finance plc the Company to perform an level, of the preparation and collation of the Selected independent assurance engagement in respect of selected Information prepared by the Company: key performance indicators hereafter Selected Information reviewing internal audit reports where the terms of in the International Personal Finance plc Annual Report and reference and or findings are relevant to the Selected Financial Statements for the year ended 31 December 2010.
Information: and The Selected Information for the year ended 31 December 2010 undertaking analytical procedures over the reported data.
subject to limited assurance is presented on pages 38 to 41 and marked with.
It consists of the following: Limitations Non-financial performance information is subject to more customer numbers: inherent limitations than financial information, given the customer retention: characteristics of the subject matter and the methods used agent numbers: for determining such information.
The absence of a significant agent retention: body of established practice on which to draw allows for the selection of different but acceptable preparation techniques credit exceptions: and which can result in materially different results and can impact Customer Service Score.
Furthermore, the nature and methods used to We also assured the restatement of the 31 December 2009 determine such information, as well as the criteria may change data for customer retention.
This was performed based on over time.
It is important to read the Selected Information in new criteria defined.
This information can be found on pages the context of the Basis of Preparation at www.
co. uk cr 38 to 41 and marked with.
The Customer Service Score results rely on information from Assurance work performed a customer interview programme: in one country interviews We conducted this limited assurance engagement in accordance are conducted by a third party organisation.
Our assurance with International Standard on Assurance Engagements 3000 work has not included an examination of the interview exercises Revised Assurance Engagements other than Audits or or the information provided by the customers.
Reviews of Historical Financial Information ISAE 3000 issued by the International Auditing and Assurance Standards Board.
Conclusion A limited assurance engagement is substantially less in scope Based on the results of the assurance work performed, nothing than a reasonable assurance engagement under ISAE 3000. has come to our attention that causes us to believe that, for the Consequently, the nature, timing and extent of procedures year ended 31 December 2010, the Selected Information has not for gathering sufficient appropriate evidence are deliberately been prepared, in all material respects, in accordance with the limited relative to a reasonable assurance engagement.
Our limited assurance procedures included: making enquiries of relevant management of the Company,  LLP including the Senior Management Group, and reviewing Chartered Accountants a sample of relevant management information including Edinburgh reports to the Senior Management Group: 2 March 2011 evaluating the design and implementation of the key processes and controls for managing and reporting the Selected Information, including controls over third party information where applicable: Respective responsibilities of the directors and  LLP The directors are responsible for the preparation of the Selected Information in accordance with the criteria set out in the Companys Basis of Preparation see www.
co. uk cr basisofreporting, and for the development of the criteria.
Our responsibility is to form a conclusion, based on limited assurance procedures, on whether anything has come to our attention to indicate that the Selected Information has not been prepared, in all material respects, in accordance with the Companys Basis of Preparation.
This report, including the conclusion, has been prepared for the directors of the Company as a body, to assist the directors in reporting the Companys performance.
We permit the disclosure of this report within the Annual Report and Financial Statements for the year ended 31 December 2010, to enable the directors to demonstrate they have discharged their governance responsibilities by commissioning an independent assurance report in connection with the Selected Information.
To the fullest extent permitted by law, we do not accept or assume responsibility to anyone other than the directors as a body and the Company for our work on this report save where terms are expressly agreed and with our prior consent in writing.
co. uk Independent assurance report 87
