Chief Executive Officers review Ho w we do business Creating a sustainable international business In 2010 we have demonstrated once again the resilience of our business model Our Global Change and the strength of our management.
We recognise, however, that in a rapidly Management Programme changing external environment success needs to be sustainable.
will reshape and modernise the business.
Creating a more effective business will enable more rapid growth in existing This programme is markets and faster expansion into new ones.
Our forward looking approach will designed to allow us to position management decision-making and responsibility closer to the customer better serve customer and longer-term operational targets will be tailored to the local market.
needs, to coach and support agents more Global Change Management Programme effectively, to better Our Global Change Management Programme will reshape and modernise develop and reward the business.
This programme, which consists of five key workstreams, is our employees and designed to allow us to better serve customer needs, to coach and support to improve returns to agents more effectively, to better develop and reward our employees and to our shareholders.
improve returns to our shareholders.
Strategy Behavioural change and organisation design.
We recognise that for any programme that changes systems, processes and technology to succeed there is a need to change the way an organisation is set up and, more importantly, how it is managed.
In particular we aim to develop a stronger culture of empowerment and personal responsibility at all levels of the business.
We have established a programme to deliver these changes across the Group starting at senior manager level.
Customer Delivering excellent products and customer service.
Our business has always prided itself on delivering outstanding customer service.
We do, however, realise that our customers expectations are rising and we need to respond by listening to them more and continually improving our delivery.
We call 30,000 customers every month and ask them to score our performance across ten metrics.
This provides us with an objective and insightful view of how we are performing.
To ensure it is embedded in our operations our Customer Service Score is being integrated into our branch performance measurement framework in 2011.
In addition, we continue to review and refine our product portfolio.
In particular we have extended our flexible product strategy which gives our customers greater choice and transparency by enabling them to choose whether they wish to repay their loan through the banking system or through our home collection service.
This model was initially developed in response to rate cap legislation in Poland but, as we believe it is a better product for our customers, we took the strategic decision to roll it out into our other markets.
In 2010 we introduced flexible products to Romania and the Czech Republic, completing the roll-out across all our European markets.
Performance Improving measurement and targeting.
As the business changes so does the need to enhance the way we assess past performance and optimise future delivery.
We have already introduced a formal branch performance management process and are now developing improved measures through a performance scorecard that will be piloted in 2011.
This 16 International Personal Finance plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2010 Directors Report: Business Review scorecard is intended to deliver sustainable growth through longer-term goal setting and a balanced reward framework.
Alongside this we are upgrading Our people are vital to our our data platforms to provide faster, and more consistent and accurate data.
success and future growth Technology Bringing new technology to bear on our field operations.
To enhance service delivery and reduce costs across the business we are running a pilot using handheld devices for employees and agents in Hungary.
If successful this will provide substantial efficiency improvements but, more importantly, will enable us to provide a faster, more effective service delivery to our customers.
It is anticipated that this pilot will run through 2011 before a decision is taken whether or not to roll-out the technology across the Group.
People Roadmap Creating sustainable foundations for our workforce.
Our people are vital to the success and future growth of our business.
As part of our Global Change Management Programme we have defined a People Roadmap that is incorporated within the Group HR strategy.
The People Roadmap was established to ensure the creation of sustainable foundations for the recruitment, training, management, development, reward, motivation and engagement of our workforce.
We believe that the interests of our business and employees are best served if we ensure that we have the right people, equipped with the right tools, knowledge, skills and experience to do the job that we ask of them, operating in an environment that recognises and rewards high performance and encourages retention.
To do this we need to make sure that: we recruit the right people with a clear set of expectations at every level: their induction enables them to understand the requirements of their role and the way the business operates: they are proactively performance managed against the expectations of their role and to a clear set of balanced objectives, and given appropriate support and development to continuously improve within their role: Successful manager behaviours Inspires and We have defined what we develops believe are the behaviours that mark out a successful, Looks Gets it right customer focused manager ahead in our business.
These are being embedded through Customer our assessment and focused reward structures.
Continuously Creates improves value Works together www.
co. uk Directors Report: Business Review 17 Chief Executive Officers review How we do business continued potential is recognised consistently throughout the business and that support and development is available, in accordance with the needs of the business, Developing a sustainable to all those with the aspiration and capability to progress regardless of level and successful or function and irrespective of race, age and gender: and international culture, our total reward system supports the attraction, engagement and retention we need to anchor the of capable people and drives the right business outcomes and behaviours.
business in a set of core principles.
These core We are committed to employment policies which follow best practice, based on principles are embedded equal opportunities for all employees, irrespective of race, age, gender, colour, in our decision-making disability or marital status.
We give full and fair consideration to applications for throughout the business employment from disabled persons, having regard to their particular aptitudes and and are central to the abilities.
Appropriate arrangements are made for the continued employment and approach we take to training, career development and promotion of disabled persons employed by the working with customers, Group.
If employees become disabled we continue employment, either in the same agents and employees.
or an alternative position, with appropriate retraining being given if necessary.
We systematically provide employees with information on matters of concern to them, consulting them or their representatives regularly, so that their views can be taken into account when making decisions that are likely to affect their interests.
Employee involvement in the Group is encouraged, as achieving a common awareness on the part of all employees of the financial and economic factors affecting the business plays a major role in building engagement.
Five Core Principles Developing a sustainable and successful international culture, we need to anchor the business in a set of core principles.
These core principles are embedded in our decision-making throughout the business and are central to the approach we take to working with customers, agents and employees.
Governance We believe that setting and managing governance standards at the highest level are critical to any sustainable business success.
Our aim is to ensure we operate to the highest standards of integrity and honesty at all times.
This means: we have a well-established and effective risk management system covering operational, credit, financial and regulatory risks.
We are currently undergoing a process of formally integrating an assessment of risks, and the mitigating actions we take against them, from the perspective of all our major stakeholder groups.
This will allow us to make decisions in the context of our sustainable business objectives: and we commission independent assurance over selected non-financial Key Performance Indicators.
Our voluntary decision to seek formal assurance shows our commitment to subject ourselves to scrutiny and to be transparent.
We are one of the first companies to obtain assurance on our customer and agent performance and present this alongside our financial data.
18 International Personal Finance plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2010 Directors Report: Business Review Ethics We recognise that there are differences in interpreting ethical standards This is an ambitious between cultures.
Despite this, we have a consistent approach and our values and forceful strategy for of being straightforward, responsible and respectful are central to everything change that will deliver we do.
This means: sustainable growth over we have an advanced Group-wide code of ethics which sets a standard across the long term.
We have a third-party whistleblowing service, where this is legally possible, and a zero tolerance policy on fraud and bullying: and we have a clear set of customer principles that we operate by and which we provide to all customers every time they take out a loan.
This year we sent over two million of these charters to our customers.
Service Excellent customer service is positioned at the heart of our business and our personal face-to-face approach is how we differentiate ourselves.
Outstanding service will drive an excellent reputation which, in turn, will help us deliver a sustainable and growing business.
This means: we survey 30,000 customers each month to measure our performance: our Customer Service Score is a core element of our performance indicators and, therefore, of staff remuneration: and loans are provided quickly to customers normally within 48 hours of contact.
Transparency It is crucial for a customer to be able to make an informed decision.
We strive to avoid potential misinterpretation of information by ensuring our loan documentation is transparent and easy to understand, and the language is clear and comprehensible.
Transparency, however, goes beyond a clear and simple loan application procedure.
It has to be embedded in our culture, our decision-making and our people.
This means: we benchmark our systems and processes against the highest standards including the Global Reporting Initiative, and FTSE4Good and Dow Jones Sustainability indices: and we have initiated stakeholder roundtables in all our markets and regularly invite stakeholders to meet management and see how our business operates.
Consistency As a growing international business, we believe that management standards and key processes should be applied consistently across the business.
Only through consistent application will a sustainable business be possible.
This means: we have best practice guides BPG which are in place for all business functions.
They define a number of controls against each core principle that every market must meet.
Each market is audited independently against these controls and at the end of 2010 we met our target to reach at least 95% compliance across all markets and functions.
This means that we can be confident that the core principles are consistently well managed across the business and that key risks are mitigated.
Taken together, this is an ambitious and forceful strategy for change that will deliver sustainable growth over the long term.
w ww ww w.. i ip pfi fin na an nnu nual alr re ep po or rt t.. c co. o. u uk k Directors Report: Business Review 19
