International Public Partnerships Limited Letter from the Board We are pleased to report that 2010 saw the Company produce a robust performance and another year of steady earnings growth against a backdrop of political change and public spending cuts.
At the time of writing the Companys portfolio consists of 60 assets and for the fourth successive year, has announced that it is targeting a distribution to shareholders above the level previously anticipated.
2010 was, in the UK, characterised by the announced cuts in public spending.
These have not had any adverse effect on the portfolio, nevertheless the Company takes the effect of public spending cuts in the UK very seriously.
However, we feel that one of the key differentiators and main strengths of the Company is its application to asset management and to the fostering of strong long term relationships with its public sector clients.
As such we are encouraged that the UK government is promoting dialogue between investors in infrastructure and public sector occupiers to ensure that so far as possible, the services being provided to the public sector are delivered in the most efficient manner.
Given that the volume of private finance and other infrastructure projects promoted by the public sector in the UK is unlikely to match the number of projects which have been promoted in previous years, the Company is also encouraged by new opportunities that we are being shown to us by our Investment Advisor both in new sectors e. g. offshore transmission and in countries outside the UK, but where the risk profile is very much in keeping with the Companys existing portfolio.
The Boards prime objective continues to be the delivery of a sustainable and growing distribution to shareholders, with growth in the value of our portfolio our next priority.
As such we pay particular attention to the quality of the projects being sought and the ongoing stewardship of those assets.
It is gratifying to be able to report that the portfolio continued to perform strongly during the period and that acquisitions made since the start of 2010, together with the exciting long term investment opportunities we have identified, augur well for the future.
We have been particularly pleased by the success that the Company and Investment Advisor, as part of the Transmission Capital Partners Consortium, has had during 2010, in winning four of eight long-term licenses awarded by the Office of the Gas and Electricity Market Ofgem in the first round of bidding to operate offshore transmission assets in the UK.
The awards are further evidence of the Companys ability to identify investments in new sectors.
These investments have a risk profile consistent with other assets in the portfolio and as such, the Company will continue to seek investment opportunities in the utility sector during 2011.
Already this year, the Company has completed its first investment into the sector the Robin Rigg offshore transmission project announced in March 2011.
As part of our investment strategy, the Company aims to deliver returns to investors that are substantially uncorrelated with those provided by more general equity investments.
It is notable that since the formation of the Company in November 2006 to 31 December 2010 a shareholder would have received a total return on investment of 40.7% in contrast to a total return on the FTSE250 index of 24.4%.
While the relative percentages will change from time to time, these figures outline the attractions of investing in this asset class, the performance of which is largely uncorrelated to wider market risks.
In the Companys case this is due to the portfolio predominantly comprising long term infrastructure projects which are directly or indirectly backed by stable long term government contracts.
Significant events for the Company in 2010 included: Appointed preferred bidder, as part of the Transmission Capital Partners consortium, for four of eight projects awarded under Ofgems first round of tenders to operate offshore transmission assets in the UK: Successful raising of over 100m of additional capital through the placement and open offer completed in January 2010 and subsequent tap stock issuances in the second half of the year: Increase of 3% in the distribution paid to investors over the previous year to 5.70 pence per share: The revaluation of minority held assets resulting in a 4.9 million impairment charge to the Income Statement: Additional investment in BeNEX, the German rail operating concession holder in which the Company has a 49% interest, in order to support the winning of new rail concessions: 5 International Public Partnerships Limited Letter from the Board continued Contracts signed for the acquisition of additional interests in two Australian assets already partially owned by the Company taking our ownership interest from 50% to 100% in each case: Investment into new school infrastructure assets in Moray in Scotland and Pforzheim in Germany: and Completion of the construction work and commencement of the operational phases at the Dudley Brierley Hill LIFT facility in the UK, the Alberta Schools project in Canada and the Pforzheim Schools project in Germany.
During the period the Companys portfolio continued to perform in line with expectations and cashflow arising from these investments was in line with forecasts made at the beginning of the year.
Distributions The Board has confirmed that the Company will pay a distribution for the second half of 2010 of 2.85 pence per share total distribution for 2010: 5.70 pence per share.
As mentioned above, this is in line with our previously announced policy to seek to increase annual distributions.
The distribution will be paid in May 2011 and, as per previous periods, has been generated entirely from operating cash flow.
The Board is also pleased to advise a fourth consecutive annual increase in its target annual distribution.
For 2011, it is the Boards intention to target a total distribution of 5.85 pence per share, which represents a near 3% increase over the previous year.
The first payment of 2.925 pence per share in respect of this target is expected to be paid in October 2011.
The second payment is expected to be made in May 2012.
The Company continues to offer shareholders a distribution reinvestment plan through a scrip distribution option.
The Company intends to offer this option again in respect of the May 2011 distribution as well as in respect of future distributions, subject to the Directors being satisfied that this is in the best interests of the Company at the relevant time.
Applications for participation in the scrip distribution option were sent to investors in March 2011.
Financial results In this Annual Report the Company is reporting a Net Asset Value NAV of 541.9 million, IFRS net assets of 416.4 million and a profit before tax for the year of 15.9 million.
As the Company reports on an IFRS basis the Companys profit and loss account is impacted by non-cash, as well as cash items.
On a cash basis, cash received from its portfolio of investments produced a net investment cashflow to the Company of 33.6 million before distributions.
On an after distribution basis this produced a surplus available for re-investment of 6.6 million and coverage from operational cashflow over the distribution payable for 2010 of 1.25 times.
The Companys overall cash balance at 31 March 2011, net of the money earmarked for the distribution due in May 2011, is 40.35 million as at 31 December 2010 this was 53.1 million, the difference reflecting additional investments made by the Company since that date.
Gearing The Company has a policy not to hold long term debt at the group level.
While the individual assets in which the Company invests are generally subject to leverage, in almost every case this is long term amortising debt upon which a fixed rate of interest is payable.
The Company does have an existing group level debt facility which is maintained to provide the Company with the flexibility to make additional acquisitions where it does not otherwise have sufficient cash available with the expectation that any drawing under this facility will be financed through subsequent capital raisings.
The existing 100m debt facility is provided by Royal Bank of Scotland and National Australia Bank and is currently undrawn.
This facility expires in May 2011.
I am pleased to report that terms have been agreed in principle with RBS and NAB for the renewal of these facilities for a further three year period.
Corporate Governance There have been no board changes to report this year.
The Board meets four times a year with additional meetings to consider investment recommendations and for other ad hoc purposes.
The Board has two principal sub-committees: these are the audit committee and the management 6 International Public Partnerships Limited Letter from the Board continued engagement committee.
The role of the latter is to review the performance of the Companys advisors including the Investment Advisor.
The Company complies with the AIC Code and treats matters of appropriate corporate governance with great care.
The Board also makes a point of familiarising itself with the assets of the Company and in late 2010 visited the Diabolo investment which comprises a rail tunnel being constructed under Brussels Airport.
A board meeting was held as part of this visit and the Board took the opportunity to inspect the works and understand firsthand the construction processes which are currently running to time and budget.
Investment Strategy We are pleased to confirm that the investment strategy of the Company remains unchanged and that we continue to pursue a strategy that is designed to provide secure yield from operational assets and capital growth from assets in construction and yet to reach their operational stage, which are designed to have low levels of credit and other risks.
Over 2010 and into 2011 we have seen a number of investment opportunities arise for the consideration of the Company.
In 2011 the Company has already made investments into ten projects, including the Robin Rigg offshore transmission project, the Liverpool Central Library redevelopment, and eight LIFT projects.
We expect the remainder of 2011 to bring considerable additional opportunities such as: Portfolio acquisitions of assets developed by third parties: Additional assets developed or originated by associated companies of the Investment Advisor: Further investments in the utility sector including offshore transmission where opportunities can be identified that have a risk profile consistent with other assets of the Company: and Possible further investments in Canada and Australia.
Clearly there can be no absolute assurance over the timing of such investments or even their occurrence, as all opportunities are subject to detailed due diligence, but the range and number of opportunities remains encouraging and will, we hope, both enhance projected returns as well as assist with portfolio diversification.
Where appropriate, depending on the nature and timing of these opportunities and the Companys cash position, the Board will consider further capital raising initiatives.
Outlook The Board remains confident about the outlook ahead, for a number of reasons: We are encouraged by the increasing investor appetite for the infrastructure sector.
We note that additional listed infrastructure funds have been launched in the last 12 months and that their success evidences the fact that the sector is now firmly established as a proven alternative asset class which exhibit a low level of correlation with general indices: Our assets continue to perform soundly and the key assets which are in construction remain on schedule and to budget: We continue to see encouraging levels of new investment opportunities, both in the UK and elsewhere in the world: and The nature of the state of government finances in most countries currently militates in favour of governments continuing to encourage private sector investment into infrastructure.
The Board would like to thank you for your support and reiterate our willingness to maintain a high level of constructive dialogue with our shareholders.
Finally, the Board would like to wish a speedy recovery to our Chairman, Keith Dorrian who due to health reasons is unable to sign this years Chairmans Statement.
Keith is now recovering at home with his family.
Carol Goodwin John Whittle 31 March 2011 31 March 2011 Director Director 7
