International Public Partnerships Limited Investment Advisors Report About the Investment Advisor Amber Fund Management Limited AFML is a wholly owned subsidiary of Amber Infrastructure Group Limited Amber.
Amber has a global investment and advisory focus and AFML is authorised and regulated in the U. K. by the Financial Services Authority.
Amber is a specialist developer, investor and manager with respect to infrastructure assets in Europe, Australia and North America.
At 31 December 2010 the Group had over 50 staff based in the UK, Germany, Australia and the United States.
Introduction International Public Partnerships Limited continued to provide solid performance in 2010.
In particular the Company paid distributions in the period equal to 5.70 pence per share and saw Net Asset Value NAV at 31 December 2010 remain broadly stable at 113.1p per share compared to 112.9p at 30 June 2010.
The Company invested in or was awarded five investments in the period and as at 31 December 2010 the Company held investments in 55 assets.
A breakdown of the Companys portfolio is set out in the Portfolio section of this report.
The Company continues to target new investment opportunities in the UK, Europe, Australia and Canada.
Investment Performance The Company aims to provide consistent returns to investors that are largely uncorrelated to more general equity markets.
As noted, during 2010 the Company provided a total distribution to shareholders amounting to 5.70 pence per share and the policy of the Company remains to seek to grow its distribution in future years.
Infrastructure assets of the type that the Company invests in are selected to provide long term predictable returns.
The returns from these investments are not generally linked to the demand for the use of the underlying asset and are therefore not generally exposed to wider market factors that may impact the value of other asset classes.
As such the share price performance of the Company can be expected to exhibit low levels of correlation with wider market indices such as the FTSE250 or FTSE AllShare indices.
The chart below shows the share price performance of the Company graphed against the FTSE indices since the Companys initial public offer in November 2006.
The investor market in 2010 has shown particular interest in yield focussed stocks.
This has been driven by a combination of factors including low levels of interest rates on offer in the UK, fears over inflation, and the relative decline in yield available elsewhere in the market following well publicised dividend cuts in other sectors.
14 International Public Partnerships Limited Investment Advisors Report continued The Company continues to seek to provide attractive levels of income to its investors.
Based on the Companys net asset value at 31 December 2010 and the total dividend paid in the year, the Company provided a yield of around 5.0% to investors in 2010.
The chart below shows a comparison between the yields on offer by the Company in 2010 with the yield on offer from other assets classes: Looking forward, the Investment Advisor will continue to be focussed on advising the Company with respect to matters which will protect and enhance the cashflow it receives from its existing assets as well as acquiring additional investments that can be expected to augment the Companys investment income over both the short and medium term.
Inflation Protection Over the last 12 months concerns over inflation have increased.
Whereas previous opinion was divided over whether inflation or deflation was a bigger risk, most opinions see inflation as a greater concern in the short to medium term.
The Investment Advisor seeks to advise the Company to recommend investment into assets which either have a high level of inflation protection or are otherwise acquired at projected rates of return which make allowance for projected levels of future inflation.
Where movements in actual inflation are greater or lesser than projected levels this will impact on the Companys cashflow in either a positive or negative manner.
Equally where future projections of inflation change this may have a positive or negative impact on the Companys current net asset value NAV.
At 31 December 2010, in excess of 70% of total revenue was inflation linked.
The Company continues to use a long term assumption for inflation across its portfolio of 2.5% per annum.
The Company has given consideration to the possibility of adjusting its long term future inflation assumption particularly against the backdrop of both current levels of UK inflation current RPI is 5.5% and the projected future levels of inflation.
If the Company were to assume a long term inflation rate for all its assets of 2.75% per annum instead of 2.5% per annum then, if all other assumptions remained the same including discount rates, the Companys NAV would be 114.4p per share.
Alternatively this corresponds with a weighted average discount rate of 8.8% to calculate the stated NAV at 113.1pence per share.
Currently the Company has determined not to change the long term inflation assumption which it utilises to value its portfolio but instead will endeavour to provide additional information through sensitivity analysis to assist shareholders who wish to substitute their own inflation forecasts and assess the potential impact on the Companys 15 International Public Partnerships Limited Investment Advisors Report continued performance.
Clearly if inflation remains at current levels it may be prudent to consider changing the long term inflation assumption used by the Company.
Portfolio Performance The assets within the Portfolio again performed on an overall basis in line with the Companys projections during the period.
At 31 December 2009, 29% of the portfolio was under construction.
This has reduced to 28% at 31 December 2010, following the handover of the Dudley Brierley Hill LIFT facility in the UK, the Alberta Schools project in Canada and the Pforzheim Schools project in Germany.
Each of the following projects under construction is either on schedule or ahead of time with the exception of the Reliance Rail project in Australia which accounts for less than 0.2% of the portfolio by value.
Asset Location Expected Completion Date Status % of INPP NAV Orange Hospital Australia July 2011 On schedule 3.8% South East UK July 2011 On schedule 0.1% Resource Centre Nightingale Lane UK October 2011 On schedule 0.1% Moray Schools UK February 2012 On schedule 1.2% Diabolo Rail Belgium February 2012 On schedule 13.4% Newby Place UK May 2012 On schedule 0.1% Reliance Rail Australia September 2013 Behind schedule 0.2% Royal Childrens Australia Stage 1 - September 2011 On schedule 8.5% Hospital Stage 2 December 2014 Cash received by the Company in the period from its investments was in line with projections.
As a consequence of this strong cashflow the Company remained fully covered on its 2010 distribution by 1.25 times.
Opportunities to enhance value continue to be keenly pursed by the asset management division within the Investment Advisor.
During the period the Company worked to deliver additional returns for investors.
Significant requests for changes from public sector clients included: The construction of a new 4.4million youth centre underway on the Tower Hamlets Schools Project procured through a change to the contract, in addition, over 4m Authority Changes have been delivered in the year.
Construction updates: Construction underway on the 35m Moray Schools scheme to replace the existing facilities at Keith Primary and Elgin Academy.
Annual availability and performance deductions across the portfolio less than 0.2% of the total Unitary Charge, all of which passed through to our contracting parties.
Excellent level of service delivery across the concessions to the procuring Authorities.
These variations reflect successful partnerships with our public sector clients.
16 International Public Partnerships Limited Investment Advisors Report continued Acquisitions During the year the Company made six investments: the South East Resource Centre LIFT project in London: Newby place LIFT project in London: Nightingale Lane LIFT project in London: Moray Schools in Scotland: Pforzheim Schools in Germany: and further investment in BeNEX, the Companys German rail operating business.
In the second half of the period, the Company was awarded preferred bidder status on a number of offshore transmission projects and signed contracts to acquire additional interests in two Australian assets which will increase the Companys interest to 100% in each case.
Financial close for these projects is expected to occur in 2011.
Since the start of 2011 the Company has already made investments into ten projects, including the Robin Rigg offshore transmission project, the Liverpool Central Library redevelopment, and eight LIFT projects and we expect the Company to continue to review further attractive investment opportunities with respect to projects meeting the Companys investment policy during the remainder of 2011 and beyond.
Net Asset Valuation The Administrator Heritage International Fund Managers Limited calculates the Net Asset Value NAV of an Ordinary Share with the assistance of AFML, and produces fair market valuations of the Groups investments on a six-monthly basis as at 30 June and 31 December.
The valuation methodology used is based on discounted cash flow methodology and utilises the discount rates set out below, with the exception of the Companys investment in the RiverCity Motorway project which is valued at mark to market as it is the Companys only listed investment during 2011 this investment has since be written down to zero.
Over the 12 month period ending 31 December 2010 the Companys Net Asset Value increased by 1 pence per share to 113.1 pence per share due in part to the decrease in risk-free rates during the period of 19 basis points.
Offsetting this decrease in risk free rates is a 17 basis point increase in project risk premiums and a further depreciation of Sterling against the Canadian and Australian dollars.
The Companys portfolio was valued at 541.9 million at 31 December 2010 2009 - 420.2 million.
17 International Public Partnerships Limited Investment Advisors Report continued The major determinants of the discount rate utilised in establishing a present value for the Companys assets includes the risk free rate derived from the relevant government bond applicable in the geography in which each asset is located as at the valuation date and the risk premium over the risk free rate deemed applicable to the asset in question.
Typically this risk premium will reduce over the life of any asset as an asset matures, its operating performance becomes more established, and the risks associated with its future cash flows decrease.
This is particularly the case where assets move from being in construction to becoming operational.
This risk premium is based on the advice of the Investment Advisor, market knowledge, advice from the Companys external advisors and is consistent with information in the public domain from comparable transactions.
Over the period the weighted average discount rate applicable across the portfolio remained unchanged from 2009 at 8.63%.
The discount rates used for valuing each of the underlying assets in the Companys portfolio range from 6.24% to 15.52%.
Valuation Methodology 31 December 2010 31 December 2009 Movement Dec - Dec NAV per share 113.1 pence 112.1pence 1 pence Weighted Average Discount Rate 8.63% 8.63% nil Weighted Average Risk-Free Rate 4.49% 4.68% 0.19% Weighted Average Project Premium 4.13% 3.96% 0.17% Discount Rate Range 6.24% to 15.52% 6.42% to 15.33% 0.18% to 0.19% Future net operating cashflows remain as forecast.
Financial Results In addition to its statutory reporting obligations under International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS, the Company has prepared proforma financial information.
This proforma financial information is provided to give additional guidance, in combination with consideration of the primary financial statements, to aid visibility of the financial results based on the dividends, interest and capital receipts that are received from the individual investments of the Group.
At 31 December 2010, the Group had a total of 55 investments, of which it is deemed the Group has control over 24 of these investments by virtue of having the power, directly or indirectly, to govern the financial and operating policies of the specific project entities.
Under IFRS, the results of these companies are consolidated in the Groups financial statements on a line-by-line basis.
The remainder are accounted for under IAS 28 Investments in Associates, generally a shareholding in the range of 2050% or are a minority investment that is valued on a discounted cash flow method at the reporting date and held as an available for sale financial asset.
These consolidated investments form part of a portfolio of similar investments which are held for investment purposes and managed as such, with no distinction made between those investments classified as subsidiaries consolidated investments, or associates equity accounted investments and those which are not.
In addition, as at the 31 December 2010, all debt owed by the Groups investments is project specific and non-recourse to the Company.
Income and Expenses Cash received from the portfolio of investments by way of distributions, including dividends, interest payments, capital and principal repayments the latter from subordinated debt and senior debt held in investments was 43.0 million 2009: 36.1 million.
After group-level corporate costs of 9.4 million 2009: 9.4 million excluding performance fee, the net cash receipts to the investment holding companies within the Group were 33.6 million 2009: 26.7 million.
This net cash receipt provides significant coverage of the 2010 distribution of 27.0 million 2009: 23.0 million.
The tables summarises cash received from investments net of corporate costs of the holding companies within the Group including from subsidiaries.
18 International Public Partnerships Limited Investment Advisors Report continued Summary net corporate income 2010 2009 million million Cash received from investments Dividends and interest 40.3 33.5 Capital receipts 2.7 2.6 Corporate expenses and net finance 9.4 9.4 costs excluding performance fees Net cash 33.6 26.7 Net cash per share 7.4 p 7.1 p Net cash received from all investments after tax in project companies and withholding taxes was 33.6 million.
This is an increase over the previous period of 6.9 million which excludes the performance fee of 8.5 million that was payable to the Investment Advisor for 2009 and is a result of additional distributions being generated as project concessions complete construction and move into their operational phase.
IFRS Results On a consolidated IFRS basis, profit before tax was 15.9 million 2009: 11.4 million with earnings per share of 3.2 pence 2009: 2.4p.
The results on a consolidated IFRS basis include profits from the underlying project entities that are consolidated or equity accounted.
These results are impacted by non-cash items, including amortisation of intangible assets, unrealised foreign exchange movements, depreciation, fair value movements and impairment charges.
Not all profits generated in the underlying project entities are immediately distributed due to requirements to retain cash for future costs or to ensure covenant compliance.
Corporate Cost Base The Corporate cost base of International Public Partnerships Limited has remained static despite the increase in the share capital of the Company and number of investments held by the Group excluding the performance fee that was payable for 2009.
Group level corporate cost analysis Year to 31 December 2010 Year to 31 December 2009 million million Interest income 0.3 0.3 Interest expense 1.0 1.6 1 Investment Advisor fees excluding 6.5 6.4 performance fees Audit fees 0.1 0.2 Director fees & expenses 0.2 0.2 Other expenses 1.9 1.3 Corporate expenses & net finance costs 9.4 9.4 1 This calculation excludes any variable performance fees.
Interest expense for the year end 31 December 2010 includes interest that was payable on the Corporate debt facility for the first two months of 2010.
The debt facility was repaid in full following the January 2010 capital raising.
Also included in interest expense is the annual commitment fee for the Corporate debt facility which remains payable and provides the Company with flexibility around market opportunities.
19 International Public Partnerships Limited Investment Advisors Report continued The Base management fee payable to AFML for the year end 31 December 2010 was 6.5 million 2009: 6.4 million.
The fee is calculated based on 1.2% of the adjusted Gross Asset Value of the Company at semi-annual reporting dates.
Total Expense Ratio TER Year to Year to 31 December 2010 31 December 2009 Investment basis Investment basis million million Total corporate expenses 8.7 8.1 Net Asset Value 541.9 420.2 1 TER 1.6% 1.9% 1 This calculation excludes any variable performance fees.
The reduction of 0.3% was due to additional capital raisings during the year, which resulted in both the variable and the fixed cost base to be calculated over an increased asset base.
Balance Sheet In order to provide shareholders with further information regarding the Groups Net Asset Value NAV, coupled with enhanced transparency of the Companys capacity for investment and ability to make distributions, additional financial information is provided to help facilitate the Groups financial position and ability to maintain distribution coverage.
This analysis compares the components of the NAV to IFRS net assets.
Unaudited Summary balance sheet Year to 31 December 2010 Year to 31 December 2009 Consolidated Consolidated NAV NAV IFRS IFRS basis Adjustments basis Adjustments 2 million million million million million million Investments at fair value 464.9 764.8 1,229.7 433.5 432.5 866.0 Financial assets at - 474.0 474.0 - 474.5 474.5 amortised cost Other current & non- 14.5 405.0 419.5 21.0 336.4 357.4 current assets Net cash borrowings 66.8 1,456.6 1,389.8 37.0 1,075.8 1,038.8 Other current & non- 4.3 312.6 316.9 71.3 256.7 328.0 current liabilities Non-controlling interests - 2.8 2.8 - 6.4 6.4 Net assets to equity 541.9 128.2 413.7 420.2 95.5 324.7 holders of the parent 2 Investments at fair value on an investment basis reflect an investment in the capital, subordinated or senior debt of the underlying projects as represented in the Financial Statements, with the exception of the interest in Long Bay Forensic & Prison Hospital Project and the Royal Melbourne Showgrounds Redevelopment Project.
At the date of this report, the Group has included the acquisition of the additional 50% of the Share Capital and Subordinated loans in accordance with an executed Sale & Purchase agreement signed on 22 December 2010 with Brookfield Infrastructure Partners LP.
Legal completion of the acquisition of these investments was not completed by 31 December 2010 and accordingly these investments continue to be presented as associates and have not been consolidated in the Groups Financial Statements.
20 International Public Partnerships Limited Investment Advisors Report continued Included in the NAV are investments at fair value of 464.9 million 2009: 433.5 million along with uncommitted cash borrowings of 66.8 million 2009: 37.0 million.
The increase in the fair value of the Groups investments is attributed to movements in the underlying risk free rates, enhancements on the existing portfolio and acquisitions made during the year.
Further detail on the movement in investments is provided in the Net Asset Value section of the Investment Advisors Report.
On a consolidated IFRS basis, net equity attributable to equity holders of the parent increased to 413.7 million 2009: 324.7 million reflecting the additional capital that was raised in the period.
The difference between the NAV and IFRS net assets is a result of certain assets and liabilities recorded at amortised cost under IFRS while the NAV includes all investments at fair value.
Assets and liabilities that are recorded at amortised cost, include intangible assets, financial assets held as loan and receivables as opposed to financial assets held at fair value and bank loans.
Gearing The Group has a committed 100 million three year revolving facility from Royal Bank of Scotland plc RBS and National Australia Bank NAB expiring in May 2011: similar terms have been agreed in principle with the existing providers to enter into a new three year facility from May 2011.
This facility is used to fund acquisitions and is on a recourse basis to the Group.
The Companys Articles of Association limit the Groups recourse debt to 50% of Adjusted Gross Asset Value of its investments and cash balances.
As at 31 December 2010, the Group did not have any drawings under the facility.
The previous outstanding balance on the Companys corporate debt facility was repaid in entirety from the proceeds from the equity capital raising in February 2010 and the Company retains a zero debt balance at the Group level.
At the asset-level, the Company seeks to secure long-term non-recourse debt matched where possible to the concession life of an asset at the time of acquisition.
On a consolidated IFRS basis, the Group had net debt of 1,389.8 million at 31 December 2010 2009: 1,038.8 million.
This increase in net debt over the year reflects the additional debt from consolidated investments, offset by the repayment of the Corporate Debt facility.
Currently, the weighted average concession life remaining in the portfolio is 23.6 years, compared to a weighted average debt tenure of 22.9 years.
As a result, less than 1% of total debt is required to be refinanced over the next 30 years, with the aim of ensuring strong protection from any future interest rate movements.
21 International Public Partnerships Limited Investment Advisors Report continued Distributions The continuing strong performance of the portfolio has allowed the Directors to increase the target distribution for 2011.
The target distribution for 2011 is 5.85 pence per share, an increase of around 3% on 2010, and is again expected to be entirely covered by operating cash flow.
Outlook There continues to be a growing appreciation of the attractions of investment in infrastructure from investors.
It seems likely that while interest rates may increase in 2011, any increase is likely to be limited and that the shares of the Company will continue to offer an attractive level of risk and return in comparison to other asset classes.
From a macro-perspective it also seems likely that governments in the UK and elsewhere will continue to turn to the private capital markets to finance new infrastructure projects.
Most governments around the world continue to face pressures on public spending and it seems likely that most major future infrastructure procurements will be privately financed.
This augurs well for the long term health of the sector.
The Company continues to receive and review a large number of opportunities.
These include opportunities brought to the Company and its Investment Advisor by third parties e. g. potential sales to the Company of assets developed by third parties and opportunities originated by companies associated with the Investment Advisor.
A high level of discrimination is applied to these.
Approximately nine opportunities are considered and discarded for each opportunity that is progressed.
The significant cutbacks in public expenditure in the UK cannot pass without mention: the UK government has been clear that it expects to work closely with investors in projects developed under the UK private finance initiative PFI to ensure continued value for money for taxpayers.
Some 650 PFI projects have now been completed in the UK of which only a small percentage are owned by the Company.
Due to the scale of the sector any significant change in policy impacting existing PFI projects is regarded as unlikely, however any material change of policy were it to be applied to existing PFI projects could have negative implications for the Company.
Some PFI projects have also been the subject of negative publicity in the national press.
While this has not been the case with respect to any of the Companys investments, the Investment Advisor maintains very strong relationships with its public sector clients and is keen to demonstrate that it is in a genuine long term partnership with each of them.
As such the asset management team within the Investment Advisor are pro-active in seeking to identify value for money changes or improvements which improve value for money for taxpayers.
The Companys business is a long term one and its relationship with its customers will evolve over time.
22 International Public Partnerships Limited Investment Advisors Report continued Current indications remain that the UK Government remains supportive of PFI and similar uses of private capital to fund new infrastructure and this is borne out by the fact that several new PFI-type projects have reached contract signature in the time since the Coalition government took office and more are planned.
Notwithstanding this we expect there will be fewer new infrastructure procurements initiated by the UK government in sectors such as schools and large acute hospitals for instance.
For this reason the Investment Advisor, while continuing to apply focus to the UK PFI sector, has also applied additional resources to new areas of investment in the UK and to infrastructure opportunities outside the UK.
Notably the Investment Advisor has originated opportunities for investment by the Company in the rapidly developing offshore transmission sector where considerable investment is required over future years connecting offshore wind farms to the National Grid.
The attraction of these opportunities the first of which was invested in by the Company in March 2011 is that they represent a new and important asset which has very similar risk and income return profiles to the Companys existing asset base.
We see considerable further potential in this sector.
Outside the UK, infrastructure opportunities continue to flourish.
Given the occasional political controversies over PFI in the UK it is often forgotten that over 70 countries around the world have adopted PFI-like solutions for infrastructure provision.
The Investment Advisor is tracking a number of significant such opportunities on behalf of the Company.
Overall, we continue to look forward to the future with confidence.
While the past is not necessarily a guide to the future, the Company has gained a reputation with investors over the four years of its existence for delivering regular solid performance and we see good reasons for anticipating that this will continue to be the case.
The drivers for this are increased investor appetite for the risk and return profile offered by the Company, the continued need for infrastructure investment around the world, the significant number of new investment opportunities under review by the Investment Advisor and the robust performance of the core portfolio of the Company to date.
Amber Fund Management Limited 31 March 2011 23
