International Public Partnerships Limited Directors Report The Directors present their annual report on the affairs of the Group, together with the financial statements and auditors' report thereon, for the year ended 31 December 2010.
These financial statements have been prepared by the Directors in compliance with the provisions of the Companies Guernsey Law, 2008.
Board of Directors The Directors, all of whom are non-executive and the majority of whom are independent, who served throughout the year are listed below and were appointed on 2 August 2006 unless stated otherwise : Keith Dorrian Chairman Aged 65, a resident of Guernsey, is an experienced professional in the banking, finance and fund management industries.
A former committee member of the Guernsey Investment Fund Association he was also a director of ANZ Bank Guernsey Limited and until his retirement in December 2003, Managing Director of Management International Guernsey Limited, the Fund Administration Company of the Bank of Bermuda Group in Guernsey.
Prior to retirement he had local responsibility for the Banks Global Fund Services products with over USD14 billion of assets being administered from Guernsey.
Prior to this he was employed by Manufacturers Hanover Trust and First National Bank of Chicago.
He holds the Institute of Directors Diploma in Company Direction and holds a number of directorships in listed offshore property funds, funds of hedge funds and hedge funds.
As at the date of this report Mr Dorrian is a director of the following companies: AB Alternative Strategies PCC Limited IDFC General Partner Limited AB International Fund PCC Limited IIAB PCC Limited Arab Bank Fund Managers Guernsey Limited K A N Consulting Limited BH Credit Catalysts Limited MasterCapital Fund Limited Cayuga Investment Management Limited PSource Structured Debt Limited Clarion ICC Limited Strategic Investment Portfolio Holdings Limited Credit Suisse Opportunistic Alternative Investment Limited Strategic Investments GP Limited Eagle & Dominion Limited Third Point Offshore Investors Limited Eagle & Dominion Growth Fund Limited UK Commercial Property Trust Limited Eurocastle Investments Limited Rupert Dorey Aged 50, a resident of Guernsey, has over 22 years experience in debt capital markets, specialising in credit related products, including derivative instruments.
Mr Doreys expertise is principally in the areas of debt distribution, origination and trading, covering all types of debt from investment grade to high yield and distressed debt.
He was at Credit Suisse First Boston for 17 years from 1988 until May 2005, holding a number of positions including fixed income credit product coordinator for European offices and head of UK Credit and Rates Sales.
Since leaving CSFB, Mr Dorey is acting in a non-executive directorship capacity for a number of hedge funds, funds of hedge funds and private equity funds.
24 International Public Partnerships Limited Directors Report continued As at the date of this report Mr Dorey is a director of the following companies: AAA Guernsey Limited CQS Diversified Fund Limited AIAF PCC Limited Convertible Bond Arbitrage Fund Dexion Commodities Limited AIAF PCC Limited G7 Fixed Income Fund Endurance High Performance Fund Limited AIAF PCC Limited Fixed Income Macro Fund Episode Inc AIAF PCC Limited Global Macro Fund Episode LLP AIAF PCC Limited Strategic Equity Advantage Fund Global Credit Opportunities Master Investment Company Limited AP Alternative Assets LP Green Park Capital Investment Management Limited Castle Asia Alternatives PCC Limited HarbourVest Senior Loans Europe Limited Celadon Fund PCC Limited M&G General Partner Inc Clifford Estate Company Limited Onesimus Dorey Holdings Limited Clifford Estate Company Chattels Limited Partners Group Global Opportunities Limited Cognis General Partner Limited Saltus European Debt Strategies Limited Cognis 1 Fund LP Tetragon Financial Group Fund Limited Cognis 1 Master Fund LP Tetragon Financial Group Master Fund Limited Corazon Argentum Fund Limited Giles Frost Aged 48, resident in the United Kingdom, is a director of Amber.
Prior to the management buyout by the Investment Advisor, he was joint head of the European public infrastructure business unit at Babcock & Brown.
He was employed at Babcock & Brown for nine years and was involved in the development, investment and management of projects in the public infrastructure sector throughout this time.
Prior to joining Babcock & Brown he was a solicitor and partner in the law firm Wilde Sapte now Denton Wilde Sapte.
In addition, Mr Frost is a director of Amber Infrastructure Group Holdings Limited, the ultimate holding company of the Investment Advisor to the Company and various of its subsidiaries.
Carol Goodwin Aged 67, a resident of Guernsey, has extensive experience in the finance industry and has held senior executive positions with several European and North American banks, managing businesses in London, Toronto, Montreal, Amsterdam, Nassau and Guernsey.
During the periods 1994-1996 and 1998-2001 Ms Goodwin held the position of Managing Director of Investec Bank Channel Islands Limited and continues to be a director of the bank and other subsidiary and associated Investec companies.
She is also Vice Chairman of another Guernsey bank and serves as a non-executive director for a number of other financial services entities, including a variety of listed and unlisted investment funds.
Ms Goodwin is a Fellow of the Institute of Canadian Bankers, a Trust and Estate Practitioner and a Chartered Director of the Institute of Directors.
As at the date of this report Ms Goodwin is a director of the following companies: AB Alternative Strategies Fund PCC Limited General Holdings Limited AB International Fund PCC Limited Investec Bank Channel Islands Limited 25 International Public Partnerships Limited Directors Report continued Arab Bank Fund Managers Guernsey Limited Investec Bank Channel Islands Nominees Limited Curlew Group Holdings Limited IIAB PCC Limited Dalton Capital Asia Limited Melchior European Fund Limited Dalton Capital Guernsey Limited Melchior European Master Fund Limited Dexion Trading Limited Melchior Global Macro Fund Limited Eastern European Property Fund Melchior Global Macro Master Fund Limited Episode Inc. M&G General Partner Inc.
Episode L. P. Yorkshire Guernsey Limited John Whittle appointed 6 August 2009 Aged 55, a resident of Guernsey, was until recently Finance Director of Close Fund Services where he successfully initiated a restructuring of client financial reporting services and was a key member of the business transition team.
He was at Price Waterhouse in London before embarking on a career in business services, predominantly in telecoms.
He co-led the business turnaround of Talkland International now Vodafone Retail.
He is a non-executive director of several investment funds and is a Chartered Accountant and holds the Institute of Directors Diploma in Company Direction.
As at the date of this report Mr Whittle is a director of the following companies: Aurora Russia Limited Saunderton Data Cente GP Limited Sciens Global Strategic Fund Limited Aurora II GP Limited Sustainable Agroforestry IC Limited Blue Skye GP Limited Sustainable Red IC Limited EMP Europe CI Limited Dynamic Fund IC Limited Sustainable Teak and Agarwood IC Limited GC Dynamic Investments ICC Limited The IPM renewable Energy Fund ICC Limited Guernsey International Management Company Limited The Offshore Mutual Fund PCC Limited Mid Europa III Management Limited The Sustainable Forestry ICC Limited Perusa Partners Management Limited The Solar Park Fund GBP IC Limited Pont du Val Limited Principal activities The principal activity of the Group comprises the investment in the equity and debt of public infrastructure projects in order to provide shareholders with long-term distributions at levels that are both sustainable and preserve the capital value of the Groups investments, and increasing the capital value where possible through active management.
The subsidiary and associated undertakings principally affecting the profits or net assets of the Group in the year are listed in note 17 to the financial statements.
A review of the business for the year ended 31 December 2010 is contained in the Letter from the Board pages 5 to 7 and Investment Advisors Report pages 14 to 23.
The Company is a member of the Association of Investment Companies AIC.
26 International Public Partnerships Limited Directors Report continued Directors remuneration During the period 1 January 2010 to 31 December 2010 the Directors remuneration was paid as follows: Base Other Total Total 2010 2009 Keith Dorrian Independent Non- 47,000 5,000 52,000 53,500 Executive Chairman Rupert Dorey Independent Non- 37,000 5,000 42,000 39,250 Executive Director Giles Frost NonExecutive 32,000 5,000 37,000 28,500 Director Carol Goodwin Independent Non- 32,000 5,000 37,000 36,750 Executive Director 1 John Whittle Independent Non- 32,000 5,000 37,000 12,870 Executive Director 1 Appointed 6 August 2009 There are no service contracts in existence between the Company and any Directors but each of the Directors was appointed by a letter of appointment which sets out the terms of their appointment.
Frost are paid to his employer Amber Infrastructure Limited, a related company of the Group.
Directors interests The Directors who held office at 31 December 2010 had the following interests in the shares of International Public Partnerships Limited: 31 December 2010 31 December 2009 Number of Ordinary Shares Number of Ordinary Shares NonNonName of Director Beneficial Beneficial beneficial Beneficial Keith Dorrian 43,575 - 41,500 - Giles Frost - 273,745 - 273,745 1 Rupert Dorey - 493,687 - 313,630 Carol Goodwin - 31,550 - 11,000 John Whittle - - - - 1 Included in the above shareholding, 285,000 shares are held Mr Doreys spouse.
Mr Frost is also a Director of International Public Partnerships Lux 1 Sarl.
and International Public Partnerships Lux 2 Sarl.
wholly-owned subsidiary undertakings of the Company.
Mr Frost is also a director of a number of other companies in which the Company directly or indirectly has an investment.
27 International Public Partnerships Limited Directors Report continued At least one third of the Independent Directors will retire at each Annual General Meeting whilst Mr Frost as the non independent Director will retire at each Annual General Meeting.
The Board regularly reviews the performance of directors and advisers to the Company and currently believes that the performance of each Director continues to be effective and demonstrates commitment to the role.
Directors indemnities The Company has made qualifying third-party indemnity provisions for the benefit of its Directors which were made during the period and remain in force at the date of this report.
Substantial shareholdings As at 28 February 2011, the Company had been notified, in accordance with chapter 5 of the Disclosure and Transparency Rules, of the following substantial voting rights as shareholders of the Company.
of Nature of of voting ordinary holding rights and shares issued share Name of holder capital Schroder Investment Management Ltd. 12.60 60,625,948 Indirect Rensburg Sheppards Investment Management 12.33 59,299,847 Indirect Brewin Dolphin Securities Ltd. 6.49 31,215,310 Indirect M&G Investment Management Ltd. 5.77 27,767,016 Indirect Corus UK - British Steel Pension Fund 3.84 18,482,153 Indirect Legal & General Investment Management Ltd. 3.51 16,873,517 Indirect Tilney Investment Management Ltd. 3.31 15,910,775 Indirect London Borough of Enfield Pension Fund 3.01 14,464,000 Indirect Sarasin & Partners LLP 2.72 13,100,929 Indirect FF&P Asset Management Ltd. 2.63 12,665,187 Indirect Listing Requirements On 9 November 2006, the Companys Ordinary Shares were admitted to the Official List maintained by the Financial Services Authority.
Throughout the year the Company has complied with the Listing Rules of the UK Listing Authority.
Advisory Services Amber Fund Management Limited AFML provides advisory services to the Company.
A summary of the contract between the Company and AMFL in respect of investment advisory services provided is given in note 39 to the financial statements.
Amber Fund Management Limited has also been appointed as Operator to International Public Partnerships Limited Partnership a subsidiary of the Company pursuant to the Limited Partnership Agreement and Operating Agreement.
As Operator, Amber Fund Management Limited, is responsible for the discretionary investment management of International Public Partnership Limited Partnerships investment portfolio.
In addition, it provides in conjunction 28 International Public Partnerships Limited Directors Report continued with the Administrator accounting and finance resource, legal, compliance and risk management services, and IT systems to the Group.
Share Capital The Companys share capital at 31 December 2010, comprised entirely ordinary shares which rank equally in all respects.
The rights attached to the ordinary shares, in addition to those conferred on their holders by law, are set out in the Companys Articles of Association.
The Companys Articles of Association may only be amended by a special resolution of the shareholders.
In January 2010, the Company undertook a Firm Placing of 24,604,914 New Ordinary Shares, Open Offer of 18,735,733 New Ordinary Shares and Offer for Subscription of up to 44,571,441 New Ordinary Shares, at an Issue Price of 113.75 pence per New Ordinary Share.
Details are set out in note 30.
In May 2010, in part settlement of the performance fee that was payable at 31 December 2009, 40% of the value was accepted in new ordinary shares by the Investment Advisor, being 3.4 million.
As a result, Amber Infrastructure Limited AIL received 2,991,220 new ordinary shares at 114.1p.
Also in May 2010, 1,216,998 new ordinary shares of 0.01p each fully paid were issued as a scrip dividend alternative in lieu of cash for the interim dividend in respect of the six months ending 31 December 2009.
In September 2010, the Group raised an additional 22.4 million of equity respectively through its Tap issues for Subscription of 20,000,000 Ordinary shares at an issue price per share between 111.15p ex dividend and 114.00p inc dividend.
In October 2010, 1,622,132 new ordinary shares of 0.01p each fully paid were issued as a scrip dividend alternative in lieu of cash for the interim dividend in respect of the six months ending 30 June 2010.
The total number of Ordinary Shares in issue at 31 December 2010 was 479,040,303.
Details of the Companys share capital are set out in note 30.
Directors Authority to Buy Back Shares The Company did not purchase any shares for treasury or cancellation during the year.
The current authority of the Company to make market purchases of up to 14.99% of the issued Ordinary Share Capital expires on 3 June 2011.
The Company will seek to renew such authority at the Annual General meeting to take place on 25 May 2011.
Any buy back of Ordinary Shares will be made subject to Guernsey law and within any guidelines established from time to time by the Board and the making and timing of any buy backs will be at the absolute discretion of the Board.
Purchases of Ordinary Shares will only be made through the market for cash at prices below the prevailing Net Asset Value of the Ordinary Shares as last calculated where the Directors believe such purchases will enhance shareholder value.
Such purchases will also only be made in accordance with the Listing Rules of the UK Listing Authority which provide that the price to be paid must not be more than 5 per cent above the average of the middle market quotations for the Ordinary Shares for the five business days before the shares are purchased unless previously advised to shareholders.
In accordance with the Companys Articles of Association up to 10% of the Companys shares may be held as treasury shares.
Foreign exchange and treasury policy The Group has exposure to foreign currency as a result of investments outside of the United Kingdom and, as such, is exposed to movements in exchange rates between the Euro, Canadian Dollar, Australian Dollar and Pound Sterling.
The Group may enter into forward exchange contracts to mitigate these risks.
The Groups risk management policies and procedures are also discussed in note 3 to the financial statements.
29 International Public Partnerships Limited Directors Report continued Regulation The Company has been declared an Authorised Fund under the Authorised Closed-ended Investment Schemes Rules 2008.
Earnings per share Basic and diluted earnings per share were 3.15 pence for the year ended 31 December 2010 2009: 2.42 pence.
Dividend and distribution policy Distributions on Ordinary Shares are expected to be paid twice a year, normally in respect of the six months to 30 June and 31 December each year, subject to the provisions of Guernsey law, by way of dividends.
The Company may also make distributions by way of capital as well, or in lieu of, by way of dividends and if to the extent that the Directors consider this to be appropriate and permitted by the Listing Rules, the Laws and the Articles.
In accordance with announcements made, a distribution of 2.85 pence per share for the period 1 January 2010 to 30 June 2010 was paid on 15 October 2010.
The distribution of 2.85 pence per share for the period 1 July 2010 to 31 December 2010 is to be paid on 6 May 2011.
Further details of the Companys distributions are set out in note 13.
Post-balance sheet events On 13 January 2011, the Company raised an additional 2.34 million of equity through an existing Tap facility of 2,000,000 new Ordinary shares.
The shares were issued at a price of 117.0p per share bringing the total number of share in issue at the date of this report being 481,040,303.
On 25th February 2011, RiverCity Motorway Pty Limited a company listed on the Australian Stock Exchange had KordaMentha appointed as receiver and managers.
The Company holds a 3.82% interest in RiverCity Motorway Pty Limited.
As at 31 December 2010 the Company valued this holding on a mark to market basis at less than 220,000, which represented less than 0.1% of the Companys portfolio.
The Company awaits further information but has been monitoring this position for some time and is unsurprised by this development.
The RiverCity Motorway project differs from the remainder of the Companys portfolio in that revenues generated by the project are based on the level of demand for that asset i. e. motorists paying a toll rather than the availability of the asset, the latter being the basis upon which the vast majority of the portfolios revenues are received and which is uncorrelated to the level of demand for an asset.
On 2 March 2011, the Company announced that Transmission Capital Partners, the consortium comprising Amber Infrastructure, Transmission Capital and the Company has achieved financial close for the Robin Rigg offshore transmission project.
The project relates to the transmission cable connection to the offshore wind farm at Robin Rigg, located 12km off the coast of Cumbria.
The cost of this acquisition was 12.4 million.
On 31 March 2011, the Company announced the acquisition of a further nine investments, including the Liverpool Central Library redevelopment and the acquisition of eight subordinated debt investments in UK LIFT projects.
The cost of these acquisitions was 6.2 million and 4.4 million respectively.
Accounting policies The Company and the Group have adopted appropriate accounting policies in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards.
30 International Public Partnerships Limited Directors Report continued Relations with shareholders The Board acknowledges its responsibility for ensuring satisfactory dialogue with shareholders and that communications are given the highest priority.
The Company welcomes the views of shareholders and, where practicable, enters into dialogue with institutional shareholders based on the need for mutual understanding of objectives.
The Companys Investment Advisor regularly meets the largest shareholders and Company analysts.
The Annual General Meeting of the Company provides a forum, both formal and informal, for investors to meet and discuss issues with the Directors and the Investment Advisor.
The Annual General Meeting is scheduled for Wednesday 25 May 2011 and a Notice of the meeting will be sent to shareholders in advance of this meeting.
At its Annual General Meeting, the Company complies with the provision of the Code relating to the disclosure of proxy votes, the separation of resolutions and the attendance of the Chairman.
Going concern basis Comprehensive financial forecasts have been prepared and submitted to the Board for review and the Directors have, based on the information contained in these forecasts and the assessment of the committed banking facilities in place, formed a judgement, at the time of approving the financial statements, a reasonable expectation that the Group and the Company have adequate resources to continue in operational existence for the foreseeable future.
As a result the directors continue to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the Financial Statements refer to note 1.
Auditors Each of the persons who is a director at the date of approval of this annual report confirms that: so far as the director is aware, there is no relevant audit information of which the Company's auditors are unaware: and the director has taken all the steps that he she ought to have taken as a director in order to make himself herself aware of any relevant audit information and to establish that the Company's auditors are aware of that information.
This confirmation is given and should be interpreted in accordance with the provisions of Section 249 of the Companies Guernsey Law, 2008.
Following a request for proposals prepared by the Audit Committee in October 2010, a recommendation has been accepted to appoint Ernst & Young LLP as the Groups auditors following the signing of these accounts.
The Board would like to thank Deloitte LLP for their service over the past 5 years.
Carol Goodwin John Whittle 31 March 2011 31 March 2011 Director Director 31
