Business Review Business ResOuRces Britvic is one of the leading branded soft drinks businesses in Europe.
Britvic is the largest supplier of branded still soft drinks in Great Britain GB, and the number two supplier of branded carbonated soft drinks in GB.
Britvic is an industry leader in the island of Ireland and in France.
Britvic is rapidly growing its reach into other geographies through export, licensing and franchising.
The main resources the group uses to achieve its results are: An extensive portfolio of stills and carbonates brands, including Robinsons, Pepsi, 7UP, Tango, J2O and Fruit Shoot.
The breadth and depth of Britvics portfolio enables it to target consumer demand across a wide range of consumption occasions, in all the major soft drinks categories and across all relevant routes to market.
Britvic Ireland owns a number of leading brands in the Republic of Ireland and Northern Ireland, including Club, Ballygowan, Britvic, Cidona, MiWadi and Energise Sport, as well as the rights to the Pepsi and 7UP brands.
In France the portfolio includes the leading syrup brand Teisseire as well as Moulin fide Valdonne, Fruit and Pressade.
A successful long-standing relationship with PepsiCo that resulted in the exclusive bottling agreement EBA being renewed in Great Britain in 2003 for a further 15 years, with an extension to 2023 on admission to the London Stock Exchange.
The EBA for Ireland lasts until 2015.
This relationship gives Britvic the exclusive right to distribute the Pepsi and 7UP brands in Great Britain and Ireland, access to all new carbonated drinks developed by PepsiCo for distribution in Great Britain and Ireland and, to support the development of its carbonates offering, access to PepsiCos consumer and customer insight, competitor intelligence, marketing best practice, brand and product development expertise and technological know-how.
Britvic has added to its carbonates portfolio in 2010 with Mountain Dew Energy, having been appointed in recent years as the exclusive GB bottler of Gatorade, Lipton Ice Tea and V Water.
For example, in the British take-home market, Britvics customers include the Big 4 supermarkets Tesco, J Sainsburys, Asda and Wm Morrisons together with a number of other important grocery retailers.
The group has significant supply arrangements with a number of key players in the GB pub sector and leisure and catering channels.
Through Britvic International, the group has built on the success of the Robinsons and Fruit Shoot brands by introducing these products into markets outside GB.
Britvic also has a well-invested and flexible group production capability and distribution network that enables its soft drinks to be made available to consumers across its operating territories.
