Compliance Compliance risk is the risk that we fail to comply with the letter and spirit of all statutes, regulations, supervisory requirements and industry codes of conduct which apply to our businesses.
We seek to bring the highest standard of compliance best practice to all our In keeping with jurisdictions.
In keeping with our core values, we also endeavour to comply with the highest professional standards of integrity and behaviour, which builds trust.
our core values, We are subject to extensive supervisory and regulatory governance in the countries in which we endeavour to we operate.
The SARB is our lead regulator.
Significant business developments in any of our operations must be approved by the Reserve Bank as well as by the business home country comply with the regulatory authority.
highest professional Under the DLC structure, both Investec plc and Investec Limited maintain separate Compliance standards of integrity structures.
Each Compliance structure operates under terms of reference which are approved by its listed company board and Audit Committee.
Each Compliance structure is headed 3 and behaviour, which by a group Compliance Officer, who operates independently from operational management and is responsible for ensuring adequate management of Compliance risk within their area builds trust of business.
Each group Compliance Officer reports to the Chief Executive Officer of their listed company, as well as to the global head of Compliance, who is ultimately responsible for management of the Compliance function of both listed groups.
The group Compliance Officers have unrestricted access to the Chairman of their respective Audit Committees.
The Compliance divisions operate under matrix management reporting structures and are decentralised throughout the businesses.
Under these arrangements, Compliance Officers are appointed to all significant business units and report to the business heads, but remain under the general supervision of group Compliance.
Where appropriate, certain cross-enterprise compliance functions, such as Compliance Monitoring, are centralised and report directly to the group Compliance Officer.
Compliance risk is managed through internal policies and processes, which include legal, regulatory and other technical requirements relevant to the business.
The Compliance Officers provide regular training to ensure that all employees are familiar with their regulatory obligations.
They also provide advice on regulatory issues.
Compliance staff independently monitor the business units to ensure adherence to policies and procedures and other technical requirements.
Compliance staff work closely with business and operational units to ensure consistent management of compliance risk.
Compliance Officers are charged with developing and maintaining constructive working relationships with regulators and supervisors in all geographies.
UK and Europe year in review The turmoil in the financial systems has led to a number of suggested and actual reforms to the international and domestic regulatory and supervisory framework.
Significant work has been undertaken at the G20 level and by supra national bodies such as the Financial Stability Board and global standard setters including the Basel Committee on Banking Supervision and the International Organisation of Securities Commissions.
In the UK a significant contribution to the debate was provided by the Chairman of the UKs Financial Services Authority in the form of the Turner Review.
This report had a wide scope which included a review of the causes of the crisis, and proposed changes in regulation and supervisory approach needed to create a more robust banking system for the future.
Since then Sir David Walker has published recommendations on corporate governance in financial institutions.
The FSA has responded to Sir Davids recommendations with a range of corporate governance proposals regarding supervision of governance, risk oversight and shareholder engagement.
Investec Annual Report 2010 PAGE 197 Compliance continued Capital The regulation and supervision of financial institutions is currently undergoing a period of Aside from corporate significant change in response to the global financial crisis.
Increased capital requirements for market risk and securitisations have already been announced by the FSA, and are due for governance, during the implementation in the UK in 2011. period under review In December 2009 the Basel Committee on Banking Supervision issued a consultative regulatory activity in document that outlined proposed changes to the definition of regulatory capital.
These the UK has also been proposals are going through a period of consultation and are expected to be introduced by the beginning of 2013, with substantial transitional arrangements.
Proposals have included: focused on the following: Requiring banks to hold a greater proportion of capital in the form of core tier 1 capital Capital requirements for banks More restrictive definitions of hybrid capital instruments eligible as capital 3 Liquidity and stress testing Introduction of a gross leverage ratio Requirement for capital buffers in excess of then-current levels to serve as capital in the Remuneration event of a downturn.
Resolution arrangements for banks Liquidity Banking Conduct of Business The FSA has now implemented parts of its far-reaching liquidity requirements for banks, building societies and investment firms.
The nature and scale of these changes are clearer in BCOB the UK than in many other countries because the FSAs rules have already been published.
Payment services However, it is expected that international developments will move in the same direction.
Financial Services The new FSA rules are based on agreed international liquidity standards, in particular the Compensation Scheme BCOB Principles for Sound Liquidity Risk Management and Supervision, and are focused on two high-level principles.
Firstly, all FSA-regulated entities must have adequate liquidity and, Anti-money laundering AML secondly, they must not depend on other parts of their group to survive liquidity stresses, unless permitted to do so by the FSA.
Stress testing The FSA made changes to its rules and guidance on stress and scenario testing.
The key changes were: Introduction of a reverse-stress test requirement.
This requires firms to consider the scenarios most likely to cause their current business model to become unviable Changes to the existing requirements on Pillar 2 capital stress and scenario testing the ICAAP provisions, or where firms use internal models to assess their Pillar 1 capital requirements.
These changes are intended to clarify the FSAs current policy on stress and scenario testing.
This regime will be in force from December 2010.
Remuneration practices in financial services The FSAs Remuneration Code for large companies in the financial services sector took effect from 1 January 2010.
The Code is designed to achieve two objectives: firstly, that boards focus more closely on ensuring that the total amount distributed by a firm is consistent with good risk management and sustainability: and secondly that individual compensation practices provide the right incentives.
The Code has a general requirement that a firm must establish, implement and maintain remuneration policies, procedures and practices that are consistent with and promote effective risk management.
Eight principles have been added to the FSAs handbook to ensure firms understand how the FSA will assess compliance.
Investec Annual Report 2010 PAGE 198 Resolution arrangements The Financial Services Act 2010 has placed a duty on the FSA to make rules requiring financial institutions to create and maintain Recovery and Resolution Plans often referred to as living wills to reduce the likelihood of, and the systemic risks associated with, the failure of such institutions.
These living wills will set out the options that firms have if they face financial difficulty the Recovery aspect.
The plan will also describe how the business is run so that, if the Recovery Plan does not work, an administrator has a guide to how to resolve the position the Resolution aspect.
Banking Conduct of Business From 1 November 2009 the FSA commenced regulating the way banks treat their clients.
The new regime creates high level rules in a Banking Conduct of Business Sourcebook BCOBS, alongside the extension of the application of the FSAs General Principles to include the regulated activities of accepting deposits and issuing e-money.
3 Payment Services Directive The Payment Services Regulations 2009 PSR were introduced in the UK from 1 November 2009.
The PSRs are the UK interpretation of the Payment Services Directive PSD, a European Union initiative to support the Single Euro Payments Area SEPA and to create a single market for payments across Europe.
These regulations came into force in the UK on 1 November 2009.
Under PSD, there is no difference between domestic and cross-border payments.
The PSD makes the payment service activities of banks subject to statutory regulation payment services were previously not the subject of any regulatory conduct of business requirement in the UK and were largely left to industry self-regulation under the Banking Codes.
Payment services covered by the PSD include: direct debits, credit transfers, card payments, transferring e-money, money transfers, cash deposits on an account used for the execution of payment transactions, current accounts, flexible savings accounts, combined savings and mortgage accounts.
The additional conduct of business requirements consist of: Rules governing the information that needs to be provided to customers before and after the execution of a payment transaction Rules governing the rights and obligations of both firms and their customers in relation to payment transactions.
Financial Services Compensation Scheme The FSA have introduced a new regime which outlines how the FSA intends to raise awareness and understanding of the Financial Services Compensation Scheme.
The FSAs intention is to increase public confidence in the scheme and the protection it provides.
The FSA has also put in place a system that ensures that compensation can be paid to the majority of depositors in a target of seven days following the failure of a deposit taker.
The FSA expects the fast payout proposals to provide rapid access to liquid funds for depositors, minimise hardship and increase consumer confidence.
Anti-money laundering We continue to maintain adequate systems and controls to manage the risk from being used in money laundering, terrorist financing and other financial crime.
In April 2009 the Bribery Act was enacted replacing the existing legislation in relation to bribery and corruption.
The Act created four main offences including a corporate offence of failing to have adequate systems and controls to prevent bribery.
Senior management has the responsibility to ensure that such systems and controls are in place.
South Africa year in review Anti-money laundering and terror financing The implementation of the Financial Intelligence Centre Act FICA and Protection of Constitutional Democracy against Terrorist and Related Activities POCDATARA is ongoing.
The requirements provided by this regulation are set out in the group Anti-Money Laundering and AntiTerror Financing Policy, which incorporates the Client Acceptance Policy.
The AML system, which calculates the risk rating of clients taken on by the business and monitors any changes to the risk ratings of existing clients, continues to be used to implement the Customer Acceptance Policy.
Clients are risk weighted according to the money laundering and Investec Annual Report 2010 PAGE 199 Compliance continued or terror financing risks they may potentially pose.
This risk rating includes cross referencing clients against international databases of adverse client information including persons named on the United Nations lists.
Clients assessed as being high risk are required to satisfy enhanced due diligence processes.
The initiative for all business units to implement both the AML and Automated Suspicious Activity Monitoring ASAM systems is ongoing.
Business units not currently using the AML and ASAM systems have alternative controls in place to manage the risks.
The ASAM system, an enhancement to the AML system to address suspicious activity reporting, is operational in the higher risk businesses.
ASAM uses a clients risk weighting together with profiles of the clients transactional behaviour across business unit transactional systems to determine potentially suspicious activities.
Potential suspicions are further investigated to determine whether they need to be reported.
ASAM is being further enhanced to automate cash threshold reporting.
Consumer protection 3 Consumer protection regulation continues to be a focus into 2010 with ongoing monitoring and reporting of compliance with the requirements of the Financial Advisory and Intermediary Services Act FAIS and the National Credit Act NCA.
To better regulate the quality of financial advice, the FSB has introduced amendments to the FAIS Fit and Proper requirements, which deal with the qualifications and experience needed to perform a Representative or Key Individual role for a Financial Services Provider FSP.
Compliance and Human Resources have developed a system to monitor the Fit and Proper status of Representatives and Key Individuals of all licensed Investec FSPs.
The effective dates of the Consumer Protection Act CPA are April and October 2010.
The CPA was enacted to promote a fair, accessible and sustainable marketplace for consumer products and services, promote responsible consumer behaviour, improve standards of consumer information and prohibit unfair marketing and business practices.
Group Compliance is overseeing the implementation of the NCA in the affected areas.
The draft Protection of Personal Information Act POPI has been circulated to the industry for comment.
Once enacted POPI will have a material impact on all aspects of Investecs business that concern the processing of personal information in respect of Investecs clients and employees, as well as information relating to Investec group and subsidiaries.
Market conduct, including conflicts of interest The potential conflicts of interest identified through workshops with the respective business areas have been consolidated into a Conflicts Index Matrix for the South African business.
This matrix includes an outline of general conflict types, the business areas between which the conflicts could occur and current mitigations and controls in place to manage the respective conflicts, as well as indicating where enhanced controls are necessary.
A specific module of the Enterprise Risk Assessor system ERA is being developed for the recording of the conflicts of interest framework and the documentation of existing controls.
The ERA system will additionally provide the platform for conflicts of interest monitoring.
A South African module of the Voyeur system has been developed.
Voyeur was designed and custom built by the UK Compliance team and is used to manage conflicts of interest.
Voyeur will allow for a more streamlined approach to global conflicts of interest management.
Risk-based monitoring The annual reassessment programme for all relevant legislation loaded on the Enterprise Risk Assessor system ERA is ongoing.
The reassessment includes a re-evaluation of all the risks, controls, treatments and monitoring tests to ensure that these are still relevant.
Our focus has been on thematic monitoring across business areas and on streamlining the monitoring reports to management.
Training The Compliance Awareness Induction Programme CAIP has been run successfully throughout the year.
All new employees are required to attend the face to face version of CAIP and are required to complete and pass an online assessment.
CAIP incorporates modules on: Compliance and the regulatory framework AML and terror financing Consumer protection Market conduct, including conflicts of interest.
Investec Annual Report 2010 PAGE 200 To date approximately 600 employees have completed CAIP face to face training.
The material has been adapted to online training so as to broaden the audience of CAIP to all employees.
The online version of CAIP is being piloted in Private Bank during 2010.
Australia year in review There has been increased activity as a result of our regulators, namely the Australian Prudential Regulation Authority APRA and the Australian Securities and Investments Commission ASIC, introducing reforms to their supervisory and regulatory frameworks.
During the period under review APRA regulatory activity focused on: Liquidity and risk management Remuneration practices Enhancement of the Basel II framework in Australia.
3 APRA released its final prudential requirements on remuneration for Australian deposit taking institutions.
APRAs approach recognises that poorly structured remuneration practices may result in excessive risk taking.
These revised governance standards came into effect on 1 April 2010.
The Investec Australia board has reviewed its remuneration practices in light of the new standard and has implemented a Remuneration Policy and Committee.
The introduction of the National Credit Code which replaces the Uniform Consumer Credit Code covers credit activities.
ASIC will become the national regulator for consumer credit.
This means that home loans, personal loans and consumer leases, among other products and services, will be regulated under Commonwealth legislation and administered by ASIC.
Investec Bank Australia is currently assessing the registration and licensing requirements of this legislation.
