Internal audit An internal audit charter, approved by the group Audit Committees and reviewed annually, governs our internal audit activity.
The charter defines the role, objectives, authority and responsibilities of the function.
Internal audit As a result of the silo specific regulatory responsibilities arising from our DLC structure, there The Internal Audit division provides are two group Internal Audit departments located in London and Johannesburg, responsible objective and independent for Investec plc and Investec Limited respectively.
An Internal Audit function, reporting into assurance, to management and Investec plc, also exists in Sydney.
The combined functions cover all of the geographies the board via the group Audit in which Investec operates.
These departments use similar risk-based methodologies and cooperate technically and operationally.
Committees, that group processes are adequate to identify the The heads of Internal Audit report at each Audit Committee meeting and have a direct reporting significant risks to which Investec line to the Chairman of the Audit Committee.
They operate independently of executive 3 management but have access to their local Chief Executive Officer and the Chairman of is exposed and that the control the Audit Committee.
The head of the Investec plc Audit Department is also responsible for environment is effective enough coordinating internal audit efforts to ensure coverage is global and departmental skills are to manage these risks.
Internal leveraged in order to maximise efficiency.
For administrative purposes the heads of Internal Audit recommends enhancements Audit also report to the global head of Corporate Governance and Compliance.
The functions to risk management, control and have adopted, and comply with, the International Standards for the Professional Practice of governance processes to address Internal Auditing.
any identified weaknesses Annually, Internal Audit conducts a formal risk assessment of all businesses from which a comprehensive risk-based annual audit plan is derived.
The assessment and programme are validated by executive management and approved by the responsible Audit Committee.
High risk businesses and processes are audited annually, with other areas covered at regular intervals based on their risk profile.
There is an ongoing focus on identifying fraud risk as well as auditing technology risks given our dependence on IT systems.
As a result of the continuing instability in the macroeconomic environment, there has been a focus in the past year on the provision of assurance over liquidity, credit and capital management controls.
We also liaise with the external auditors to enhance efficiencies.
The annual plan is reviewed regularly to ensure it remains relevant and responsive, given changes in our operating environment.
The Audit Committee approves any changes to the plan.
Internal Audit proactively reviews its practices and resources for adequacy and appropriateness, to meet our increasingly demanding corporate governance and regulatory environment including the requirements of King III.
Audit teams comprise well-qualified, experienced staff and ensure that the function has the competence to match Investecs diverse requirements.
Where specific specialist skills or additional resources are required, these will be obtained from third parties as appropriate.
The Internal Audit resources are subject to review by the respective Audit Committees.
Significant control weaknesses are reported, in terms of an escalation protocol, to the Audit and Compliance Implementation Forums, where rectification procedures and progress are considered and monitored at a detailed level by management.
The Audit Committee receives a report on significant issues and actions taken by management to enhance related controls.
