Our Business Responsibility Executive summary The global economic and financial crisis has forced businesses to focus on the challenges Our Business of what it means to be a sustainable business, especially in the financial services industry.
Investecs sustainability efforts, referred to as Our Business Responsibility, are based on the Responsibility is recognition that we are a specialist bank and asset manager driven by our culture and values.
divided into the Investecs endeavours to pursue sustainable profits include having a positive impact in each of the societies in which our business activities operate.
We aim to do this by enriching areas of profit, communities through education and entrepreneurship and embracing diversity while people and planet constantly striving to reduce the overall size of our environmental footprint.
Despite the difficult economic conditions of 2009, Investec has continued to maintain its commitment to Our Business Responsibility as an integral part of how we do business.
Accordingly, Investec was recognised for its sustainability efforts receiving a number of awards in this area.
In the UK, we received the Dragon Award 2009 for our Social Investment Programme.
In South Africa, we won the power fitness category of the Eskom Energy Efficiency Award 2009 which rewards exceptional effort in the efficient use of energy and recognises excellence in the communication of energy efficiency to employees.
In addition, Corporate Social Investment in South Africa was awarded the Sunday Times Top 100 Companies CSI Leadership Award.
This award recognises companies that excel in terms of financial performance but that also demonstrate an interest in the broader socio-economic environment.
Investec maintained its presence in the Dow Jones Sustainability Index, the UKs FTSE4Good Index and the JSE-SRI Index in South Africa.
66 Profit In the past two years, Investec has demonstrated its financial strength and resilience in the face of the worst financial crisis in decades.
Investecs business model aims to deliver sustainable success.
The groups rigorous management of risk, which preserves stakeholders interests, together with its fierce protection of the companys reputation, are essential elements of this model.
Diversifying sources of funding has been a key element of the groups strategy to further improve the quality of the groups balance sheet and reduce reliance on wholesale funding.
During the 2010 financial year, the group was successful in growing customer deposits in all three core geographies, significantly growing funds under management and substantially increasing its cash and near cash balances.
The economic environment remains fragile, and a number of challenges remain.
However, the groups solid capital and liquidity position continues to support our efforts to capitalise on the commercial opportunities that are starting to be revealed as the international landscape adjusts.
People Investec employees remain critical to continued business success and to overall sustainability efforts.
The expertise and dedication of staff is fundamental in meeting clients needs and delivering distinctive results.
It is therefore vital that we engage, develop and retain a highvalue workforce.
One of the groups values is to ensure open and honest communication and hence encourage an active and open dialogue between staff and senior management.
As a responsible employer, Investec aims to offer staff a stimulating and progressive working environment in which they can flourish and realise their true potential.
Investec Annual Report 2010 PAGE 269 Our Business Responsibility continued In a difficult environment, we seek personal dialogue with clients and continue to provide creative solutions tailored to their individual financial requirements.
Our clients benefit directly from the experience we have gained in navigating the recent crisis and we are committed to Looking forward, we helping them meet their financial goals.
Over the past two years, in addition to our day-to-day communication with all stakeholders, executive management conducted several road shows will continue to focus presenting to clients and investors on the financial and operating position of the group in order on reducing the to give a sense of comfort during this difficult and uncertain period.
size of our overall Investecs role in society and as a responsible citizen remains a key priority.
To contribute to the upliftment and empowerment of the communities within which we operate, we engage in environmental a number of ways.
We strive to work with a particular focus on education and entrepreneurial projects.
In 2010, our businesses committed over 3.9 million to a range of community footprint initiatives around the world.
Planet With the signing of the Copenhagen Accord in December 2009 climate change has become a key area of international focus.
Investec completed a formal carbon footprint exercise during 2009 in agreement with the Greenhouse Gas GHG Protocol, which will form the basis for further attempts at reducing our energy consumption over the medium term.
Towards the end of the financial year, we launched a carbon footprint campaign to employees which used strategic collateral to encourage staff to do what they can to reduce their carbon footprint both in the workplace and at home.
The aim of the campaign was to raise awareness around carbon footprinting, provide a basic understanding and recommendations around what steps 6 can be taken to effect necessary reductions.
On an operational level, we continue to apply a clearly defined risk review process in order to carefully assess business transactions with potential environmental or social risks.
Looking forward, we will continue to focus on reducing the size of our overall environmental footprint.
Accordingly, Investec management has been engaging with external consultants on an exercise designed to clarify the perceived risks and opportunities relating to climate change for the group and its various businesses.
Outlook The past year has seen heightened global attention on corporate governance, risk management and reputational issues and the financial services industry as a whole has been under considerable public scrutiny.
Throughout this we have remained open for business and, at the same time, have reinforced our commitment to be a responsible lender, providing access to credit and support while maintaining sensible lending standards.
We are making good progress in embedding sustainability into our business.
We recognise, however, that we have some way to go and will continue to build Our Business Responsibility efforts in the year ahead.
We remain committed to offering a robust, secure and responsible service that contributes to the economic progress of the group and society as a whole.
Investec Annual Report 2010 PAGE 270 For the detailed Our Business Responsibility 2010 report, please refer to: http: www.
com en za #home our business responsibility obr reports.
html 6 Investec Annual Report 2010 PAGE 271 Financial statements | SEVEN Financial statements | SEVEN Financial statements 275 Directors report 280 Directors Responsibility statement 282 Schedule A to the directors report 286 Independent auditors report to the members of Investec plc 288 Independent auditors report to the members of Investec Limited 289 Combined consolidated income statement 289 Combined consolidated statement of comprehensive income 290 Combined consolidated balance sheet 291 Combined consolidated cash flow statement 292 Combined consolidated statement changes in equity 294 Investec plc and Investec Limited significant accounting policies 306 Notes to the financial statements 373 Investec plc parent company accounts 374 Notes to Investec plc parent company accounts 376 Investec Limited parent company accounts 378 Notes to Investec Limited parent company accounts 379 Definitions 380 Notices 407 Contact details 409 Corporate information
