Business Review We are confident in our ability to outperform Market Outlook and Economic Risk the market, to develop further new revenue The strength of the Group is evident in streams and to invest in organic growth and the results to 31 March 2010, which are appropriate acquisitions.
We believe that the proposed increase BSS has grown revenue when many in the final dividend of 10% is reflective of other companies in our sector have been that confidence.
We have delivered 44.2m of profit in the worst year for the economy in many years.
This has been achieved by focusing on and listening to our customers, keeping close to our suppliers, through tight management of cost and through careful investment.
Gavin Slark Group Chief Executive We recognised some time ago that public 25 May 2010 sector investment was unlikely to continue at the current levels after the general election, as part of the rebalancing of the UK economy and took early positive steps to address this.
We are in the positive situation that around 90% of our revenue is not reliant on government capital expenditure and with the significant progress that we are making in areas such as spares, drainage, renewables and the water industry, coupled with an early cycle recovery in house building, the BSS Group is exceptionally well positioned to achieve profitable growth in the years to come.
Risks and Mitigating Strategies Impact Mitigating Strategies Financial Risk Economic Development Adverse effect on financial results The Group has exposure to the risks of deterioration or downturn in the UK economy but continues to grow share of the R & M market.
The Group does not, however, have a direct exposure to consumer spending and a high proportion of Group revenue is generated from non discretionary purchasing.
Impact Mitigating Strategies Operational Risk Health and Safety Poor employee morale Ensure awareness and understanding of the risks within our trading and distribution operations.
The emphasis is on Regulatory pressure and fines prevention: training all our employees, making people aware of how to approach daily tasks, monitoring, recording incidents that Adverse effect on reputation do occur and learning from our experiences.
Impact Mitigating Strategies Financial Risk Customer Risk Adverse effect on financial results The Group has a broad customer base that is spread throughout the UK and Ireland.
The largest single customer represents around 4% of Group sales and is covered by a three year contract.
Credit insurance is in place to minimise the exposure to bad debts, and credit vetting and control procedures are applied to minimise risk.
22 22 The BSS Gr The BSS Group plc oup plc Annual Report & Accounts 2010 Annual Report & Accounts 2010 The BSS Gr The BSS Group plc oup plc Annual Report & Accounts 2010 Annual Report & Accounts 2010 23 23 Impact Mitigating Strategies Operational Risk Supplier Risk Adverse effect on financial results The Group has a number of major suppliers who work in partnership with BSS to deliver value to our customers.
The Adverse effect on reputation Commercial teams within our Divisions monitor supplier performance and are aware of the financial position of our suppliers.
This understanding forms part of the negotiations process in setting commercial terms.
To ensure that best value is achieved, alternative sourcing strategies are considered and pursued where appropriate.
Impact Mitigating Strategies Strategic Risk Technology and Systems Adverse effect on financial results The Group is reliant on its trading and operating systems.
Considerable investment has been made in upgrading the hardware, network Adverse effect on stakeholder trust and infrastructure that hosts the Groups systems.
The systems and confidence platform that underpins the Group is reliable and robust.
The systems are run from the Groups Head Office and full disaster recovery procedures are in place and have been tested to ensure that they provide a reliable fall back position.
The Group will continue to invest in modernising its systems.
Impact Mitigating Strategies Operational Risk Employees Inability to develop and execute our Retention and development of our employees is a key feature business plans in ensuring the continued success of the Group.
Staff turnover of 14% is low relative to the industry.
The Group places Competitive disadvantage considerable emphasis on identifying individuals that have development potential with the aptitude and ability to grow within the Group.
A number of senior executives have worked their way up the organisation and their understanding of our customers needs is of great benefit to the management of the business.
Impact Mitigating Strategies Financial Risk Acquisitions Adverse effect on financial Acquisitions are formally assessed prior to the Company condition committing funds.
This involves a process that includes setting out the financial criteria against which the acquisition is Adverse effect on stakeholder trust targeted and judged, plus a due diligence process that covers and confidence commercial, financial and legal aspects of the target company.
The Group uses external advisors to support the Company through the due diligence process.
Return on capital employed represents a key measure against which investment decisions are assessed.
Impact Mitigating Strategies Financial Risk Defined Benefit Pension Adverse effect on financial The Group is required by law to maintain a minimum funding level Scheme and Funding condition in relation to its ongoing obligation to provide current and future pensions for members of its pension schemes who are entitled to defined benefits.
Some of the issues which could adversely affect the funding of these defined benefits include poor investment performance of pension fund investments, which is substantially weighted towards equity markets, and longer life expectancy of members.
The three Group defined benefit schemes have been closed to new members since 2002.
Assumptions in respect of expected costs are set after consultation with qualified actuaries.
Impact Mitigating Strategies External Risk Litigation Risk Adverse effect on financial During the past year there has been no significant litigation condition and reputation against the Group and the Directors are not aware of any pending action.
22 22 The BSS Gr The BSS Group plc oup plc Annual Report & Accounts 2010 Annual Report & Accounts 2010 The BSS Gr The BSS Group plc oup plc Annual Report & Accounts 2010 Annual Report & Accounts 2010 23 23
