Business Review Domestic Division Revenue Delivering growth 916.4m 5.2% in a challenging market 2009: 871.1m Adjusted Operating Profit 32.6m 11.4% 2009: 36.8m Margin 3.6% 2009: 4.2% Market Drivers 1.
Resilient Market Boiler and associated product 90% sold as replacement The primary driver for boilers, radiators, pipes and accessories remains replacement on a repair and maintenance basis within existing housing stock.
Renewables Focus on renewable energy Changes in electrical feed in tariffs have heightened awareness of the financial and carbon footprint benefits of fitting renewable products.
Sales of heat pumps, solar panels and all other renewable products increased and continue to do so.
The Division has continued to invest in new growth streams which have partly offset contraction in traditional market segments.
Renewable technology continues to become a core part of our future strategy.
Spares Spares market worth 200m Now in stock in 129 PTS branches, we have employed specialist staff to expand our customer base and offer.
This has not only satisfied existing customer requirements but created a new revenue source by bringing us new customers as well.
Demand is still increasing and more stocking points are planned.
Branch Network Extending the existing branch network New branch revenue continues to enhance the Domestic Divisions income and profitability and delivers solid returns to our shareholders.
Further growth in the network is anticipated.
10 10 The BSS Gr The BSS Group plc oup plc Annual Report & Accounts 2010 Annual Report & Accounts 2010 The BSS Gr The BSS Group plc oup plc Annual Report & Accounts 2010 Annual Report & Accounts 2010 11 11 Top Left: Martin Collomosse Transport Supervisor Bottom Left: Gary Cahill Warehouse Carl Adcock Branch Manager 10 10 The BSS Gr The BSS Group plc oup plc Annual Report & Accounts 2010 Annual Report & Accounts 2010 The BSS Gr The BSS Group plc oup plc Annual Report & Accounts 2010 Annual Report & Accounts 2010 11 11 Business Review The Domestic Division increased revenue by 5.2% in the financial year against 2009 with like for like revenue increasing by 0.8%, new branches contributed 4.4% growth and which provide national distribution coverage.
Total Further contracts have been won and the sales in the second half were 11.2% higher Division is benefiting from the investment than last year and like for like sales were made in stock, infrastructure and specialist up 5.3% against last year following a 4.3% staff.
Renewable technology continues to be decrease in the first half.
The strengthening a core part of our future growth strategy and trend in sales in the second half of the we remain confident that renewables offer financial year reflects: the beneficial impact significant growth potential.
of early cycle economic recovery: market share gains through improved sales Spendlove C. Jebb the Northern Ireland effectiveness: a sustained period of cold based merchant has continued to gain weather: and some stimulus from the Boiler market share in a difficult economic climate.
In 2009 10, Jebbs increased sales and remained profitable.
The primary driver for sales of boilers, radiators, pipes and accessories remains Direct Heating Spares DHS was acquired replacement on a repair and maintenance in April 2009 for a consideration of 6.2m.
basis of existing housing stock.
The core The spares market, has strong growth boiler market has continued to hold up well dynamics and DHS has had an excellent and our boiler sales volume increased by first year under Group ownership performing 6.3%.
The Domestic Division continued ahead of expectations and achieving a to grow market share with new revenue ROCE of 35%.
Around 80% of DHS sales initiatives in spares and renewables are through PTS 129 spares branches.
contributing to the growth achieved.
DHS has achieved contract gains, is broadening its product offer and has The new build market remained challenging recruited several major customers.
In April with completions down year on year, 2010 DHS moved to working seven days however in the last six months of the a week with an overnight next day delivery financial year house builders opened sites service.
Further new revenue is targeted and and started to increase build programmes we are confident that the DHS acquisition again.
As a result of this, PTS increased in partnership with PTS and F & P, offers turnover in this area by 11.5m to 26.9m, substantial new growth for the Group.
an increase of 75% on the previous year as we take advantage of this early cycle F & P Wholesale F & P distributes recovery.
PTS has increased its market plumbing, heating and bathroom products share by securing trade terms with a number nationally to independent merchants, fire of national house builders.
Social and and bathroom showrooms.
Through a affordable housing has also contributed network of 11 branches, the latest opened as we increased the number of framework in Scotland in August 2009, we provide agreements we are involved in.
a national service with next day delivery of leading brands.
This one tomorrow During the year, PTS opened 15 new service enhanced by our competitive branches which takes the total number of prices on own branded Pro and Fresssh trading locations to 322 there were no branch products leads to a highly competitive model closures.
The new branches continue to add serving the independent trade.
The core value with variation to the proposition offered business is distribution of branded boilers to meet the needs of local markets.
This complemented by F & Ps own brand, flexibility underpins the solid returns achieved.
Procombi boilers, which increased volume Our customer base continues to grow as sales by 200%.
F & P has had a good year does our national spread with in excess of with like for like sales up 2.9% and a strong 400 PTS branches targeted.
second half with like for like revenue up 8.7% on 2009.
F & P continues to benefit from Renewable sales in the year were 16.1m, scale advantage.
Awareness and understanding of renewable technology We believe the Domestic Division is well continues to increase at pace.
PTS is positioned for growth in 2010 11 with the supplying solar, heat pumps and biomass pricing environment and broader economic technology through its commercial branches outlook expected to improve.
12 12 The BSS Gr The BSS Group plc oup plc Annual Report & Accounts 2010 Annual Report & Accounts 2010 The BSS Gr The BSS Group plc oup plc Annual Report & Accounts 2010 Annual Report & Accounts 2010 13 13 12 12 The BSS Gr The BSS Group plc oup plc Annual Report & Accounts 2010 Annual Report & Accounts 2010 The BSS Gr The BSS Group plc oup plc Annual Report & Accounts 2010 Annual Report & Accounts 2010 13 13
