Corporate Governance Report of the Directors The Directors of The BSS Group plc present their annual report Authority, certain employees are required to seek the approval of to the shareholders together with the financial statements of the the Company to deal in its shares.
Group for the financial year ended 31 March 2010.
Information on the Groups share option schemes is set out in Group Activities note 19 to the financial statements.
Details of the Long Term The Group provides a comprehensive supply service for a wide Incentive Plan for key executives are set out in the Report of range of products to industrial, commercial and domestic markets the Remuneration Committee.
in the United Kingdom and the Ireland.
The principal products relate to heating, plumbing, tools, industrial supplies, process Directors and Secretary control and pipeline equipment.
The members of the Board at the date of this report are shown on the Board of Directors page.
No Director had an interest in any The subsidiary and associated undertakings principally affecting other contract other than a service contract with the Company the profits or net assets of the Group in the year are listed in or its subsidiaries at any time during or at the end of the year.
note 28 to the financial statements.
A register of Directors conflicts has been established and Board authorisation obtained.
As part of this process the members of An overview of the development of the Groups businesses for the Board will endeavour to consider each conflict situation the year and of future development is included in the Chairmans separately in its particular facts, consider the conflict situation in Statement, the Business Review and the Financial Review.
conjunction with the rest of his duties under the 2006 Act, keep records and Board minutes as to authorisations granted by Business Review Directors and the scope of any approvals given and regularly The Company is required to set out in this report a fair review review conflict authorisation.
of the business of the Group during the financial year ended 31 March 2010 and of the position of the Group at the end of A Ball resigned as Executive Director on 14 October 2009.
F Elkins, that financial year and a description of the principal risks and having been appointed on 1 December 2009, and being eligible, uncertainties facing the Group.
The information that fulfils the offers himself for election.
R Harrison OBE, retires by rotation, and requirements of the Business Review are given in the Chairmans being eligible offers himself for re-election at the forthcoming Annual Statement, the Business Review, Key Performance Indicators, General Meeting.
The Chairman, P Warry, will stand for annual Risks and Mitigating Strategies, Corporate Social Responsibility re-election in line with provision A.
section and the Financial Review, which are incorporated in this report by reference.
Directors Indemnities In May 2006 the Company entered into a Deed of Indemnity Details of significant events since the balance sheet date are to the extent permitted by law with each of the Directors.
contained in note 29 to the financial statements.
The Deeds of Indemnity will be available for inspection at the Annual General Meeting.
Results and Dividends The audited financial statements are set out in the accounts section.
During the year the Company maintained Directors and Officers liability insurance cover, as permitted by section 233 of the The Group Income Statement is set out on the Consolidated Companies Act 2006.
The Group profit before tax for the year amounted to 44.2m 2009: 57.8m.
Directors Interests and Share Options The interests of Directors and their families in the shares of the An interim dividend of 2.4m 2009: 2.4m was paid on 6 January Company and options to acquire shares are shown in the Report 2010.
The Directors recommend the payment of a final dividend of the Remuneration Committee.
There have been no transactions for the year of 7.6m 2009: 6.8m to be paid on 30 July 2010 in shares by the Directors of the Company between 1 April 2010 to shareholders on the register on 2 July 2010.
This will make the and 25 May 2010. total dividend for the year 10.0m 2009: 9.2m.
No Director has a non-beneficial interest in the Companys shares.
Share Capital During the year the called up share capital was increased to Assets 6,218,219 124,364,375 shares of 5p each as a result of the issue No external valuation has been performed on land and buildings of 871,249 shares under the employees share option schemes.
and the Directors estimate that the fair value of land and buildings equates to its carrying value.
Movements in the Companys share capital are shown in note 19 to the financial statements.
At the 2009 Annual General Meeting, Creditors Payment Practice shareholders renewed the Companys authority to make market The Group has a general policy whereby it agrees and abides by purchases of up to 12,349,712 Ordinary Shares of 5p each.
terms of payment with its suppliers.
No shares were purchased under this authority during the year The average number of days credit taken by the Group at ended 31 March 2010 and at the forthcoming Annual General 31 March 2010 was 63 days 2009: 66 days.
The Company Meeting, the Board will again seek shareholders approval to had nil trade creditors at 31 March 2010 2009: nil.
renew the annual authority for the Company to make purchases of its own shares through the market.
Charitable and Political Contributions Charitable contributions amounted to 6,065 2009: 43,098.
There are no restrictions on the transfer of Ordinary Shares in the More details of charitable donations can be found in the Corporate capital of the Company other than certain restrictions which may Social Responsibility Report.
from time to time be imposed by law, for example, insider trading law.
In accordance with the Listing Rules of the Financial Services In line with our Public Policy, there were no political contributions during the year 2009: nil.
PB The BSS Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2010 The BSS Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2010 37 Corporate Governance Report of the Directors continued Acquisition of own Shares Independent Auditors Since June 2008, the Company no longer holds any Ordinary In the case of each Director in office at the date the Report Shares as treasury shares.
of the Directors is approved: Takeover Directive a so far as the Director is aware, there is no relevant audit Ordinary Shares are the Companys only class of share capital.
information of which the Companys auditors are unaware: and All the shares rank pari passu.
There are no special control rights in relation to the Companys shares.
The rules governing the b he has taken all the steps that he ought to have taken as a appointment and replacement of Board members and changes Director in order to make himself aware of any relevant audit to the Articles of Association accord with English Company Law information and to establish that the Companys auditors are provisions.
The Board has power to purchase its own shares aware of that information.
and is seeking renewal of that power at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting.
There are no significant agreements to which  LLP have expressed their willingness the Company is a party which take effect, alter or terminate in the to continue in office as Auditors of the Company, and a resolution event of change of control of the Company.
Details of Directors proposing their reappointment and authorising the Directors to agreements providing compensation on change of control are determine their remuneration will be proposed at the forthcoming in the Report of the Remuneration Committee.
shareholdings are disclosed in this report.
Annual General Meeting Employment Policy The Notice of the Annual General Meeting, which is to be held The Group philosophy is that People Make Quality and that at 3.00pm on 29 July 2010, is contained in a separate circular quality of service gives competitive advantage.
The recruitment, to shareholders and contains an explanation of the items of training, development and remuneration of staff reflect this Special Business.
Significant staff vacancies are published throughout the Group.
All employees receive regular information on the By order of the Board trading performance of the Group and their own particular Division by regular team briefs and presentations.
The Group is an equal opportunities employer and the policy of the Group is to give disabled persons fair consideration for all vacancies for which they are suitably qualified, and having regard to their capabilities.
In the Ute Ball The BSS Group plc event of members of staff becoming disabled every effort is made Group Company Secretary Fleet House, Lee Circle to ensure that their employment with the Group continues and 25 May 2010 Leicester LE1 3QQ that appropriate training is arranged.
It is the policy of the Group Reg No.
60987 that the training, career development and promotion of disabled persons should, as far as possible, be identical to that of other employees.
There is a share option scheme SAYE available through which all employees may become shareholders in the Company, subject to conditions of eligibility.
We continue to invest substantially in a wide variety of training, both on and off the job, designed to meet the needs of the Group and staff at all levels.
Substantial Holdings So far as the Company is aware, the following held shares representing 3% or more of its Ordinary Share capital at 25 May 2010.
Number % of issued of shares capital Schroder Investment Management 26,694,969 21.47 BlackRock Investment Management UK 15,242,464 12.26 AXA Framlington 7,838,702 6.30 Aberdeen Asset Management 5,049,426 4.06 Legal & General Investment Management 4,678,794 3.76 AEGON Asset Management 3,927,791 3.16 Standard Life Investments 3,887,146 3.13 38 38 The BSS Gr The BSS Group plc oup plc Annual Report & Accounts 2010 Annual Report & Accounts 2010 The BSS Gr The BSS Group plc oup plc Annual Report & Accounts 2010 Annual Report & Accounts 2010 39 39
