Business Review Industrial Division Organisation developing at pace to open up new market opportunities Revenue 332.4m 5.5% 2009: 351.6m Adjusted Operating Profit 25.1m 16.3% 2009: 30.0m Margin 7.6% 2009: 8.5% Market Drivers 1.
Infrastructure Maintaining existing facilities A core element of our industrial heating and ventilation business provides product that is used to undertake essential maintenance across commercial, industrial and publicly owned facilities.
Drainage Market Developing a full offering into the total drainage market We have expanded our expertise and product offering across the branch network for the above ground drainage market.
The acquisition of UGS provides a platform to develop a national offering for the below ground drainage market.
The increase in UK population density, its ageing infrastructure and environment requirement will drive an increase in the drainage market.
New Sectors Key focus on water processing and power generation as growth market sectors AMP5 now approved with a five year investment programme to improve water and waste water treatment.
Investment in power generation required to increase UK capacity.
14 14 The BSS Gr The BSS Group plc oup plc Annual Report & Accounts 2010 Annual Report & Accounts 2010 The BSS Gr The BSS Group plc oup plc Annual Report & Accounts 2010 Annual Report & Accounts 2010 15 15 Top Left: Janet Bartrop Trade Counter Warehouse Top Right: Gary Lucas Driver Left Doug Shand Branch Administrator 14 14 The BSS Gr The BSS Group plc oup plc Annual Report & Accounts 2010 Annual Report & Accounts 2010 The BSS Gr The BSS Group plc oup plc Annual Report & Accounts 2010 Annual Report & Accounts 2010 15 15 Business Review The Industrial Division has responded well to the challenges of tighter market conditions and slower commercial new build activity.
Considerable progress has been made in repositioning the Division to broaden the but that the level of investment beyond 2010 spread and mix of business to build greater will be curtailed.
The urgency to develop revenue resilience with new growth sectors new revenue streams in adjacent markets is targeted.
The Division continues to win new driven by recognition of significant reduced business and grow market share, its strong public sector investment.
This reduction has strategic position in heating and ventilation been anticipated and is manageable.
is based on a nationwide branch infrastructure, a reputation for service and The above ground drainage market is a technical expertise.
The UK market is substantial and BSS has the potential to Like for like revenue for the Division was establish a major presence in this market.
down 6.8% on the prior year reflecting This has led to investment in the opening the late cycle nature of the Divisions of two dedicated branches at Canning core activity, but performance improved Town and Bellshill plus a further 16 implant as the year progressed with second half branches across the whole of the UK.
The revenue down 4.9%, like for like, against growth in sales in our implant and dedicated a 9.0% decline in the first half.
Core repair branches is extremely encouraging.
and maintenance work has been resilient throughout the financial year and the price We have further augmented this offering environment has improved in the second half by the acquisition of UGS which is an with copper inflation a factor.
underground specialist business turning over circa 36m through 10 branches across The Division continues to increase market the UK.
The below ground drainage market share.
The onsite facility at Stratford offers BSS considerable scope for growth by supporting the build programme for 2012 providing an opportunity to expand both the Olympics has proved to be of great benefit.
product range and national coverage.
UGS We have secured a number of the key adds a new customer base to BSS of both stadium and infrastructure projects with civil contractors and builders which provides our ability to manage timed delivery slots, both UGS and BSS with the ability to share helping to reduce labour down time and project information and also sell a wider increase project efficiency.
BSS Industrial range of products to each others is directly involved in eight projects on the customer base.
Olympics site, revenue from Olympics work will peak in 2010 11.
The Division has identified the water utilities market as offering significant growth Industrials share of the repair and potential.
The Asset Management Plan maintenance market continues to grow and AMP5 has now been approved with brands such as Havelock Controls, who 26bn being invested over the next five supply heating control solutions, and AMS, years into drinking water infrastructure, who supply pumps, have seen good growth waste disposal and processing.
In order to during the year.
capitalise on this investment programme, BSS has created a dedicated water In order to capitalise on the opportunity that distribution centre providing a next day the industrial market presents, particularly service to all branches on a broader range in the repair, maintenance and operational of carbon steel and API product used sectors, BSS Industrial has restructured the predominantly in the water market.
The Division and now has an external sales force acquisition of UGS also offers opportunities that is purely responsible for driving growth to supply both above and below ground in this industrial market sector.
This provides product to this growing market.
an excellent platform to sell the specialist brands within the Division and to grow The next 12 months is likely to remain future revenue.
a challenging period with an inherent uncertainty over the timing of Government Government funded work in the current investment reductions.
The Division financial year has remained solid with a is however well positioned to capture broad spread of projects covering defence, significant market share in new sectors schools, hospitals and prisons.
In the short that will help to offset any downturn in its term, we anticipate that this work will remain traditional markets.
16 16 The BSS Gr The BSS Group plc oup plc Annual Report & Accounts 2010 Annual Report & Accounts 2010 The BSS Gr The BSS Group plc oup plc Annual Report & Accounts 2010 Annual Report & Accounts 2010 17 17 Top from left to right: Phil Kendall Warehouse Henry Willsher Trade Counter Assistant 16 16 The BSS Gr The BSS Group plc oup plc Annual Report & Accounts 2010 Annual Report & Accounts 2010 The BSS Gr The BSS Group plc oup plc Annual Report & Accounts 2010 Annual Report & Accounts 2010 17 17
