BUSINESS REVIEW REVIEW OF OPERATIONS RISK & INSURANCE CONTINUED JLT SPECIALTY LLOYD & PARTNERS Principal lines of business Principal lines of business Property Cargo, Fine Art & Specie Accident & Health Food & Drink Healthcare & Professional Casualty Aerospace Global Insurance Service Energy & Marine Programmes Claims Consultancy Leisure Communications, Technology Life Science and Specialty Lloyd & Partners comprises our London and Bermuda specialist & Media Chemicals wholesale broking businesses.
It experienced another year of strong Construction Marine competition from the US domestic market, especially for general property and casualty risks.
Soft market conditions prevailed in most other classes, Corporate Recovery Risks Real Estate offshore energy being the one exception following the loss of the offshore Credit, Political & Security Sports & Entertainment rig at Macondo.
Lloyd & Partners arranged payment of the claim for the Risks Transport & Engineering loss of this rig, the largest single offshore rig loss in history, within seven Energy working days.
The impact of this loss on rates has, however, proven to be UK Retail Financial & Professional Lines less significant than anticipated.
Despite the challenging market and economic environment a very creditable 12% increase in revenue was JLT Specialty Limited once again delivered a strong performance, with achieved 4% at CRE.
revenue increasing 10% 5% at CRE to 170.7 million and a trading The London business achieved headline growth of 13% which reflects margin of 22%, buoyed by a strong new business performance in a solid levels of income growth from our Energy & Marine, Cargo, Fine Art & challenging market and the positive impact of past strategic investments.
Specie and International Property and Casualty teams.
The new JLT Specialty Limited was known as Jardine Lloyd Thompson Limited until programme team also made a sound contribution in its first full year of 1st January 2011.
The new name more accurately reflects the vision it has operation.
to become London's leading specialist insurance broker in defined sectors.
The Bermuda business achieved good organic revenue growth of 7% To further reinforce our specialist position two structural changes have with Casualty returning a strong performance on the back of a lack of taken place.
In the first half of 2010 we successfully integrated the UK capacity and hardening rates in London.
advisory retail business into JLT Specialty, allowing us to improve the Trading profit increased by 29% and we improved our trading profit promotion of the specialty sectors through our UK regional offices.
margin by a further three percentage points to 23%.
Secondly, the Aerospace insurance broking business was transferred from JLT Re to JLT Speciality at the beginning of 2011, a natural fit given its specialty focus.
We continually strive to enhance and extend these specialist capabilities and continue to have success recruiting leading specialists, attracted by our culture and an environment that enables them to succeed.
Financial highlights Financial highlights TOTAL UNDERLYING TRADING TOTAL UNDERLYING TRADING REVENUE m PROFIT m REVENUE m PROFIT m 170.7 37.1 61.9 14.4 154.8 55.1 30.3 11.2 09 10 09 10 09 10 09 10 TRADING MARGIN 20% 22% TRADING MARGIN 20% 23% 2009 2010 2009 2010 18 Jardine Lloyd Thompson Group plc Annual Report 2010
