BUSINESS REVIEW REVIEW OF OPERATIONS RISK & INSURANCE The Risk & Insurance group comprises our retail broking operations around the world and our predominantly London market based Risk & Insurance provides broking and risk reinsurance broking, specialist risk and wholesale insurance broking management services for clients across an businesses.
extensive range of business sectors.
Throughout 2010 the macro-economic conditions remained very Principal lines of business challenging in all of our key markets.
This included a very soft insurance rating environment as many insurers continued to seek to Retail win or retain market share.
There was also intense competition Successfully delivering an increasingly specialist retail amongst brokers as they too sought to retain and win new insurance broking service to clients in the local, national and business.
This was particularly acute in those sectors of the industry international markets.
where products are becoming more commoditised, with price the Specialty key differentiator.
For JLT, this trend underlines further the importance of moving away from generic mid-market insurance Offering clients in selected industries insurance broking and broking operations.
To this end significant progress was made risk management advice through dedicated specialist teams during the year in Australasia, Canada and Asia to structure the with deep client industry expertise.
provision of full advisory broking services according to client Wholesale industry served and for these to then be operated nationally or Providing brokers in the US and elsewhere with access to region wide.
A very similar structure has been successfully operated insurance capacity in London, Bermuda and Continental in JLT's London Market specialty business for some time.
Europe through our independent specialist wholesale broker.
Against the competitive market conditions, our Risk & Insurance Reinsurance businesses delivered strong results with revenues in 2010 increasing Delivering to clients a more analytical approach to reinsurance by 17%, or 8% at constant rates of exchange CRE, to 576.6 broking and a wider variety of specialist risk management million.
This was essentially due to our ability to continue to drive solutions.
Trading profit for our Risk & Insurance group was 129.7 million, an increase of 31% on 2009.
Our retail broking operations in all territories performed well in competitive market conditions with combined organic growth of 10%.
Particularly pleasing performances came from our operations in Asia and Latin America, where our focus on industry specialisms that match those industries which are driving growth in these fastergrowing economies, has proved particularly beneficial.
These sectors include natural resources, construction, telecommunications and aerospace.
Financial highlights Our London market operations performed well as a whole with TOTAL UNDERLYING TRADING combined organic growth of 6% in very challenging market REVENUE m PROFIT m conditions.
Lloyd & Partners, our London based specialist wholesale broking 576.6 operation, experienced particularly strong competition from the US domestic market.
JLT Specialty was launched at the beginning of 129.7 494.9 this year formerly Jardine Lloyd Thompson Limited to emphasise further our specialty capabilities.
99.1 In 2010 the trading profit margin for our Risk & Insurance group was 22%, increasing by 2 percentage points over 2009.
1% of this 2% increase was through the benefit of favourable exchange rate movements.
This improvement in trading margin was achieved despite the investments in the recruitment and retention of leading industry professionals right across our Risk & Insurance businesses.
On pages 15 to 19 there is a more detailed commentary on the 09 10 09 10 activities and performance of each of our businesses in the Risk & Insurance group.
TRADING MARGIN 20% 22% 2009 2010 14 Jardine Lloyd Thompson Group plc Annual Report 2010
