Lord Leach of Fairford, Deputy Chairman Non-Executive Non-Executive Geoffrey Howe was appointed a Non-executive Director in January Rodney Leach was Chairman of Jardine Insurance Brokers, latterly 2002, became Joint Deputy Chairman in November 2004 and the JIB Group plc, between 1988 and 1997.
He was appointed Deputy Senior Independent Director in April 2005.
Chairman of the Company in February 1997.
He was appointed Chairman in April 2006 when he relinquished the He is Chairman of the Nominations Committee and a member of the appointments as Senior Independent Director, Chairman of the Remuneration Committee.
Other directorships include Jardine Remuneration Committee and member of the Audit Committee.
Matheson Holdings, Rothschild Continuation AG and various listed Jardine Matheson Group companies.
He remains a member of the Nominations Committee.
He is Chairman of the Nationwide Building Society and a nonexecutive director of Close Brothers Plc.
M F G Drummond Brady of Railtrack Group plc, a director of Investec plc, group general Mark Drummond Brady has been with the JLT Group since 1987 counsel of Robert Fleming Holdings and managing partner of and has held a number of senior posts in the Group.
He is the Clifford Chance.
Groups International Chairman of Risk & Insurance.
He was appointed a Director of Jardine Lloyd Thompson Group plc 2.
D J Burke, Chief Executive on 1st March 2011 and is a member of the Group Executive Committee.
Dominic Burke joined Jardine Lloyd Thompson in 2000, when the Burke Ford Group of companies, of which he was Chief Executive and co-founder, became part of JLT.
R J Harvey Dominic is Chairman of the Group Executive Committee and was Non-Executive Chief Executive of the UK and Ireland Insurance Broking and the Richard Harvey was appointed a Non-Executive Director in Group's Employee Benefits businesses until December 2005.
He is a member of the Audit & Risk, Nominations was appointed a Director and Chief Operating Officer of Jardine and Remuneration Committees.
He is a fellow of the Institute of Lloyd Thompson Group plc on 1st January 2005.
He was appointed Group Chief Executive on 1st December 2005, He enjoyed a long and successful career in the insurance industry standing down as Chief Operating Officer on that date.
principally with Norwich Union where he was Chief Executive from He was appointed a Non-Executive Director and Deputy Chairman 1998 to 2000 and subsequently with Aviva plc where he was Group of Newbury Racecourse PLC in November 2010.
He was also Chair of the Association of British Insurers from 2003 to 2005.
He is Non-Executive Chairman of PZ Cussons plc.
30 Jardine Lloyd Thompson Group plc Annual Report 2010 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE 7.
10. advised on many landmark transactions and advised some of the 6.
S L Keswick UK's largest companies, including many in the banking and Non-Executive insurance sectors.
Simon Keswick was a non-executive director of JIB Group plc He is a non-executive director of Standard Chartered plc, Standard between 1988 and 1997 and was appointed a Director of the Life Investments Limited and Standard Life Investments Holdings Company in January 2001.
Limited and is a senior advisor to Greenhill & Co International.
His other directorships include Jardine Matheson Holdings Limited and other Jardine Matheson Group companies.
He is a member of the Audit & Risk, Remuneration and Nominations Committees.
Simon Mawson, Finance Director Simon Mawson, a chartered accountant, was appointed Finance Director of the Group on 6th August 2010.
Non-Executive He joined JLT from PT Astra International Tbk, an Indonesian listed Nick MacAndrew was appointed a Non-Executive Director in July conglomerate, where he was Director responsible for Finance, Risk 2005.
He is Chairman of the Audit & Risk Committee and a member Management and Information Technology.
Prior to Astra, he worked of the Remuneration and Nominations Committees and is Senior for  in Leeds, London and Hong Kong and Independent Director.
Nick is a Non-Executive Director of Fuller for Jardine Matheson in various financial positions in Hong Kong.
Smith & Turner plc and Wates Group Limited, and was until recently Chairman of F&C Asset Management plc.
V Y A C Wade he was previously finance director of Schroders plc and Chairman of Save the Children.
Vyvienne Wade was appointed a Director in 2002 and is a member of the Group Executive Committee.
She is Group Legal Director, CEO of JLT Latin America, Chairman of JLT Insurance Management 8.
J G H Paynter and of JLT Southern Europe.
Non-Executive A barrister and member of the Inner Temple, Vyvienne joined JLT in John Paynter was appointed a Non-Executive Director in October 1987 and was made Group Legal Director in 1995.
He is Chairman of the Remuneration Committee and a Vyvienne was appointed to the main board and has since become member of the Audit & Risk and Nominations Committees.
CEO of JLT's Latin American operations and Chairman of JLT's A barrister, John joined Cazenove & Co in 1979 and became a Insurance Management and of the Southern European businesses.
partner in the firm in 1986 and Head of Corporate Finance in 1995.
Vyvienne is also a Non-Executive Director of Lloyd & Partners He became Vice Chairman of the JP Morgan Cazenove investment Limited and is on the Board of the London and International banking joint venture on its creation in March 2005 and retired in Insurance Brokers' Association.
July 2008 following a 29 year career in the City during which he Jardine Lloyd Thompson Group plc Annual Report 2010 31
