CORPORATE GOVERNANCE DIRECTORS REPORT Directors may deduct from any dividend payable to any member all Principal activities and business review sums of money if any presently payable by him to the Company on Jardine Lloyd Thompson Group plc is a holding company and its account of calls or otherwise in relation to shares of the Company.
The Directors may retain any dividends payable on shares on which Its principal subsidiary and associated undertakings are engaged in the Company has a lien, and may apply the same in or towards risk management advice, insurance and reinsurance broking, satisfaction of the debts, liabilities or engagements in respect of underwriting services and the provision of employee benefit services.
The Business Review, comprising the Chairmans Statement, Chief Executives Review, Review of Operations, Finance Directors Review Voting rights and Risk Management Report on pages 6 to 29 report on the On a show of hands at a general meeting, every member present in Group's development during the year under review and on the person has one vote and on a poll every member who is present in outlook for the future.
These fulfil the requirements of the Business person or by proxy has one vote for each share held.
In the case of Review and are incorporated in this report by reference.
joint holders of a share the vote of the senior who tenders a vote whether in person or by proxy will be accepted to the exclusion of Results and dividends the votes of the other joint holders and, for this purpose, seniority will The financial statements deal with the consolidated results of the be determined by the order in which the names stand in the Register Group for the year ended 31st December 2010, which are shown on of Members in respect of the share.
Voting rights in relation to pages 49 to 104.
The profit attributable to shareholders amounted to Treasury shares are suspended and the voting rights are not 90,664,000 2009: 70,889,000. normally exercised in respect of the shares held in the employee The unconsolidated financial statements for the Company to 31st benefit trusts.
December 2010, prepared in accordance with UK GAAP, are set out on pages 105 to 110.
Restrictions on voting The Directors recommend the payment of a final dividend of 13.7 No member, unless the Directors otherwise determine, is entitled to pence per share which, together with the interim dividend of 8.8 vote either in person or by proxy at any general meeting in respect of pence per share paid in October 2010, amounts to a total dividend any shares held by him if any call or other sum then payable by him of 22.5 pence per share 2009: 21.0 pence per share.
in respect of that share remains unpaid.
In addition, no member is entitled to vote if he has been served with a notice after failure to Shareholders rights provide the Company with information concerning interests in those Dividends and distributions shares required to be provided under the Companies Act.
Shareholders can declare final dividends by passing an ordinary resolution but the amount of the dividend cannot exceed the amount Deadlines for exercising voting rights recommended by the Board.
Votes may be exercised in person, by proxy, or in relation to The Board can pay interim dividends whenever the financial position corporate members, by corporate representative.
The Articles of the Company, in the opinion of the Board, justifies such payment.
provide a deadline for submission of proxy forms of not less than 48 The Board can withhold payment of all or any part of any dividend or hours before the time appointed for the holding of the meeting or other monies payable in respect of the Companys shares from any adjourned meeting and the notice of Annual General Meeting will person with a 0.25 per cent interest as defined in the Articles if that specify the deadline for exercising voting rights.
person has been served with a notice after failure to provide the Company with information concerning interest in those shares Variation of rights required to be provided under the Companies Act.
In addition, the If at any time the capital of the Company is divided into different classes of shares then, subject to statute, the Articles specify that rights attached to any class of shares may be varied with the written Substantial shareholders consent of the holders of at least 75% nominal value of the issued At 17th March 2011 being the latest practicable date prior to the shares of that class, or with the sanction of an extraordinary posting of this report, the Company had been notified of the resolution passed at a separate general meeting of the holders of following major interests each representing 3% or more of the those shares.
At every such separate general meeting the quorum is existing issued ordinary share capital see table below.
Jardine two persons holding or representing by proxy at least one-third in Matheson Holdings Limited's interest is held through its wholly nominal value of the issued shares of the class calculated excluding owned subsidiary JMH Investments Limited.
Jardine Strategic any shares held as treasury shares.
Holdings Limited is interested in the shares of Jardine Matheson A member that is a corporation may appoint an individual to act on Holdings Limited under Section823 1 b of the Companies Act its behalf at a general meeting or class meetings as a corporate 2006. representative.
The person so authorised shall be entitled to exercise the same powers on behalf of such corporation as the corporation Ordinary could exercise if it were an individual member of the Company.
Shareholder shares % Held JMH Investments Limited 65,714,510 30.30 Transfer of shares Silchester International Investors LLP 25,861,455 11.93 All transfers of shares may be effected by transfer in writing in any RBC cees Trustees Limited 9,273,441 4.28 usual or common form or in any other form acceptable to the 32 Jardine Lloyd Thompson Group plc Annual Report 2010 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE directors.
The instrument of transfer must be signed by or on behalf The Board can appoint any person to be a Director and any person of the transferor and except in the case of fully-paid shares by or on so appointed must stand for re-election at the next Annual General behalf of the transferee.
The transferor shall remain the holder of the Meeting.
shares concerned until the name of the transferee is entered in the In addition, the Articles of Association require each Director to stand Register of Members of the Company.
The Directors may, at any for re-election at least once every three years and Lord Leach and time after the allotment of any share, but before any person has Simon Keswick are required to stand for re-election annually, having been entered in the Register of Members as the holder, recognise a been in office for over nine years.
The Company has elected to renunciation by the allottee in favour of some other person and may adopt the UK Corporate Governance Code June 2010 requirement accord to any allottee of a share a right to effect such renunciation that all Directors should stand for re-election annually.
Accordingly, all upon and subject to such terms and conditions as the Directors may Directors will retire at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting and, think fit to impose.
Transfers of shares which are in uncertificated being eligible, will offer themselves for re-election.
form are effected by means of the CREST system.
The service contract for Mr Howe is subject to a six-month notice The Directors may refuse to register a transfer of certificated shares period.
The service contracts for Lord Leach and Messrs Harvey, that are not fully paid provided that the refusal does not prevent Keswick, MacAndrew and Paynter are subject to a three-month dealings in that class of shares from taking place on an open and notice provision.
The Company is required to give 364 days notice proper basis.
The Directors may also refuse to register an allotment under the service contracts with Mr Burke, Mr Drummond Brady, Mr or transfer of shares whether fully-paid or not in favour of more than Mawson and Mrs Wade.
If the directors refuse to register an allotment or During the past twelve months, a formal evaluation of the Board, its transfer they must within two months after the date on which the committees and individual directors has been undertaken.
letter of allotment or transfer was lodged with the Company send to the allottee or transferee a notice of the refusal.
The Board performance evaluation was undertaken by means of individual questionnaires that were summarised and debated by the The Directors may decline to recognise any instrument of transfer board or the relevant committee.
unless the instrument of transfer is in respect of only one class of share and when submitted for registration is accompanied by the The non-executive directors, led by the senior independent director, relevant share certificates and such other evidence as the Directors also carried out a performance evaluation of the Chairman during may reasonably require.
Subject to statutes and applicable CREST rules, the Directors may Full details of the directors remuneration and interests are shown in determine that any class of shares may be held in uncertificated form the Remuneration Report.
and that title to such shares may be transferred by means of the CREST system or that shares of any class should cease to be so held and transferred.
A shareholder does not need to obtain the approval of the Company, or of other shareholders of shares in the Company, for a transfer of shares to take place.
Relationship with Jardine Matheson Board attendance Group The number of Board and Committee meetings attended by Board or appropriate During the year, the Group continued to have a Committee members in the year is shown in the table below.
number of arms-length trading links with Jardine Matheson Group companies, as set out in note Board Audit & Risk Remuneration Nominations meeting Committee Committee Committee 33 on page 102.
Note 7 x in period 4 x in period 3 x in period 2 x in period G M T Howe 7- - 2 The Board D J Burke 7- - - Appointment and replacement of B P Carpenter a 3- - - Directors R J Harvey 63 1 2 Apart from Simon Mawson, who was appointed a S L Keswick 52 2 2 Director on 6th August 2010 and Mark Lord Leach 6- 2 2 Drummond Brady, who was appointed a Director N R MacAndrew 74 3 2 on 1st March 2011, the Directors shown on S J Mawson b 2- - - pages 30 and 31 served throughout the year.
W J N Nabarro c 5- - - Jim Rush and William Nabarro retired from the J G H Paynter 73 3 2 Board on 6th and 31st August 2010, respectively.
J W Rush d 5- - - The rules relating to the appointment and V Y A C Wade 7- - - replacement of Directors are set out in the Articles Note: a Retired from the board on 29th April 2010 of Association, under which the minimum number b Appointed to the board on 6th August 2010 of Directors must be no less than two and this c Retired from the board on 31st August 2010 d Retired from the board on 6th August 2010 number may be increased or reduced by ordinary resolution.
Jardine Lloyd Thompson Group plc Annual Report 2010 33 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE DIRECTORS REPORT CONTINUED Directors are not required to hold any shares of the Company by Mr MacAndrew is a chartered accountant and his profile is set out way of qualification.
At the date of this report the Board is comprised of four executive The Board considers that the members of the committee collectively directors and six non-executive directors including the Chairman.
possess the requisite skills and experience to enable it to discharge its responsibilities in a proper manner.
Directors interests and potential conflicts The committee met four times during the year, with representatives During the period, no director had any material interest in a contract, from the external and internal auditors, and the Group Finance disclosable pursuant to s175 Companies Act 2006, to which the Director, Group Legal Director, Group Chief Operating Officer and Company or any of its subsidiary undertakings was a party.
Group Chief Risk Officer normally in attendance at each meeting.
The Chairman and the Group Chief Executive may also attend, Following the changes made to the Companys Articles at the 2008 subject to availability.
Annual General Meeting and the subsequent introduction of Section 175 of the Companies Act, 2006 on 1st October 2008 which gave In addition, the committee meets separately with the external and Boards the statutory power to authorise conflicts of interest, formal internal auditors.
Details of the attendance of each member are set conflict management procedures have been prepared and approved out on page 33. by the Board.
The Board is responsible for reviewing and authorising During 2010 and to the date of this Report the commitee: any conflict declarations arising and these are subject to periodic Reviewed the terms of reference of the committee to ensure that review by the Board.
These procedures remained in place for the they reflected the committee's responsibilities for the review of year and no conflicts of interest have been reported.
the Group's risk management framework, risk appetite and strategy and to ensure that they were appropriate to the activities Powers of the Directors and Board procedures of the Group and to make recommendations to the Board.
The Subject to the Articles, the Companies Act 2006 and any directions committee was renamed the Audit & Risk Committee from 1st given by special resolution, the business of the Company is March 2010. managed by the Directors who may exercise all the Companys Reviewed the drafting of the interim report, preliminary powers, including borrowing money, mortgaging or charging any of announcement and the annual report and accounts before their its undertaking, property and uncalled capital and issuing debentures submission to the Board: and other securities, whether outright or as collateral security for any debt, liability or obligation of the Company or of any third party.
Reviewed regular reports from the Group Chief Operating Officer including, in particular, the transfer of the IT outsource contract There are established formal procedures for the structure and from Hewlett Packard to HCL and monitoring progress in relation authorities through which the Board discharges its responsibilities for thereto: the direction and management of the Group.
Reviewed a summary of the work of the UK Audit & Risk The Board meets at least six times a year, to review the performance Committees for regulated subsidiaries and matters arising of the Group and to discuss the matters reserved for its decisions, therefrom: which include, inter alia, the approval of Group strategy and budget Reviewed areas where control weaknesses had been identified plans, material expenditure authorisations and any other matters that by internal external audit and monitored mitigation remediation are referred to it.
plans of management: The Board has established a number of standing committees Reviewed the regular reports of the external auditors including including an Audit & Risk Committee, a Nominations Committee and internal control issues: a Remuneration Committee.
The terms of reference of these committees are available on the Company's website.
Received and reviewed reports from the business risk and internal audit functions on a regular basis: Relationship with shareholders Approved the external audit plan and fee proposal and The Board endeavours to maintain dialogue with institutional considered auditor independence in relation to non-audit shareholders and carries out a programme of meetings and services provided: presentations each year following the publication of interim and final Evaluated the performance of the external auditors: results and at other times as appropriate.
At the Annual General Reviewed Group Errors & Omissions provisions: Meeting the Chairmen of the Audit & Risk, Nominations and Reviewed the Group's risk management functions and structure: Remuneration Committees will be available to answer questions.
Considered the Group's overall risk management profile and Committees of the Board controls: and The Audit & Risk Committee Reviewed the effectiveness of the committee.
The committee members are non-executive directors, the majority of whom are independent.
The membership of the committee during External auditors the year comprised: Nick MacAndrew Chairman, Richard Harvey, The committee is responsible for overseeing the relationship with the Simon Keswick and John Paynter.
Richard Harvey joined the external auditor.
committee effective from the January 2010 meeting, following his appointment to the Board on 17th December, 2009.
34 Jardine Lloyd Thompson Group plc Annual Report 2010 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE During the year, the committee: Remuneration Committee Approved their remuneration for both audit and non-audit The committee consists of non-executive directors, a majority of services, including satisfying itself that the level of audit fee was whom are independent.
The membership of the committee during appropriate to enable an adequate audit to be conducted: the year comprised: John Paynter Chairman : Richard Harvey: Lord Leach: Simon Keswick and Nick MacAndrew.
Approved the terms of engagement, including the engagement letter issued at the start of each audit, and the scope of the In addition to a number of ad hoc meetings, the remuneration audit: committee met formally three times during the year.
It is responsible, inter alia, for setting the remuneration and terms and conditions of Assessed their independence: the executive directors and setting overall remuneration policy for Approved the annual audit plan and ensured that it was senior management of the Group.
It also approves the allocations consistent with the scope of the audit engagement: under all long term incentive plans and share option schemes.
Reviewed the findings of the audit, including discussion of any Assistance was provided to the committee by the Chairman, Chief major issues arising, any accounting and audit judgements and Executive and HR Strategy Director, none in relation to their own the internal control reports, including responses from remuneration, and by Hewitt New Bridge Street HNBS, a trading management and any proposed remedial action: name of Hewitt Associates.
Reviewed the effectiveness of the external auditors by way of a HNBS were appointed by the Remuneration Committee to act as questionnaire distributed to senior finance staff: and advisers to the committee and they have no other connection with Held meetings with the external auditors without management the Company.
With effect from 1st January 2011 the committee has present.
The committee schedules this into its timetable as a appointed Deloitte LLP as independent advisors in place of HNBS.
matter of course and the Chairman of the committee meets privately with the external auditors at other times.
Nominations Committee The membership of the committee during the year comprised: Lord Internal audit function Leach Chairman : Richard Harvey: Geoffrey Howe: Simon Keswick: The committee is required to assist the Board to fulfil its Nick MacAndrew and John Paynter.
Richard Harvey joined the responsibilities relating to the adequacy of the resourcing and plans committee effective from the January 2010 meeting, following his of the Internal Audit department.
To fulfil these duties, the committee: appointment to the Board on 17th December 2009.
Reviewed and assessed the annual internal audit plan: The committee met twice during the year.
Its purpose is to make Reviewed summaries of reports on the Group from the internal recommendations to the Board on the appointment of directors auditors: of the Company and to consider succession plans for senior Reviewed the co-ordination between internal and external management positions in the Company.
The terms of reference auditors: of the committee are available on the Companys website.
Reviewed and monitored management's responsiveness to the findings and recommendations of the internal auditor: Group Executive Committee Reviewed the adequacy of resources of the internal audit The Group Executive Committee is an advisory group to the Chief function: and Executive who has primary responsibility for the day-to-day management of the Groups operations.
Met the head of internal audit, without management being present, to discuss their remit and any issues arising from the Corporate governance internal audits carried out.
"During the year the Company has been in compliance with the The terms of reference of the Audit & Risk Committee cover all provisions as set out in the 2008 Combined Code on Corporate matters indicated by the Combined Code and include responsibility Governance the ""Code"" except for the following: for providing advice to the Board on the Groups interim and financial Lord Leach Deputy Chairman and Simon Keswick both served statements: on accounting policies and on the control of its financial as non-executive directors and both are directors of Jardine and business risks as well as reviewing the work of the internal and Matheson Holdings Limited, which has a 30.30% interest in the external auditors."
As noted above the terms of reference of the committee were The relationship with Jardine Matheson is maintained on an amended with effect from 1st March 2010 and the committee was arms-length basis as detailed in note 33 on page 102. renamed the Audit & Risk Committee at the same date.
However neither director can be defined as independent under A copy of the terms of reference can be obtained from the Company the Code.
Secretary and is displayed on the Groups website - http: www.
The Board believes that the presence of Lord Leach and Mr Keswick on the Board and its committees subject to re-election In addition, the Audit & Risk Committee, through its Chairman, under the Articles continues to be appropriate and in the formally reports to the Board on its activities.
interests of shareholders generally and does not detract from their independence and judgment on any relevant issue.
Jardine Lloyd Thompson Group plc Annual Report 2010 35 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE DIRECTORS REPORT CONTINUED The non-executive directors bring to the Board a broad range of At 31st December 2010, the Jardine Lloyd Thompson Employee experience and expertise and the knowledge held by Lord Leach Share Trusts held 9,295,483 shares in the Company 4.29%.
At and Mr Keswick built from the long standing relationship 17th March 2011, being the latest practicable date prior to the between Jardine Matheson and JLT continues to be of particular posting of this report the shares held by the trusts was 9,273,441 value.
During the year the majority of the members of the Audit & Risk Accountability and audit and Remuneration committees were independent.
In addition The Board has overall responsibility for the Groups systems of Lord Leach served on the Remuneration Committee and Simon internal control and for reviewing their effectiveness.
Keswick served on both these committees during the year, and therefore the Group did not comply with the Code in relation to The implementation and maintenance of the risk management and the membership of these committees.
internal control systems are the responsibility of the Executive Directors and senior management.
The systems are designed to Both the Board and the external auditors have safeguards in place manage, rather than eliminate, the risk of failure to achieve business to prevent the compromise of the auditors independence and objectives and can provide only reasonable assurance, but not objectivity.
Details of services provided by the Groups auditors are absolute assurance, against material mis-statement or loss.
The Audit & Risk Committee also have a policy on the engagement Directors responsibilities of external auditors and the supply of non-audit services to the Statement of Directors responsibilities Group, including an annual review of the auditors independence.
The Directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Report, the The external auditors also report regularly on the actions that they Directors Remuneration Report and the financial statements in have taken to comply with professional and regulatory requirements accordance with applicable law and regulations.
and current best practice in order to maintain that independence.
Company law requires the Directors to prepare financial statements The Directors are able to consult the Companys legal, financial and for each financial year.
Under that law the Directors have prepared other professional advisers on any matter relating to the Companys the group financial statements in accordance with International affairs.
Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs as adopted by the European Union, and the parent company financial statements in accordance Any Director may make use of this facility subject to notifying the with United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice Chairman or Finance Director.
United Kingdom Accounting Standards and applicable law.
In If independent advice is sought, this is subject to prior consultation preparing the group financial statements, the Directors have also with the Chairman or a non-executive director as appropriate.
All elected to comply with IFRSs, issued by the International Accounting Directors also have access to the advice and services of the Standards Board IASB.
Under company law the Directors must not Company Secretary.
approve the financial statements unless they are satisfied that they give a true and fair view of the state of affairs of the Group and the The Company maintains appropriate directors and officers liability Company and of the profit or loss of the Group for that period.
In insurance in respect of legal actions against its directors.
preparing these financial statements, the Directors are required to: Share capital select suitable accounting policies and then apply them Movements in the share capital of the company during the year consistently: ended 31st December 2010 are set out in note 25 on page 89. make judgements and accounting estimates that are reasonable At 31st December 2010 the issued share capital consisted of and prudent: 216,676,513 ordinary shares of 5p each with voting rights and state whether IFRSs as adopted by the European Union and 1,143,131 shares are held as Treasury shares for which voting rights IFRSs issued by IASB and applicable UK Accounting Standards would not be exercised.
have been followed, subject to any material departures disclosed The Company has one class of share capital being ordinary shares and explained in the group and parent company financial of 5p each and all the shares rank pari passu.
statements respectively: There are no special control rights in respect of the Companys The Directors are responsible for keeping adequate accounting shares.
records that are sufficient to show and explain the Companys transactions and disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the The Board has power to implement the purchase by the Company financial position of the Company and the Group and enable them to of its own shares in accordance with the power granted at the AGM ensure that the financial statements and the Directors Remuneration each year, and will be seeking renewal of that power at the Report comply with the Companies Act 2006 and, as regards the forthcoming AGM within the limits set out in the notice of that group financial statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
also responsible for safeguarding the assets of the company and the All the Companys share schemes contain provisions relating to a Group and hence for taking reasonable steps for the prevention and change of control.
Outstanding options and awards would normally detection of fraud and other irregularities.
vest and become exercisable on a change of control, subject to the The Directors are responsible for the maintenance and integrity of satisfaction of any performance conditions at that time.
Legislation in the United Kingdom governing 36 Jardine Lloyd Thompson Group plc Annual Report 2010 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE the preparation and dissemination of financial statements may differ control and, where possible, restrict polluting emissions: from legislation in other jurisdictions.
ensure appropriate regulatory compliance: Each of the Directors, whose names and functions are listed in on design and operate facilities taking into account the efficient use pages 30 and 31 confirm that, to the best of their knowledge: of energy and materials: and encourage the adoption of these guidelines by contractors acting the Group financial statements, which have been prepared in on behalf of the Company.
This is discussed in more detail in the accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the EU, give a true and Corporate Social Responsibility statement on pages 45 and 46. fair view of the assets, liabilities, financial position and profit of the Group: and Suppliers the Directors Report, including by reference the Chairman's The Group agrees payment terms with suppliers when it enters into Statement: Chief Executive's Review: Review of Operations: contracts for the purchase of goods or services and seeks to abide Finance Director's Review and Risk Management Report by those terms when it is satisfied that the supplier has provided contained on pages 6 to 29, includes a fair review of the the goods or services in accordance with the agreed terms and development and performance of the business and the position conditions.
of the Group, together with a description of the principal risks At 31st December 2010 the Company did not have any direct and uncertainties that it faces.
Risk management The Group does not have a standard or code that deals specifically During the year the Group has invested further in the development of with the payment of suppliers.
our internal risk management capabilities, including the introduction of a dedicated Group risk management function and the design and Donations implementation of an enhanced risk management framework for the During the period the Group made charitable donations totalling Group.
This is discussed in the Risk Management Report on pages 332,563 2009: 229,062.
No political donations were made by the Group.
Going concern The Directors consider that the Group and the Company have Annual General Meeting adequate resources to continue in operational existence in the The notice convening the Annual General Meeting to be held on foreseeable future.
Consequently, the financial statements have been 28th April 2011 at 12 noon at 6 Crutched Friars, London EC3N 2PH prepared on a going-concern basis.
is contained in the circular accompanying this report.
The special business includes the following items: Employment policies The renewal, within prescribed limits, of: It is the policy of the Group to provide an environment in which individual talents can excel.
Employee commitment is encouraged i the authority of the directors to allot securities of the Company with wide share ownership and participation in share option within ABI guidelines: schemes.
ii the disapplication of statutory pre-emption rights: Employees are kept informed of the performance of the Group and iii the authority of the Company to purchase its own shares by way all matters affecting them as employees by means of regular of market purchases: briefings and consultation and, where possible, using the JLT iv a waiver of the requirement arising under Rule 9 of the City Code intranet both in the UK and overseas.
on Takeovers and Mergers, that Jardine Matheson Holdings Limited, together with parties deemed to be acting in concert The Group is an equal opportunities employer and encourages with it, be required to make a general offer for the Company by diversity across its workforce.
reason of the change in its percentage holding in the capital of Applications for employment by disabled persons will always be fully the Company arising from any such purchase under iii above.
considered, having regard to their particular aptitudes and abilities.
The Directors will only consider making purchases of the Companys Should employees become disabled, every effort will be made to shares if they believe that it would be in the best interests of ensure that their employment with the Group continues and, in the shareholders and would result in an improvement in earnings per event that they are unable to continue to work, that their financial share.
It is the intention of the Group that opportunities for training, career development and promotion of Auditors disabled persons should, as far as possible, be identical with those It is proposed that  LLP, having indicated for other employees.
their willingness to continue in office, be reappointed auditors of the Company.
A resolution proposing their reappointment will be put to Environmental policy the Annual General Meeting.
JLT remains committed to minimising any adverse impact its businesses has on the environment.
By order of the Board David Hickman To this end, guidelines have been issued within the Group, to: Company Secretary carefully manage waste so as to minimise its production where 22nd March 2011 possible, or suitably dispose of it through recycling schemes: Jardine Lloyd Thompson Group plc Annual Report 2010 37
