OVERVIEW WHAT WE DO RISK & INSURANCE EMPLOYEE BENEFITS The Risk & Insurance group comprises our specialist broking Providing services and products to meet the changing demands of operations around the world and our predominantly London Market todays pension and employee benefits market.
based specialist risk, wholesale insurance and reinsurance broking Trustee Solutions businesses.
Offering a range of services designed to meet the requirements of pension scheme trustees including actuarial and investment It offers clients a distinctive choice through a combination of consulting, administration, governance and communications.
independence, flexibility of approach, scale and specialisation.
Employee Benefit Solutions Retail Providing advice on the design, implementation and operation of Successfully delivering an increasingly specialist retail insurance defined contribution and benefit schemes including online client broking service to clients in the local, national and international solutions for pensions, reward and flexible benefits management.
Wealth Management Specialty As responsibility for retirement savings shifts to the individual, we Offering clients in selected industries insurance broking and risk offer advice, support and portfolio management services.
management advice through dedicated specialist teams with deep client industry expertise.
Technology and Systems Providing a range of systems and web-based solutions such as Wholesale Profund and BenPal, we support the management of pensions and Providing brokers in the US and elsewhere with access to benefits arrangements.
insurance capacity in London, Bermuda and Continental Europe through our independent specialist wholesale broker.
Pension Capital Strategies Providing strategic consultancy and execution for a range of fideReinsurance risking and risk transfer options to sponsors and trustees of defined Delivering to clients a more analytical approach to reinsurance benefit schemes.
broking and a wider variety of specialist risk management solutions.
Independent Trustee Services Providing independent trustee services to Defined Benefit schemes, particularly to those where risk and conflict may arise or complex transactions may be contemplated.
THISTLE INSURANCE SERVICES JLT INTERNATIONAL NETWORK Thistle Insurance Services, which includes the Groups Managing The JLT International Network operates in over 135 countries General Underwriter, is an underwriting and distribution company, and is a combination of owned, partly owned and non-owned which markets products on a non-advisory basis.
Thistle can offer insurance broking and employee benefit consultancy operations.
the fully integrated services of an insurer with the exception of Services in Over 135 Countries providing the underwriting capital, as capacity is provided by an Operating in over 135 countries and offering risk management and authorised insurer, therefore the Group does not take any employee benefits solutions.
underwriting risk to its balance sheet.
A Unique Network Direct Utilising the combined resources of owned, partly owned and Providing personal and small commercial risk products.
independent operations to the benefit of multi-national clients.
Affinity Access to Specialty Capabilities Providing insurance products to all types of affinity groups.
Providing clients with access to the combined specialty skills of the JLT International Network Partners and Members.
Public & Social Providing insurance solutions to local government and housing An Activity Managed Network authorities and products to their tenants.
Actively managed by JLT to provide a flexible, high quality and innovative service to clients Broker Distribution Supporting independent brokers in and the distribution of insurance products.
Broker Facilities Providing UK regional brokers with access to the London insurance market.
Jardine Lloyd Thompson Group plc Annual Report 2010 3
