BUSINESS REVIEW EXECUTIVE TEAM Members of the Group Executive Committee from left to right Adrian Girling internationally and leading the continued expansion John Lloyd of the JLT International Network.
Mark was Chairman of Thistle Insurance Services Ltd, JLT Chairman and CEO, Lloyd & Partners Ltd Canada and of Jardine Lloyd Thompson - appointed a Director of the Group in March 2011.
John was a founding partner of Lloyd Thompson in Northern Europe.
1981 and served as its chairman from 1993 until its Alan Griffin Adrian has been with JLT for over 30 years and has merger with JIB Group in1997.
He was a Director of Chairman and CEO, JLT Reinsurance Brokers been CEO of Jardine Lloyd Thompson UK Limited, the JLT Group until the creation of Lloyd & Partners Alan joined JLT in 2005 to build the Group's now Thistle Insurance Services Limited, for 14 years.
in 2005. capabilities in reinsurance and aviation.
Jonathan Palmer-Brown Alan entered the insurance broking industry in 1969 Warren Merritt Chairman-elect JLT Specialty Limited and has held various senior management positions CEO, Asia Pacific within both reinsurance and aviation insurance.
Jonathan joined JLT in 2010 and is Chairman-elect Warren joined JLT Australia in 1984 and has also of JLT Specialty Limited subject to FSA approval.
spent a number of years working in JLT's London Dominic Burke He is a former Chairman of the London and Market operations.
He became Managing Director of Group Chief Executive International Insurance Brokers' Association and JLT Asia in 2008 and more recently he was Dominic joined the Group in 2000 when his business sits on the London Market Group.
appointed CEO Asia and joined the Group Executive Burke Ford was acquired by JLT.
After joining he Committee in January 2010.
Mark Drummond Brady became CEO of JLT's UK retail and employee International Chairman Risk & Insurance benefits business.
He was Group COO before being appointed Group CEO in December 2005.
Mark joined JLT in 1987 and built JLT's Financial Solutions operation.
Today Mark plays a key role in developing JLT's Risk and Insurance business KEY PERFORMANCE INDICATORS Trading margin showed a positive trend across the Groups business areas, the trend being particularly strong in Retail where the Group is benefitting from its focus on high-growth economies, particularly Asia and Latin America, resulting in a 39% increase in Retail underlying trading profit.
The increased trading margin has been achieved through a combination of organic revenue growth, the benefits of the business transformation programme, the benefit of currency movements and continued focus on cost control.
This focus is evidenced by the further reduction in the staff cost to turnover ratio in each segment.
These improvements have lead to a 24% increase in underlying PBT to 130.1 million and contributed to an underlying diluted earnings per share of 40.5p, up 20% on 2009.
