BUSINESS REVIEW THISTLE INSURANCE SERVICES Our Thistle business was restructured at the beginning of 2010, Principal lines of business when the UK Scheme and Affinity business was combined with our Direct Thistle Managing General Underwriter MGU and rebranded as Thistle Insurance Services Limited.
Providing personal insurance and insurance for small commercial risks direct to customers via online and traditional Thistles MGU is an underwriting and distribution company which platforms.
markets products on a non-advisory basis, writing small-ticket highAffinity volume business.
It provides an end-to-end service, from designing and branding the products, to underwriting the risk and handling Providing insurance solutions to members of all types of claims.
The MGU performs all of the activities of a traditional affinity groups.
underwriter, except that it uses third-party capital rather than that of Public & Social the JLT Group.
Thistle's revenue is generated in part by a fee earned Working with associations, local and national government to for administering the MGU and in part by sharing in any underwriting provide insurance solutions for them and their tenants.
profits on the business written with the capital provider.
Importantly Broker Distribution Thistle does not however share in any underwriting losses.
During Supporting more than 2,000 independent brokers in the year, the MGU has traded in a very competitive marketplace underwriting and the distribution of insurance products.
which has meant that very disciplined underwriting has been essential.
Broker Facilities Working with UK regional brokers to provide them access to Thistle also administers a number of Managing General Agencies the London Insurance Market.
MGAs where it has limited authority to bind certain types of business on pre-agreed terms with an insurer.
On this type of business, Thistle earns its revenue by way of commission on the business written rather than its profitability.
Whilst all parts of the business have operated in a very competitive environment, we increased total revenue by 11% to 37.7 million and increased trading margin by 3 percentage points to 13%.
We have continued our business transformation programme, which has seen us develop a major new office in Gloucester providing an integrated conventional, tele-marketing and online distribution capability.
This will enable us to service new and existing clients to better effect.
Our offices in Birmingham and Southampton have been consolidated into the new Gloucester office.
Financial highlights 2010 Gross written premium 112m TOTAL UNDERLYING TRADING REVENUE m PROFIT m MGA Facilities 75m 37.7 4.8 34.0 3.3 09 10 09 10 Thistle MGU 37m TRADING MARGIN 10% 13% Managing General Agency 2009 2010 Managing General Underwriter Jardine Lloyd Thompson Group plc Annual Report 2010 21
