BUSINESS REVIEW JLT REINSURANCE BROKERS ASSOCIATES Principal lines of business SIACI SAINT HONOR SIACI Saint Honor S2H, our 20% owned associate company All classes of treaty and facultative reinsurance headquartered in Paris, continues to flourish as a leading provider of All classes of aerospace insurance insurance broking and employee benefits services to major French companies and multi-national corporations.
Solid progress was made in both our Reinsurance JLT Re and Aerospace Insurance Broking JLT Aerospace businesses.
Overall total revenue grew In 2010, S2H's consolidated revenues grew by 8% to 173 million and by 14%, including 8% organic growth, with a trading margin of 19% pre-tax profits were 45 million.
A number of important new business wins were made in the year, Although there were a number of natural catastrophes, including major including the construction lines business of GDF Suez, the energy earthquakes in Haiti, Chile and New Zealand, as well as the man-made company, secured with support from JLT.
The value of our joint loss of the offshore rig at Macondo, the financial loss to the reinsurance collaboration and its impact in bringing business to the London Market market was easily absorbed.
Generally, the reinsurance market continues has continued to grow in 2010.
To extend this collaboration, JLT RS to enjoy abundant capital which is the main driver for the continued France, formerly 100% owned and operating in the Oil & Gas sector has downward pressure on rates.
Despite the soft rating environment, we achieved 20% growth 16% S2H's international healthcare insurance and claims handling operation, organic in turnover for our key Non-Marine segment.
Equally satisfying principally based in Calgary, Paris, Dubai and Shanghai, also continues to was a 22% 13% organic increase in turnover for Aviation reinsurance expand, enjoying a double-digit increase in revenue in 2010. business whilst our core Marine and Energy business was flat with a small negative in organic terms.
A key feature in today's market is our ability to assist our clients with GRECO matters concerning their capital and solvency management.
With this in JLT acquired a 20% equity share in the GrECo Group in July 2010. mind, in April 2010 we launched JLT Advisory Limited, a wholly owned GrECo is an independent insurance broker and consultant and market subsidiary of JLT Reinsurance Brokers Limited.
leader in Central and Eastern Europe.
It has 52 offices with 660 From the beginning of 2011 JLT Aerospace has been transferred and employees in 15 countries, being Austria, Bulgaria, Croatia, Czech incorporated into JLT Specialty Limited.
Republic, Hungary, Kazakhstan, Lithuania, Poland, Romania, Russia, JLT Aerospace grew its revenue by 17% 9% organic.
Our goal of Serbia, Slovenia, Slovakia, Ukraine, and Uzbekistan.
All offices outside becoming the world's leading aviation broker is on track.
We continued to Austria are being branded GrECo JLT.
win market share and by the close of 2010 we have become the third The consolidated revenues increased by 21.5% from 52.2 million to largest global airline insurance broker.
The revenue increase can mostly be attributed to growth in Poland, Russia and Croatia as well as the acquisition of an insurance brokerage in Austria.
JLT STERLING During 2010, JLT merged its former Mexican wholesale and reinsurance Financial highlights business JLT Mexico with Grupo Lorant Martinez & Salas Lorant MS to create JLT Sterling.
TOTAL UNDERLYING TRADING Sterling Re Intermediario fide Reaseguro S. A. fide C. V, which trades as JLT REVENUE m PROFIT m Sterling, is a joint venture company incorporated in June 2010 in which JLT has a 34% shareholding, the balance of the shares being held by Lorant MS. 73.1 14.2 63.9 11.6 10 09 10 09 TRADING MARGIN 18% 19% 2009 2010 Jardine Lloyd Thompson Group plc Annual Report 2010 19
