American pp01 19 American pp01 19 09 03 2011 15:41 Page 19 Board of Directors Hamish N Buchan Chairman of the Board and Nomination Committee A Director since November 2000 and appointed Chairman in April 2003.
Currently Chairman of Personal Assets Trust plc and a Director of Aberforth Smaller Companies Trust plc, Standard Life European Private Equity Trust plc, The Scottish Investment Trust plc and Templeton Emerging Markets Investment Trust plc.
Mr Buchan has been involved in the investment trust sector for more than forty years, mainly as an investment trust analyst and was formerly Chairman of the Association of Investment Companies.
Sarah Bates A Director since July 2005.
Chairman of the Association of Investment Companies and a Director of St. Jamess Place plc, New India Investment Trust plc, Witan Pacific Investment Trust plc and Development Securities plc.
Mrs Bates is also Chairman of the Stena Line UK Pension Scheme, of Rutley Russia Property Fund and the Kings Corner Project and sits on or is advisor to various pension fund and charitable investment committees.
She publishes a guide to investment jargon and was formerly CEO of Invescos UK Institutional including investment trusts business.
Kate Bolsover A Director since July 2005.
Until June 2005 Director of Corporate Communications at Cazenove & Co. Mrs Bolsover was previously Managing Director of Signature Financial Group.
She is Deputy Chairman of Tomorrows People Trust Limited and a Director and Chairman of the Audit Committee of Fidelity Asian Values plc.
James G Fox Chairman of the Audit Committee A Director since July 2003.
A Director of Miton Worldwide Growth Investment Trust plc.
Mr Fox has more than forty years experience of investment management and is a former Deputy Chairman of the Association of Investment Companies.
James P Williams A Director since July 2003.
Mr Williams has been professionally involved in the investment management industry for over 35 years.
He retired from Baring Asset Management in 2002, where he was Chief Investment Officer and head of global investment strategy.
He is a Director of Investors Capital Trust plc and Prosperity Russia Domestic Fund.
Member of the Audit Committee.
All Directors are considered independent by the Board and are members of the Nomination Committee.
JPMorgan American Investment Trust plc.
