Directors Report The Directors present their report for the year ended index weighting except for Taiwan, South Korea, Hong Kong and 30th September 2010.
China, where the maximum permitted active exposure is 15 percentage points above or below the benchmark index weighting.
The maximum permitted exposure to each individual Business Review company is 8% of the Companys total assets, excluding Business of the Company collective vehicles and Samsung Electronics.
The maximum The Company carries on business as an investment trust and permitted portfolio weighting of any investment in Samsung was approved by HM Revenue & Customs as an investment Electronics is 5 percentage points above that companys trust in accordance with Section 1158 of the Corporation Tax weighting in the benchmark index.
The maximum proportion of Act 2010 formerly Section 842 of the Income and Corporation the Companys total assets that may be represented by the five Taxes Act 1988 for the year ended 30th September 2009.
In largest holdings in the portfolio is 40%.
Unlisted investments are the opinion of the Directors, the Company has subsequently permitted with prior approval of the Board.
The Board also conducted its affairs so that it continues to qualify.
The permits investment in Australian listed companies, subject to a Company will continue to seek approval under Section 1158 of limit of 10% of the Companys gross assets.
the Corporation Tax Act 2010 each year.
The Company does not invest more than 15% of its gross assets Approval for the year ended 30th September 2009 is subject in other UK listed investment companies including investment to review should there be any subsequent enquiry under trusts.
The Company does not invest more than 10% of its Corporation Tax Self Assessment.
gross assets in companies that themselves may invest more than 15% of their gross assets in UK listed investment The Company is an investment company within the meaning of companies.
Section 833 of the Companies Act 2006.
The Company is not a close company for taxation purposes.
Liquidity and borrowings are managed with the aim of increasing returns to shareholders.
The Companys actual A review of the Companys activities and prospects is given in gearing range investments expressed as a percentage of the Chairmans Statement on pages 2 to 5, and in the shareholders funds may fluctuate between 90% and 120%.
Investment Managers Report on pages 6 to 9.
The use of derivatives is permitted with prior approval of the Objective Board and within agreed limits.
Currency hedging transactions The Companys objective is to achieve capital growth primarily are permitted up to 40% of the portfolio but only back into from investing in equities quoted on the stockmarkets of Asia, sterling.
In addition, sales of country specific index futures are excluding Japan.
The performance of the Company is permitted, limited to the aggregate value of stocks held in the measured against its benchmark index, the MSCI AC Asia relevant market.
ex Japan Index with net dividends reinvested, in sterling terms.
Compliance with investment restrictions and guidelines is Investment Policies and Risk Management monitored continuously by the Manager and is reported to the In order to achieve its objective, the Company invests in a Board on a monthly basis.
These active exposure limits and portfolio of Asian stocks with an emphasis on capital growth restrictions may be varied by the Board at any time at its rather than income, with the likely result that the level of discretion.
dividend will fluctuate from year to year.
Performance Investment risks are managed by diversifying investment over In the year to 30th September 2010, the Company produced a number of Asian companies.
The number of investments in a portfolio total return net of fees and expenses of 23.9%, a the Company will normally range between 50 and 80.
The total return to Ordinary shareholders of 22.7% and a diluted Board seeks to manage the Companys risk relative to its total return on net assets of 24.0%.
This compares with the benchmark index by limiting the active portfolio exposures to return on the Company's benchmark index of 21.3%.
At the various countries and stocks covered by the benchmark 30th September 2010, the value of the Companys investment index and, in some cases, to specific stocks.
These active portfolio was 462.4 million.
The Investment Managers exposure limits may be varied at any time by the Board at its Report on pages 6 to 9 includes a review of developments discretion.
Currently the maximum permitted active exposure during the year.
to each country is 12% points above or below the benchmark 18 JPMorgan Asian Investment Trust plc.
Annual Report & Accounts 2010 Total Return, Revenue and Dividends Performance relative to Benchmark Index Gross total return for the year amounted to 89.4 million Figures have been rebased to 100 at 30th September 2000 2009: 105.2 million and net total return after deducting 105 interest, management expenses, performance fees and taxation amounted to 85.0 million 2009: 102.3 million.
100 Distributable income for the year amounted to 2,997,000 2009: 2,477,000.
95 The Directors recommend a dividend of 1.70p per share 90 2009: 1.50p payable on 11th February 2011 to shareholders 85 on the register at the close of business on 7th January 2011.
The revenue reserve after this transfer will amount to Source: Morningstar MSCI.
JPMorgan Asian Ordinary share price.
JPMorgan Asian diluted net asset value per Ordinary share.
Key Performance Indicators KPIs The Benchmark is represented by the grey horizontal line.
The Board uses a number of financial KPIs to monitor and assess the performance of the Company.
The principal KPIs are: Performance against the Companys peers Performance against the benchmark The Board also monitors performance relative to a broad This is the most important KPI by which performance is range of competitor funds.
Performance attribution The purpose of performance attribution analysis is to Ten Year Performance assess how the Company achieved its performance relative Figures have been rebased to 100 at 30th September 2000 to its benchmark index, i. e. to understand the impact on the 300 Companys relative performance of the various components such as gearing, stock selection and currency 250 gains and losses.
Details of the attribution analysis for the year ended 30th September 2010 are given in the 200 Investment Managers Report on page 7.
150 Discount to net asset value NAV 100 The Board seeks to address imbalances in the supply of and demand for the Companys shares in the market and 50 thereby reduce the volatility and absolute level of the 2000 2001 2002 2003 2004 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 discount to NAV at which the Companys Ordinary shares Source: Morningstar MSCI.
The discount to NAV at the start of the year was 8.2% JPMorgan Asian Ordinary share price.
The highest and the lowest JPMorgan Asian diluted net asset value per Ordinary share.
discounts to NAV during the year were 15.2% and 8.2% Benchmark.
JPMorgan Asian Investment Trust plc.
Annual Report & Accounts 2010 19 Directors Report continued subscribe for one Ordinary share on any business day during Discount Performance the period from 1st April 2009 until 31st March 2014, after which 0 the rights on the Subscription shares will lapse.
Future exercise prices have been determined as follows: -5 If Subscription share rights are exercised on any day between -10 and including 1st April 2010 and 31st March 2012, 176 pence.
If Subscription share rights are exercised on any day between -15 and including 1st April 2012 and 31st March 2014, 203 pence.
-20 Further details on the Subscription shares, including the 2000 2001 2002 2003 2004 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 apportionments for capital gains tax purposes and how they Source: Morningstar.
may be exercised, can be found on page 64 of this report and JPMorgan Asian share price discount to diluted net asset value per share.
on the Companys website at www.
Principal Risks Total expense ratio TER With the assistance of the Manager, the Board has drawn up a The TER is an expression of the Companys management risk matrix, which identifies the key risks to the Company.
fees and all other operating expenses excluding interest These key risks fall broadly under the following categories: and performance fee payable, as a percentage of the average of the month end net assets during the year.
The Investment and Strategy: An inappropriate investment TER for the year ended 30th September 2010 was 0.85% strategy, in areas such as asset allocation or the level of 2009: 0.88%.
The TER for the year ended 30th September gearing, may lead to underperformance against the 2010 including the performance fee payable was 0.87% Companys benchmark index and peer companies, and may 2009: 0.88%.
The Board reviews each year an analysis result in the Companys shares trading on a wider discount.
which shows a comparison of the Companys TER and its The Board seeks to manage these risks by diversification of main expenses with those of its peers.
The Board considers investments through its investment restrictions and that the Companys TER compares favourably with those of guidelines which are monitored and reported on by the its peers.
The Manager provides the Directors with timely and accurate management information, including Share Capital performance data and attribution analyses, revenue During the year the Company repurchased 3,119,610 Ordinary estimates and shareholder analyses.
The Board monitors shares, nominal value 780,000, for cancellation, representing the implementation and results of the investment process 1.9% of the issued shares at the beginning of the year, for a with the investment managers, who attend all Board total consideration of 6,045,000.
A resolution to renew the meetings, and reviews data which show statistical authority to repurchase shares will be put to shareholders at measures of the Companys risk profile.
The Manager the forthcoming Annual General Meeting.
employs the Companys gearing tactically, within a strategic During the year the Company issued 19,669,626 Ordinary range set by the Board.
The Board holds a separate shares for a total consideration of 26,972,000 following the meeting devoted to strategy each year.
Since the year end a further Market: Market risk arises from uncertainty about the 27,641 Ordinary shares have been issued for a total future prices of the Companys investments.
It represents consideration of 48,648 following the exercise of further the potential loss that the Company might suffer through Subscription shares.
Further details of the Companys holding investments in the face of negative market Subscription shares are set out below.
The Board considers asset allocation, stock Bonus Issue of Subscription Shares selection and levels of gearing on a regular basis and has On 4th February 2009 the Company issued Subscription shares set investment restrictions and guidelines, which are as a bonus issue to the ordinary shareholders on the basis of monitored and reported on by the Manager.
The Board one Subscription share for every five Ordinary shares held.
Each monitors the implementation and results of the investment Subscription share confers the right but not the obligation to process with the Manager.
20 JPMorgan Asian Investment Trust plc.
Annual Report & Accounts 2010 Accounting, Legal and Regulatory: In order to qualify as In addition, the Company is subject to political risks, such as an investment trust, the Company must comply with the imposition of restrictions on the free movement of Section 1158 of the Income and Corporation Tax Act 2010 capital.
Details of the Companys approval are given Future Developments under Business of the Company on page 18.
Were the The future development of the Company is much dependent Company to breach Section 1158, it may lose investment upon the success of the Companys investment strategy in the trust status and, as a consequence, gains within the light of economic and equity market developments.
The Companys portfolio would be subject to Capital Gains Tax.
investment managers discuss the outlook in their report on The Section 1158 qualification criteria are continually pages 8 and 9. monitored by JPMAM and the results reported to the Board each month.
The Company must also comply with the Management of the Company provisions of the Companies Act 2006 and, since its shares are listed on the London Stock Exchange, the UKLA Listing The Manager and Secretary is JPMorgan Asset Management Rules.
A breach of the Companies Act 2006 could result in UK Limited JPMAM.
JPMAM is employed under a contract the Company and or the Directors being fined or the which can be terminated on six months notice in the event of subject of criminal proceedings.
Breach of the UKLA Listing the Board giving notice as a result of poor investment Rules could result in the Companys shares being performance: the notice period is 12 months for all other suspended from listing which in turn would breach circumstances, in both cases without penalty.
The Board relies on the services of its wishes to terminate the contract on shorter notice, the balance Company Secretary, JPMAM, to ensure compliance with of remuneration is payable by way of compensation.
the Companies Act 2006 and the UKLA Listing Rules.
JPMAM is a wholly owned subsidiary of JPMorgan Chase Bank Corporate Governance and Shareholder Relations: Details which, through other subsidiaries, also provides banking, of the Companys compliance with Corporate Governance dealing and custodian services to the Company.
best practice, including information on relations with The Board has evaluated the performance of the Manager and shareholders, are set out in the Corporate Governance confirms that it is satisfied that the continuing appointment of report on pages 24 to 29. the Manager is in the interests of shareholders as a whole.
In Operational: Disruption to, or failure of, the Managers arriving at this view, the Board considered the investment accounting, dealing or payments systems or the custodians strategy and process of the Manager, noting performance records could prevent accurate reporting and monitoring of relative to the benchmark over various time periods, and the the Companys financial position.
Details of how the Board quality of the service that the Company receives from JPMAM.
monitors the services provided by the Manager and its associates and the key elements designed to provide Management Fee effective internal control are included with the Internal JPMAM is paid a management fee based on the Companys Control section of the Corporate Governance report on market capitalisation.
This fee uses the average of the pages 27 and 28.
Companys closing middle market share price for the last five Financial: The financial risks faced by the Company include business days of the relevant month, calculated monthly and market risk comprising currency risk, interest rate risk and paid quarterly at a rate of 0.75% per annum, based on the other price risk, liquidity risk and credit risk.
Further details average of the preceding three month end capitalisations.
are disclosed in note 23 on pages 49 to 55.
Investments in funds on which JPMAM charges a management fee are excluded from this calculation.
Political and Economic: Changes in financial or tax legislation, including in the European Union, may adversely In addition to the management fee, the Company reimburses effect the Company.
The Manager makes recommendations the costs of administering the Companys shareholders who to the Board on accounting, dividend and tax policies and hold their shares through the J. P. Morgan Investment Account, the Board seeks external advice where appropriate.
J. P. Morgan ISA and J. P. Morgan SIPP.
Annual Report & Accounts 2010 21 Directors Report continued Performance Fee 53,000 which is immediately payable under the terms of the performance fee agreement.
From 1st October 2006, the Manager has been eligible to receive a performance fee equal to 15% of any Going Concern out-performance of the Companys audited undiluted net asset value per share NAV total return over the MSCI AC Asia ex The Directors believe that having considered the Companys Japan Index return in sterling terms with net dividends investment objective see page 18, risk management policies reinvested the Benchmark.
An additional 1.5 percentage see pages 49 to 55 capital management policies and points the hurdle is added to the benchmark performance procedures see page 56 and the nature of the portfolio and for the purposes of the calculation.
That is, the manager must expenditure projections, that the Company has adequate outperform this inflated amount in order to earn a resources, an appropriate financial structure and suitable performance fee.
The performance fee has the following management arrangements in place to continue in operational features: existence for the foreseeable future.
For these reasons, they consider that there is reasonable evidence to continue to adopt The Hurdle is applied in all circumstances regardless of the going concern basis in preparing the accounts.
whether out-performance or underperformance has occurred in any year.
Payment Policy The performance fee is calculated on a cumulative basis.
It is the Companys policy to obtain the best terms for all Any underperformance that has occurred in previous years business and therefore there are no standard payment terms.
has to be made up before any performance fee becomes In general the Company agrees with its suppliers the terms on payable.
which business will take place and it is the Companys policy to The performance fee is based on the audited undiluted NAV abide by these terms.
As at 30th September 2010, the total return per share as calculated in accordance with the Company had no outstanding trade creditors 2009: none.
An adjustment is made to exclude the effect of Subscription share conversions.
No Directors adjustment is made to exclude the effect of any share The Directors of the Company who held office during the year, buybacks or share issuance.
together with their beneficial interests in the Companys shares The amount of performance fee payable in any one year is are shown below: capped at 0.75% of the average monthly total assets less 30th September 1st October current liabilities of the Company for that year.
In order to Ordinary shares 2010 2009 reach this cap, the Company would have to outperform the Benchmark by 6.5 percentage points in any one year.
James Long 18,451 14,293 Alun Evans 19,200 16,600 Any performance fee earned in excess of the cap 0.75% Ronald Gould 6,272 2,745 will be carried forward and will either be paid or be available to be offset against any future underperformance.
James Strachan 4,209 4,209 Andrew Sykes 30,000 25,000 The performance fee is calculated annually by reference to the average monthly total assets less current liabilities of the Company with an estimate accrued monthly in the 30th September 1st October NAV and paid within three months of the year end.
Any Subscription shares 2010 2009 earned but unpaid fees due to the 0.75% cap restriction James Long 2,559 are carried forward as a liability in the Companys accounts.
Alun Evans 2,600 The results for the year ended 30th September 2010 gave Ronald Gould 549 549 rise to a performance fee of 1,246,000, which, after deduction James Strachan of the negative amount brought forward of 1,193,000 Andrew Sykes 5,000 as restated to exclude the effect of Subscription share conversions during the prior year, gives an amount of The Company issued Subscription shares on 4th February 2010.
22 JPMorgan Asian Investment Trust plc.
Annual Report & Accounts 2010 Since the year end, Mr Longs and Mr Goulds beneficial Annual General Meeting holdings have increased by 187 and 104 Ordinary shares NOTE: THIS SECTION IS IMPORTANT AND REQUIRES YOUR respectively.
If you are in any doubt as to the action In accordance with the Companys Articles of Association, the you should take, you should seek your own personal financial Directors retiring by rotation at the forthcoming Annual advice from your stockbroker, bank manager, solicitor or other General Meeting will be Ron Gould and Andrew Sykes.
James financial advisor authorised under the Financial Services and Long and Alun Evans, having served as Directors for a period Markets Act 2000. of more than nine years, also stand for re-election.
All Resolutions relating to the following items of special business Directors, being eligible, offer themselves for re-election.
will be proposed at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting: Director Indemnification and Insurance i Continuation vote resolution 10 The Directors recommend that the Company continue in As permitted by the Companys Articles of Association, the existence as an investment trust for a further three year period.
Directors have the benefit of a deed of indemnity which is a qualifying third party indemnity, as defined by Section 234 of ii Authority to allot new shares and to disapply statutory the Companies Act 2006.
The deeds of indemnity were pre-emption rights resolutions 11 and 12 executed on 23rd November 2010 and are currently in force.
The Directors will seek renewal of the authority at the AGM to issue up to 8,851,886 Ordinary shares for cash up to an An insurance policy is maintained by the Company which aggregate nominal amount of 2,212,972 such amount being indemnifies the Directors of the Company against certain equivalent to 5% of the present issued ordinary share capital as liabilities arising in the conduct of their duties.
There is no at the last practicable date before the publication of this cover against fraudulent or dishonest actions.
The full text of the resolutions is set out in the Notice of Meeting on page 59.
This authority will expire at the Disclosure of information to Auditors conclusion of the AGM of the Company in 2012 unless renewed In the case of each of the persons who are Directors of the at a prior general meeting.
Company at the time when this report was approved: It is advantageous for the Company to be able to issue new a so far as each of the Directors is aware, there is no relevant shares to participants purchasing shares through the JPMorgan audit information as defined in the Companies Act 2006 of savings products and also to other investors when the which the Company's auditors are unaware, and Directors consider that it is in the best interests of shareholders to do so.
As such issues are only made at prices greater than b each of the Directors has taken all the steps that he ought the net asset value NAV per share, they increase the NAV per to have taken as a Director in order to make himself aware share and spread the Companys administrative expenses, of any relevant audit information and to establish that the other than the management fee which is charged on the Company's auditors are aware of that information.
Companys market capitalisation, over a greater number of The above confirmation is given and should be interpreted in shares.
The issue proceeds are available for investment in line accordance with the provision of 418 2 of the Companies Act with the Companys investment policies.
The Company 2006. currently does not hold any shares in the capital of the Company in Treasury.
Independent Auditors iii Authority to repurchase the Companys shares for cancellation  LLP have expressed their willingness resolution 13 to continue in office as auditors to the Company and a The authorities to repurchase i up to 14.99% of the Companys resolution to re-appoint them and authorise the Directors to issued Ordinary shares and Subscription shares, granted by determine their remuneration for the ensuing year, will be shareholders at the 2010 AGM, will expire on 30th July 2011 proposed at the Annual General Meeting.
unless renewed at the forthcoming AGM.
The Directors JPMorgan Asian Investment Trust plc.
Annual Report & Accounts 2010 23 Directors Report continued consider that the renewing of the authority is in the interests of Recommendation shareholders as a whole, as the repurchase of shares at a The Board considers that resolutions 10 and 13 are likely to discount to the underlying NAV enhances the NAV of the promote the success of the Company and are in the best remaining shares.
interests of the Company and its shareholders as a whole.
The Resolution 13 gives the Company authority to buy back its own Directors unanimously recommend that you vote in favour of issued Ordinary shares and Subscription shares in the market the resolutions as they intend to do, where voting rights are as permitted by the Companies Act 2006 the Act.
The exercisable, in respect of their own beneficial holdings which authority limits the number of shares that could be purchased amount in aggregate to 78,423 Ordinary shares representing to a maximum of i 26,537,955 Ordinary shares, and ii approximately 0.04% of the voting rights of the Company.
1,776,407 Subscription shares, representing approximately 14.99% of the Companys issued Ordinary shares and issued Corporate Governance Subscription shares respectively, as at 9th December 2010 Compliance being the latest practicable date prior to the publication of this document.
The authority also sets minimum and maximum The Company is committed to high standards of Corporate prices.
This statement, together with the Statement of Directors Responsibilities on page 31, indicates how the If resolution 13 is passed at the AGM, Ordinary shares Company has applied the principles of good governance of the repurchased might not be cancelled but rather held as treasury Financial Reporting Council Combined Code 2008 the shares and may subsequently be re-issued at a premium.
The Combined Code and the AICs Code of Corporate Company does not have authority to re-issue Ordinary shares 1 Governance, the AIC Code, which complements the from treasury at a discount to NAV, therefore any re-issue of Combined Code and provides a framework of best practice for Ordinary shares from treasury would be at a premium to the investment trusts.
Any Subscription shares purchased by the Company shall be cancelled and shall not be held in treasury The Board is responsible for ensuring the appropriate level of for re-issue or resale.
As at 9th December 2010 being the latest corporate governance and considers that the Company has practicable date prior to the publication of this document, complied with the best practice provisions of the Combined there were no warrants or options over Ordinary shares in the Code and with the AIC Code, throughout the year under review.
capital of the Company, other than the 11,850,618 Subscription shares in issue each of which gives the holder thereof the right Section 992 Companies Act 2006 to subscribe for one Ordinary share which represent 6.7% of The following disclosures are made in accordance with the Companys issued Ordinary share capital.
If the authority to Section 992 Companies Act 2006. purchase the Companys Ordinary shares was exercised in full and the authority to purchase Subscription shares not Capital Structure exercised at all then the Subscription shares would represent The Companys capital structure is summarised on the inside 7.9% of the Companys issued Ordinary share capital.
front cover of this report.
The full text of the resolution is set out in the Notice of Meeting Voting Rights in the Companys shares on pages 59 to 61.
Repurchases will be made at the discretion As at 9th December 2010 being the latest business day prior to of the Board and will only be made in the market at prices the publication of this Notice, the Companys issued share below the prevailing NAV per share, thereby enhancing the capital consists of 177,037,731 Ordinary shares, carrying one NAV of the remaining shares as and when market conditions vote each and 11,850,618 Subscription shares with no voting are appropriate.
Therefore the total voting rights in the Company are 177,037,731.
1 Copies of the Combined Code and the AIC code may be found on the respective organisations websites: www.
co. uk 24 JPMorgan Asian Investment Trust plc.
Annual Report & Accounts 2010 Notifiable Interests in the Companys Voting Rights Companys Corporate Governance and risk control At the date of this report, the following had declared a arrangements.
notifiable interest in the Companys voting rights: The Board meets at least quarterly during the year and Number of additional meetings are arranged as necessary.
Full and timely Shareholders voting rights % information is provided to the Board to enable it to function effectively and to allow Directors to discharge their City of London Investment responsibilities.
Management Co. Ltd. 44,638,928 25.2 1 There is an agreed procedure for Directors to take independent JPMorgan Asset Management UK Limited 18,197,439 10.3 1,2 professional advice if necessary and at the Companys expense.
JPMorgan Chase Nominees 12,215,273 6.9 This is in addition to the access that every Director has to the Sarasin & Partners LLP 8,168,100 4.6 advice and services of the Secretary, JPMAM, which is Legal & General Investment responsible to the Board for ensuring adherence to Board Management Ltd. 6,364,023 3.6 procedures and compliance with applicable rules and BAE System Pension Funds Investment regulations.
Board Composition 2 Held on behalf of JPMAM ISA and Share Plan participants.
The Board, chaired by James Long, consists of five The rules concerning the appointment and replacement of non-executive Directors, all of whom are regarded by the Directors, amendment of the Articles of Association and Board as independent.
The Chairmans independence was powers to issue or repurchase the Companys shares are assessed upon his appointment and annually thereafter.
The contained in the Articles of Association of the Company and the Directors have a breadth of investment knowledge, business Companies Act 2006. and financial skills and experience relevant to the Companys There are no restrictions concerning the transfer of securities business and brief biographical details of each Director are set in the Company: no special rights with regard to control out on page 17. attached to securities: no agreements between holders of A review of Board composition and balance is included as part securities regarding their transfer known to the Company: no of the annual performance evaluation of the Board, details of agreements which the Company is party to that affect its which may be found below.
Alun Evans, the Senior control following a takeover bid: and no agreements between Independent Director, leads the evaluation of the performance the Company and its Directors concerning compensation for of the Chairman and is available to shareholders if they have loss of office.
concerns that cannot be resolved through discussion with the Chairman.
Role of the Board A management agreement between the Company and JPMAM Tenure sets out the matters over which the Manager has authority.
This Directors are initially appointed until the following Annual includes management of the Companys assets and the General Meeting when, under the Companys Articles of provision of accounting, company secretarial, administration, Association, it is required that they be elected by shareholders.
All other matters are reserved Thereafter, a Directors appointment will run for a term of three for the approval of the Board.
A formal schedule of matters years.
Subject to the performance evaluation carried out each reserved to the Board for decision has previously been year, the Board will agree whether it is appropriate for the approved.
This includes determination and monitoring of the Director to seek an additional term.
The Board does not believe Companys investment objectives and policy and its future that length of service in itself necessarily disqualifies a Director strategic direction, gearing policy, management of the capital from seeking re-election but, when making a recommendation, structure, appointment and removal of third party service the Board will take into account the ongoing requirements of providers, review of key investment and financial data and the JPMorgan Asian Investment Trust plc.
Annual Report & Accounts 2010 25 Directors Report continued the Combined Code, including the need to refresh the Board industry and other seminars covering issues and developments and its Committees.
The Companys Articles of Association relevant to investment trusts.
require that Directors stand for re-election at least every three The Board conducts a formal evaluation of the Manager, of its years.
Any Director who has served for a period of more than own performance and that of its Committees and individual nine years will stand for annual re-election.
This year the Directors commissioned Trust The terms and conditions of Directors appointments are set Associates to facilitate the evaluation of the Board.
Trust out in formal letters of appointment, copies of which are Associates conducted interviews with each Director and available for inspection on request at the Companys registered provided the Board with a written report which was discussed office and at the AGM.
The evaluation of individual Directors is led by the Chairman, and the Senior Independent The Nomination Committee, having considered their Director leads the evaluation of the Chairmans performance.
qualifications, performance and contribution to the Board and The Board as a whole evaluates the Manager, its own its Committees, confirms that Messrs Long, Evans, Gould and performance and that of its Committees.
Sykes continue to be effective and demonstrate commitment to the role.
Notwithstanding the fact that Mr Long and Mr Evans Board Committee have served on the Board for more than nine years, their fellow Directors believe that they remain independent in character Nomination Committee and judgement, and accordingly the Board recommends to The Nomination Committee, chaired by James Long, consists of shareholders that all the above Directors be re-elected.
all of the Directors and meets at least annually to ensure that the Board has an appropriate balance of skills and experience Meetings and Committees to carry out its fiduciary duties and to select and propose suitable candidates for appointment when necessary.
A variety The Board delegates certain responsibilities and functions to of sources, including external search consultants, may be used Committees.
Details of membership of Committees are shown to ensure that a wide range of candidates is considered.
with the Directors profiles on page 17.
Directors who are not members of Committees may attend at the invitation of the On an annual basis each Director submits a list of potential Chairman.
conflicts of interest for approval.
These are considered carefully, taking into account the circumstances surrounding During the year there were five Board meetings, plus a them, and, if considered appropriate, are approved for a period separate meeting devoted to strategy, two Audit Committee of one year.
This year and in future years, this function was, and meetings and one Nomination Committee meeting.
will be, completed by the Nomination Committee.
The The table below details the number of Board and Committee Nomination Committee resolved that there were no actual or meetings attended by each Director.
indirect interests of a Director which conflicted with the interests of the Company, which arose during the year.
Audit Nomination Board Committee Strategy Committee The Nomination Committee also reviews the levels of Meetings Meetings Meetings Meetings remuneration of the Directors taking into account both boards Director Attended Attended Attended Attended of other trusts and corporate salaries to ensure that high quality people are attracted and retained.
Alun Evans 5 2 1 1 Audit Committee Ronald Gould 4 2 1 1 The Audit Committee, chaired by Andrew Sykes, consists of all James Long 5 2 1 1 Directors other than the Chairman and meets at least twice James Strachan 5 2 1 1 each year.
The members of the Audit Committee consider that Andrew Sykes 5 2 1 1 they have the requisite skills and experience to fulfil the responsibilities of the Committee.
Training and Appraisal The Committee reviews the actions and judgements of the On appointment, the Manager provides all Directors with Manager in relation to the Half Year Report and Annual Report induction training.
Thereafter, regular briefings are provided & Accounts and the Companys compliance with the Combined on changes in regulatory requirements that affect the Code.
It examines the effectiveness of the Companys internal Company and Directors.
Directors are encouraged to attend control systems, receives information from the Managers 26 JPMorgan Asian Investment Trust plc.
Annual Report & Accounts 2010 compliance department and also reviews the scope and results The Companys Annual Report & Accounts is published in time of the external audit, its cost effectiveness and the to give shareholders at least 20 working days notice of the independence and objectivity of the external auditors.
In the Annual General Meeting.
Shareholders wishing to raise Directors opinion the Auditors are considered independent.
questions in advance of the meeting are encouraged to submit questions via the Companys website or write to the Secretary The Audit Committee also has a primary responsibility for at the address shown on page 65. making recommendations to the Board on the re-appointment and removal of external auditors.
Representatives of the Details of the proxy voting position on each resolution will be Companys Auditors attended the Audit Committee meeting at published on the Companys website shortly after the Annual which the draft Annual Report & Accounts are considered.
Having reviewed the performance of the external auditors, the Committee considered it appropriate to recommend their Internal Control re-appointment.
The Board supported this recommendation The Combined Code requires the Directors, at least annually, to which will be put to shareholders at the forthcoming Annual review the effectiveness of the Companys system of internal General Meeting.
control and to report to shareholders that they have done so.
Representatives of the Companys Auditors attend the Audit This encompasses a review of all controls, which the Board has Committee meeting at which the Half Year Report and the identified as including business, financial, operational, Annual Report & Accounts are considered.
The Directors statement on the Companys system of internal The Directors are responsible for the Companys system of control is set out below.
internal control which is designed to safeguard the Companys assets, maintain proper accounting records and ensure that Terms of Reference financial information used within the business, or published, Both the Nomination Committee and the Audit Committee have is reliable.
However, such a system can only be designed to written terms of reference which define clearly their respective manage rather than eliminate the risk of failure to achieve responsibilities, copies of which are available for inspection on business objectives and therefore can only provide reasonable, request at the Companys registered office and at the but not absolute, assurance against fraud, material Companys Annual General Meeting.
Relations with Shareholders Since investment management, custody of assets and all administrative services are provided to the Company by The Board regularly monitors the shareholder profile of the JPMAM and its associates, the Companys system of internal Company.
It aims to provide shareholders with a full control mainly comprises monitoring the services provided by understanding of the Companys activities and performance JPMAM and its associates, including the operating controls and report formally to shareholders quarterly each year by way established by them, to ensure that they meet the Companys of the Annual Report & Accounts, the Half Year Report and two business objectives.
There is an ongoing process for Interim Management Statements.
This is supplemented by the identifying, evaluating and managing the significant risks faced daily publication, through the London Stock Exchange, of the by the Company.
This process has been in place for the year net asset value of the Companys shares.
under review and up to the date of the approval of the Annual All shareholders are encouraged to attend the Companys Report & Accounts, and it accords with the Turnbull guidance.
Annual General Meeting at which the Directors and The Company does not have an internal audit function of its representatives of the Manager are available in person to meet own, but relies on the internal audit department of JPMAM.
shareholders and answer their questions.
In addition, a This arrangement is kept under annual review.
presentation is usually given by the investment managers who The key elements designed to provide effective internal control review the Companys performance.
During the year the are as follows: Companys brokers, the investment managers and JPMAM hold regular discussions with larger shareholders.
The Directors are Financial Reporting Regular and comprehensive review by made fully aware of their views.
The Chairman and Directors the Board of key investment and financial data, including make themselves available as and when required to address management accounts, revenue projections, analysis of shareholder queries.
The Directors may be contacted through transactions and performance comparisons.
the Secretary whose details are shown on page 65.
Annual Report & Accounts 2010 27 Directors Report continued Management Agreement Evaluation and appointment of a Corporate Governance manager and custodian regulated by the Financial Services JPMAM believes that corporate governance is integral to our Authority FSA, whose responsibilities are clearly defined in investment process.
As part of our commitment to delivering a written agreement.
superior investment performance to our clients, we expect and encourage the companies in which we invest to demonstrate Management Systems The Managers system of internal the highest standards of corporate governance and best control includes organisational agreements which clearly business practice.
We examine the share structure and voting define the lines of responsibility, delegated authority, control structure of the companies in which we invest, as well as the procedures and systems.
These are monitored by JPMAMs board balance, oversight functions and remuneration policy.
compliance department which regularly monitors compliance These analyses then form the basis of our proxy voting and with FSA rules and reports to the Board.
Investment Strategy Authorisation and monitoring of the Proxy Voting Companys investment strategy and exposure limits by the JPMAM manages the voting rights of the shares entrusted to it Board.
as it would manage any other asset.
It is the policy of JPMAM to The Board, either directly or through the Audit Committee, vote in a prudent and diligent manner, based exclusively on our keeps under review the effectiveness of the Companys system reasonable judgement of what will best serve the financial of internal control by monitoring the operation of the key interests of our clients.
So far as is practicable, we will vote at operating controls of the Manager and its associates as follows: all of the meetings called by companies in which we are invested.
reviews the terms of the management agreement and receives regular reports from JPMAMs compliance Stewardship Engagement department: JPMAM recognises its wider stewardship responsibilities to its clients as a major asset owner.
To this end, we support the reviews the report on the internal controls and the introduction of the FRC Stewardship Code, which sets out the operations of its custodian, JPMorgan Chase Bank, which responsibilities of institutional shareholders in respect of is itself independently reviewed: and investee companies.
Under the Code, managers should: reviews every six months an independent report on the publicly disclose their policy on how they will discharge internal controls and the operations of JPMAM.
their stewardship responsibilities to their clients: By the means of the procedures set out above, the Board disclose their policy on managing conflicts of interest: confirms that it has reviewed the effectiveness of the monitor their investee companies: Companys system of internal control for the year ended establish clear guidelines on how they escalate 30th September 2010, and to the date of approval of this engagement: Annual Report & Accounts.
be willing to act collectively with other investors where During the course of its review of the system of internal control, appropriate: the Board has not identified nor been advised of any failings or have a clear policy on proxy voting and disclose their voting weaknesses which it has determined to be significant.
record: and report to clients.
Corporate Governance and Voting Policy JPMAM endorses the Stewardship Code for its UK investments The Company delegates responsibility for voting to JPMAM.
and supports the principles as best practice elsewhere.
We The following is a summary of JPMAMs policy statements on believe that regular contact with the companies in which we corporate governance, voting policy and social and invest is central to our investment process and we also environmental issues, which has been reviewed and noted by recognise the importance of being an active owner on behalf the Board.
28 JPMorgan Asian Investment Trust plc.
Annual Report & Accounts 2010 Social & Environmental JPMAM believes that companies should act in a socially responsible manner.
Although our priority at all times is the best economic interests of our clients, we recognise that, increasingly, non-financial issues such as social and environmental factors have the potential to impact the share price, as well as the reputation of companies.
Specialists within JPMAMs environmental, social and governance ESG team are tasked with assessing how companies deal with and report on social and environmental risks and issues specific to their industry.
This analysis is then used to identify outliers which require further engagement.
JPMAM is also a signatory to the United Nations Principles of Responsible Investment, which commits participants to six principles, with the aim of incorporating ESG criteria into their processes when making stock selection decisions and promoting ESG disclosure.
Our detailed approach to how we implement the principles is available on request.
JPMAM is also a signatory to Carbon Disclosure Project.
JPMorgan Chase is a signatory to the Equator Principles on managing social and environmental risk in project finance.
JPMAMs Voting Policy and Corporate Governance Guidelines are available on request from the Company Secretary or can be downloaded from JPMAMs website: http: www.
co. uk Institutional  CorporateGovernance, which also sets out its approach to the seven principles of the FRC Stewardship Code, its policy relating to conflicts of interest and its detailed voting record.
By order of the Board Alison Vincent, for and on behalf of JPMorgan Asset Management UK Limited, Secretary 10th December 2010 JPMorgan Asian Investment Trust plc.
