Investment Managers Report Market Review The twelve months to 30th September 2010 has been a period of continued, but volatile, recovery in Asian markets.
The MSCI AC Asia ex Japan Index rose 21.3% in sterling terms over this period.
During the last quarter of 2009, Asias stock markets rose as their economies continued to benefit from both global and regional stimulus.
However, this trend quickly reversed at the start of 2010 as markets retreated following concerns over Chinese economic policy tightening, the risk of a Greek debt default, fears over changes in US bank regulation and rising inflation worries.
In addition, after a strong Joshua Tay 2009, Asian stock markets were no longer as attractively valued and therefore susceptible to profit taking.
A brief respite in February and March 2010 saw markets rise again thanks to a recovery in US consumption data.
Again this trend was short lived.
As we went into the second quarter of 2010, momentum ebbed as fears over European sovereign debt and further Chinese tightening measures resurfaced once again.
Asian markets recovered from July onwards, and indeed rose very strongly in September, as investment flowed back into the region following a return of risk appetite and as concerns faded over a double dip recession in the US.
Global central banks signalling possible further quantitative easing measures also provided momentum to the equity market rally.
Over the twelve month review period, south Asian countries performed markedly Pauline Ng better than their northern counterparts.
In particular, small, non-export dependent countries, such as the Philippines, Thailand and Indonesia outperformed the region.
Indian equities also performed well as the countrys profit cycle restarted and economic indicators posted strong growth.
The Greater China markets China, Hong Kong and Taiwan posted mixed performance: China and Taiwan lagged the broader region as Hong Kong outperformed.
In Hong Kong, the continued talk of the globalisation of the renminbi and the concomitant liquidity benefits that this would bring this territory as China's international financial centre, buoyed local bank and property stocks.
Taiwan and Korea underperformed over the review period as weak demand from the developed world weighed on their export-exposed economies.
Both Chinas A and H share markets lagged the region as investors awaited clarity on how far policy tightening measures would go and whether the economy would achieve a soft landing.
Performance Over the twelve months ended 30th September 2010, the Companys portfolio returned 23.9%, net of management fees and expenses, outperforming the benchmark index by 2.6 percentage points.
Over the course of the year we employed gearing of approximately 5% on average.
Both asset allocation and stock selection contributed to positive returns.
In terms of asset allocation, our decision to 6 JPMorgan Asian Investment Trust plc.
Annual Report & Accounts 2010 overweight Thailand and Indonesia contributed positively to performance.
Performance attribution for the Conversely, our underweight in Hong Kong and having no exposure in Malaysia, year ended 30th September 2010 detracted from performance.
At the stock level, selection was strongest in Singapore, %% Thailand, Korea and India.
Contributions to total returns In Singapore the portfolios holding of consumption stocks such as Genting Singapore Benchmark 21.3 and GMG Global, and our overweight in Keppel Land were key contributors to performance.
Genting Singapores shares posted strong gains, especially in the third Stock selection 3.7 quarter of 2010, as its newly opened integrated casino registered robust growth.
GMG Currency effect 0.3 Gearing cash 1.1 Global, an operator of rubber plantations, benefited from an increase in rubber prices Dividends residual 1.7 due to supply constraints and significant demand growth, especially from China.
Encouraging home sales in Singapore and China benefited Keppel Land but further Investment manager contribution 3.4 policy action remains a risk with the Singapore government keeping a close eye on the city-states property prices.
The two largest contributors to performance were two Portfolio total return 24.7 Thai stocks: namely Siam Cement and Banpu.
Siam Cements shares posted strong Management fees gains on the back of increasing demand for both cement and chemicals and Banpus other expenses 0.8 shares rose due to the positive long term outlook for coal demand, especially from Portfolio total return, net China and India.
In Korea, the portfolio benefited from our decision to overweight of fees and expenses 23.9 Samsung Engineering, whose order book looked increasingly robust.
In India, Share buybacks 0.2 consumer discretionary names were also strong, especially our holding of Tata Exercise of Motors which surged 72% following increased demand for its passenger cars.
Subscription shares 5.1 Conversely, stock selection in Taiwan, especially within the information technology Other effects 4.9 sector, detracted from performance.
Our decision to overweight RichTek Technology Undiluted return on net assets 19.0 and underweight HTC cost performance.
HTCs share price rose as evidence emerged that concerns over the degree and speed of pricing and margin contraction were Subscription share dilution 5.0 exaggerated, and in July the company launched its own brand devices in China.
In contrast, RichTeks share price struggled from May onwards on concerns over rising Structural effects 5.0 competition and margin pressure.
Diluted return on net assets 24.0 Return to Ordinary shareholders 22.7 Portfolio Activity Positioning Source: FactSet, JPMAM and Morningstar.
At the end of 2009, it became increasingly clear to us that, with US rates remaining All figures are on a total return basis.
low, Asia would remain strong and liquidity would continue to flow into the region.
Performance attribution analyses how Earnings expectations were reasonable which supported valuations and, with the Company achieved its recorded recovering demand from the OECD, the markets momentum would be maintained performance relative to its benchmark into the second half of 2010.
Although we were cognisant of the headwinds property index.
tightening, banking sector overhang facing Chinese equities, we started 2010 with A glossary of terms and definitions is overweight positions in China, Hong Kong, Indonesia and Thailand.
We turned provided on pages 62 and 63. positive on India and took an overweight position in that market in March on the back of its strong earnings outlook.
In Thailand, where exports, consumer and investment indicators continued to show very strong growth, we remained overweight despite concerns over the impact that the political protests would have on the Thai economy.
JPMorgan Asian Investment Trust plc.
Annual Report & Accounts 2010 7 Investment Managers Report continued In Indonesia, however, we turned more cautious as valuations became stretched and inflation expectations accelerated.
In July, it became apparent China would achieve a soft landing for its economy and we decided to increase our overweight as we gained more confidence.
The underlying theme of our portfolio strategy remains unchanged: namely to favour domestic consumption stocks in Asia, at the expense of exporters, with India and China remaining our key overweight markets.
In India, where the portfolio remains overweight in financials and other domestic consumption related names, the outlook in the medium to long term continues to be very positive from a bottom-up perspective, as fundamentals continue to improve.
In China, where we are looking for signs of a peak in policy risk before we see further market upside, we have recently taken profits on some of the cyclical stocks which have performed well.
Despite the possibility of the introduction of capital controls in Thailand and some other ASEAN countries, we continue to favour South Asia over the more OECD-export-exposed North Asian countries.
Market Outlook US Dollar weakness and a flattening of developed world growth have been the main features of the final quarter.
Momentum in markets accelerated in October with growing QE2 speculation a second bout of quantitative easing was announced on 3rd November but there was disquiet about the effect of low rates and a weak US Dollar on the success of U. S. Treasury auctions.
Thanks to renewed fears about the weaker Eurozone nations Ireland in particular and tensions between North and South Korea, markets have corrected since the beginning of November.
There are concerns too about possible speculative or bubble effects resulting from keeping rates at record low levels gold bubbles, bond bubbles, the bursting of which might further damage already weak financial institutions.
These concerns aside, the easing of export growth rates from Asia is indicating a weak year-end shopping season.
This is not surprising given the structural factors behind what are likely to prove permanent job losses in the U. S. and Europe.
China is trying to protect domestic jobs from too fast an appreciation in its currency and wishes to move smoothly, not disruptively, up the value-added curve.
Over the third quarter, the A-share market had recognised the possible end of administrative measures and there is plenty of room for the laggard domestic market to catch up with its Hong Kong-listed counterparts.
More recently however, as Chinas near term growth concern fades, policymakers are turning their focus to inflation.
The surprisingly strong pickup in October CPI inflation, caused obvious jitters in the market and we expect to see inflation headlines dominating news-flow until after Chinese New Year Feb 2011.
We expect the central bank to continue to focus on liquidity management, through intensified sterilisation, reserve requirement ratio hikes, and further credit controls in the coming months, in addition to closer monitoring of capital inflows, all of which will continue to cause uncertainty in the market.
Additionally, should CPI continue to stay at elevated levels, the probability of the government allowing the renminbi to appreciate faster than previously 8 JPMorgan Asian Investment Trust plc.
Annual Report & Accounts 2010 anticipated is rising.
India, on the other hand, will be supported by a strong monsoon, good earnings growth and foreign inflows.
As indicated, some concern exists on capital controls in the region, and we prefer South Asia over the more OECD-export-exposed North Asia.
That said, there will still be companies in Korea and Taiwan which offer good exposure to growth both in China and in those products still seeing growth in the OECD.
Valuations are now at mid-cycle levels at 2.2x Trailing Price Book and 13.4x 2011 Price Earnings for MSCI Asia ex-Japan.
Liquidity is abundant in Asia driving prices higher and earnings revisions are coming through to sustain multiples.
However, the quality of those upgrades needs rigorous scrutiny.
Joshua Tay Pauline Ng Investment Managers 10th December 2010 JPMorgan Asian Investment Trust plc.
