Board of Directors James Long TD Chairman Joined the Board in 1997 and appointed Chairman in 2003.
Director of Risk and Compliance for AstraZeneca Europe.
Previous roles included Corporate Finance Director of Inchcape plc and Managing Director, Asia and Emerging Markets for the ESAB Group.
Mr Long is a Director of British Assets Trust PLC.
Alun Evans CMG Joined the Board in 2001 and appointed Senior Independent Director in 2008.
Mr Evanss main career was with the Foreign and Commonwealth Office where he rose to senior management level with responsibility, latterly, for Far Eastern issues.
He then spent thirteen years in the civil aviation industry as international affairs adviser first to British Airways and subsequently to Cathay Pacific Airways.
He is also Deputy Chairman of the British-Iranian Chamber of Commerce.
Ronald Gould Joined the Board in 2005.
Formerly Chief Executive Officer of Chi-X, Asia Pacific, Managing Director of BZW Investment Management, Vice-Chairman of BZW Barclays Asset Management and President of BZW Investment Management Japan and Managing Director of Barclays Trust & Banking Japan.
More recently Senior Executive Vice President and Managing Director at AXA Investment Managers and, subsequently, chief executive officer of, and now a consultant to, ABG Sundal Collier ASA.
Mr Gould was formerly an adviser to the Financial Services Authority.
He is also a director of Miller Insurance Services Limited.
Andrew Sykes Joined the Board in 2004 and appointed Audit Committee Chairman in 2008.
Chairman of Absolute Return Trust Limited and Invista Foundation Property Trust Limited, Deputy Chairman of Smith & Williamson Holdings Limited, Director of Record plc and SVG Capital plc, a member of the Supervisory Board of the Schroder Exempt Property Unit Trust and Chairman of the Investment Committee of the Schroder Retirement Benefits Scheme.
Until March 2004, Mr Sykes was a Director of Schroders plc, with responsibility for private banking and alternative investments.
James Strachan Joined the Board in 2009.
Mr Strachan is currently a non-executive director of the Financial Services Authority, Legal and General Group plc, Welsh Water Limited, Sarasin and Partners LLP and Social Finance Limited.
He is also a Visiting Fellow at the LSE risk and regulation and a Vice President of RNID.
Until 2006, he was Chairman of the Audit Commission, the public services regulator and watchdog, and he served as a Director of the Bank of England until 2009.
Member of the Nomination Committee.
JPMorgan Asian Investment Trust plc.
