Board of Directors Alan Saunders Chairman of the Board and of the Nomination Committee and Remuneration Committee A Director since May 2002.
An Independent Investment Consultant with Allenbridge Group plc.
Mr Saunders was formerly Chief Economist at Royal Dutch Shell and also held senior investment roles in both Lazards and the Private Banking Division of UBS A. G. He is currently independent investment adviser to Dorset County Council Pension Scheme and and independent trustee of two private sector pension schemes as well as acting as a Non-Executive Director of ING Real Estate UK.
David Gamble Senior Independent Director A Director since April 2006.
Formerly Chief Executive of British Airways Pension Investment Management, a Director of F&C Emerging Markets Investment Trust plc and New Star Asset Management Group plc.
Mr Gamble is currently a Director and trustee of IBM UK Pension Trust, External Investment Adviser to the BBC Pension Trust Limited and a Director of four other investment trusts and a number of other companies.
Anatole Kaletsky A Director since September 2003.
Editor at Large at The Times of London and also Chief Economist of Gavekal Research, a Hong Kong based investment boutique which provides economic analysis and asset management services to financial institutions around the world.
Percy Mistry A Director since January 2009.
Chairman of The Oxford International Group which comprises companies engaged in investment banking, asset management, private equity investment and strategic financial and economic services to governments and multinational companies in emerging market countries.
He is a senior advisor to Europa Partners, a corporate finance boutique.
He was previously CEO of Synergy Power Corporation, a director of ICICI and non-executive chairman of D. C. Gardner.
He was also an advisory member of the Forum on Debt and Development and has held several senior positions with the World Bank.
Nigel Kenny Chairman of the Audit Committee A Director since September 2008.
A founding partner of emerging markets private equity company Sabre Capital.
He is currently an independent non-executive director of UC Rusal Ltd, the worlds largest producer of aluminium and alumina products, and a non-executive director of First City Monument Bank Plc, a bank listed on the Nigerian stock exchange.
He was previously an independent non-executive director of PartyGaming Plc.
Between 1992 and 2002 Mr Kenny held a number of senior positions at Standard Chartered Bank, including Group Head of Operations, Corporate and Institutional Banking and Finance Director.
Prior to that he spent 14 years with Chase Manhattan Bank.
Member of the Audit Committee Member of the Nomination Committee Member of the Remuneration Committee Considered by the Board to be independent JPMorgan Emerging Markets Investment Trust plc.
