Investment Managers Report Results Shareholders should regard this as a good year for the Company from the point of view of investment results.
Market conditions were buoyant, as the recovery in asset prices from the collapse of 2008 continued and the returns from the asset class as a whole were more than acceptable, reflected in the 35.6% rise in our benchmark index.
The returns from our investment activity are shown in the 41.4% increase in the portfolio return, after fees and expenses are taken into account.
Further details of this performance are shown in the table on page five, which reveals that we had a good year in terms of stock selection, which generated the entirety of the outperformance.
Worthy of note in particular were our selections in the financial sector, which was discussed at some length in last years commentary and also the overall contribution from Russia, where your Company achieved some notable results.
For most of the last year stock markets were driven by an ongoing if sometimes stuttering recovery from the credit crisis in 2008.
Economic growth returned, banking systems did not fail.
It is even difficult, now, to remember how much genuine fear there was around a year or two earlier and walking around London in the summer of 2010, you might wonder about the reality of what people now term the Great Recession: it all seems to have passed so quickly.
But in the developed world the next few years are likely to be challenging: the arithmetic of government finances suggests either a protracted drag on economic growth from fiscal austerity, or the risk of higher inflation as a consequence of high volumes of money creation: or even some combination of the two.
None of these courses is going to make people feel better off and a weak and slow recovery is likely to further emphasise the difference between developed and emerging economies.
In the latter, economic growth continues and incomes are rising: your Companys portfolio retains, therefore, a pronounced bias towards sectors which are positively affected by domestic demand and consumption, with a focus on well-managed cash-generating businesses with a track record of creating value for shareholders.
Old stocks and new investments We changed just over a third of the portfolio this year, which is more than usual.
A number of new names appeared which may not be familiar to shareholders: some of these are companies we have tracked for a long time, whose valuations came to acceptable levels only during the downturn: quite a lot of activity involved additions to existing positions too, where we tend to have the highest confidence because of greater familiarity.
But there were also many investments which we did not change during the year and I regard these as just as significant as the changes we made.
In fact your Companys portfolio contains some investments that have been there for more than a decade.
4 JPMorgan Emerging Markets Investment Trust plc.
Annual Report & Accounts 2010 Over the course of my career as an investor, I have always found it surprising that Performance attribution for the year others should be surprised by this: the best investments are those that you never ended 30th June 2010 want to sell and we try to capture the long term effects of compounding which, when %% successful, dwarf pretty much everything else by being prepared to own companies Contributions to total returns for many years.
Benchmark 35.6 HDFC, the largest single investment in the portfolio at the end of the financial year, is good example of this approach in practice.
I first met this company in 1994 and Asset allocation 3.5 Stock selection 11.1 together with my colleagues, have sustained this relationship over more than fifteen Gearing cash 0.3 years.
Through repeated meetings with the managing director and other senior Currency 0.3 personnel we have developed and maintained our understanding of this unusual financial institution, which began as the leading mortgage lender in India and has Investment Manager contribution 7.0 expanded to become a financial conglomerate doing business also in banking, insurance and asset management.
Following companies for long periods is necessary, Portfolio return 42.6 I believe, in order to achieve two things: the first is an understanding of the real Management fees drivers of value creation in a business skill or luck?
the industry or the company?
Other expenses 1.2 productivity or price cycles?
: the second is the confidence to act against the market Portfolio return net of fees at times when the valuation reflects either complete euphoria or real pessimism.
In and expenses 41.4 the case of HDFC, our interactions with the company have brought continued Exercise of Subscription validation of our original investment thesis that this was a very well run business shares 0.3 which has cemented its competitive position through high efficiency and continued Undiluted retrun on net increases in productivity, without losing the judgement that any lending organisation assets 41.1 needs to navigate credit cycles.
We have only once materially reduced our investment Dilution effect of in this business since first purchasing its shares in 1998 and that was at the very potential exercise beginning of 2008, when the Indian stock market as a whole was carried to very high of remaining valuations by investor euphoria.
We bought back a year later, at roughly half the Subscription shares 5.8 price, the shares we had sold.
Diluted return on Looking for more stocks like HDFC commands probably more of our time than any net assets 35.3 other aspect of what we do, because we are looking for those infrequent examples of Impact of change in companies that combine high intrinsic profitability with a very large and long-lasting discount 0.7 opportunity to go on investing money in their businesses to generate similar rates of Return to Ordinary return.
And crucially, we do not want this all reflected up front in the share price.
shareholders 34.6 Beyond the simple maths of it, though, there are other judgements less quantifiable, Source: Xamin Datastream Morningstar.
All figures are but equally critical to be made: are our objectives the same as, or compatible with, on a total return basis.
those of the controlling shareholders?
How do the managers think about the risks Performance attribution analyses how that they have to confront?
Can we reach a view about their judgement, especially the Company achieved its recorded where decisions about large capital investments are concerned?
Do we want to performance relative to its benchmark.
engage with them as part owners of their business, on behalf of our clients?
A glossary of terms and definitions is Investment should be as much about ownership as about transacting, if not more so: provided on page 62. we cannot hope to maximise the returns from our most successful investments if we are not prepared to stick with them, so for us the purchase of a new investment should imply a degree of commitment for the future which we will not easily abandon.
We spend a lot of time talking to the managers and owners of businesses in order to form these qualitative judgements which are so necessary to complement plain financial analysis.
JPMorgan Emerging Markets Investment Trust plc.
Annual Report & Accounts 2010 5 Investment Managers Report continued Looking into the future On a short term view we are beginning to find stretched valuations in some parts of the emerging world: the scarcity of growth in the developed world has led investors to push up the prices of those companies whose growth seems most assured.
The persistence of low interest rates in mature economies is likely to continue this trend and the possibility of an outright bubble, with bad consequences later, cannot be altogether ruled out.
At the moment developed world companies often look significantly cheaper than comparable businesses in emerging markets, which is surprising given their deep corporate resources, but this may be explained in part by the fact that only a minority of their activity is exposed to the growth in the emerging world.
However, any significant rise in dollar interest rates probably resulting from a strong economic recovery in the US is going to sort the wheat from the chaff in emerging markets.
This may not seem like a very likely outcome at the moment, but that is why it preoccupies us, since a very low probability of its occurring is embedded in todays share prices.
There are many companies in emerging markets that have only listed in the last few years and which remain untested as far as their ability to thrive though an entire cycle is concerned.
We know that some of theses stocks will do really badly if the following wind turns to a headwind, because their share prices do not allow for such an outcome.
So it is especially important for us, at this stage in the evolution of the bull market, to be wary of excessive valuations, and also to pay a lot of attention to the strength of corporate balance sheets and the common sense of those making decisions about capital investment.
We often try to explore in meetings a companys sense of its own limits, because those that lack this awareness usually over-expand and in consequence run much larger risks than they had anticipated.
On a long term view, by which I mean five years and beyond, the case for investing in the worlds emerging economies seems if anything stronger than ever, especially when seen relative to other opportunities.
The downturn in the developed world has served to highlight issues of economic sustainability which cannot be quickly resolved by the worlds mature economies.
The most difficult question to answer now is which companies will benefit the most: multinationals will remain formidable competitors for local firms in many industries and this is why we think it so important to consider not just the profits of our investee companies now, but how sustainable they may be into the future.
For those investments that we keep for the longest periods, we are confident that they can go on earning profits and stand comparison with competitors not just now, but for years ahead.
Austin Forey Investment Manager 28th September 2010 6 JPMorgan Emerging Markets Investment Trust plc.
