Investment Managers Report Investment Process The objective of the Company is to achieve capital growth from a portfolio of quoted smaller companies in Europe, excluding the United Kingdom.
The investment universe is defined at the time of purchase by the countries and market capitalisation range of the constituents of the benchmark index which, at the end of March 2010, consisted of 1,000 companies with a market value of between 59 million and 2.5 billion across 15 countries see geographic and sector analyses on page 14.
The investment process is driven by bottom-up stock selection focusing on a combination of growth companies with strong operational momentum and value companies with Jim Campbell a catalyst for re-rating.
The large universe of potential investments is screened using a proprietary multi-factor model to the results of which we apply fundamental analysis.
The portfolio is constructed within a framework where risk is managed in terms of investment style factors relative to the benchmark index.
Investments are sold when there is a fundamental negative change in business prospects, the valuation is regarded as excessive or the market capitalisation has outgrown significantly the benchmark index.
The policy is not to use derivatives to hedge the currency exposure of the portfolios assets.
The Board has maintained the liquidity range of 20% cash to 20% gearing within which the Investment Managers may operate.
Market Review Francesco Conte Following two years of steep declines in European equities, during which the large company MSCI Europe Total Return Index declined by almost 60% from peak to trough, the Companys last financial year witnessed one of the sharpest market recoveries.
From the end of the first quarter of 2009 the negative impact of the credit crisis on stockmarkets began to abate.
There was renewed belief that concerted global fiscal stimulus was sufficiently robust and monetary policy sufficiently relaxed to ensure that the financial system would continue to function.
Perhaps unusually, the momentum of growth in emerging markets, such as China and India, continued unabated and provided a boost to exports from otherwise faltering developed economies.
The last year has been a classic where markets have climbed a wall of fear with concerns of, variously, double-dip recession, inflation, deflation, invasive bank regulation, a Euro sovereign debt crisis and even a volcanic eruption being overcome as share prices recovered.
An increased appetite for risk was equally reflected in a collapse in the VIX Index a measure of volatility and in the spread of corporate bond yields over government debt.
Meanwhile, companies reacted with unprecedented speed to adjust costs and working capital in their businesses to the now significantly lower levels of demand.
Combined with improving economic sentiment, this led to a marked improvement in analysts expectations of corporate earnings growth, with the rate of downgrades moderating throughout the year to the extent that, by the first quarter of 2010, analysts were in the unusual position of, on average, upgrading their profit forecasts for the next twelve months.
JPMorgan European Fledgeling Investment Trust plc.
Annual Report & Accounts 2010 5 Investment Managers Report continued Over the year to the end of March 2010 the large company MSCI Europe ex UK Index Performance attribution for the returned 47.4% in sterling.
Increased appetite for risk led to sharp outperformance year to 31st March 2010 by our benchmark, the HSBC Smaller European Companies ex UK Total Return %% Index, which returned 75.2%.
Contributions to total returns Portfolio Performance Benchmark total return 75.2 The return on net assets was 57.7% over the year, clearly lagging the performance of Asset allocation 4.2 Stock selection 21.2 the benchmark HSBC Index but significantly outpacing the large company MSCI Gearing cash effect 7.4 Index.
The decision to maintain a geared position in a rising market throughout the Currency effect 1.0 year was one of the key positive contributors to performance.
At a stock level, the top Investment manager contributors included Swedish broadcaster Modern Times Group which rose by contribution 17.0 200% as advertising began to recover and pay TV subscribers continued to grow, Portfolio total return 58.2 Norwegian provider of seismic surveys to the oil industry TGS Nopec, which rose by 190% as the oil price recovered, and Dutch temporary employment service provider Management fees other Randstad, which rose by 240% on an improved outlook for demand.
expenses 1.2 Share repurchases 0.7 1 Style Factor Performance 12 months to 31st March 2010 vs. long term Other effects 0.5 Net asset value total return 57.7 Cheaper Valuation Share price total return 59.8 Source: Xamin JPMAM and Morningstar.
Higher Estimate Momentum All figures are on a total return basis.
1 Performance attribution analyses how Long term annualised Higher Profitability the Company achieved its recorded 12 months to 31st March 2010 performance relative to its benchmark Higher Price Momentum index.
A glossary of terms and definitions is Higher Risk provided on page 62.
This shows the spread of returns between best and worst quintile for each factor.
Long term data is from 1990 to 31st March 2010.
The underlying reason for the shortfall in the portfolios performance relative to the benchmark HSBC Index lies in the exceptionally unusual behaviour of style factors in European equities last year.
As illustrated in the table above, investing in cheap companies with strong earnings and price momentum relative to the market typically leads to superior performance over the long term.
During 2009, especially at the second quarter turning point in the market, it was those companies whose share prices had previously underperformed the most and which, at the time, had the poorest relative earnings revisions, which performed the best and by some margin.
This was true even amongst the cheapest stocks in the market to the extent that the portfolio was not exposed to many of the markets best performers over the year.
Although this is not unusual at a turning point in the market, the magnitude and speed with which such companies outperformed was exceptional.
Whilst, with a geared position, the portfolio was positioned for a market recovery, in the initial phase we did not have the stocks best placed to benefit from it.
6 JPMorgan European Fledgeling Investment Trust plc.
Annual Report & Accounts 2010 The performance of style factors in European equities began to normalise during the second half of the Companys year and, with a more growth biased portfolio, the net asset value increased by 9.3%, outpacing the 7.7% return of the benchmark HSBC Index in the six months to 31st March 2010.
Portfolio Positioning As the outlook for growth improved, we found an increasing number of attractive investment opportunities and the total number of holdings in the portfolio has increased from 99 at the end of 2009 to 125 at 31st March 2010.
A positive market environment can favour the relative performance of micro-cap companies and we increased the portfolios weighting in micro-cap companies from 17% to 20% over the course of the financial year.
Gearing was maintained at a level around 10% throughout the twelve months and was brought back to almost zero towards the financial year end as concerns over Euro sovereign debt became more profound.
Industrial Exposure Ten largest active positions March 2010 Ten largest active positions March 2009 Health Care Equipment & Services Support Services General Financial General Retailers Industrial Engineering Support Services Health Care Equipment & Services Nonlife Insurance Electronic & Electronic Equipment Pharmaceutical & Biotechnology Oil Equipment, Service & Financial Services Distribution Real Estate Investment & Industrial Engineering Services Pharmaceutical & Biotechnology Electronic & Electronic Equipment Travel & Leisure Construction & Materials General Industrials Real Estate 8% 4% 0% 4% 8% 10% 6% 2% 2% 6% 10% JPMorgan European Fledgeling Investment Trust plc.
Annual Report & Accounts 2010 7 Investment Managers Report continued The diverse Support Services sector remained one of the portfolios largest active positions following strong stock performance and with the addition of such holdings as Dutch dredging services business Boskalis Westminster and Swiss airline caterer Gategroup.
We moved to an overweight position in the Retail sector following the acquisition of holdings in Belgian car rental and distribution and auto glass repair business DIeteren, Swiss duty free operator Dufry and Italian on-line premium clothing retailer Yoox.
With a more positive view of economic recovery, Industrial Engineering moved from being the largest underweight sector to one of the largest overweights, with new investments in Austrian plant engineer Andritz, German auto components and defence business Rheinmetall, Greek refrigeration equipment producer Frigoglass and Italian scooter manufacturer Piaggio.
Our less defensive stance led to a reduction in previously large overweight positions in the Healthcare and Pharmaceuticals sectors where we, respectively, disposed of holdings in hearing aid producers William Demant in Denmark and Sonova in Switzerland and Lundbeck in Denmark, Recordati in Italy and Orion in Finland.
The large overweight in General Financials was reduced with the sale of stock exchange operators Hellenic Exchanges in Greece and Bolsas y Mercados in Spain, as both suffered from new entrants in the market.
Country Exposure Ten largest active positions March 2010 Ten largest active positions March 2009 Netherlands France Belgium Italy Netherlands Switzerland Spain Finland Norway France Greece Germany Switzerland Germany Finland Portugal Portugal Austria Belgium Spain 12% 8% 4% 0% 4% 8% 12% 10% 6% 2% 2% 6% 10% 8 JPMorgan European Fledgeling Investment Trust plc.
Annual Report & Accounts 2010 Outlook Generally, economic and corporate newsflow has exceeded expectations thus far in 2010 and, with only limited inflationary pressures, interest rates appear set to remain at exceptionally low levels for the foreseeable future.
It is looking possible that economic growth may become self-sustaining even as the impact of fiscal stimulus and quantitative easing abates.
However, concerns over national and corporate indebtedness may periodically unnerve markets.
This was evidenced in May by both one of the fastest rises and falls in the twenty year history of the VIX index of volatility.
A relatively weak currency, on the other hand, can provide a welcome boost for European exporters.
This is already being reflected in order income figures for a wide range of industrial and consumer goods companies.
Having moved from despair to hope over the last twelve months, markets are set to enter a fulfilment phase where earnings typically grow into expanded prospective valuations.
Compared with history, equity valuations in Europe are not expensive with a forecast PE ratio of 11.0 on forward earnings.
Following outperformance over the year, smaller companies still trade at a discount, albeit narrower, to large companies.
We continue to seek out well managed businesses with strong market positions where there is the potential for superior operating performance over the medium term.
Following a period of extreme volatility, we await a more obvious trend emerging in the future direction of the market before considering redeploying the portfolios gearing capacity.
Jim Campbell Francesco Conte Investment Managers 27th May 2010 JPMorgan European Fledgeling Investment Trust plc.
