| Business review Directors report Awards in 2010 In the last five years, we have won over 100 awards in the asset management industry, demonstrating the strength of our investment culture and reputation for outperformance.
On the planet to perform Award provider Award We continue to achieve recognition for our Investment week Winner: Fund Manager of the Year Award fund management expertise and, in February Jupiter European and Jupiter European 2011, industry newspaper Financial News Growth SICAV reported that we had 11 fund managers What Investment Winner: Best Group Award in the list of the top 10 per cent.
of UK fund managers according to Trustnet, a data Financial News CEO of the Year and research provider.
Edward Bonham Carter In the UK, we won consumer magazine Deal of the Year for successful IPO What Investments Best Group 2010 Jupiter Fund Management plc award the second year in a row we Money Marketing Winner: Best multi manager provider have achieved this accolade.
We also received Money Marketings Best MultiCitywire Wealth Manager Investment Manager Provider award for 2010 the Medium firm 2010 Performance Awards second year in succession we have won this prestigious award.
Lipper Fund Awards 2010 Hong Kong Best Group over 3 Years The success of our Listing was recognised OBSR 2010 Rising Talent Honours Award later in the year by the Financial News.
Old Broad Street Research Ltd Chief Executive Edward Bonham Carter was awarded CEO of the Year while the Sauren Golden award European Equity Management 2010 Group won the Deal of the Year award.
We also won this accolade in 2007 for Sauren: Two gold medals Excellent fund management our management buy out.
European Equity European Equity including UK sector 2010 was also an important year for Outstanding fund management our international business, with our fund Eastern European Equity managers receiving a number of awards in various jurisdictions.
In Hong Kong, Sauren: Three gold medals Outstanding fund management we won the Lipper Best Group over three Absolute Returns years award while in Germany, the Jupiter Financial Equity category European Growth fund won the respected Sauren Golden Award 2010.
This premier award is a distinction highlighting noteworthy management achievements.
Our private client team achieved recognition during October, winning the Best Mediumsized Firm and Best Aggressive Portfolio in the Citywire Wealth Manager Investment Performance Awards 2010.
These awards underpin our reputation as a highly respected and world class investment management business.
The strength of our investment culture and our ability to attract and retain some of the most talented fund managers in the UK ensures our focus remains on delivering significant value to our investors and shareholders.
Annual Report & Accounts 2010 24 Jupiter Fund Management plc
