| Governance Directors report The attendance of each Director at Board and Committee meetings The current members of the Audit Committee are Liz Airey, since Listing in June 2010 is detailed in Table 1.
Lorraine Trainer and Matteo Dante Perruccio, all being independent non-executive Directors.
Liz Airey is Chairman of the Committee.
The current members of the Committee were appointed on 26 May Conflicts of interest 2010, prior to Listing.
The attendance of the individual Committee members at Audit Committee meetings since Listing in June 2010 The Articles of Association permit the Board to consider, and if is detailed in Table 1. thought fit, to authorise situations where a Director has a conflict or potential conflict of interest in relation to the Group.
The Board has The Remuneration Committee comprises four non-executive established a formal system whereby conflicts, and potential conflicts, Directors, namely Lorraine Trainer, Matteo Dante Perruccio and can be recorded by each Director and authorised by the Board.
Jamie Dundas, the Groups Chairman who was independent at the Conflicts of interest are included as an agenda item at each Board time of appointment, for the purposes of the Code and Michael meeting.
When authorising conflicts or potential conflicts of interest, Wilson, a non-executive Director nominated by TA Associates, Inc. the Director concerned is required not to take part in the Boards Lorraine Trainer will replace Jamie Dundas as Chairman of the decision making.
Non-conflicted Directors are required to act in Committee in May 2011 after the Annual General Meeting.
a way they consider would be in the best interests of the Company The attendance of the individual Committee members at and most likely to promote the success of the Company.
Remuneration Committee meetings since Listing in June 2010 is detailed in Table 1.
Board committees The Nomination Committee was established immediately prior to Listing and the current members are Jamie Dundas who was Audit, Remuneration and Nomination Committees independent on appointment, for the purposes of the Code Liz Airey The Board has established a committee structure to assist and Michael Wilson, a non-executive Director nominated by TA in the discharge of its responsibilities.
Details of each of the Audit, Associates, Inc.
The attendance of the individual Committee members Remuneration and Nomination Committees, and the members, at Nomination Committee meetings during 2010 is detailed in Table 1. roles and activities thereof are detailed in separate reports.
Each Committee reports to, and has terms of reference approved by, The terms of reference of the Audit, Remuneration and Nomination the Board.
The minutes of the Committee meetings, where Committees are available on the Companys website appropriate, are circulated to, and reviewed by, the Board.
Table 1 Board Audit Remuneration Nomination Number of meetings 4 3 4 1 Jamie Dundas 4 4 4 4 1 1 Liz Airey 4 4 3 3 1 1 Edward Bonham Carter 4 4 John Chatfeild-Roberts 4 4 Philip Johnson 4 4 Matteo Dante Perruccio 4 4 3 3 4 4 Lorraine Trainer 4 4 3 3 4 4 Richard I. Morris, Jr. 4 4 Michael Wilson 4 4 4 4 1 1 Note: maximum possible number of meetings to be attended in brackets.
Annual Report & Accounts 2010 35 Jupiter Fund Management plc
