| Governance Directors report Long-term incentives to 2015, subject to performance conditions.
Pre-Listing Share Plan awards made prior to 2010 were subject to performance conditions, During the autumn and winter of 2010, and in early 2011, the which were largely satisfied at Listing.
Remuneration Committee met on several occasions to develop the policy framework described above and to consider its application to bonus and LTIP awards which were announced in March 2011.
Pre-Listing retention bonus plan Prior to Listing, the Group operated a retention bonus plan whereby The retention long-term incentive plan a proportion of larger bonus amounts was deferred for two years.
The LTIP was adopted by the Board in June 2010, prior to Listing.
The retention bonus award took the form of units in a Jupiter unit trust or cash.
One third of the award vested after one year and the balance All employees, including Directors of Jupiter, are eligible to participate after two years.
Awards are made at the discretion of the Remuneration Committee and may be granted in the form of options either at Pension contributions market value or nil-cost, restricted shares or conditional share All UK employees who have been with Jupiter for at least 6 months awards over ordinary shares.
Awards will normally vest on or after are eligible to participate in a defined contribution money purchase the third anniversary of the date of grant subject to a continuing pension scheme, the Jupiter Pension Scheme.
Employer contributions employment requirement and, in the case of Directors and senior to the scheme are at the rate of 15 per cent.
managers, the satisfaction of performance conditions.
Any performance conditions will be set at the date of grant of the award Although the other executive Directors receive the benefit of the by the Remuneration Committee and may comprise a combination employer contributions into the Jupiter Pension Scheme, a pension of corporate and individual measures.
The first such awards are allowance in lieu of pension contributions is payable directly to expected to be made in April 2011 and will be settled by the issue Edward Bonham Carter net of employers national insurance rather of new shares.
than into a pension scheme, because he has previously reached the lifetime allowance.
The 2011 LTIP awards to the executive Directors will be subject to performance conditions which are under consultation with major Other benefits shareholders at present.
It is anticipated these will include conditions Jupiter provides its employees with a number of other benefits, relating to EPS, net sales and strategic goals.
including private medical cover, life assurance, dependants pension and an income protection scheme to cover long-term illness.
In determining new awards bonus and LTIP in 2011, the Remuneration Committee sought primarily to reward and incentivise strong performance, but also to complement and extend the alignment Figure 2 and retention benefits arising from existing unvested shareholdings.
Share price performance Thus, the Committee decided that all DBP and LTIP awards made in 2011 would be made in the form of nil-cost options in respect of The graph shows the Companys share price performance shares in the Company and, in making LTIP awards, focused in compared with the movement of the FTSE 250 Index and the particular on extending long-term retention across key staff.
These two indices were chosen, as the Company is in the FTSE 250 and the FTSE 350 Sharesave plan General Financial Index includes UK listed financial stocks, The Groups management has always promoted an entrepreneurial including asset managers.
spirit among its employees and emphasised the importance of 100 widespread employee ownership in building a strong corporate culture.
To encourage share ownership among employees generally, 80 Jupiter introduced the Sharesave Plan following Listing for which all UK tax resident employees are eligible.
60 Under the Sharesave Plan, employees who wish to participate must enter into a savings contract under which they will contribute 40 payments of between 10 and 250 per month.
Participants are granted an option to acquire ordinary shares out of the repayment 20 made under that contract.
The Sharesave Plan has been approved by HMRC and the first invitations were issued to employees in 0 September 2010.
of eligible employees accepted the invitation to participate in this plan.
-20 Jul 10 Aug 10 Sep 10 Oct 10 Nov 10 Dec 10 Pre-Listing Share Plan Jupiter Fund Management plc FTSE 250 FTSE 350 General Financial Prior to Listing on 21 June 2010, the Company operated a plan the Pre-Listing Share Plan pursuant to which employees were granted Source: Bloomberg, Financial Express 15.06.10. to 31.12.10. options and or restricted or contingent share awards.
At Listing, approximately 98 per cent.
of employees held Jupiter shares or options that had been granted under that scheme.
The Company Directors service agreements, emoluments does not intend to make any further grants under this scheme.
and share interests As noted above, the Committee considers that significant employee share ownership is important in aligning the interests of senior Directors service agreements and letters of appointment management, employees and shareholders.
Under the arrangements The Company entered into service agreements on 1 June 2010 set out in the Prospectus issued in connection with Listing, senior with each of the executive Directors, being Edward Bonham Carter, Jupiter employees hold shares which will vest in equal instalments John Chatfeild-Roberts and Philip Johnson.
None of the service in June 2011, June 2012 and June 2013, and a proportion of such agreements has a fixed term and each is terminable by not less employees also hold options or shares exercisable in the period up than six months written notice by either party.
Annual Report & Accounts 2010 39 Jupiter Fund Management plc % Growth
