| Business review Directors report Market review Product demand in 2010 among investors reflected both the divergent growth prospects around the world and historically low interest rates.
Financial markets UK market Equity, bond, currency and commodity markets were all affected by We sell our investment expertise across a number of distinct concerns over sovereign debts and growth prospects to a varying geographical markets, the main one being the long-term savings degree during 2010, with the re-emergence of quantitative easing in market in the UK.
We continue to believe that this market contains the second half of the year boosting sentiment as the end of the year attractive secular dynamics which we believe will benefit retail mutual approached.
However, while European markets declined, many other funds to a greater degree than other long-term savings products.
major equity markets produced positive returns for sterling investors over the year.
The FTSE 100 Index ended the year at 5,900, some 9 Within both the UK and the wider global marketplace, individuals per cent.
The euro fell sharply against are increasingly aware that they will need to make improved provision most currencies over the year, but recovered some losses towards for their own retirement, if they are to attain the post retirement the end of the period after the unveiling of a 750bn bailout package lifestyle to which they aspire.
This increased saving may be through and publication of optimistic European bank stress test results.
defined contribution schemes or alternative long-term savings vehicles such as mutual funds.
Most western governments are expected to cut public spending and raise taxes in order to reduce their public deficits.
This is likely In the personal savings market, consumers continue to maintain to increase unemployment and reduce consumer spending, hurting high cash balances, despite the very low returns available.
economic growth in developed countries.
However, this does not Cash tends to be the initial product of choice as the savings necessarily mean that there will be a double dip recession or that global rate rises but, if the current interest rate environment persists, asset prices will necessarily underperform.
Equity markets continue to we are likely to see a greater proportion of savers seeking higher look attractively valued on a historical basis and against bond markets.
return alternative products such as corporate bond or equity income funds.
This may help drive greater usage of mutual funds as As recent world events serve to demonstrate, the future is always a core savings vehicle.
The impact of these events, which are still unfolding, only compound the difficulty and danger of forecasting.
Such issues can Occupational pensions remain dominated by defined benefit pension cause significant short-term volatility and markets are likely to remain schemes and the amount of money within defined benefit schemes range bound over the medium-term as a result.
Although volatile remains significant: some of these assets are seeking quasi-retail markets often create some of the best investment opportunities for high alpha vehicles an area our institutional distribution team is active fund managers, the challenge of beating benchmarks after fees targeting.
However, we expect that defined contribution schemes will on an active fund remains significant for the industry in a low interest see far more substantial growth in coming years and that a proportion rate and inflation environment.
of these assets will be self-invested into mutual funds.
Life insurance comprises a significant proportion of the UK market, mostly due to historic asset acquisition success.
The 820bn of assets in this segment provides two opportunities for companies like ourselves.
Firstly, it gives some indication of the size of the Figure 1 retirement savings of a previous generation and, hence, provides a FTSE 100 and MSCI World Indices during 2010 base for estimating how much might be saved in the future albeit into a different product environment where mutual funds might play 20 a far larger role.
Secondly, many of these products have experienced lower returns over the past decade and disenchantment with current 15 providers has been rising.
This has allowed mutual fund providers to penetrate a wider market than was previously available.
10 The orange circle in Figure 2 represents the true retail mutual funds market, excluding cross-investment from other areas.
This is still 5 a relatively small part of the overall savings market, but one we believe offers particularly attractive growth.
Due to the trends shown 0 in Figure 3, we believe that retail mutual funds are well-placed to prosper from changes in future savings behaviour.
Figure 4 shows -5 that this shift has been under way for quite some time now, and that mutual funds have grown considerably on the back of consistent -10 net inflows.
Jan Feb Mar Apr May Jun Jul Aug Sep Oct Nov Dec FTSE 100 MSCI World Annual Report & Accounts 2010 16 Jupiter Fund Management plc % Growth
