| Governance Directors report Corporate Governance Code, all the remaining Directors will seek Induction and continuing development re-election at the Annual General Meeting.
Following the evaluation described above, the Board believes that the individuals demonstrate All new Directors receive a tailored induction on joining the commitment to their roles and that their respective skills complement Board, including meetings with senior management and advisers.
each other to enhance the overall operation of the Board.
The Chairman is responsible for reviewing the development needs of each individual Director and training opportunities are identified during the year as appropriate.
Shareholder relations The Directors have access to independent professional advice Communication with shareholders is given a high priority and the at the Companys expense where they judge this to be necessary Company undertakes a regular dialogue with major shareholders, to discharge their responsibilities as Directors.
All Directors have fund managers and analysts.
The Chief Executive and the Chief access to the advice and services of the Company Secretary, Financial Officer meet with major shareholders, as appropriate, who is responsible to the Board for ensuring that Board during the course of the year, in particular following the procedures are complied with, and to the Chairman on matters announcement of the year-end and interim financial results.
The Chairman stands ready to maintain a dialogue with shareholders on strategy, corporate governance and Directors remuneration, as required.
Presentations to analysts are simultaneously posted Evaluation of performance on the Companys website at www.
The Senior Independent Director is available to meet shareholders In respect of 2010, given that the Board in its present form had on request if they have concerns which contact through the normal come together shortly before Listing in June, an internal evaluation channels of communication through the Chairman has failed to of the operation of the Board and its Committees was undertaken resolve, or for which such contact is inappropriate.
in December 2010, by way of a questionnaire.
Practical suggestions concerning the updating of the Boards rolling agenda and the format The Annual General Meeting provides the Board with an opportunity and content of papers have been acted on.
Following the to communicate with, and answer questions from, private and questionnaire and Nomination Committee consideration of the institutional shareholders and the majority of the Board will be effectiveness of individual Directors, the Directors were satisfied available at the meeting for shareholders to ask questions.
that the Board, its Committees and individual Directors operated The Chairman of each of the Audit, Remuneration and Nomination effectively.
The Board will conduct a formal evaluation process Committees will be available at the Annual General Meeting to of its own performance and that of its Committees and individual answer questions.
Directors in 2011 and will report to shareholders in the next Annual Report.
Internal control and risk management Director re-election The Board is responsible for establishing and maintaining the Groups system of internal control and for reviewing its effectiveness on a All Directors appointed by the Board are required by the Companys regular basis.
A report describing the existing systems of internal Articles of Association and the Code to be elected by shareholders control the Group has in place is set out in the Risk Management at the first Annual General Meeting following their appointment.
Such systems have been in place Subsequently, all Directors are subject to re-election by shareholders throughout the year and up to 8 April 2011, the date of approval at least every three years.
Liz Airey and Lorraine Trainer will seek of the Annual Report and Accounts.
election at the Annual General Meeting having been appointed to the Board during the year.
In addition and in accordance with the UK Annual Report & Accounts 2010 36 Jupiter Fund Management plc
