| Governance Directors report remuneration which is deferred.
The chart shows only salary, cash Remuneration policy bonus and Deferred Bonus Plan awards and excludes one-off awards which are referred to in this report.
Remuneration policy Jupiter recognises the importance of its employees to the success of the business.
Consequently, Jupiters remuneration policy is designed Elements of Reward to be market competitive in order to motivate, aid staff retention, improve individual and corporate performance and align employee Consistent with these principles, the elements of Jupiters total behaviour with the interests of shareholders.
The remuneration policy compensation package are: is, therefore, a key driver of performance and a central element of corporate strategy.
Benchmarking is used to ensure that total Base salaries compensation is market competitive.
Total cash base salary plus The emphasis on variable pay will continue at Jupiter, with the aim annual bonus and total compensation total cash plus long-term of positioning base salaries at, generally, no more than what the incentive are benchmarked to between market median and upper Directors believe is median in the market.
A range of benchmark data is used based on comparable annually against market benchmarks.
Jupiter has a general policy investment management businesses.
of capping base salaries at 250,000 per annum, with competitive positioning of total compensation achieved through the use of short Jupiters remuneration philosophy has a strong focus on variable and long-term incentives.
compensation because the Directors believe that employees and shareholders interests are best served by containing fixed costs Annual bonus and increasing the proportion of total compensation that is directly Jupiter does not explicitly link incentive awards to a multiple of base performance-related and, therefore, aligned with shareholders salary, believing that any such linkage provides an incentive to interests.
Risk is an important factor in the performance review increase base salaries, and thus fixed costs.
The annual bonus policy process and is taken account of in the measurement of individuals is, and will continue to be, sufficiently flexible to allow for years of performance.
In setting Directors remuneration, the Committee good and poor performance.
Jupiters policy is that the size of the also takes into account the pay and employment conditions of all bonus pool should be based on Jupiters profitability.
believe that this provides transparency and certainty to shareholders and employees, as well as ensuring that bonuses are affordable and The Remuneration Committee has considered the Environmental, linked to performance.
Accordingly, Jupiters policy allows for the Social and Governance ESG implications of the remuneration policy payment of no bonus should the performance of Jupiter or individuals and is satisfied that it does not lead to irresponsible behaviour.
However, it also allows the Board to take essential steps to retain key staff if necessary to protect the Groups interests.
The remuneration policy, which applies to Directors and employees and is intended to apply to 2011 and subsequent years subject to the Individual bonuses for all employees are determined based on a Remuneration Committee having the right to amend it if it considers number of factors relating to the individuals role and performance.
this is necessary, is based on the following key principles: These include, where appropriate, risk and compliance behaviour, financial and non-financial measures, sales performance, including a single remuneration policy is applied across the Group: net fees and net sales for sales staff, investment performance for alignment to effective risk management: fund managers, other factors including profitability and cost control the need to provide market competitive total compensation: and individual, departmental and corporate performance against differentiation by merit and performance: objectives and strategic goals.
an emphasis on variable, performance-driven remuneration to ensure affordability with salary generally at market median and Deferrals will be effected through the Deferred Bonus Plan DBP bonus payments funded from retained profits: or as otherwise determined by the Remuneration Committee.
Under consistency with the FSA Remuneration Code: the DBP significant proportions of senior management bonuses are alignment with shareholders interests through significant and deferred into interests in ordinary shares or units in Jupiters funds widespread equity ownership: and to ensure alignment of future risk exposure between management clarity, transparency and fairness of process.
and shareholders, subject to remaining competitive with market practice.
Awards will fully vest three years after the date of grant To illustrate how the remuneration policy works in practice, Figure 1 subject to a continuing employment requirement.
No further identifies the executive Directors 2010 remuneration split between performance conditions apply to DBP awards as, in making the fixed and variable elements and identifies that part of the awards, the Remuneration Committee has been satisfied that performance objectives have been met.
DBP awards in respect of ordinary shares are intended to be settled by the transfer or issue of ordinary shares to DBP participants after vesting of the awards.
Figure 1 26.5% 27.4% 23.9% The percentage of bonus which is deferred is determined by the Remuneration Committee.
For all staff, for the financial year ended 31 December 2010, there was a mandatory deferral of 100 per cent.
Performance fee incentives A number of fund managers have a contractual entitlement to a share 22.2% of any performance fees they generate on the funds they run aligning 12.5% 9.4% the interests of the Group, its clients and fund managers.
No Director Edward Bonham Carter John Chatfeild-Roberts Philip Johnson is eligible to receive performance fee incentives.
2010 base salary 2010 cash bonus paid in 2011 2010 deferred bonus awarded in 2011 Annual Report & Accounts 2010 38 Jupiter Fund Management plc
