| Governance Directors report Directors profiles 1.
Annual Report & Accounts 2010 32 Jupiter Fund Management plc | Governance Directors report 1 2 3 Jamie Dundas Edward Bonham Carter John Chatfeild-Roberts Chairman Group Chief Executive Chief Investment Officer Jamie Dundas was appointed as Chairman Edward Bonham Carter joined Jupiter in John Chatfeild-Roberts joined Jupiter in of the Group in January 2008.
Jamie is a 1994 as a UK fund manager after working March 2001 to establish and lead the team non-executive Director of Standard Chartered at both Schroders 1982-1986 and Electra running the Jupiter Merlin portfolios: he also PLC and is Chairman of its Board Risk Investment Trust 1986-1994.
Edward was took over as lead manager of the Jupiter Committee.
He was a non-executive Director appointed Chief Investment Officer in 1999 Global Managed Fund in November 2001. of J Sainsbury plc between 2000 and 2007 and Joint Group Chief Executive of Jupiter He started his fund management career at and of Drax Group plc between 2005 and Investment Management Group Limited in Henderson Administration plc 1990-1995 2010.
After being called to the Bar, Jamies May 2000.
Edward became Group Chief where he latterly ran the fund of funds unit.
early career was in banking at Morgan Executive of the Company in June 2007 This was followed by a move to Lazard Grenfell, where he became Head of and relinquished his role as Chief Brothers Asset Management: here he Corporate and International Banking.
He was Investment Officer in February 2010. established their multi manager team before subsequently Finance Director of the Hong joining Jupiter.
John was appointed Chief Kong Airport Authority, and Chief Executive Investment Officer in February 2010. of UK-based property company, MEPC.
He is deputy President formerly Chairman of Macmillan Cancer Support.
4 5 6 Liz Airey Lorraine Trainer Matteo Dante Perruccio Non-executive Independent non-executive Director Independent non-executive Director Lorraine Trainer was appointed as a Matteo Dante Perruccio was appointed Senior Independent Director Liz Airey was appointed as the nonnon-executive Director of the Company a non-executive Director of the Company in May 2010 and has been a non-executive in October 2008.
He started his career in executive senior independent Director of the Company in May 2010.
She served Director of the Board of Aegis Group plc financial services in 1986, spending six since August 2005.
She has held a number years at San Paolo IMI before moving to as Finance Director of Monument Oil and Gas plc from 1990 to 1999, when it was of human resource leadership roles in American Express Bank in 1992 as international organisations, focusing on Executive Director, Head of EMEA.
She is currently a non-executive Director and Chairman of the performance and development.
These In 2000, he moved to Pioneer Investment include Citibank NA, the London Stock Management to head up the firms JP Morgan European Smaller Companies Trust PLC, a non-executive Director and Exchange and Coutts, then part of the international business before moving to work NatWest Group.
She currently runs a in Milan, a posting that culminated in his Chairman of the audit committee of Tate & Lyle PLC and Dunedin Enterprise business in board advisory work and appointment in 2005 as CEO International development.
CEO Pioneer Investment Management Investment Trust PLC and Chairman of the Unilever UK Pension Fund.
Matteo left Pioneer in 2006 to take up the role of Co-Chief Executive at Olympia Capital Management in Paris and left in 2008 to found Hermes BPK Partners LLP, where he is currently Chief Executive.
7 8 Philip Johnson 9 Richard I. Morris Jr. Michael Wilson Chief Financial Officer Non-executive Director Non-executive Director Philip Johnson joined Jupiter as Chief Richard Morris was appointed a nonMichael Wilson was appointed a nonFinancial Officer in October 2009, with executive Director of the Company in 2007 executive Director of the Company in 2007 responsibility for finance, tax, treasury, having been nominated by TA Associates, having been nominated by TA Associates, compliance, risk and investor relations.
He was previously Chief Operating Inc.
He is a Managing Director of TA He started his career at Coopers & Officer, President, and finally Vice Chairman Associates, Inc. and formerly served on the Lybrand, where he qualified as a chartered of Putnam Lovell Securities Inc. now part Boards of Advisory Research, Chartered accountant.
He left in 1996 to work in of Jefferies International which he joined Marketing Services, EYP Mission Critical Prudential plcs group head office before in 1997.
Prior to joining Putnam Lovell, Facilities, K2 Advisors and United Pet Group.
Prior to joining TA Associates, Inc. in 1992, transferring to M&G in 2000.
He spent eight Richard served as President and Chief years at M&G Limited, with the last five as Executive Officer of Cursitor Alliance LLC, Michael worked in Morgan Stanleys Telecommunications Group.
In 1994, Group Finance Director, after which he a unit of Alliance Capital Management LP worked at Marshall Wace LLP as Finance now AllianceBernstein LP.
Richard he joined Affiliated Managers Group, a TA-backed asset management platform Director for a year before joining Jupiter.
is currently a non-executive Director of Arrowstreet Capital LP and serves company, as Vice President and a member of the founding management team.
Michael as an adviser to TA Associates, Inc. currently also serves on the Boards of Cardtronics and Numeric Investors.
Member of the Remuneration Committee.
Member of the Audit Committee.
Member of the Nomination Committee Annual Report & Accounts 2010 33 Jupiter Fund Management plc
