| Business review Directors report Operational risk Key contracts Operational risk is the risk of loss caused by weakness or failure in the Groups systems and controls.
These include risks arising from failing properly to manage key outsourced relationships.
The Group has the following key contracts with third parties for the provision of certain We are reliant on technology and qualified professionals to maintain our infrastructure.
Our technology is partly outsourced and our platform utilises well-established, tested technology from outsourcers judged to be financially stable and able to provide the required level of service.
Outsourced suppliers are an important part of our business model and we IFDS provides a number of services, work with our outsourced suppliers to maintain the quality and continuity of service.
Detailed including dealing and registration due diligence is undertaken before entering into new arrangements, and performance is processing, box management, agent reviewed on an ongoing basis.
and distributor services, enquiries handling, client accounting and We rely on efficient and well-controlled processes.
The potential impact and likelihood reconciliations, distribution of processes failing and operational risks materialising is assessed by the head of each operational area on a regular basis, and where these likelihoods are felt to be outside processing, and tax and of our appetite for risk, management actions and or control improvements are identified regulatory reporting.
in order to bring each potential risk back to within acceptable levels.
Continuity and business resumption planning is in place across the business.
Alternative premises equipped with all key portfolio management and support systems are accessible Facility agreement: The Group by the firm within four hours of our normal business premises becoming unavailable.
entered into a facility agreement with The Royal Bank of Scotland plc on All third parties to whom we outsource material aspects of our business are subject to ongoing 17 March 2007.
Further details of oversight, ensuring we can maintain assurance that they are of the required standard.
this agreement can be found in the loans and borrowings note in the Distribution risk financial statements.
Distribution risks arise from relationship management across different distribution channels and products.
We distribute through three principal channels namely, retail clients, intermediated through banks, brokers and independent advisers: institutional clients, often advised by consultants: and private clients.
The broad range of distribution channels and a diversified client base mitigates against a key dependency on any particular channel or client.
People risk We are a human capital business and our staff are a significant component of successfully executing our strategy.
We believe that high levels of employee engagement and equity ownership drive business outperformance and we strive to ensure we have an attractive working environment and a competitive remuneration structure.
We also externally develop, monitor and maintain succession planning for all key roles throughout the organisation.
Product risk Product risk arises from the complexity inherent within our product range and in the development of new products to meet changes in client demand.
Product risk can also arise from changes in the legal and regulatory landscape.
We have dedicated product development resource as well as an inter-disciplinary new product approval and product review procedure.
Product risk can also arise from capacity constraints where demand for a particular product can exceed the availability of suitable investments capable of delivering the desired strategy and return.
We actively monitor potential capacity constraints and mitigate these by restricting new investment in such products.
Annual Report & Accounts 2010 26 Jupiter Fund Management plc
