| Business review Directors report Customer interaction Policy 1 We are committed to dealing with investors in our products and our discretionary clients As a customer focused business, we believe honestly, openly, competently and with integrity.
Where appropriate, we have an informed that it is important to clearly present to understanding of their needs.
customers the services we are providing and our ongoing responsibilities to them.
This is reinforced by the regulatory Approach 2 environment within which we operate.
Product design We have a TCF policy which is overseen by a designated management committee.
Products are designed to suit our target customer markets and distribution is This committee makes use of available tailored accordingly in the following ways: management information and other resources to ensure our customers fund literature provides guidance as to the intended target market and outlines in are treated fairly.
a transparent manner the potential risks and benefits to the end customer: and where appropriate, new product concepts are tested prior to launch to ensure that they are suitable for the target audience.
Policy Marketing and intermediary assistance 1 Customers are provided with clear information about our products and are kept appropriately informed.
The following steps are taken to ensure that intermediaries understand how our products work: Approach sales and marketing material is set out in a manner which can be both understood and 2 acted upon: intermediaries are provided with sufficient information to fully understand our products in order to give suitable advice to their customers: fund information is clear, fair and not misleading.
It balances the potential benefits Responsibilities of the product against the risks of investment: 3 where required, we provide training and additional material to intermediaries to aid their understanding of our products: and feedback is sought periodically on the effectiveness and clarity of the Groups product design and communications and service delivery.
After sales support Customers are kept regularly informed about their investments: professional intermediaries advising clients have access to monthly manager reports and fund factsheets: investors in Jupiter funds and discretionary clients are issued with periodic valuation statements to keep them up to date with the progress of their investments: investors in Jupiter funds and discretionary clients can review their portfolios online: client investment profiles are issued to discretionary clients each year to ensure ongoing suitability of management.
Service review meetings are also offered to clients: complaints are investigated and addressed in a consistent, professional and impartial manner.
Where a complaint is not resolved to the customers satisfaction, the customer is directed to the Financial Ombudsman Service: and errors made in the processing of customer transactions are identified, escalated and rectified in a timely manner.
Compensation is paid where appropriate.
Responsibilities 3 It is the responsibility of each member of staff to undertake their role in observance with this policy and to notify the compliance department of any activity undertaken which in their opinion is not compliant with this policy.
Annual Report & Accounts 2010 30 Jupiter Fund Management plc
