DIRECTORS REPORT The directors have pleasure in submitting their annual report which includes this Directors report and the audited financial statements of the Company and its subsidiary undertakings for the year ended 31 December 2010.
The Directors report incorporates by reference, to the extent indicated below, certain information included elsewhere in the Annual Report and should be read in conjunction with that information.
The Corporate governance report on pages 29 to 31 also forms part of the statutory directors report.
Principal activity and business review The principal activity of the Group is providing value added distribution and outsourcing services in the Americas, Europe and Australasia.
Details of the Groups activities, developments and performance for the year, the main trends and factors likely to affect its future development and performance and information which fulfils the requirements of the Companies Act 2006 relating to the production of a business review are set out in the Chairmans statement, the Chief Executives review, the Financial review and the Corporate responsibility report on pages 4 to 22 and in the section below entitled Principal risks and uncertainties.
The Company uses a number of key performance indicators to measure progress towards its objectives.
These are set out in the form of bar graphs on pages 7, 16 and 21.
Principal risks and uncertainties There are a number of potential risks and uncertainties which could have a material impact on the Groups business, financial condition or results of operations.
The Group has specific policies and procedures which are designed to identify, evaluate, manage and mitigate business risk.
The principal risks and uncertainties faced by the Group and the steps taken by the Group to mitigate such risks and uncertainties include the following: RISK MITIGATING FACTORS Economic environment The Groups business is partially dependent on general economic The Groups operations and its customer base are diverse, with conditions in the US, the UK, France and other important markets.
a variable and flexible cost base, and many of the sectors in which A significant deterioration in these conditions could have an adverse it competes are traditionally, by their nature, relatively resilient to effect on the Groups business and results of operations.
Competitive pressures The Group operates in highly competitive markets and faces The Group seeks to remain competitive by maintaining high service competition from international companies as well as national, levels and close contacts with its customers to ensure that their regional and local companies in the countries in which it operates.
needs and demands are being met satisfactorily, developing a Increased competition and unanticipated actions by competitors national presence in the markets in which the Group operates and or customers could lead to an adverse effect on results and hinder maintaining strong relationships with a variety of different suppliers the Groups growth potential, either through pressure on margins thereby enabling the Group to offer a broad range of products to or loss of customers.
Product price changes The purchase price and availability of products distributed by the The Group endeavours, whenever possible, to pass on price Group can fluctuate from time to time, thereby potentially affecting increases from its suppliers to its customers and to source its the results of operations.
Adverse economic conditions resulting in a products from a number of different suppliers so that it is not period of commodity price deflation and increased levels of imported dependent on any one source of supply for any particular product.
products may lead to reductions in the price and value of the Groups Increased focus on the Groups own import programmes and brands, products.
If this were to occur, the Groups revenue and, as a result, together with the reinforcement of the Groups service and product its profits, could be reduced and the value of inventory held in stock offering to customers, helps to minimise the impact of price deflation.
may not be fully recoverable.
The Group mitigates against the risk of holding overvalued inventory in a deflationary environment by managing stock levels efficiently and ensuring they are kept to a minimum.
Foreign exchange The majority of the Groups sales are made and income is earned The Group believes that the benefits of its geographical spread in US dollars, euros and other foreign currencies.
As a result, outweigh the associated risks.
movements in exchange rates may have a material translation impact The majority of the Groups transactions are carried out in the on the Groups reported results.
The Group may also be subject to functional currency of the Groups operations.
As a result, transaction transaction exposures where products are purchased in one currency exposures are usually limited and exchange rate fluctuations have and sold in another and movements in exchange rates may also minimal effect on the quality of earnings unless there is a sudden and adversely affect the value of the Groups net assets.
significant adverse movement of a foreign currency in which products are purchased which may lead to a delay in passing on to customers the resulting price increases.
Acquisitions A significant portion of the Groups historical growth has been The Groups acquisition strategy is to focus on those businesses achieved through the acquisition of businesses and the Groups which operate in sectors where it has or can develop competitive growth strategy includes additional acquisitions.
Although the Group advantage and which have good growth opportunities.
The Group operates in a number of fragmented markets which provide future continually reviews acquisition targets and has established processes acquisition opportunities, there can be no assurance that the Group and procedures with regard to detailed pre-acquisition due diligence will be able to make acquisitions in the future or that any acquisitions and post-acquisition integration.
The Group endeavours to maximise the performance of an acquisition In the longer term, if an acquisition consistently underperforms through the recruitment and retention of high quality management compared to its original investment case, there is a risk that this will combined with effective strategic planning, investment in resources lead to a permanent impairment in the carrying value of the intangible and infrastructure and regular reviews of performance by both assets attributed to that acquisition.
business area and Group management.
24 Directors report Bunzl plc Annual Report 2010 RISK MITIGATING FACTORS Financial liquidity and debt covenants The Group needs continuous access to funding in order to meet its The Group arranges a mixture of borrowings from different sources trading obligations, to support investment in organic growth and to and continually monitors net debt and forecast cash flows to ensure make acquisitions when appropriate opportunities arise.
There is a risk that it will be able to meet its financial obligations as they fall due and that the Group may be unable to obtain the necessary funds when that sufficient facilities are in place to meet the Groups requirements required or that such funds will only be available on unfavourable terms.
in the short, medium and long term.
The Groups borrowing facilities include a requirement to comply with Compliance with the Groups biannual debt covenants is monitored certain specified covenants in relation to the level of net debt and on a monthly basis based on the management accounts.
A breach of these covenants could result in a significant analyses using various scenarios are applied to forecasts to assess proportion of the Groups borrowings becoming repayable immediately.
Business continuity The Group would be affected if there was a significant failure of its The Group seeks to reduce the impact of facilities failure through the major distribution facilities or information systems.
use of multi-site facilities with products stocked in more than one location and the impact of information systems failure through the adoption of detailed back up plans which are periodically tested and which would be implemented in the event of any such failure.
Laws and regulations The international nature of the Groups operations exposes it to Although the Group does not operate in particularly litigious market potential claims as the Group is subject to a broad range of laws sectors, it has in place processes to report, manage and mitigate and regulations in each of the jurisdictions in which it operates.
against third party litigation using external advisers where necessary.
In addition the Group faces potential claims from customers in relation The use of reputable suppliers and internal quality assurance and to the supply of defective products or breaches of their contractual quality control procedures reduce the risks associated with defective arrangements.
The sourcing of products from lower cost countries products.
increases the risk of the Group being unable to recover any potential losses relating thereto from the relevant supplier.
The Financial review on pages 16 to 18 and Note 13 to the consolidated financial statements includes information relating to the Groups risk management policies so far as they relate to financial instruments.
The Internal control and risk management section of the Corporate governance report on page 31 includes further information on the specific procedures designed to identify, manage and mitigate business risk.
Going concern scenarios are applied to forecasts to assess their impact on covenants As indicated in the section above entitled Principal activity and business and net debt.
During 2010 all covenants have been complied with and review, details of the Groups activities, developments and performance based on current forecasts it is expected that such covenants will are set out on pages 4 to 22.
In addition, information relating to the continue to be complied with for the foreseeable future.
financial performance, financial position and cash flows of the Group The Group has sufficient financial resources, a well established, is set out in the Financial review on pages 16 to 18.
Note 13 to the consolidated financial statements includes the details of the Groups fragmented customer base, strong supplier relationships and a diverse geographic presence.
As a consequence, the directors believe that the debt profile, capital management policy, treasury policies and controls, hedging activities and financial instruments and its policies and Group is well placed to manage its business risks successfully despite the current uncertain economic outlook.
exposures to liquidity, interest rate, foreign currency and credit risks.
The Group continually monitors net debt and forecast cash flows The directors, having made appropriate enquiries, have a reasonable expectation that the Group has adequate resources to continue in to ensure that sufficient facilities are in place to meet the Groups requirements in the short, medium and long term and, in order to do operational existence for the foreseeable future.
For this reason the directors believe it is appropriate to continue to adopt the going so, arranges a mixture of borrowings from different sources comprising multi-currency credit facilities and US dollar and sterling bonds.
concern basis in preparing the financial statements.
As at 31 December 2010 the Group had net debt of 716.8 million Dividends and undrawn committed facilities of 557.3 million.
During the next An interim dividend of 7.15p was paid on 4 January 2011 in respect 12 months 245.5 million of the committed facilities mature and of 2010 and the directors recommend a final dividend of 16.2p, thereafter the facilities will mature at various times over the period making a total for the year of 23.35p per share 2009: 21.55p.
In addition, the Company has agreed a further issue Dividend details are given in Note 17 to the consolidated financial of 75.2 million sterling equilvalent of US dollar bonds which will statements.
Subject to approval by the shareholders at the Annual be drawn in April 2011 and which will mature in April 2021 and April General Meeting on 20 April 2011, the final dividend will be paid 2023.
The Group is highly cash generative and its cash flows have on 1 July 2011 to those shareholders on the register at the close of historically been strong, converting 93% of the operating profit before business on 13 May 2011. intangible amortisation and acquisition related costs into operating cash in 2010.
Compliance with the Groups biannual debt covenants is monitored on a monthly basis and sensitivity analyses using various Bunzl plc Annual Report 2010 Directors report 25 DIRECTORS REPORT continued Share capital Restrictions on transfer of shares The Company has a single class of share capital which is divided Dealings in the Companys ordinary shares by its directors, persons 1 into ordinary shares of 32 7p each which rank pari passu in respect discharging managerial responsibilities, certain employees of the of participation and voting rights.
The shares are in registered form, Company and, in each case, their connected persons, are subject are fully paid up and are quoted on the London Stock Exchange.
to the Companys dealing code which adopts the Model Code of the In addition, the Company operates a Level 1 American Depositary Listing Rules published by the Financial Services Authority.
Receipt programme with the Bank of New York Mellon under which the Companys shares are traded on the over the counter market Certain restrictions, which are customary for a listed company, apply in the form of American Depositary receipts.
to transfers of shares in the Company.
The Board may refuse to register an instrument of transfer of any share which is not a fully paid Details of changes to the issued share capital during the year are set share and of a certificated share at its discretion unless it is: out in Note 16 to the consolidated financial statements.
lodged, duly stamped or duly certified, at the offices of the Rights and obligations attaching to shares Companys registrars or such other place as the Board may specify Subject to the provisions of the Companies Act 2006 and without and is accompanied by the certificate for the shares to which it prejudice to any rights attached to any existing shares, the Company relates and such other evidence as the Board may reasonably may resolve by ordinary resolution to issue shares with such rights and require to show the right of the transferor to make the transfer: restrictions as set out in such resolution or if there is no such resolution or so far as it does not make specific provision as the Board in respect of only one class of shares: and may decide.
Subject to the provisions of the Companies Act 2006 and of any resolution of the Company passed pursuant thereto and without in favour of not more than four transferees.
prejudice to any rights attached to existing shares, the Board is duly authorised to issue and allot, grant options over or otherwise dispose Registration of a transfer of an uncertificated share may be refused of the Companys shares on such terms and conditions and at such in the circumstances set out in the uncertificated securities rules, and times as it thinks fit.
If at any time the share capital of the Company is where, in the case of a transfer to joint holders, the number of joint holders divided into different classes of shares, the rights attached to any class to whom the uncertificated share is to be transferred exceeds four.
may be varied or abrogated by special resolution passed at a separate general meeting of such holders.
Subject to the rights attached to any In addition, no instrument of transfer for certificated shares shall be existing shares, rights attached to shares will be deemed to be varied registered if the transferor has been served with a restriction notice as by the reduction of capital paid up on the shares and by the allotment defined in the Companys Articles of Association the Articles after of further shares ranking in priority in respect of dividend or capital or failure to provide the Company with information concerning certain which confer on the holders more favourable voting rights than the interests in the Companys shares required to be provided under the first-mentioned shares, but will not otherwise be deemed to be varied Companies Act 2006, unless the transfer is shown to the Board to be by the creation or issue of further shares.
pursuant to an arms length sale.
The Board has the power to procure that uncertificated shares are converted into certificated shares and Power to issue and allot shares kept in certificated form for as long as the Board requires.
The directors are generally and unconditionally authorised under the authorities granted at the 2010 Annual General Meeting to allot shares The Company is not aware of any agreements between shareholders or grant rights to subscribe for or to convert any security into shares of that may result in any restriction of the transfer of shares or voting rights.
the Company up to i a maximum nominal amount of 35.2 million: and ii to allot ordinary shares or grant rights to subscribe for or convert Restrictions on voting rights any securities into shares in connection with a rights issue to existing A member shall not be entitled to vote, unless the Board otherwise shareholders in proportion or as nearly as may be practicable up to decides, at any general meeting or class meeting in respect of any an aggregate nominal amount equal to 70.4 million or as reduced by shares held by them if any call or other sums payable remain unpaid.
the nominal value of any ordinary shares allotted under i above.
At the Currently, all issued shares are fully paid.
In addition, no member shall same meeting authority was also granted to the directors to allot the be entitled to vote if he has been served with a restriction notice after Companys shares for cash, up to a maximum nominal amount of failure to provide the Company with information concerning certain approximately 5.7 million, without regard to the pre-emption interests in the Companys shares required to be provided under the provisions of the Companies Act 2006.
No such shares were issued Companies Act 2006.
Votes may be exercised in person or by proxy.
or allotted under these authorities in 2010, nor is there any current The Articles currently provide a deadline for submission of proxy forms intention to do so, other than to satisfy the consideration payable for of 48 hours before the relevant meeting, 24 hours before a poll is businesses to be acquired.
If the directors do exercise the authority taken if such poll is taken more than 48 hours after it was demanded under ii above the directors intend to follow ABI recommendations or during the meeting at which the poll was demanded if the poll is concerning its use.
not taken straight away but is taken not more than 48 hours after it was demanded.
These authorities are valid until the conclusion of the forthcoming Annual General Meeting.
The directors again propose to seek Bunzl Group Employee Benefit Trust equivalent authorities at such Annual General Meeting.
Bunzl Employee Trustees Limited is trustee of the Bunzl Group General Employee Benefit Trust the EBT which holds shares in respect of employee share options and awards that have not been exercised or vested.
The current position is that the EBT abstains from voting in respect of these shares.
The trustee has agreed to receive a nominal dividend of 0.001p per share on dividend payments on shares held within the EBT.
Details of the shares so held are set out in Note 16 to the consolidated financial statements.
26 Directors report Bunzl plc Annual Report 2010 Purchase of own shares Directors interests in ordinary shares are shown in Note 19 to the At the 2010 Annual General Meeting, shareholders gave the Company consolidated financial statements.
None of the directors was materially authority to purchase a maximum of 32,845,000 ordinary shares.
interested in any contract of significance with the Company or any of During the year ended 31 December 2010 the Company did not its subsidiary undertakings during or at the end of 2010.
Information purchase any of its own shares pursuant to this authority or the relating to the directors service agreements and their remuneration authority granted at the 2009 Annual General Meeting and no shares for the year and details of the directors share options under the have been purchased between 31 December 2010 and 28 February Companys share option schemes and awards under the Long Term 2011.
The total number of ordinary shares currently held in treasury Incentive Plan and Deferred Annual Share Bonus Scheme are set out is 23,325,000.
The Company is therefore currently authorised to in the Directors remuneration report on pages 32 to 40. buy back 32,845,000 of its own shares pursuant to the existing shareholders authority which is due to expire at the conclusion of the Powers of the directors forthcoming Annual General Meeting.
The directors again propose to Subject to the Articles, the Companies Act 2006 and any directions seek the equivalent authority at such Annual General Meeting.
given by the Company by special resolution, the business of the Company is managed by the Board who may exercise all powers of the Directors Company.
The Board may, by power of attorney or otherwise, appoint Directors may be elected by ordinary resolution at a duly convened any person or persons to be the agent or agents of the Company for general meeting or appointed by the Board.
Under the Articles, the such purposes and on such conditions as the Board determines.
minimum number of directors shall be two and the maximum shall be 15.
In accordance with the Articles, each director is required to retire Directors indemnities at the Annual General Meeting held in the third calendar year in which As at the date of this report, indemnities are in force under which the he or she was elected or last elected and any director who has held Company has agreed to indemnify the directors and the Company office with the Company, other than employment or executive office, Secretary, in addition to other senior executives who are directors of for a continuous period of nine years or more at the date of the Annual subsidiaries of the Company, to the extent permitted by law and the General Meeting is subject to annual re-election.
The Board may also Articles in respect of all losses arising out of, or in connection with, the appoint a person willing to act as a director during the year either to fill execution of their powers, duties and responsibilities as a director or a vacancy or as an additional director but so that the total number of officer of the Company or any of its subsidiaries.
directors shall not at any time exceed 15.
However such appointee shall only hold office until the next Annual General Meeting of the Amendment of Articles Company.
Notwithstanding the retirement by rotation provisions in Any amendments to the Articles may be made in accordance with the the Articles, each of the directors will be standing for re-election at the provisions of the Companies Act 2006 by way of special resolution of forthcoming Annual General Meeting in accordance with the provisions the Companys shareholders.
Following the implementation of the final of the UK Corporate Governance Code.
parts of the Companies Act 2006 and the coming into force of the Companies Shareholders Rights Regulations in 2009, new Articles In addition to any power to remove a director from office conferred by of Association were adopted by shareholders at the 2010 Annual company law, the Company may also by special resolution remove a General Meeting.
director from office before the expiration of his period of office under the Articles.
Environmental and social responsibility The directors recognise that the Company is part of a wider The office of a director shall also be vacated pursuant to the Articles if: community and that it has a responsibility to act in a way that respects the environment and social and community issues.
Further information he resigns by giving notice to the Company or is asked to resign by relating to the Companys approach to these matters is set out in the all of the other directors who are not less than three in number: or Corporate responsibility report on pages 19 to 22. he is or has been suffering from mental or physical ill health and the Employment policies Board resolves that his office be vacated: or The employment policies of the Group have been developed to meet the needs of its different business areas and the locations in which he is absent without permission from Board meetings for six they operate worldwide, embodying the principles of equal opportunity.
consecutive months and the Board resolves that his office be The Group has standards of business conduct with which it expects all vacated: or its employees to comply.
Bunzl encourages involvement of its employees in the performance of the business in which they are he becomes bankrupt or compounds with his creditors generally: or employed and aims to achieve a sense of shared commitment.
In addition to a regular magazine and the Companys intranet, which he is prohibited by law from being a director: or provide a variety of information on activities and developments within the Group and incorporate half year and annual financial reports, he ceases to be a director by virtue of any provisions of company announcements are periodically circulated to give details of corporate law or is removed from office pursuant to the Articles.
and staff matters together with a number of subsidiary or business area publications dealing with activities in specific parts of the Group.
Mr J F Harris retired from the Board on 28 February 2010.
All of the other current directors served throughout the year.
Mr C A Banks will It is the Groups policy that disabled applicants should be considered retire from the Board on 20 April 2011.
Biographical details of the for employment and career development on the basis of their aptitudes current directors are set out on page 23. and abilities.
Employees who become disabled during their working life will be retained in employment wherever possible and given help with rehabilitation and training.
Bunzl plc Annual Report 2010 Directors report 27 DIRECTORS REPORT continued Substantial shareholdings External auditor As at 28 February 2011 the directors have been notified by the Each of the directors at the date of approval of this report confirms following shareholders that they were each interested in 3% or more that: of the issued share capital of the Company.
The notifications listed below are those which have been most recently received for the so far as the director is aware, there is no relevant audit information named shareholders.
of which the Companys auditor is unaware: and Date of Number % of issued the director has taken all steps that he ought to have taken as Shareholder notification of shares share capital a director in order to make himself aware of any relevant audit INVESCO plc 20.05.10 32,571,686 9.9 information and to establish that the Companys auditor is Aviva plc 23.04.10 19,007,850 5.8 aware of that information.
Newton Investment Management Ltd 10.12.10 17,013,190 5.2 This confirmation is given and should be interpreted in accordance Lloyds Banking Group plc 27.05.10 16,425,039 5.0 with the provisions of section 418 of the Companies Act 2006.
Legal & General Group Plc 12.11.09 13,069,891 4.0 A resolution is to be proposed at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting for the re-appointment of KPMG Audit Plc as auditor of the Significant agreements Company at a rate of remuneration to be determined by the directors.
The Companys wholly owned subsidiary, Bunzl Finance plc, has a number of bilateral loan facilities with a range of different counterparties, On behalf of the Board all of which are guaranteed by the Company, are in substantially the P N Hussey same form and are prepayable at the option of the lender in the event Secretary of a change of control of the Company.
Similar change of control 28 February 2011 provisions in relation to the Company are included in the syndicated bank loan and the US dollar bonds which have been entered into Pages 24 to 28 inclusive consist of a directors report that has been by Bunzl Finance plc and the Company and are also guaranteed by drawn up and presented in accordance with, and in reliance upon, the Company.
applicable English company law and any liability of the directors in connection with this report shall be subject to the limitations and Contractual arrangements restrictions provided by such law.
The Group has contractual arrangements with numerous third parties in support of its business activities, none of which are considered The Annual Report contains certain statements about the future individually to be essential to its business and, accordingly, it has not outlook for the Group.
Although the Company believes that the been considered necessary for an understanding of the development, expectations are based on reasonable assumptions, any statements performance or position of the Groups business to disclose information about future outlook may be influenced by factors that could cause about any of those third parties.
actual outcomes and results to be materially different.
Creditor payment policy Group operating companies are responsible for agreeing the terms and conditions under which business transactions with their suppliers are conducted.
It is Group policy that suppliers are made aware of these terms and that payments to suppliers are made in accordance with them provided that suppliers also comply with all relevant terms and conditions.
The number of days billings from the Companys suppliers outstanding at the end of the year was 30 2009: 30.
Donations During 2010, amongst other worldwide charitable donations, the Group contributed 215,000 to UK charities 2009: 210,000.
No contributions were made for political purposes.
Annual General Meeting The Annual General Meeting will be held at The Park Suite, The Dorchester, Park Lane, London W1K 1QA on Wednesday 20 April 2011 at 11.00 am.
The Notice convening the Annual General Meeting is set out in a separate letter from the Chairman to shareholders which explains the items of business which are not of a routine nature.
28 Directors report Bunzl plc Annual Report 2010
