DIRECTORS REPORT The directors present their Annual Report together with the The separate circular to shareholders incorporating the Notice audited financial statements for the year to 31 March 2010. of this years Annual General Meeting sets out why the Board believes these directors should be elected and re-elected.
Business review Details of the directors service agreements and letters of Burberry Group plc is required to set out in this report a fair appointment are given in the Directors Remuneration Report review of the business of the Group during the year to 31 March on pages 70 to 79.
2010 and of the position of the Group at the end of the financial year and a description of the principal risks and uncertainties Directors share interests facing the Group known as a business review.
The purpose Interests of the directors holding office at 31 March 2010 in of the business review is to enable shareholders to assess how the shares of the Company are shown within the Directors the directors have performed their duty under section 172 of Remuneration Report on page 79.
There were no changes to the Companies Act 2006 duty to promote the success of the the beneficial interests of the directors between the period company.
The Strategy and Group Overview sections on pages 31 March 2010 and 25 May 2010.
15 to 35 and the Business and Financial Review on pages 38 Directors insurance and indemnities to 46 report on the activities and results for the year and give The Company maintains directors and officers liability insurance an indication of the Companys future developments.
The which gives appropriate cover for any legal action brought Corporate Responsibility Report is set out on pages 52 to 57. against its directors.
In accordance with section 236 of the A description of the principal risks and uncertainties facing the Companies Act 2006, qualifying third-party indemnity provisions Group is included on pages 48 to 51.
The sections of the Annual are in place for the directors and Company Secretary in respect Report referred to above, fulfil the requirements of the Business of liabilities incurred as a result of their office, to the extent Review and are incorporated by reference and shall be deemed permitted by law.
to form part of this report.
Share capital Principal activities Details of the authorised and issued share capital, together with Burberry Group plc is a holding company.
The Group designs, details of movements in the issued share capital of Burberry sources, and markets luxury mens, womens and childrens Group plc during the year are shown in note 21 which is clothing and non-apparel accessories globally through a incorporated by reference and deemed to be part of this report.
diversified network of retail, wholesale, franchise and digital commerce channels worldwide.
Burberry also licences third The Company has one class of ordinary share which carries no parties to manufacture and distribute products using the right to fixed income.
Each share carries the right to one vote at Burberry trademarks.
general meetings of the Company.
The ordinary shares are listed on the Official List and traded on the London Stock Exchange.
Revenue and profit As at 31 March 2010, the Company had 435,024,782 ordinary Revenue during the period amounted to 1,279.9m 2009: shares in issue, of which 77,215 were held as treasury shares.
The attributable profit for the year was 81.4m 2009: loss of 6.0m.
In order to retain maximum flexibility, the Company proposes to renew the authority granted by ordinary shareholders at the Dividends Annual General Meeting in 2009, to repurchase up to just under The directors recommend that a final dividend of 10.5p per 10% of its issued share capital.
Further details are provided in ordinary share 2009: 8.65p in respect of the year to 31 March the separate circular to shareholders incorporating the Notice 2010 be paid on 5 August 2010 to those persons on the of this years Annual General Meeting.
Register of Members as at 9 July 2010.
At the Annual General Meeting in 2009, shareholders approved An interim dividend of 3.5p per ordinary share was paid to resolutions to allot shares up to an aggregate nominal value of shareholders on 4 February 2010.
This will make a total dividend 72,000 and to give directors authority to allot shares for cash of 14.0p per ordinary share in respect of the financial year to other than pro rata to existing shareholders.
The aggregate dividends paid and recommended shareholders granted the directors authority to allot shares up to in respect of the year to 31 March 2010 total 60.8m.
an aggregate nominal value of 144,000 for use in a rights issue Directors only.
Resolutions will be proposed at this years Annual General The names and biographical details of the directors holding Meeting to renew these authorities.
office at the date of this report are set out on page 61 and are No person has any special rights of control over the Companys incorporated by reference into this report.
share capital and all issued shares are fully paid.
At the 2010 Annual General Meeting, John Peace and Ian Carter There are no specific restrictions on the size of holding nor on will retire by rotation in accordance with Article 80 of the Articles of the transfer of shares which are both governed by the general Association and, being eligible, will offer themselves for re-election.
provisions of the Articles of Association and prevailing legislation.
In accordance with the Companys Articles of Association, as John The directors are not aware of any agreements between holders Smith was appointed by the directors since the last Annual General of the Companys shares that may result in restrictions on the Meeting, he will retire and a resolution proposing his election will be transfer of securities or voting rights.
put forward at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting.
62 Burberry Group PLC annual report 2009 10 DIRECTORS Report CONTINUED The directors have no current plans to issue shares other than Employment policies in connection with employee share schemes.
Equal opportunities The Group is committed to ensuring the consistent profitable Details of employee share schemes are set out in note 26. growth of its business and a policy of equal opportunity in The Burberry Group plc ESOP Trust has waived all dividends employment is integral to this commitment.
The aims of the payable by the Company in respect of the ordinary shares held Groups policy are to ensure that the most capable job by it.
In addition, the Burberry Group plc SIP Trust has waived applicants are recruited and the most competent employees all dividends payable by the Company in respect of the in the Group progress.
All employees will receive fair and equal unappropriated ordinary shares held by it.
treatment irrespective of sex, race, ethnic origin, nationality, The total dividends waived in the year to 31 March 2010 were marital status, age, religion, disability and sexual orientation.
In the situation where an employee becomes disabled, the Group will endeavour to assist the employee by adapting the With regard to the appointment and replacement of directors, job if appropriate or by offering a transfer to another position.
the Company is governed by its Articles of Association, the Combined Code, the Companies Act 2006 and related Health and safety legislation.
The Articles of Association may be amended The Group has a health and safety policy approved by the Board by special resolution of the shareholders.
and a Global Health and Safety Committee which is chaired by the Executive Vice President Chief Financial Officer.
Each Substantial shareholdings region has a local Committee which reports into the Global As at 25 May 2010, the Company had been notified under Committee.
There have been a number of internal and external Rule 5 of the Disclosure and Transparency Rules of the following audits carried out to provide assurance.
There has been no major interests in its issued ordinary share capital: enforcement action following a routine visit by inspectors.
Number of ordinary % of total shares voting rights Further information regarding the Groups employment policies are provided in the Corporate Responsibility Report on pages 52 to 57.
Blackrock Inc 39,186,967 9.03% Massachusetts Financial Employee involvement Services Company 25,720,195 5.94% Employee communication The Group believes that employee communication is important Ameriprise Financial, Inc 21,771,730 5.01% in building strong relationships with, and in motivating and Schroders plc 21,666,352 4.99% retaining, employees.
The Group makes use of various methods JPMorgan Chase & Co 21,578,580 4.99% and channels, all of which are implemented globally, including, Capital Research and face-to-face briefings, open discussion forums with senior Management Company 20,645,893 4.77% management, email and a corporate intranet to ensure that FMR Corp 18,315,823 4.16% matters of interest and importance are conveyed to employees quickly and effectively.
In addition, quarterly updates which Legal and General highlight the Groups performance and its ongoing strategic Group plc 17,296,785 3.99% initiatives are webcast globally.
Furthermore, development of content such as videos and digital webpages to communicate Interests in own shares key initiatives, events and other brand messages has further Details of the Companys interests in its own shares are set out enhanced communication internally.
in note 21 to the financial statements.
Employee share ownership Charitable donations The Group recognises the importance of good relationships with During the year to 31 March 2010, the Group donated 1.4m employees of all levels and runs incentive schemes and share 2009: 1.1m for the benefit of charitable causes.
These donations ownership schemes for the benefit of employees.
Further details principally comprised cash.
Further information regarding the of these schemes are set out in the Directors Remuneration charitable donations made during the year are contained in the Report on pages 70 to 79.
Corporate Responsibility Report on pages 52 to 57.
The Group again intends to invite Employees in the UK, Germany, Political donations Hong Kong, Italy, Korea, Singapore, Spain and Taiwan to take The Company made no political donations during the year in line part in the Sharesave Scheme.
The Group also intends to with its policy.
In keeping with the Companys approach in prior re-introduce the grant of free share awards or cash based awards years, shareholder approval is being sought at the forthcoming to all employees during the financial year 2010 11.
Annual General Meeting, as a precautionary measure, for the Company and its subsidiaries to make donations and or incur Further details on the Groups approach to employee involvement expenditure which may be construed as political by the wide and communications are provided in the Corporate Responsibility definition of that term included in the relevant legislation.
Further Report on pages 52 to 57. details are provided in the separate circular to shareholders incorporating the Notice of this years Annual General Meeting.
Burberry Group PLC annual report 2009 10 63 DIRECTORS Report CONTINUED Financial instruments Auditors The Groups financial risk management objectives and policies In accordance with section 418 2 of the Companies Act 2006, are set out within note 25 to the financial statements on pages each of the Companys directors in office as at the date of this 112 to 114.
Note 25 also details the Groups exposure to foreign report confirms that: exchange, price, interest, credit and liquidity risks.
These notes so far as the director is aware, there is no relevant audit are incorporated by reference and are deemed to form part of information of which the Companys auditors are unaware this report.
he or she has taken all the steps that he or she ought to have Creditor payment policy taken as a director in order to make himself or herself aware For all trade creditors, it is policy to: of any relevant audit information and to establish that the agree and confirm the terms of payment at the Companys auditors are aware of that information commencement of business with that supplier The Groups auditors are  LLP.
pay in accordance with contractual and other legal obligations A resolution to re-appoint  LLP as auditors to the Company will be proposed at the forthcoming continually review the payment procedures and liaise with Annual General Meeting.
suppliers as a means of eliminating difficulties and maintaining a good working relationship Note 5 in the financial statements states the auditors fees both for audit and non-audit work.
The Company had no trade creditors at 31 March 2010 2009: nil.
Going concern Significant contracts change of control The Groups business activities, together with the factors likely Pursuant to the Companies Act 2006, the directors disclose that to affect its future development, performance and position are in the event of a change of control in the Company, the Groups set out in the Business and Financial Review on pages 38 to 46, 200m Revolving Credit Facility dated 16 March 2009 and the along with details of the Groups cash flows, liquidity position Groups Bi-lateral Multicurrency Revolving Credit Facilities and borrowing facilities.
Financial risk management objectives, totalling 60m dated 13 June 2008 could become repayable.
details of financial instruments and hedging activities, and In circumstances of change of control of the Company, Angela exposures to credit risk and liquidity risk are described in Ahrendts may terminate her employment.
Her entitlement in note 25, pages 112 to 114. respect of remuneration is set out on page 73 of the Directors The directors have reviewed the Groups forecasts and Remuneration Report where Burberry terminates her service projections.
These include the assumptions around the Groups agreement in circumstances where the Remuneration products and markets, expenditure commitments, expected Committee determines that Angela Ahrendts performance cash flows and borrowing facilities.
Taking into account does not meet the financial expectations of the Board reasonably possible changes in trading performance, and after or shareholders.
making enquiries, the directors have a reasonable expectation In circumstances where the Companys shares cease to be that the Group has adequate resources to continue in listed, Stacey Cartwright may terminate her employment on operational existence for the forseeable future.
Accordingly three months notice and would be entitled to her base salary they consider it appropriate to adopt the going concern for a period of nine months following termination.
basis in preparing the annual report and accounts.
Details of the service agreements of the executive directors are Annual General Meeting set out on page 72 of the Directors Remuneration Report.
The Annual General Meeting of the Company will be held at the offices of Slaughter and May, One Bunhill Row, London, EC1Y The provisions of the Companys employee share plans may 8YY commencing at 9.30am on Thursday, 15 July 2010.
The cause options and awards granted under such plans to vest Notice of this years Annual General Meeting is included in the upon a change of control.
The Notice is available to view Essential contracts under the Shareholder Information section of the Companys The Group has a number of contractual arrangements with website www.
suppliers both of goods and services, wholesale customers, By order of the Board licensees who manufacture and distribute products using the Burberry trademarks, and franchisees.
In addition, the Group Michael Mahony occupies leasehold premises for the purpose of conducting General Counsel and Secretary its business.
Whilst these arrangements are important to the 25 May 2010 business of the Group, individually none of them are essential Registered Office: to the business of the Group.
Horseferry House Horseferry Road London SW1P 2AW Registered Number: 03458224 64 Burberry Group PLC annual report 2009 10
