STRATEGY Brand and Business From its founding in 1856 when Thomas Burberry The Group management and their teams are challenged constructed his first outerwear garments for the sportsmen with the responsibility of maintaining the integrity and vitality of Basingstoke, England, Burberry has become a leading of this extraordinary brand while continuing to develop a luxury brand with a global business.
business which remains relevant to ever-evolving markets and consumer tastes.
The following pages outline Burberrys The Burberry brand is dened by its: strategy under each of its five key strategic themes.
Authentic British heritage Unique democratic positioning within the luxury arena Our strategic themes Founding principles of quality, function and modern classic style, rooted in the integrity of its outerwear Leveraging the franchise Globally recognised icon portfolio: the trench coat, Intensifying non-apparel development trademark check and Prorsum horse logo Accelerating retail-led growth Today, the business built upon this brand is distinguished by: Multi-category competency: womenswear, menswear, Investing in under-penetrated markets non-apparel and childrenswear with innovative outerwear as the foundation Pursuing operational excellence Channel expertise in retail including e-commerce, wholesale and licensing Global reach: operations in markets throughout the world, with a balance across major geographic regions A unied, passionate and seasoned management team 15 STRATEGY CONTINUED leveraging the franchise Through more coordinated use of brand assets and greater integration of its global organisation, Burberry has the opportunity to enhance consumer responsiveness and operate more efficiently and effectively.
This potential lies both in the front and back-of-house operations.
Key highlights in 2009 10 include: Capitalising on operational improvements.
Investment in operational improvements has allowed Accelerating brand momentum.
Continued greater speed and responsiveness in delivering investment in the Burberry brand is fundamental to its products to consumers, pointing the way to a further long-term success.
Strategies to enhance and elevate evolution of the Burberry business model that will the brand span all consumer-facing platforms, both provide fresh merchandise to stores and online with physical and virtual.
2009 10 included the return of the greater frequency.
April Showers is one example of Burberry womenswear show to London Fashion Week this in practice.
In mid-January 2010, following a th to mark its 25 year anniversary, an event that strong holiday season, the merchant and design garnered extensive editorial coverage and served as a teams developed a capsule collection to supplement geographical reconnection of the brand with its British the main Spring 2010 offering, which was then heritage.
In stores, the Group continued to roll out delivered to stores at the end of April.
the Burberry Experience, a comprehensive sales and service programme.
During the year, the brand was Licence amendment.
In October 2009, the Group featured on the covers of 270 leading publications and announced an amendment to its apparel licence in once again included on Interbrands list of the Top 100 Japan which better positions Burberry to optimise its Global Brands 2009. presence in Japan and the high-growth Asian region over the medium term.
With the relabelling of the casual component of the womens and mens Spanish restructuring.
2009 10 also saw the apparel lines as Burberry Brit, management brought restructuring of the Groups business in Spain.
greater clarity to the brands segmentation.
This Deteriorating performance during the previous two separation from the more sartorial Burberry London years in combination with the poor state of Spains line allows the businesses to offer more complete economy had resulted in a local operation that was assortments in each segment and to target no longer viable.
While difficult, the closing of that customers and distribution more effectively.
operation in favour of integrating the market with global Burberry is in the long-term best interests of the brand.
16 STRATEGY CONTINUED leveraging the franchise continued Leading digital Core Values Through the integrated efforts of its Marketing, The core purpose of the Burberry brand is to protect, Creative Media and IT teams, Burberry has built explore and inspire.
These three values are at the heart sector leading expertise in the digital media arena.
of Burberry, its culture and behaviour as a company.
The work of the Burberry Foundation and further progress Live streaming.
The live streaming of the Spring in corporate responsibility demonstrates these values 2010 show invited consumers globally to share the full in practice.
experience of a Burberry fashion show for the first time.
The brand broke new ground by live streaming in 3D Burberry Foundation.
Dedicated to helping young the Autumn 2010 show to five locations around the people realise their dreams and potential through world.
The webcast also allowed consumers to the power of their creativity, the Burberry Foundation purchase runway items for expedited delivery provides a strategic platform for the Groups engagement another first for the luxury sector.
in community initiatives and facilitates charitable giving in regions where the majority of employees live and work.
The brand has established a leading In 2009 10, partially funded by the sale of iconic rainwear presence across social media platforms, creating new and scarves, Burberry donated approximately 1m to communities of interest.
Burberry is the leading luxury the Foundation, supporting 14 innovative charities in brand on Facebook with over one million fans.
During eight cities around the world.
the year, the Group also launched artofthetrench.
com, a social media website which introduces the iconic Corporate responsibility.
The Group continued its trench coat to the digital generation and is attracting efforts to improve corporate responsibility performance the new, younger luxury customer to the brand.
and to inspire employees with respect to issues of ethical trading, environmental responsibility and community investment.
2009 10 initiatives included a 30% increase in factory visits by Burberry KPI: Total revenue growth measures the appeal of the brand representatives and a reduction in CO emissions 2 to consumers, be it through Burberry stores, or those of its department per unit of turnover from Group facilities.
stores or specialty retail customers.
Total revenue growth Year to March 1,280m in 2009 10 1% Retail Wholesale Licensing 06 07 08 09 10 Growth rate is year-on-year underlying change i. e. at constant exchange rates In 2009 10, in challenging and volatile markets, Burberrys revenue was 1,280m a 1% underlying increase on the previous year.
Revenue in the first half declined by 5% underlying, but grew by 6% in the second half, driven by Burberrys retail stores.
18 743 3% 850 15% 995 18% 1,202 7% 1,280 1% STRATEGY CONTINUED Intensifying non-apparel development Intensify, focus on and invest in under-penetrated non-apparel categories to further leverage Burberrys unique positioning, design and merchandising expertise and iconic branding through investment in product development, marketing and supply chain.
Non-apparel continues to be a key driver of growth Soft accessories.
With an intensied and extended for the Group.
For the third consecutive year, it was assortment, soft accessories led non-apparel growth.
the fastest-growing product area within Burberry, The Burberry snood was the hit of the Autumn Winter and continues to offer scope for further gains across season, garnering favourable editorial comment around a number of under-penetrated categories.
The core of Burberrys nonShoes.
Shoes continue to present significant apparel offering, large leather goods drove non-apparel expansion opportunities.
Investment continued in the growth in the year.
In line with the continued consumer year with added design and product development.
shift towards a more classic aesthetic, new Japan non-apparel joint venture.
Established to build reinterpretations of Burberrys heritage icons were a the brands non-apparel business in Japan, the worlds key factor in handbags.
largest accessories market, the joint venture became Menswear.
The Group continues to see opportunity in fully operational during the year.
The team refurbished the further expansion of mens non-apparel.
Accessory Tokyos Omotesando store and opened nine assortments were broadened and upgraded during the concessions in prestige department stores.
year, with small leather goods and belts performing well at retail.
KPI: Growth in non-apparel revenue measures the success of Burberrys initiatives to expand in this category, which includes handbags, small leather goods, scarves, shoes, belts and jewellery.
Growth in non-apparel revenue Year to March 420m in 2009 10 10% 06 07 08 09 10 Revenue is retail and wholesale only.
Growth rate is year-on-year underlying change i. e. at constant exchange rates In 2009 10, non-apparel revenue increased by 10% underlying, compared to 1% for Burberry as a whole.
Non-apparel accounted for 36% of retail and wholesale revenue, compared to 33% last year.
Handbags, which are core to non-apparel, contributed about half of sales.
20 189 0% 211 15% 290 39% 366 12% 420 10% STRATEGY CONTINUED Accelerating retail-led growth Shift company culture and processes from a static wholesale model to a dynamic retail model.
Retail-led growth refers not only to the operation of Burberrys own stores, but also to a fundamental shift in the Groups operating structure.
2009 10 saw progress in several areas: Digital integration and e-commerce development.
The Group is committed to creating a seamless New store openings.
While new store development link between the physical and digital presence of was planned conservatively, reecting wider market the Burberry brand, responding to the direction of conditions, the Group added 21 mainline stores during retailing as an increasingly multichannel proposition.
the year, including Burberrys first agship store in Asia In e-commerce, Burberry achieved 60% growth in the at Singapores Ion Orchard.
The Group also added year, and plans continued investment in this channel.
locations in existing markets, including Paris and New The brand is also bringing this commitment to digital York to intensify Burberrys presence in these high technology in-store.
E-commerce enabled tablets potential metropolitan areas.
were added to mainline stores during 2009 10.
Execution of the global buy, a common concessions were renovated over the period, in line product assortment across Burberry stores, with efforts to ensure greater consistency of brand contributed to enhanced sourcing efficiencies, more expression and customer experience.
consistent in-store presentation and improved sellEnhancing service.
Burberry is committed to through rates.
achieving industry-leading standards of customer service in its stores.
The roll-out of the Burberry Experience sales and service programme in the US and Europe was completed during the year, and is well advanced in Asia.
In addition, to further improve service to top customers, the Group launched a pilot initiative aimed at better meeting the specic requirements of these clients.
KPI: Growth in retail revenue includes comparable store sales KPI: Number of stores measures the reach of Burberry growth measuring growth in productivity of existing stores, plus sales directly-operated stores around the world.
Growth in retail revenue % growth As at March Year to March 440 15% in 2009 10 in 2009 10 Mainline Comparable stores Concessions New space Outlets 06 07 08 09 10 06 07 08 09 10 Growth rate is year-on-year underlying change i. e. at constant exchange rates.
Comparable store sales growth is dened as the annual percentage increase in sales The number of stores directly operated by Burberry increased by 21 in from stores that have been opened for more than 12 months, adjusted for 2009 10, including a net 12 mainline stores and a net nine concessions closures and refurbishments.
In 2009 10, comparable store sales growth increased by 7% H1: 2%: H2: 10%, driven by product innovation, digital marketing and improved customer service.
The balance of revenue growth was driven by new space, which increased 9% on average during the year.
22 11% 24% 20% 14% 15% 260 292 368 419 440 STRATEGY CONTINUED Investing in under-penetrated markets Focus on and invest in under-penetrated markets.
For Burberry, these consist of both developed markets like the United States and emerging markets including China, India and the Middle East.
All distribution channels retail, wholesale and licensing are used to optimise these opportunities.
The Group continues to see strong growth Other emerging markets.
A new joint venture in India potential in the Americas across both wholesale and was announced in November 2009, combining the retail channels.
As part of strengthening its wholesale strengths of the Burberry brand and organisation with operations, Burberry opened a new regional the expertise of a local partner to address this young, headquarters with state-of-the-art showrooms.
In retail, exciting luxury market.
In conjunction with local management opened six stores, including the first partners, the Group also opened the first Burberry standalone test stores for the Burberry Brit and London stores in Bahrain and Lebanon in the year.
The Group also intensied efforts in Latin America with a dedicated on the ground management team, and the April 2010 opening of Burberrys first directly operated store in the region in Brasilia.
At year end, Burberry operated 50 stores in the mainland China market through a franchise partner.
A net 13 new stores were added in the year including the first standalone childrens store in this market.
KPI: Number of stores in Emerging Markets measures the reach of the Burberry brand in these high potential countries.
As at March 111 in 2009 10 06 07 08 09 10 Emerging Markets include: China, the Middle East, Eastern Europe, Russia, Brazil, India and other parts of South East Asia, South Africa and South America Burberry added a net 20 stores in Emerging Markets, of which 13 stores were in China and six were in the Middle East.
Of the total, 97 are operated under franchise, 12 by the Burberry Middle East joint venture, and two by the Burberry India joint venture.
In North America, which Burberry has also identied as an underpenetrated market, underlying retail and wholesale revenue increased by 2% in 2009 10, with an improved performance in the second half up 10%.
24 58 58 79 91 111 STRATEGY CONTINUED Pursuing operational excellence Burberry continues to pursue its goal to be recognised as much for operational expertise as for product and marketing excellence.
Efforts to drive operational excellence have driven Flexing the supply chain.
In response to the significant improvements across central functions, quickening pace of customer demand in the years the supply chain and IT: second half, management accelerated product deliveries and added an unplanned capsule collection Fully executed global cost efficiency programme.
These actions were enabled by Management successfully executed the 50m investment in the supply chain during the previous cost efficiency programme announced in 2008 09. two years.
Approximately half of the gains were driven by supply chain and corporate process efficiencies.
The Cost reductions, including rationalisation of internal Group moved toward completing SAP implementation manufacturing, showroom closures and intensive in the year.
The new system was deployed in the US expense and headcount management, accounted operations in April 2009 and in most of Asia in May for the remainder.
The Europe distribution hub was also converted in April 2010.
Presently, approximately 90% of Further progress in planning.
Building on the Burberrys stores are converted.
investment made in 2008 09, Burberry continued to develop a more sophisticated global planning and inventory management function.
Through enhanced sales forecasting and monitoring, combined with more disciplined procurement, inventory levels were reduced 36% year over year.
KPI: Retail and wholesale gross margin measures, among other things, KPI: Adjusted retail and wholesale operating profit margin measures how efficiently Burberry sources its products.
how Burberrys initiatives and its investment to improve its business processes, including sourcing, IT and logistics are impacting its profit margin.
Retail wholesale gross margin Adjusted retail wholesale operating Year to March profit margin Year to March 59.7% in 2009 10 11.6% in 2009 10 06 07 08 09 10 06 07 08 09 10 Adjusted operating profit margin is stated before exceptional items Gross margin in retail and wholesale increased by 760 basis points in 2009 10.
This was achieved by a combination of an increase in the Burberrys adjusted retail and wholesale operating profit margin increased proportion of full price sales and supply chain improvements.
from 9.8% to 11.6%, largely due to gross margin benets and savings from the global cost efficiency programme.
26 55.1% 56.9% 58.5% 52.1% 59.7% 14.5% 14.6% 14.9% 9.8% 11.6% BURBERRY GROUP OVERVIEW Our global reach Burberry is a global luxury brand with a distinctive British heritage, core outerwear base and one of the most recognised icons in the world.
Burberry designs, sources and markets apparel and accessories, selling through a diversied network of retail, digital commerce, wholesale and licensing channels worldwide.
The business is managed by channel, region and product, supported by corporate functions.
Sector Channels Global luxury goods market Revenue by channel Year to December in 2009 10 estimated retail value bn 150bn in 2009 Retail 58% Wholesale 34% Licensing 8% 07 08 09 10 06 Retail: includes 131 mainline stores, 262 concessions within department stores Company and industry estimates and 47 outlets, as well as digital commerce in 27 countries Wholesale: includes sales to prestige department stores and specialty retailers Burberry operates in the global luxury sector which, for worldwide, as well as sales to its franchisees who operate 97 Burberry stores, Burberrys relevant categories, is estimated to be an mainly in Emerging Markets approximately 150bn global market.
Licensing: royalty income primarily received from Burberrys licensees in Japan, its global licensees for fragrance, eyewear and timepieces, and from small menswear and European childrenswear licensees Since 2004, the global luxury goods market had grown by around 8% per annum prior to the economic downturn Balanced channel mix in late 2008.
In 2009, it is estimated that the global luxury Burberry sells its products to the end consumer through market declined by around 9%, as consumer confidence both the retail including digital commerce and wholesale and spending fell.
Industry analysts expect the sector to channels.
For 2009 10, retail accounted for 58% of show some recovery in 2010, although not as high as the revenue and wholesale 34%.
Burberry also has selective licensing agreements in Japan Burberry competes with a variety of luxury goods and globally, leveraging the local and technical expertise companies.
Some are large international conglomerates, of its licence partners.
owning many luxury brands: others are focused on a single brand locally: while others are small, more localised operations.
Burberrys relevant peer group differs by product category non-apparel, womenswear, menswear and childrenswear.
