BURBERRY GROUP OVERVIEW CONTINUED Our global reach continued Regions Retail wholesale revenue by region in 2009 10 27% 44% 24% 5% Americas Europe Asia Pacific Rest of World including Spain Broad geographic portfolio In 2009 10, Europe including Spain accounted for 44% of sales, Americas 27% and Asia Pacic 24%.
Emerging Markets, which spans across all regions and includes China, India, Russia, Eastern Europe and the Middle East, contributed 10% to retail and wholesale revenue.
Americas: includes US, Canada, Central and South America Asia Pacific: includes China 32 products Retail wholesale revenue by product Product pyramid in 2009 10 Prorsum Burberry London Non-apparel 36% Womenswear 35% Burberry Brit Menswear 24% Childrenswear 5% Diversified offering Product pyramid The Burberry brand has broad consumer appeal.
The Within the Burberry offering, there is a product hierarchy business is balanced between non-apparel 36% of dening components each with unique branding and 2009 10 revenue, womenswear 35%, menswear 24% a distinctive identity.
and the smaller but high potential childrenswear division At the top is Prorsum, the most fashion forward collection 5%.
Outerwear, which is the core of the apparel offer at centred around runway shows each year.
Prorsum, the over half of sales, is the category in which Burberry is topLatin word for moves forward, provides the design of-mind among consumers.
Burberry continues to grow inspiration for other ranges.
outerwear by continued product innovation.
Another key strategy is to grow non-apparel where revenue increased In the middle of the pyramid is Burberry London or what by 10% underlying in 2009 10.
Burberry is planning further a Burberry customer wears on weekdays for work, i. e. growth in all areas of the business over the next few years.
At the base of the pyramid is Burberry Brit what a Burberry customer wears on the weekend, i. e. casual wear.
Ranges at Burberry are balanced appropriately across the pyramid to drive sales and profitability.
Outerwear goes across all three levels as Burberry continues to innovate and diversify this core category.
A clearer delineation between Burberry London and Burberry Brit was introduced from Spring Summer 2010 as the ranges were relabelled.
Burberry London uses Beat check and tonal check branding strategies, whereas Burberry Brit uses innovative and more contemporary versions of the core iconic check.
33 BURBERRY GROUP OVERVIEW CONTINUED Diversified business model Corporate Key RESOURCES Burberrys channel, product and regional teams are In order to drive growth by pursuing its five key supported by core corporate functions which effectively strategies, Burberry must continue to invest in and efficiently sustain the business, as well as develop its key resources of: the brand in a cohesive manner around the world.
People Burberry employs more than 5,700 people worldwide.
At the front end, these include: The team has been strengthened considerably over the Design including product design, store design, past few years to drive delivery of the five strategic themes visual merchandising and creative media.
and support and sustain continued growth.
Burberry is Everything the consumer sees is developed centrally committed to attracting, retaining and developing world under Chief Creative officer, Christopher Bailey class talent.
As the business grows and the demand for expertise and ability across the organisation increases, Marketing including integrated advertising, PR and Burberry is ensuring that it develops a robust pipeline communications functions, which together focus on of talent throughout the Group.
2009 10 saw an increased building and elevating brand awareness through level of internal promotions and redeployments within traditional and digital media the Group to create stronger cross-functional teams.
Digital commerce a newly-formed team, driving digital Brand commerce globally to accelerate the brands digital With over 150 years of history, rooted in its authentic leadership position in the luxury sector and help unlock British heritage and the integrity of its outerwear, Burberry the huge opportunities in this high-growth channel continues to strive to elevate and extend the brand.
The Merchandising and planning this team assorts, brand has broad consumer appeal across genders and procures, and analyses our global collections in alignment generations: a unique demographic positioning within the with brand initiatives and commercial opportunities luxury arena: and broad global reach.
Burberry continues to invest in the brand by continually promoting design At the back end, these include: innovation, reinventing its icons and reinforcing the brand Supply chain responsible for sourcing, quality with professional merchandising and compelling marketing assurance, logistics and customer operations worldwide campaigns.
It is actively embracing digital and social media to extend the reach and appeal of the brand, especially to Corporate resources consists of service and the luxury customer of the future.
productivity, client services, customer services, commercial services, human resources, facilities Infrastructure and showrooms, asset and profit protection An effective and efficient infrastructure is required to support Burberrys growth objectives.
During the past IT covering global infrastructure, systems several years, the Group has invested substantial capital and support to restructure IT systems, modernise the supply chain, Strategy including licensing, new business including sourcing, logistics and distribution facilities, development and corporate strategy and close inefficient operations.
Burberry aims to be recognised as much for its operational expertise as for Finance and corporate support including all finance its product and marketing excellence.
functions, investor relations, business integration, legal and corporate responsibility, corporate planning and pricing, audit and risk More information at www.
com 34 KPIs The following key performance indicators KPIs are reviewed by the Board and the executive team to assess Burberrys progress against its five strategic initiatives.
Although the trends in each of the KPIs below will obviously be influenced by more than one of the strategic initiatives, the following information provides investors with a clear scorecard for Burberrys performance.
KPI year to March 2010 2009 2008 2007 2006 Total revenue growth % see page 18 1% 7% 18% 15% 3% Growth in non-apparel revenue % see page 20 10% 12% 39% 15% 0% Growth in retail revenue % see page 22 15% 14% 20% 24% 11% Number of stores see page 22 440 419 368 292 260 Number of stores in Emerging Markets see page 24 111 91 79 58 58 Retail and wholesale gross margin % see page 26 59.7% 52.1% 58.5% 56.9% 55.2% Adjusted retail and wholesale operating profit margin % see page 26 11.6% 9.8% 14.9% 14.6% 14.5% Adjusted diluted earnings per share growth % see below 16% 4% 9% 21% 9% KPI: Growth in adjusted diluted EPS is a key valuation Total shareholder return metric for Burberrys shareholders.
As explained on page 71 in the Directors Remuneration Report, Burberry also monitors Total Shareholder Return TSR.
This measures the growth in value of a shareholding EPS growth assuming dividends are reinvested to purchase additional Adjusted diluted earnings per share units of stock.
35.1p Corporate responsibility in 2009 10 Burberry also recognises its responsibility to key stakeholders in managing its business.
The progress Burberry has made this year in respect of its supply chain, people management and employee communications, community involvement and environmental matters is reported on pages 52 to 57.
06 07 08 09 10 Adjusted diluted EPS is stated before exceptional items Adjusted diluted EPS rose 16% to 35.1p in 2009 10 reecting 22% growth in adjusted operating profit, partially offset by a net interest charge of 5.1m and a higher tax rate.
