14 Management review independent fiduciary services Results Some notable highlights of the year are set Independent fiduciary services profit before tax out below.
increased by 2.2% from 8.76 million to 8.95 million.
The prior year profit benefited from a one-off Corporate trusts gain of 694,000 as a result of a change made to Among the new roles we secured were: trustee of the pension scheme.
Revenue return per share debt programmes of two train leasing companies increased by 8.8% from 5.69p to 6.19p.
The Porterbrook and Eversholt: a major security agent effective tax rate fell from 23.8% to 18.8% owing role for the French company Technicolor: and to changes in the taxation of overseas income.
appointments for many new clients including Electra Private Equity, Hyde Housing, Northern Gas Independent fiduciary services businesses Networks, and TUI Travel.
We were also appointed Law Debenture is a leading provider of independent trustee by ETF Securities on its innovative foreign third party fiduciary services, including corporate currency programme and on a base metals and pension trusts, service of process, treasury programme, believed to be the first of its kind in management and structured finance administration, the London market.
corporate services, board effectiveness and whistle We secured a significant role as trustee to enable blowing.
The businesses are monitored and British Airways to preserve its UK nationality for the overseen by a board comprising the heads of the purposes of certain international traffic rights, relevant business areas, chaired by a non-executive following its merger with Iberia.
Acting through a independent director, currently Christopher Smith.
special purpose subsidiary, we hold British Airways B shares which carry minimal economic rights Review of 2010 representing 50.1% of the total number of issued The independent fiduciary businesses again shares in BA, exercising the votes attaching to the performed well.
Although the markets where we shares in accordance with the terms of the trust.
operate are yet to return to pre-recession levels, they were livelier than in 2009, particularly for There has continued to be a high level of postservice of process appointments.
We maintained issuance work on existing trusts.
Terms for market share across all of the businesses and settlement of the long running disputes over the continued with our efforts to augment revenues by Polish company, Elektrim, have finally been agreed.
diversifying into new areas were successful.
Activity levels in pre-existing transactions remained high, Pension trusts allowing us to charge additional fees.
The pension scheme trusteeship service continued to grow and in consequence we added several highTowards the end of the year, we added a new calibre individuals to our team.
Pension schemes business line board effectiveness services.
face many challenges and our strong and This enables us to offer boards of all kinds an experienced team are well placed to help schemes independent, external evaluation service in respond to those challenges.
Recognising that, accordance with the revised UK Corporate clients are increasingly asking us to be the chair of Governance Code, as well as general board director their trustee boards.
Now firmly cemented in the development services and business intelligence on pensions industry calendar, the 2010 annual debate corporate governance.
Revenues will begin to flow was the best attended to date and we look forward from this new business during 2011. to another lively evening in May 2011 when the subject will be This house believes that pensions would be better off without politicians.
The Law Debenture Corporation p. l. c. www.
com 15 Corporate services Hong Kong Our long established and high regarded service We had a successful year in the Far East, reflecting of process business saw a welcome upturn in the continuing resurgence in economic activity in the new appointments as the number of corporate region.
Service of process appointments returned to transactions overseas increased in line with the pre-credit crisis levels, new escrow appointments global recovery.
increased significantly and the employee share trust business flourished.
We successfully launched The corporate services business had a good year.
exclusive co-operation arrangements with Jiangsu Despite continuing low activity levels in the structured International Trust Company Limited in Shanghai, finance markets, we were appointed to new enabling us to provide trustee and escrow services securitisations originated by Eversholt Rail and for foreign investors in China.
We also picked up business from other markets, including an appointment as company Channel Islands secretary of NBNK Investments, a company seeking While income rose on new pension trustee and short to become, through acquisition, a new bank for retail term escrow appointments, provisions for doubtful and smaller company customers.
debts were higher than usual, resulting in a slight decline in net profits.
Treasury and asset backed solutions The integration of our treasury management and Summary and outlook structured finance administration businesses has Nearly all of our independent fiduciary businesses enabled these businesses to grow and develop.
Our achieved or bettered their revenue targets.
During a cash escrow business remains very active and we year when market conditions improved slightly, but are well placed to capitalise on third party servicing by no means reaching pre-recession levels, this is a opportunities as market activity picks up.
In 2011, we expect activity levels to be influenced less by work arising from preSafecall existing transactions and more by new appointments.
Our external whistle blowing service increased its This will be reliant, however, upon the continued client base by 25%.
Notable appointments included growth of the global economy and some rejuvenation Tullow Oil, Atkins, Michelin and EDF Energy.
The of the banking sector, from which a good proportion commercial and regulatory benefits of independent of our business emanates, but which remains more confidential reporting have become even more sluggish than we would prefer.
pronounced with the advent of The Bribery Act 2010.
The need for firms to have in place adequate procedures to comply with the Act has led to an Caroline Banszky increased number of enquiries for our service.
Overseas United States The US business generated positive results across all of its sectors of operation.
Notable new trust appointments included Ambac Financial, Las Vegas Monorail and Bank United Trustee.
Administration and collateral agent appointments and escrow and paying agent services also performed well.
The US corporate services businesses, including Delaware Corporate Services, had an excellent year, recording their highest profits yet.
com The Law Debenture Corporation p. l. c.
