20 Directors report continued Law Debentures responsibilities as an A conflict of interest could potentially arise from the institutional shareholder Corporations investments in products operated by The Corporations policy is as follows: its investment manager, Henderson.
The board is mindful of this and manages the potential conflict by Law Debenture will normally support incumbent careful monitoring of the performance of any such management and, where practicable, vote in favour funds.
To the extent necessary in these cases, the of resolutions proposed by the boards of companies Corporation would not hesitate to exercise votes in which it has a shareholding, but reserves the right against resolutions where it felt that shareholders to vote against management where appropriate.
The board determines the Corporations investment The Corporation does not believe that conflicts can strategy but does not issue express instructions to arise between its duties as an institutional the investment manager on transactions in particular shareholder and the independent fiduciary services shares.
Where Law Debenture believes that work undertaken by the Corporations subsidiaries.
incumbent management is failing in its duties, Law The investment manager has complete discretion as Debenture or on its behalf, the Corporations to portfolio decisions and as a matter of policy, has investment manager may attempt to enter into no access to non public knowledge about any of dialogue with the company concerned in an attempt the activities of the independent fiduciary services to alter the managements position.
Where this is not possible, or where incumbent The Corporation has complied with the requirements management declines to alter its behaviour, Law of the Stewardship Code, introduced during the Debenture will consider voting against resolutions year, and its statement of compliance can be viewed proposed by the management.
Further, if it is deemed at www.
com investment-trust investornecessary or desirable, the Corporation would information corporate-governance.
consider acting collectively with other institutional investors to try and achieve a particular goal.
Repurchase of shares Henderson, on Law Debentures behalf, monitors During the year, the Corporation did not repurchase companies in which Law Debenture is invested, and any of its shares for cancellation.
It intends to from time to time may discuss matters of corporate seek shareholder approval to renew its powers to governance with such companies.
The Henderson repurchase shares for cancellation up to 14.99% corporate governance unit will notify Law Debentures of the Corporations issued share capital, if investment manager, who in turn will notify Law circumstances are appropriate.
Debenture, should matters arise that might lead the Shares may be issued in accordance with the Corporation to consider intervening, abstaining or articles of association see AGM resolution 11. voting against a particular proposal.
The Corporation will not hold shares in companies Substantial shareholdings and share information whose ethical and environmental practices are in its As at 28 February 2011, there were no view likely to damage the performance of the shareholders that had notified the Corporation of an business to the detriment of its shareholders.
interest in 3% or more of the issued share capital.
Share information as required by Section 992 of the Companies Act 2006 appears at page 68.
Unless expressly stated the Corporation has no disclosure to make under that section.
The Law Debenture Corporation p. l. c. www.
com 21 Shareholder relations services business being achieved.
Following a board The Corporation encourages communication decision in 2005 to discontinue the scheme and between the management and shareholders on replace it with a Deferred Share Bonus Plan, no matters of mutual interest.
All shareholders receive further options have been granted and total options a copy of the annual report and the interim outstanding at 31 December 2010 were as follows: statement, and the Corporation also provides this Number of Shares Exercise service to shareholders in nominee companies Date of grant option holders under option price where the nominee has made appropriate 28 March 2003 2 12,237 174.4p arrangements.
Shareholders wishing to receive 2 March 2004 5 24,213 228.2p reports and other communications electronically may do so by writing to the Corporation.
In addition to the periodic regulatory reports that are published Investment management via the stock exchange, the Corporation publishes a Henderson is responsible for the management of the monthly factsheet about the investment portfolio investment portfolio.
Henderson is fully aware of the performance and prospects on its website.
Corporations investment policy and provides a cost competitive service.
Consequently the directors Employee participation believe that the continuing appointment of Employees are informed of the financial aspects Henderson is in the best interests of shareholders.
of the groups performance through periodic The agreement does not cover custody or the management meetings.
Copies of the annual report preparation of data associated with investment and the interim statement are made available to all performance, which are outsourced, or record employees.
Details of the general bonus scheme are keeping, which is maintained by the Corporation.
contained in the remuneration report on page 29.
Fees paid to Henderson in the year amounted to The Corporation has since 1992 operated SAYE 965,000 2009: 751,000 and are based on schemes in which all UK full-time employees are 0.25% per annum of the average portfolio value, eligible to participate after completing a minimum excluding cash.
The underlying management fee of service requirement.
1% on the Corporations holdings in the Henderson Japanese and Pacific OEICs has been rebated.
Options outstanding under the SAYE schemes at 31 December 2010 were: The Corporation holds no shares in members of the HHG Group, the parent company of Henderson: it Number of Shares Exercise Date of grant option holders under option price has been notified that funds managed by members of the HHG Group held 158,816 shares in the 9 August 2006 8 12,939 283.70p Corporation at 31 December 2010.
From 1993 to 2004, the Corporation operated Executive Share Option Schemes, which enabled Payment of suppliers executives to be granted options to acquire shares in The group is committed to seeking the best terms the Corporation.
Options granted under the scheme possible for all types of business and hence there is are normally exercisable between the third and tenth no single policy as to the terms used.
For most anniversaries of the option grant date.
For options suppliers, the average credit period is 30 days.
granted from 1998 onwards, such exercise was contingent upon targets for the independent fiduciary www.
com The Law Debenture Corporation p. l. c. 22 Directors report continued Statement of directors responsibilities in Financial statements are published on the groups relation to the financial statements website in accordance with legislation in the United The directors are responsible for keeping proper Kingdom governing the preparation and accounting records which disclose with reasonable dissemination of financial statements, which may accuracy at any time the financial position of the vary from legislation in other jurisdictions.
The company, for safeguarding the assets of the maintenance and integrity of the groups website is company, for taking reasonable steps for the the responsibility of the directors.
The directors prevention and detection of fraud and other responsibility also extends to the ongoing integrity irregularities and for the preparation of a directors of the financial statements contained therein.
report and directors remuneration report which comply with the requirements of the Companies Acts.
Statement of information given to auditors The directors have confirmed that so far as they The directors are responsible for preparing the are aware, there is no relevant audit information of annual report and the financial statements in which the Corporations auditors are unaware, and accordance with the Companies Act 2006.
The that they have taken all the steps that they ought directors are also required to prepare financial to have taken as a director in order to make statements for the group in accordance with themselves aware of any relevant audit information International Financial Reporting Standards as and to establish that the Corporations auditors are adopted by the European Union IFRSs and Article 4 aware of that information.
The directors have chosen to prepare financial statements for the Corporation in Directors responsibility statement pursuant accordance with IFRSs.
to DTR4 International Accounting Standard 1 requires that The directors confirm to the best of their knowledge: financial statements present fairly for each financial The group financial statements have been prepared year the Corporations financial position, financial in accordance with International Financial Reporting performance and cash flows.
This requires the Standards as adopted by the European Union IFRSs faithful representation of the effects of transactions, and Article 4 of the IAS Regulation and give a true other events and conditions in accordance with the and fair view of the assets, liabilities, financial definitions and recognition criteria for assets, position and profit or loss of the group.
liabilities, income and expenses set out in the International Accounting Standards Boards The annual report includes a fair review of the Framework for the preparation and presentation of development and performance of the business and financial statements.
In virtually all circumstances, a the position of the group and parent company, fair presentation will be achieved by compliance with together with a description of the principal risks all applicable IFRSs.
A fair presentation also requires and uncertainties that they face.
the directors to: Auditors consistently select and apply appropriate A resolution to re-appoint BDO LLP as auditors to accounting policies: the Corporation will be proposed at the annual present information, including accounting policies, general meeting.
in a manner that provides relevant, reliable, By order of the board comparable and understandable information: and Law Debenture Corporate Services Limited provide additional disclosures when compliance Secretary with the specific requirements in IFRSs is insufficient to enable users to understand the 28 February 2011 impact of particular transactions, other events and Registered in England No.
30397 conditions on the entitys financial position and financial performance.
