Investment managers review 7 Overview Portfolio activity During the course of 2010 the global stock market rally gained Underlying portfolio activity in buying and selling shares was low momentum, registering an impressive recovery from the over the review period, with turnover of approximately 9% for markets nadir in March 2009.
Encouraging global economic the year.
Trading activity in the portfolio is usually modest, but growth was the main driver behind the advance in equities and this was particularly the case over the year, as we resisted the risk assets.
Well-positioned companies experienced sales temptation of reducing holdings in stocks where share prices growth at a time when they had capacity to fill orders, leading had advanced, because prices looked set to recover yet further.
to an increase in corporate profit margins.
Consensus earnings It is important to remember how far some shares fell in 2008, forecasts generally lagged behind the actual growth achieved, when the actions and pronouncements of some investors were meaning that the background for investors was positive, as a extreme.
This overreaction in the markets led to some shares continual stream of upgrades ensued, with companies being sold down to completely unjustified levels therefore the demonstrating impressive cash generation.
As a consequence recovery was likely to be a strong one.
The key question a of the financial crisis, firms have chosen to focus on paying shareholder in any company needs to ask is whether the firms down their debt, with the result that corporate balance sheets future operational performance justifies its current valuation and, are now generally very strong.
if it does, to keep with the holding regardless of how much that share price has recovered.
Many companies have improved Law Debentures portfolio benefited from the trend of improving substantially as investment propositions in recent years.
This company performances, with strength in the industrials sector can be measured by the straight valuation matrix of earnings, the major factor behind the portfolios outperformance during the dividend cover, and balance sheet strength.
Industrials, which are well-represented in the portfolio, were particularly boosted by the underlying economic expansion, as it That said, we are always alert to compelling new investment opportunities.
For example, we added a holding in the US is these firms that are providing goods and services demanded medical supplier Becton Dickinson, as the valuation was not by rapidly expanding emerging economies.
Such firms also reflective of the strength of its profit growth profile.
We reduced benefit from operational gearing, and were in the forefront of our corporate bond holdings by half to finance the purchase of profits growth.
Our holdings in the banking sector remain low as Strong cash generation and robust balance sheets led to visibility is poor over their prospective profits.
It is unclear how acceleration of dividend growth in the firms to which we are much capital they will require and whether they will be required exposed, as company boards became more sanguine about to separate their retail and wholesale operations.
This pick-up in dividends is set to continue and underpins adopting a positive stance towards Outlook equity investment.
We have employed a modest level of gearing Looking ahead to the coming year, the global economic to equity throughout the year, and our intention is to retain it recovery should continue across the developed world.
Given this because earnings growth is expected to continue to surprise favourable backdrop, top class manufacturing companies positively.
wherever they are based geographically look well-positioned to Geographically, the best performing area for the portfolio was benefit from the improving conditions, as long as they remain the US, as a result of the strong performance from industrial focused and competitive in their undertakings.
We are also giants Cummins and Caterpillar, while the weakest geographical hopeful that subdued wage pressure in the major economies will area was Continental Europe, as a result of the slower growth prevent a destabilising rise in inflation.
Therefore, to conclude, within some Mediterranean countries.
The Pacific region, again, the cocktail of good profits growth, dividend increases, performed strongly.
Law Debentures holdings here are split relatively low valuations, and modest inflation would suggest a between three different OEIC managers and a specialist positive outlook for equity investment.
It was this latter holding, Scottish Oriental Smaller Company Trust, that advanced the most as smaller companies in the area outperformed and the discount narrowed.
James Henderson The medium and smaller companies within the UK portfolio also Henderson Global Investors Limited appreciated substantially.
Other significant holdings by value 2010 2009 Value % of % of Rank Company 000 portfolio portfolio Rank 1 Henderson Asia Pacific Capital Growth 12,798 2.90 2.77 1 2 Henderson Japan Capital Growth 12,337 2.80 2.69 2 3 Baillie Gifford Pacific 9,783 2.22 2.13 3 4 First State Asia Pacific 8,610 1.95 1.81 4 5 Scottish Oriental Smaller Company Trust 6,130 1.39 1.09 7 6 National Grid 6.125% 15 04 14 5,814 1.32 1.52 5 12.58 Open ended investment companies.
The Law Debenture Corporation p. l. c. www.
