Directors report 2010 17 The directors present their annual report and the performance of the group are: net asset value audited financial statements for the year ended total return per share: the discount or premium in 31 December 2010.
The Corporation retains its share price to net asset value: and the cost of status as an investment trust and has been treated running the portfolio as a percentage of its value.
by HM Revenue & Customs HMRC and approved The net asset value total return combines the as such for the year ended 31 December 2009, total return on the portfolio and the earnings of the latest year for which financial statements have the independent fiduciary service business.
Such approval for the year ended The net asset value performance and other 2009 is subject to there being no subsequent perfomance factors affecting the group are included enquiry under Corporation Tax Self Assessment.
in the chairmans statement and the premium or In the opinion of the directors, the Corporation has discount to net asset value and cost of running the subsequently conducted its affairs so as to enable portfolio are given within the 10 year record.
it to obtain Sections 1158-1159 approval under the Corporation Tax Act 2010.
The Corporation, which The outlook for the investment portfolio is described as far as the directors are aware is not a close in the investment managers report and the outlook company, is registered as an investment company for the independent fiduciary services business is as defined in Section 833 of the Companies Act included in its management review.
The directors consider Law Debenture considers that none of its trading that the group operates as a going concern.
activities has a negative environmental impact beyond the consumption of energy to service Business review its offices.
The group divides into two distinct complementary areas of business.
The Corporation is a global The groups employees are provided with a modern, investment trust, its portfolio of investments being comfortable working environment which complies managed by Henderson Global Investors Limited with all relevant safety regulations.
Independent fiduciary services receive a range of benefits designed to promote activities are corporate trusts, treasury management, good health including health insurance, medicals, pension trusts, corporate services including agent etc.
Independent confidential helpline facilities are for service of process, structured finance provided to enable employees to deal with issues of administration and whistle blowing services.
concern to them, whether work related or domestic.
During the year, a new business was added As a result of these measures, and senior Law Debenture Governance Services Limited will managements open style, staff turnover is provide board evaluation services to client boards, extremely low normally less than 10% per annum.
in accordance with the UK Corporate Governance The group does not support social and community Code.
The Corporations services are provided by initiatives, its offices being based in non-residential wholly owned subsidiaries with offices in London, financial districts.
Sunderland, New York, Delaware, Hong Kong, and the Channel Islands.
The board is required to give information about persons with whom Law Debenture has contractual The Corporations objective for the investment or other arrangements that are essential to the trust is to achieve long term capital growth in business of the group.
In the view of the board, the real terms and steadily increasing income.
The only contract that is essential is that in place with directors consider a number of performance Henderson, details of which are given elsewhere in measures to assess the groups success in the directors report.
The key performance indicators used to measure the progress and www.
com The Law Debenture Corporation p. l. c. 18 Directors report continued Investment policy It is permissible to hedge against currency The Corporations investment policy is as follows: movements on both capital and income account, subject again to prior authorisation of the board.
The Corporation carries on its business as a global Stock lending, trading in suspended shares and growth investment trust.
Its objective is set out in short positions are not permitted.
The aim is to achieve a higher rate of total return than the FTSE Actuaries All-Share The Corporations investment activities are subject Index through investing in a portfolio diversified both to the following limitations and restrictions: geographically and by industry.
No investment may be made which raises the To achieve this, investments are selected on the aggregate value of the largest 20 holdings, basis of what appears most attractive in the excluding investments in OEICs and in Scottish conditions of the time.
This approach means that Oriental Smaller Company Trust, to more than 40% there is no obligation to hold shares in any particular of the Corporations portfolio, including cash.
The type of company, industry or geographical location.
value of a new acquisition in any one company may The independent fiduciary services businesses do not exceed 5% of total portfolio value including not form part of the investment portfolio and are cash at the time the investment is made, further outwith this policy.
additions shall not cause a single holding to exceed 5%, and board approval must be sought to The Corporations portfolio will typically contain retain a holding, should its value increase above between 70 and 150 listed investments.
portfolio is widely diversified both by industrial sector and geographic location of investments in The Corporation applies a ceiling on effective order to spread investment risk.
While effective gearing will be employed in a typical range of 90% to 120%, the Whilst performance is measured against local and board retains the ability to reduce equity exposure UK indices, the composition of these indices does to below 90% if deemed appropriate.
not influence the construction of the portfolio.
As a consequence, it is expected that the Corporations The Corporation may not make investments in investment portfolio and performance will deviate respect of which there is unlimited liability.
Board approval must be sought for any proposed Because the Corporations assets are invested direct investments in certain jurisdictions.
internationally and without regard to the composition The Corporation has a policy not to invest more of indices, there are no restrictions on maximum or than 15% of gross assets in other UK listed minimum stakes in particular regions or industry investment companies.
However, such stakes are monitored in detail by the board at each board meeting in order Investment policy implementation to ensure that sufficient diversification is maintained.
During the year, the assets of the Corporation were Liquidity and long-term borrowings are managed invested in accordance with the investment policy.
with the aim of improving returns to shareholders.
A full list of holdings is disclosed on pages 12 and The policy on gearing is to assume only that level of 13 and detailed analyses of the spread of gearing which balances risk with the objective of investments by geographic region and industry increasing the return to shareholders.
In pursuit of sector are shown on pages 9 to 11.
NAV relative its investment objective, investments may be held in, performance against the FTSE All-Share Index is inter alia, equity shares, fixed interest securities, shown on page 3. interests in limited liability partnerships, cash and liquid assets.
Derivatives may be used but only with The top 20 equity holdings excluding collective the prior authorisation of the board.
Investment in investment companies comprise 35% of the total such instruments for trading purposes is proscribed.
The Law Debenture Corporation p. l. c. www.
com 19 The extent to which the Corporations objective has No director has a service contract with any member been achieved, and how the investment policy was of the group in excess of one year or was materially implemented, are described in the chairmans interested in any other contract with any member of statement on page 6 and the investment managers the group.
During the year, liability insurance was review on page 7. maintained for the benefit of directors and other officers.
Principal risks and uncertainties The principal risks of the Corporation relate to its Directors shareholdings investment activities and include market price risk, Beneficial interests as at 31 December 2010 2009 foreign currency risk, liquidity risk, interest rate risk, C. J. Banszky 207,959 144,351 and credit risk.
These are explained in note 19 to A. C. Cates 36,730 35,774 the accounts.
A. Kay 15,000 15,000 The principal risks of the independent fiduciary D. C. P. McDougall 410,000 410,000 services business arise during the course of C Smith 55,000 40,000 defaults, potential defaults and restructurings where Caroline Banszky received 1,993 shares on we have been appointed to provide services.
To 25 January 2011 under the Corporations deferred mitigate these risks we work closely with our legal bonus scheme.
There have been no other changes advisers and, where appropriate, financial advisers, in directors interests since 31 December 2010. both in the set up phase to ensure that we have as No director has a beneficial interest in the shares many protections as practicable, and at all other of any subsidiary company.
stages whether or not there is a danger of default.
The beneficial interest of James Henderson at Revenue, dividends and reserves 31 December 2010 was 50,000 2009: 50,000.
The revenue return attributable to shareholders for the year ended 31 December 2010 was Directors conflicts of interests 15,561,000.
The directors recommend a final The directors are under statutory duty to avoid dividend of 8.5p per share, which together with conflicts of interest.
The board has in place the interim dividend of 4.2p paid in September appropriate procedures to deal with conflicts and 2010, will produce a total of 12.7p 2009: potential conflicts, including an annual review, and 12.2p.
The final dividend will be paid on 20 April those procedures are operating effectively.
Each 2011 to holders on the register on the record director has declared all matters that might give rise date of 18 March 2011.
After deduction of the to a potential conflict of interest and these have interim and final dividends of 14,909,000 2009: been considered and where necessary approved 14,311,000, consolidated revenue reserves by the board.
Regulatory compliance The Corporation is subject to continuing obligations Directors applicable to premium listed companies, overseen All the directors on page 5 held office throughout by the UK Listing Authority UKLA, which is a the year.
division of the Financial Services Authority.
One company in the group, The Law Debenture Trust All directors are required to stand for re-election Corporation p. l. c. is regulated in the conduct of a every year.
The list of candidates, which the board limited range of authorised business activities.
supports, is set out in the notice of annual general The directors receive periodic reports from the meeting, along with a statement in each case of why compliance officer about its conduct.
com The Law Debenture Corporation p. l. c.
