The board 5 Douglas McDougall OBE John Kay Chairman Non-executive director Chairman of The Independent Investment Trust plc, Appointed to the board in September 2004.
The European Investment Trust PLC and The Scottish Business economist, writer and broadcaster.
Investment Trust plc and a director of The Monks Visiting Professor at the London School of Investment Trust, Pacific Horizon Investment Trust, Economics.
Founded London Economics, Britains Herald Investment Trust and Stramongate Assets plc.
Director Former joint senior partner of Baillie Gifford & Co, of SVM UK Active Fund plc, Value and Income Trust investment managers, and former chairman of IMRO, plc, Scottish Mortgage Investment Trust plc and of the Association of Investment Trust Companies Clear Capital, an equity research boutique.
and of the Fund Managers Association.
Joined the He writes a weekly column for the Financial Times.
board in 1998, becoming chairman in 2000.
Member of the audit, remuneration and nomination Chairman of the remuneration and nomination committees and chairman of L. D. Pension Plan committees, and a member of the audit committee.
Caroline Banszky Christopher Smith Managing director Non-executive director Appointed to the board in January 2002.
Former Appointed to the board on 1 March 2009. chief operating officer of SVB Holdings PLC now Former Managing Director Corporate Finance for called Novae plc, a Lloyds listed integrated vehicle, JP Morgan Cazenove.
Over 30 years experience in and former finance director of N. M. Rothschild & corporate finance and equity capital markets.
a member of the Panel on Takeovers and Mergers, a non-executive director of CG Asset Management Armel Cates Limited and a director of Allchurches Trust Limited.
Non-executive director A former partner of Clifford Chance and appointed He is chairman of the audit committee, a member to the board in February 2001.
Wide experience of the remuneration and nomination committees, of capital markets transactions including medium chairman of L. D. C. Trust Management Limited and term note programmes, securitisations and chairman of Law Debenture Trust Company of repackagings.
Director of Fatburen Investment BV New York Inc. and of  Trustee Company.
A member of the remuneration, nomination and audit committees and a director of the L. D. C. Trust Management Limited board.
Investment manager James Henderson Joined Henderson Global Investors in 1983 and has been an investment trust portfolio manager since 1990, managing Lowland Investment Company plc since then and Henderson Opportunities Trust plc since January 2006.
He first became involved in the management of Law Debentures portfolio in 1994 and took over sole management of the portfolio in June 2003. www.
com The Law Debenture Corporation p. l. c.
