32 ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2010 our performance investment management.
our performance our products index funds 2009 2010 Index funds aim to produce returns which are in Total funds under management FUM 354bn 315bn line with the performance of a benchmark index Gross new funds 33.1bn 31.5bn for any given asset class.
LGIM is the largest Net new funds 6.6bn 8.7bn provider of index fund management to pension funds and institutional clients in the UK, managing assets on behalf of over 3,000 clients.
LGIM also manages substantial index assets for a growing number of non-UK clients.
active equity and xed income net cash generation LGIM provides actively managed equity and fi xedincome funds which aim to produce a higherreturn than the market over the medium tolonger term.
162m liability driven investment ldi funds LGIM provides a range of liability driven 2009: 125m investment LDI solutions, often involving derivatives, aimed at managing the asset ifrs operating profit and liability risk of our institutional clients.
property LGIM is a signifi cant manager of UK commercial property and is an active property adviser and 206m developer on behalf of UK and international property fund investors.
2009: 172m private equity LGV Capital is a well established provider of private equity in the UK mid-market and has a 20 year history of successfully backing management teams in growing the value of their businesses.
lgim has been successful in its strategy to diversify by growing its core active management capability and defined benefit pensions fide-risking solutions alongside its market leading index tracking business.
kevin gregory interim chief executive officer, lgim L&G AR10 04 p28-39 230311 AT.
indd 32 25 03 2011 11:15 our performance ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2010 33 awards and achievements focus on risk management 2010 awards, achievements, investments recognition Risk management is an essential building block ofLGIMs approach to management.
Engaged Investor Awards: Best Client Service by an Investment Manager As one of the UKs largest investment management groups, our fund managers have a long history Financial News Awards for Excellence in of managing risk within fund and client guidelines.
Institutional Client Service Europe 2010: From consistently replicating market indices through our index funds to managing the effects Best DC Member Support of the credit crisis within our range of active fi xed UK Professional Pensions Awards: income portfolios, we are experts in adapting to a changing marketplace.
DC Investment Only Provider of the Year Mayor of London Green Awards 2010: Risk management is critical for our business and of utmost importance to our investors.
In order to Green Portfolio Award ensure different types of risks are given an explicit Mayor of London Green Awards 2010: focus, independent oversight is given to market, credit, liquidity, operational, regulatory and legal Building Improver Award 99 Gresham Street risks.
These risk management activities have Property Awards 2010: separate reporting lines to our investment teams Property Fund Manager of the Year and are overseen by a governance framework of senior committees and ultimately the Board.
While our size allows us to deploy signifi cant resource behind understanding and managing the legal, regulatory and operating environment, it is the proven processes, experience and skill of our teams which we believe is critical to ensuring risk is managed effectively.
united nations principles for responsible investment During 2010, LGIM expanded its long-established This is signifi cant both for LGIM and the global UK corporate governance and voting activities to investment community as LGIM is one of the the major international equity markets.
LGIM has largest index tracking managers to be participating now signed up to the United Nations Principles of in the scheme worldwide.
Signatories to the Responsible Investment UNPRI.
This is an initiative scheme commit to six fundamental principles to encourage asset managers, asset owners and of responsible ownership and governance and advisory companies around the world to incorporate must complete an annual survey on which they environmental, social and governance issues into are assessed on how effectively they have their investment analysis, develop engagement integrated the principles into their business.
policies and seek appropriate disclosures from the companies in which they invest.
indd 33 25 03 2011 11:15 34 ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2010 our performance investment management.
lgim is one of the largest A key theme in the index fund market has been the provision of passive fund management across investors in the uk stock market alternatively weighted funds.
This has extended and the largest manager of uk our range of index tracking products.
over 4% of the uk equity market is held internationalisation LGIMs international distribution strategy has led by lgim on behalf of its clients.
to a 177% increase in gross inflows from overseas clients of 6.1bn 2009: 2.2bn.
lgim offers a full range of passive and active fund 2010 saw the successful launch of the first in a series of new pooled funds structured as an Open Ended management for pension and Investment Company OEIC which meets the institutional clients across requirements of European Institutional investors.
This builds on our evolving euro credit capabilities with mandates won this year in Scandinavia, Germany and Holland.
We are growing our ability to service international markets such as the Middle East and continue to expand in the US with mandate wins in Liability Driven Investment and Active Fixed Income.
index funds Index fund management remains a core part of LGIMs business.
As at the end of December 2010, total passive assets under management were 229bn 2009: 208bn LGIM clients include pension funds, institutional and gross new business amounted to 23.7bn in 2010 investors, corporates, charities and life companies 2009: 23.9bn.
Our flagship funds continued to consistently track their indices, producing returns with a healthy, positive bias versus their benchmarks while remaining within their target tracking tolerances.
The size and stability of the client base within our market leading index tracking business has resulted in high Legal & General Investment Management LGIM persistency and good quality earnings.
delivered record IFRS operating profit of 206m in 2010, an increase of 20% over 2009 2009: 172m.
liability driven investment ldi New business volumes of 33.1bn in 2010 were up 5% The fide-risking of defined benefit pension schemes on the same period last year 2009: 31.5bn.
Funds continues across our client base in the UK and under management at the end of the year were 354bn, increasingly in the US.
LGIM and L&G are uniquely a 12% increase from 315bn at the end of 2009. positioned as the provider that can help clients with all their risk management needs from defined benefit The increase in funds under management is across all fide-risking including moving to insured solutions to asset classes and can be attributed to the recovery of replacing with a flexible defined contribution or markets and strong new business flows.
By the end of 2010, LDI funds assets under management for our UK pension As the largest manager of UK sourced pension assets, clients had grown to 40.8bn from 29.9bn at the end we continue to strengthen our services for Defined of 2009 growth of 36%.
Contribution DC corporate pension funds.
In 2010 we introduced mid-day priced funds aimed at the DC platform The pipeline for LDI business remains strong from the market.
We will further bolster this offering with the largest clients who require a full integrated asset liability introduction of a multi-manager and blending capability.
management service to the smallest clients who require flexible pooled solutions.
LGIM remains dedicated to providing a leading service to all our clients.
indd 34 25 03 2011 11:15 private equity equities ldi funds our performance ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2010 35 active funds the Industrial Property Investment Fund, as well as new Active funds under management grew by 9% during products designed to enable investors to access real 2010 to 84bn 2009: 77bn and now account for 24% estate in innovative ways.
of total funds under management.
corporate governance LGIMs Active Fixed Income funds have continued to LGIM complies with the seven principles of the new UK perform consistently well and that has allowed us to Stewardship Code for investors which were published continue to attract new investment, with good inflows in 2010.
We have also signed up to the UNPRI as detailed in particular to our European credit capability.
LGIM also continued to expand its range of active equity funds during 2010, launching UCITS III Directive compliant absolute return UK and European funds.
outlook property The outlook for new business remains healthy for LGIM, 2010 property returns reflected a robust, overall rebound with strong inflows already achieved early in 2011.
A key in prime property capital values.
Over the course of 2010, focus for the coming year is continued diversification however, the UK commercial property market experienced into international markets.
LGIMs outlook for 2011 a tightening in the availability of bank debt, a reduced remains positive, with steady demand in the US and the supply of prime assets and a slowdown in the flow of UK for Liability Driven Investment LDI solutions and retail and institutional equity into UK real estate funds.
increasing demand from Europe and the Middle East for Active Euro Credit and Index funds.
Against this challenging backdrop, Legal & General Property LGP attracted over 1bn of new investment The prospects for 2011 are mixed for the UK commercial into its existing funds platform including the successful property market but we expect to continue to achieve execution of capital raises for two of our specialist strong returns by using our sector specialism to drive closed-ended property funds, the Leisure Fund and additional value for all our investors.
lgim strategy scalable high alpha pension market: retail market: Pooled Index Active Equity Active Fixed Income Fixed Income LDI Funds Property institutional markets: additionally for Customised Index Active Fixed Income professional investors: LDI Funds Private Equity international market: Index Active Fixed Income LDI Funds L&G AR10 04 p28-39 230311 AT.
indd 35 25 03 2011 11:15 fixed income property index
