28 ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2010 our performance savings.
our performance our products 2010 2009 unit trusts A relatively simple form of collective investment, assets under administration 64bn 55bn which enable customers to invest in a wide variety net new funds 3.1bn 1.7bn of different securities and indices.
1,2 new business strain pvnbp 2.8% 4.2% individual savings accounts 1 The present value of new business premiums PVNBP on the EEV Enable customers to invest in cash or securities, basis is defi ned as the present value of annual premiums plus single premiums for any given period.
It is calculated using the same up to a defi ned annual limit on a tax effi cient basis.
assumptions as for the contributions from the new business but determined as at the point of sale.
investment bonds 2 UK Insured Savings business.
Combine life assurance features and the facility forthe customer to invest in a variety of investment funds.
pensions Pensions products enable individuals to save net cash generation forretirement in a tax effi cient way, either througha personal pension, or as part of an employers scheme.
68m structured products Investments that aim to manage the risk of capital loss while still offering some equity exposure.
2009: 29m with-pro ts ifrs operating profit With-profi ts products pool customers investments.
Policies share the characteristic that investors receive bonuses as a result of direct participation in surplus profi ts.
115m 2009: 50m results for the savings businesses for 2010 show improvement across all key metrics and demonstrate a growing asset accumulation business that is delivering sustainable cash contribution to the group.
mark gregory group executive director savings L&G AR10 04 p28-39 230311 AT.
indd 28 25 03 2011 11:15 our performance ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2010 29 awards and achievements focus on risk management preparing for the retail distribution Technology, Administration and Service Awards: Insured Hybrid SIPP and Group review rdr Legal & General has set up a Group wide Pensions Provider of the year 2010 programme to assess the potential impacts of Technology, Administration and Service the RDR and ensure that we are well positioned to continue to operate successfully after Awards: Income drawdown and phased implementation of these changes.
retirement provider for 2010 Suffolk Life The key challenges are to predict what the Pensions and Investments Provider for distribution landscape will look like post-RDR, Group SIPP 2010 the changing shape of consumer demand and the impact this has on product providers Defaqto 5 star rating for the MasterSIPP operating in the retail fi financial services market.
in 2011 Suffolk Life We believe there are four key requirements for Investor in Customers 2 star Outstanding fi rms to be successful: Award 2010 Suffolk Life strong engagement with customers ef cient processes underpinned with good quality technology scale in mass market products a wide product range capable of supporting customer needs.
Our strategy and investment business case has been agreed by the Board and we are now moving from the strategy and planning phase into implementation.
Initial focus will be on ensuring compliance with the RDR rules, preparing to facilitate the payment of adviser charges and developing an extended proposition for partners.
workplace savings We were the fi first company to launch a workplace Barratt, the biggest house builder by volume in ISA, an effective low cost, high penetration Britain, selected Legal & General to provide the distribution method to encourage increased UKs fi first CISA plan for employees, the Barratt ISA.
The Barratt ISA, which is a stock and shares ISA, has an annual allowance of 10,200 for the A Company ISA CISA provides employees with the 2010 2011 tax year.
It has no income tax or capital same tax effi ciency as a personal ISA, but with the gains tax, enabling employees to potentially added benefi ts for employees of much lower increase investment returns.
management charges and the convenience of making payments from payroll deductions.
For employers it This plan could be used to help employees to build brings greater employee engagement from providing up mid to long term savings in addition to their relevant benefi ts, heralding a new dimension of pension contributions and could be switched to added convenience in workplace saving.
their pension fund at a later date if required.
indd 29 25 03 2011 11:15 30 ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2010 our performance savings.
during 2010 we have continued The 2010 Savings results show improvement across all key metrics.
There has been continued improvement in to implement the strategy financial management across our Savings businesses: outlined in 2009. our focus reducing commissions paid to intermediaries, increasing continues to be on building fees on some products and withdrawing products which an asset accumulation and had high reserving costs.
servicing business which makes As anticipated, the steps taken to reduce reliance on an increasing cash contribution products with high levels of commission and long to group profitability.
product payback periods has resulted in a reduction in sales mix has shifted towards modern, of stakeholder pensions and with-profits products.
less capital intensive products Net cash generation saw an increase of 134% to 68m to achieve this objective.
and IFRS operating profit at 115m 2009: 50m delivered a 130% improvement on the previous year.
New business APE increased 38% on 2009 to 1,253m the overall number of customers 2009: 907m.
Overall, net new funds increased 3.1bn for the savings business has versus 1.7bn in 2009, with Assets under Administration increased by 7%, with an increase growth of 16% to 64bn 2009: 55bn.
of 36% in the number of workplace schemes in force to 102 2009: 75. individual savings The scale of our structured products business continues to grow through our extended distribution agreement with Nationwide Building Society.
This business has been further diversified with the addition of distribution partners including HSBC and RBS which has led to APE growing 85% to 183m.
Savings products are distributed through bank and building society partners, IFAs and direct sales.
Structured Products have benefited from the low interest rate environment experienced over the last two years and investors have taken the opportunity to seek higher returns with limited exposure to loss.
We have a proven ability to manufacture structured products in a timely basis and we anticipate future opportunities in the market.
Changes to the tax regime continue to impact the savings landscape.
The reduction in tax allowance on yearly pension contributions to 50,000 will encourage high earners to look for more flexible, tax efficient solutions for their long term savings needs.
In response to this we launched a new Portfolio Regular Investment Plan PRIP in October to assist high net worth individuals with inheritance tax and retirement planning.
Offshore Bond sales delivered record APE growth of 463%, rising to 45m 2009: 8m with particular success through the banks and building society distribution channels.
Re-engineering of the Self-Invested Personal Pension SIPP product, and the development of a combined high net worth HNW offering with LGII should help to build volume of this product.
indd 30 25 03 2011 11:15 our performance ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2010 31 individual investments distribution In the Unit Trust market we continue to work on building Plans are well under way to prepare our product range our brand recognition, increase our range of funds and for the post-RDR world.
The renewal of our distribution improve our fund capability.
deal with Nationwide Building Society to provide RDR compliant investment products and services until 2016 We are the market leaders in retail index funds, a is an important aspect of this preparation.
concept that is broadly expected to grow in usage after the Retail Distribution Review RDR implementation.
We also have retail savings relationships with the In 2010, five of our funds had market share of gross majority of Banks and Building Societies in the UK, industry sales exceeding 5% of their IMA sector.
including Barclays, Lloyds Banking Group, RBS, HSBC and Yorkshire Building Society.
Strong performance was shown by a range of other funds including the UK Alpha fund, the three multiInvestment platforms are set to benefit from the changes manager funds, the new Absolute Return fund and that RDR will bring, with key IFAs expected to align with our three Corporate Bond funds.
We retain our 25% shareholding in Cofunds.
However, we have removed the remaining There has been continued growth of 32% in the L&G exclusivity provisions so that we can work with advisers Investments UTM business reflecting the success in and distributors that have selected other platforms.
the IFA sector to 263m 2009: 199m and the strong investment performance in 2010 has delivered an Our own platform, Investor Portfolio Service IPS, investment platform on which to build sustained growth.
is growing in scale amongst our tied distribution and banking partners, and is aligned to our strategy of workplace savings continuing to increase customer numbers and build We have made a number of product and proposition asset growth by deepening relationships with existing enhancements to our Worksave platform in 2010 and customers.
Our WorkSave platform will continue to continue to win mandates with large blue-chip benefit from the emerging trend towards holistic organisations to provide their employees with worksave workplace savings propositions.
The target plan volumes for 2010 were comfortably exceeded with the successful completion of major scheme acquisitions including Alliance Boots, BAM and AstraZeneca.
We now have pension scheme relationships with 15% of the FTSE 100 companies.
outlook Significant changes to the Savings landscape over the The introduction of pension scheme auto-enrolment from coming few years, including RDR and auto-enrolment, 2012 is likely to expand the marketplace for workplace should provide real opportunities for growth.
The pensions, with increased activity on tenders and implementation of RDR from 2012 should favour asset employers looking to minimise costs.
In addition, there will management products including structured products be opportunities to drive further growth from the inforce and unit trusts, which have been a strong growth story book as membership of existing schemes increases.
The recently signed contract extension with Nationwide Building Society will serve Two new initiatives have been launched which are to enforce this position.
designed to meet the auto-enrolment challenges facing employers: Worksave choice, which is designed to Our overall focus in 2011 will be to drive continued cash manage the process for enrolling or opting out of generation from the investments business, through auto-enrolment into a trust-based qualifying pension improved scaIe and operating model efficiency gains, scheme, and Worksave Pension Trust which provides while continuing to invest at appropriate levels.
Cost a qualifying pension scheme that can offer refunds efficiencies and servicing options will further reduce of contributions for short service leavers.
operating costs and improve profitability.
