40 ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2010 OUr PUrPOSE OUr PUrPOSE PrOviding PEaCE OF mind.
Our product range is designed to re ect the risk, savings and investment needs of our customers at various key stages of their lives.
in return, we provide benefi ts to our customers and wider society as a whole.
OUr SOCiaL rOLE Finance plays a role in everybodys safety in numbers, enabling the Insurance products help to protect life, and good fi financial companies pooling of premiums and sharing of individuals and businesses against are those which connect with risks to spread the fi financial impact the fi financial consequences of a customers lives accordingly.
of the negative events that will wide range of risks everything They facilitate household budgeting inevitably happen to some of them.
from poor health and natural and long term saving, enable disasters to the risk of outliving people to get through the fi financial Without our industry each of those savings in old age.
By reducing consequences of unfortunate or individuals would have to provide the impact of these problems, the catastrophic events and are there for for their own future independently, insurance industry allows people to customers when they are needed.
without the benefi ts of sharing bear risks with greater peace of mind the burden of the risk with others.
and reduces potential reliance on Our core purpose as an industry For the majority, this just would the state.
is to provide our customers with not be possible.
indd 40 25 03 2011 11:17 OUr PUrPOSE ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2010 41 In addition to delivering returns for The IIWG report July 2009, jointly Our industry already assists people our shareholders and customers we written by Alistair Darling and industry in planning for their retirement.
believe that as a business, we have leaders, suggested that if the public This is another area that has seen a responsibility to take a position of sector transferred 5% of its risk to the much focus from Government in leadership in broader society.
We insurance industry, taxpayers could recent months.
We have responded 2 aim to ensure that we relate to the save roughly 17bn a year.
to a number of consultation papers day-to-day lives and concerns of our on proposed changes to the pension customers, and as a shareholder we More recently, the publication of system and continue to work with aim to set new and higher standards 21st Century Welfare made clear government departments to help of stewardship and engagement with the Secretary of State, Iain Duncan inform improvements to the system the businesses in which we invest.
Smiths determination to focus such as the removal of the default welfare resources on those in most retirement age and the compulsion Not enough people in Britain are need, and his ambition to improve for individuals to annuitise at age 75. privately insured against accidents, the quality and variety of service 3 ill health or loss of income.
We believe that the expect the Government to provide debate about how best to allocate them with some level of financial risk between the state and private protection against these events sector is a valuable opportunity and this is wholly appropriate.
to save taxpayers money and The private sector can, however, improve services.
provide advanced welfare services that can help families long before The insurance industry has the they might need to become a client expertise and the capacity to help the of Jobcentre Plus or other services.
state increase the quality of welfare provision and save money by growing In 2009, the Insurance Industry a complementary private sector safety Working Group IIWG highlighted the net with well-designed tax incentives importance of partnership between and simpler regulations.
One example the state and the private sector in the would be to focus on the potential provision of cover for what is known to maximise the benefits of Group as addressable risk in the UK.
This Protection, but the broader principles means each side picks up its part of of risk-sharing also apply to pensions the costs of ill health, healthcare, and potentially long-term care.
Legal & General has been providing At present, the Government is income replacement and other social OUTLOOK responsible for some 65% of all protection products since 1836.
We The countrys economic position has addressable risk through its various believe that our skills in rehabilitation led to a review of the costs of state benefit systems while 35% is covered and enabling individuals to return to provision in several areas of welfare.
by the insurance industry through work could help the DWP to provide Responsibility is shifting to individuals the products provided to clients.
more effective services at reduced to protect themselves against risks expense.
Put simply, if we can help a that the state would previously have This idea of risk transfer from the family keep most of their income when carried.
The insurance sector is well state to the private sector was given times are hard, they are less likely to positioned to help with this transfer greater impetus by the Chancellors need to rely on the welfare system.
Emergency budget in which he specifically identified the welfare budget as somewhere he was 1 looking for additional cuts.
1 George Osborne, 22 June 2010, Budget speech.
Clearly, if we can find any additional savings to social security and welfare beyond those which I will shortly outline, then that will greatly relieve the pressure on these departments and that 25% figure.
2 Vision for the Insurance Industry 2020, p. 21.
3 21st Century Welfare, DWP consultation, July 2010.
indd 41 25 03 2011 11:17 42 ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2010 OUr PUrPOSE PEOPLE and OPEraTiOnaL rESOUrCES ThE PEOPLE ThaT maTTEr.
This year has been a year of re-engaging with our employees as the employment landscape stabilised after the changes and reduction in employee numbers in 2009.
We have also made improvements EmPLOyEE EngagEmEnT The 2010 survey results also to performance management In 2009 we outlined our intention showed signifi cant improvements systems and the way we align to improve engagement with in employees understanding reward and achievement across our employees and increase their of the strategic direction of the the Group.
understanding of the Company business.
This was achieved strategy and the vision for the through increased face to face We have successfully outsourced business.
In our 2010 employee communications as well as our IT operations as detailed on survey we achieved our highest electronic communications.
This gives ever response rate at 85% us additional fl exibility in ensuring and the employee engagement we have the appropriate resource index increased by nine points for business needs.
This is the highest score achieved since we have measured engagement.
indd 42 25 03 2011 11:17 OUr PUrPOSE ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2010 43 LEadErShiP dEvELOPmEnT We are also running a pilot with As a large employer we encourage Our Leadership Group is made up a number of our senior managers our staff to be involved in their from a group of senior management to place them on the boards of communities, either through roles from across the business.
This will help us financial contribution or with their It is not based on individuals, and to better understand the social issues time and expertise.
membership is reviewed each year.
which underpin our business as well as bringing industry experience We also support local communities The roles that are included are those to those organisations as part of through volunteering.
This gives our that are directly linked to the delivery the Senior Managers as Recruited staff the opportunity to develop new of our strategy and to how we perform Trustees SMaRT scheme.
A wide skills while helping their community.
as a company, for example managing range of charities are benefiting in the Our employees undertook 893 days directors and financial directors.
broad areas of understanding health of volunteering in 2010 on community and money.
projects and fund-raising activities The Leadership Group was initially 2009: 650 days.
created for our Group Board and SUPPLy Chain Executive Committee to ensure Management of our supply chain Our policy is to treat employees that the necessary organisation is an important aspect of running without discrimination and and culture is in place to be enable our business efficiently and in a to operate equal opportunity us to deliver our Group strategy.
Terms and conditions employment practices designed for business transactions are agreed to achieve this end.
The Groups Their influence includes helping with suppliers and payment is made policy on diversity includes giving ensure we have the necessary in accordance with these terms full and fair consideration to organisation, direction and motivation provided the suppliers obligations applications for employment made in place to enable us to: are met.
The Company has no trade by disabled persons: to continue, creditors.
As at 31December 2010, the wherever possible, the employment perform and deliver against average number of days of payments of staff who become disabled and our Group strategy: outstanding for the Legal & General to provide equal opportunities for cre ate the desired culture at Group of companies was 34 2009: 33. the training and career development work: and of disabled employees.
i ncrease the engagement of Suppliers are regularly assessed our employees.
to ensure that they comply with our environmental, social and ethical policies.
OUr SOCiaL rOLE EmPLOyEE EngagEmEnT indEx Legal & General was named in the Top 30 Employers for working families and was short-listed for Best in Financial Services Sector alongside Deutsche 74% Bank, American Express, RBS and 2009: 65% Allianz Insurance UK this year.
OUTLOOK In 2011 we aim to continue Working Families is the UKs leading to improve our employees organisation supporting working understanding of our Company EmPLOyEES wOrLdwidE parents and carers.
Each year they strategy and to communicate clearly conduct a benchmarking survey where we are making changes and across UK companies to identify the improvements to our business.
top employers for working families.
Employees roles and objectives 8,071 Over the last decade Unite have must be meaningful and linked to Average number of employees contributed to the development of our the strategic focus of the Group to during the year excluding employees family-friendly policies as an important help to increase employee advocacy of consolidated private equity investment vehicles 2009: 8,940 part of our relationship with them.
of our business and products.
indd 43 25 03 2011 11:17 44 ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2010 OUr PUrPOSE CSr SUSTainaBiLiTy a rESPOnSiBLE BUSinESS.
Corporate social responsibility CSr is about how we behave as a business, whether we trade ethically, how we in uence the way other organisations manage themselves and the efforts we make to reduce our own and the industrys environmental impacts.
We believe that savings and Companies are increasingly being EnvirOnmEnT insurance products can be of benefi t judged on their social usefulness.
Our philosophy is to understand the to everyone, and that there should This is in part driven by public direct environmental impacts of the be a strong link between the sentiment post the recession, but business we manage and of those private, public and third sectors in also by the idea of the Big Society.
We are now serving society.
For our business In 2010 we challenged ourselves fi nancially accountable for our there is a clear relationship on the performance of our products carbon emissions through the between our products and the and their ability to support our Carbon Reduction Commitment.
benefi ts that are provided to customers in times of fi financial need.
We are entering a world where we individuals by the state.
We can need to forecast our business support and supplement this Our strategy is to align our third activities and the emissions they provision by helping our customers party relationships with our will generate and account for them.
to plan for their future and protect business objectives and We believe we are well placed to their families.
responsibilities while supporting limit the impact of this change employees in their individual through the management of our fund-raising efforts.
own operations and the procurement of energy by our venture capital and commercial property portfolios.
indd 44 25 03 2011 11:17 OUr PUrPOSE ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2010 45 ExTErnaL rECOgniTiOn Legal & General Property continue Our employees continue to engage in UK dOnaTiOnS to lead the field with their ability to the Companys core CSR programmes During 2010, charitable donations deliver commercial and environmental and engagement scores in our totalling over 3.2m 2009: 2.8m value for both investors and occupiers.
We have seen were made by the Company and We believe this approach can also help a rise in the number of employees by employees through approved to provide sustainable returns.
who regard Legal & General as an schemes.
No political donations ethical company.
We have also were made during the year.
Our involvement in the leadership maintained our gold mark from the team at ClimateWise means that Charities Aid Foundation CAF.
we are at the centre of shaping the insurance sectors global approach to OUr PEOPLE environmental risk.
In 2010 we scored The SMaRT scheme initiative we have 94% in ClimateWises global rating been involved in with an organisation principles up from 82% in 2009. called Charity People has seen a number of our senior managers STaKEhOLdEr OPiniOn recruited as trustees with not-for 2010 has seen an increase in external profit organisations.
The scheme was stakeholders asking for information developed with the aim of creating on the way we run our business.
long lasting relationships between We continue to be rated highly by commercial and third sector external agencies and have seen organisations, essentially providing further increases in our scores in a vehicle to bring the skills of talented relevant indices in 2010. senior managers and directors onto the boards of not-for-profit organisations as Trustees.
OUr PUrPOSE Our product range is designed to reflect the risk, savings and investment needs of our customers at various key stages of their lives.
In return, we provide benefits to our customers and wider society as a whole.
Our third party relationships reflect our business needs and objectives.
CUSTOmErS BUSinESSES PrOdUCTS BEnEFiTS TO CUSTOmErS PUBLiC POLiCy BEnEFiT individUaLS riSK SAFEGUARDING Customers pay up Deliver on our promise The provision of these and COrPOraTES CUSTOMERS AGAINST front premiums in to customers and pay all benefits reduces the FINANCIAL RISKS return for insurance, valid claims that enable likelihood of people having individual protection individuals to cope with to fall back on the state as and annuities.
the financial consequences a result of loss of income, of unforeseen events, such homelessness or poverty as bereavement, illness, in retirement.
This in turn damage to property and benefits society by reducing running out of savings pressure on strained in old age.
SavingS FINANCIAL Customers invest Our products enable PLANNING, SAVINGS funds through people to save for the AND INVESTMENTS unit trusts, ISAs, medium and long term, investment funds, either individually or invESTmEnT pensions, index through employer managEmEnT funds and other schemes, and to build INVESTING ON BEhALF savings products.
funds to provide a secure OF INSTITUTIONAL AND income in retirement.
RETAIL CUSTOMERS We act as a steward of our customers money.
indd 45 25 03 2011 11:17 46 ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2010 OUr PUrPOSE CSr SUSTainaBiLiTy OUr CSr ParTnErShiPS gOvErnanCE Legal & Generals CSR Committee is chaired by Tim Breedon, Group Chief Executive.
The CSR Committee is supported by the following sub-committees: Group health and Safety Committee Group Environment Committee Sustainable Property Committee Group Ethics Committee.
COrPOraTE gOvErnanCE OF CSr The CSR Committee governs the strategy and implementation of our public targets and meets at least four times a year as a governing body.
Our group protection business has worked with the British heart The responsibilities of the Foundation BhF for several years, concentrating on the promotion Committee are: of workplace health.
Our partnership helps us understand longevity and health issues that could affect future customers.
to develop and review the Group CSR strategy and policies in relation Our group protection business is also working with Macmillan to Group-wide Environmental, to increase our understanding of how people affected by cancer Social and Governance ESG cope fi nancially.
risks and opportunities identifi ed through engaging with the MEND is a childhood obesity charity which helps young people and Companys stakeholders: their families become fi tter, healthier and happier by offering free to manage the Group stakeholder healthy living programmes in the local community.
They are helping engagement process and ensure our Risk business to understand health and longevity issues caused that results are incorporated into by childhood obesity.
the decision-making process: to monitor progress of the CSR We believe that basic numeracy is key to understanding and sub-committees: managing fi nances.
This is why we have been supporting a to monitor results of external programme to help Maths teachers encourage their students benchmarking surveys: and to take more of an interest in the subject.
to ensure the CSR programme is communicated appropriately to We are working with Credit Unions and A4e to help to improve internal and external stakeholders understanding of fi financial products and managing personal and in particular to review and fi nances and budgets.
approve the annual CSR Report.
As a fi financial services organisation, we believe we should help prevent fi financial crime.
We have supported Crimestoppers in the development of various community programmes including educating young people about crime.
We are working with Age UK on a number of projects across the UK to help to alleviate pensioner poverty.
For more information on CSR and for more case studies and interviews: legalandgeneralgroup.
indd 46 25 03 2011 11:17 OUr PUrPOSE ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2010 47 gUiding PrinCiPLES and TargETS GUIDING PRINCIPLES AND COMMITMENTS 2011 2011 TARGETS GOVERNED By OUr CUSTOmErS Publish a quarterly scorecard showing our commitment to delivering our core Group Ethics To provide customers with clear information so that responsibility to customers.
Committee they can understand our products, allowing them to make informed decisions about which products are suitable for them To manage our products to ensure customer expectations are met: manage customers investments provide timely and accurate services pay out valid claims promptly To seek, listen and act promptly upon customer feedback about our products, communications and services To be easy to do business with OUr invESTOrS Company engagement engage 200 companies on ESG issues at least 20% Group CSR Committee To promote responsible Environmental, Social and of which to include topics on environment and or social issues.
Governance ESG business practices in the companies in which we invest to create long term value for investors.
To promote the sustainable management of our investment Energy efficiency: Continue to seek reductions in energy use focusing on Sustainable Property property portfolio, whatever our mandate, in the belief that properties which use the most energy and therefore where most impact can Investment Committee enhanced investor returns will be delivered.
About 20 properties account for 80% of energy consumed where a further reduction of 3% below 2010 levels will be our target.
Waste management: We will seek to eliminate waste direct to landfill wherever LGP is responsible for waste management, targeting the ten largest waste producing sites to reduce the proportion of waste to landfill to 20% below 2010 levels.
Leadership: Demonstrate leadership in the property industry, advancing the debate and by continuing to contribute to standard setting.
Specifically to Chair a leading sustainability organisation and to publish, or present at seminars, four thought leadership papers.
Climate change risks: Sustainability will be considered as part of the due diligence undertaken when evaluating the purchase of all new investment property assets.
Over three years we will review all assets for climate change risks and develop asset specific strategies.
OUr PEOPLE As an employer: We will monitor the trends on ethnicity and gender to ensure Group Equalities To work in close partnership with our recognised trades that the organisation is recruiting and retaining an appropriately diverse Committee union Unite and Management Consultative Forum, when workforce.
Group health and making key decisions.
For employees: For employees with perceived or actual disabilities within Safety Committee To adopt policies and practices which encourage an our organisation, we aim to increase the positive response to reasonable appropriate work life balance.
adjustments score from the current 76% rating in the 2011 employee survey.
To apply open and fair processes in major decisions As an employer: Provide a minimum of 20 work placements for people with affecting recruitment, promotions, outsourcing disabilities.
This will provide opportunities for the community and for our and downsizing.
employees and will help to provide us with feedback as an employer on the To ensure our employees understand and implement way that we reasonably adjust our offices and work practices.
For employees with families: We aim to improve on our top 30 position To promote and implement our Company values.
in the Top Employers for Working Families Awards 2011.
To provide a flexible, supportive, healthy and safe working environment.
OUr SUPPLiErS Ensure that 90% of our key suppliers are compliant with Legal & Generals Group CSR Committee To ensure our key suppliers comply with our CSR standards for suppliers by December 2012.
Group Environment sustainable procurement policy at all times.
90% of paper purchased to have a recycled content or approved Committee To support suppliers who do not comply with our environmental credentials by tonnage by the end of 2011.
CSR standards for suppliers to facilitate improvements.
OUr EnvirOnmEnT Reduce total direct CO2 emissions by 5% by 2012 and reduce total waste Group Environment To reduce rather than offset our impact on production by 10% by 2012.
Integrate Environmental Carbon Data Disclosure into public reporting across To integrate environmental legislation across the Group in line with Carbon Reduction Commitment regulations.
OUr COmmUniTiES Following independent benchmarking of Legal & General America, Group Charity To support the community as a whole, especially Netherlands and France by Business in the Community, where a 30% average Committee on issues where we feel we can make a difference performance level was achieved, we will improve our disclosure of these in key programmes.
businesses in our yearly reporting cycle and improve the BITC Ratings To partner with third sector organisations to campaign for these businesses by 2012 in line with expected Group performance.
for the issues that matter to our markets and businesses.
Deliver 1000 working days of volunteering using Legal & General peoples To support and encourage employee involvement skills in the communities in which we operate in the UK and overseas.
in charitable giving, volunteering and in utilising the Continue to invest at least 2.5m into the third sector as a result of employee, resources available to them.
To manage appropriate international CSR programmes to address ESG risks and threats to reputation in those marketplaces.
