80 ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2010 GoVernAnce other stAtutorY And reGulAtorY inforMAtion.
Articles of AssociAtion A further resolution is proposed, as set out in the Notice The Companys Articles of Association may only be of AGM, that will, if approved by shareholders, authorise amended by a special resolution at a general meeting the directors to issue shares up to the equivalent of 5% of shareholders.
The Articles of Association are available of the Companys issued share capital as at 4 April 2011 on the Companys website.
for cash without offering the shares first to existing shareholders in proportion to their holdings.
conflicts of interest The Board has adopted a policy and procedures for the Detailed explanatory notes to these resolutions are set disclosure and authorisation if appropriate of conflicts out in the Notice of AGM.
of interest, and these have been followed during 2010.
Other than the above, the directors have no current Powers of directors intention of issuing further share capital and no issue The directors may exercise all powers of the Company will be made which would effectively alter control of subject to applicable legislation and regulation and the the Company without prior approval of shareholders Companys Articles of Association.
shAre cAPitAl substAntiAl shAre interests As at 31 December 2010, the Companys issued share As at 16 March 2011, the Company had been advised capital comprised 5,866,669,323 Ordinary shares each of the following significant direct and indirect interests with a nominal value of 2.5p.
Details of the Ordinary in the issued share capital of the Company: share capital can be found in Note 28 to the Financial Statements on page 139.
Number of ordinary shares % of capital Nature of holding At the 2010 AGM, the Company was granted authority by shareholders to purchase up to 586,286,339 Ordinary Schroders Plc 295,651,535 5.02% Indirect interest shares, being 10% of the issued share capital of the Company as at 9 April 2010.
In the year to 31 December Blackrock Inc 290,769,262 4.96% Indirect interest 2010, no shares were purchased by the Company.
AXA S. A and its group Direct & indirect This authority will expire at this years AGM.
As such, 252,871,605 4.31% of companies interest a special resolution is proposed in the Notice of AGM Swiss Reinsurance 230,838,770 3.93% Direct interest seeking shareholder approval to renew this authority.
Company Ltd At the 2010 AGM, the directors were given the power Using the voting rights figure announced to the London Stock Exchange on 1 March of 5,866,878,939. to allot shares up to an amount of 48,852,309 being 33% of the issued share capital of the Company as at 9 April 2010.
This authority will also expire at this years AGM.
As such, a special resolution is proposed in the Notice of AGM seeking shareholder approval to renew this authority.
indd 80 25 03 2011 11:24 GoVernAnce ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2010 81 diVidend of a transfer of an uncertificated share may be refused in The Company may, by ordinary resolution in a general the circumstances set out in the uncertificated securities meeting, declare dividends in accordance with the rules and where the number of joint holders exceeds respective rights of the members, but no dividend four.
The Board may also refuse to register the transfer can exceed the amount recommended by the Board.
of a certificated share unless: An interim dividend of 1.33p per share was paid on 1October 2010.
The directors propose a final dividend a the instrument of transfer is duly stamped and of 3.42p per Ordinary share.
Subject to shareholder is left at the Companys registered office or such approval, the final dividend will be paid on 1 June 2011 other place as the Board may from time to time to shareholders on the share register on 26 April 2011. determine accompanied by the certificate for the share to which it relates and such evidence as the relAted PArtY trAnsActions Board may reasonably require to show the right Details of related party transactions are set out in of the transferor to make the transfer: Note 40 to the Financial Statements on page 158. b the instrument of transfer is in respect of only one class of share: and riGhts And obliGAtions AttAchinG c the number of joint holders does not exceed four.
to shAres The rights and obligations relating to the Companys Subject to the provisions of the Companies Act, all or Ordinary shares are set out in the Articles of Association.
any of the rights attaching to an existing class of shares A copy of the Articles of Association can be requested may be varied from time to time either with the consent from the Company Secretary at the Companys in writing of the holders of not less than three-fourths registered office.
in nominal value of the issued shares of that class excluding any treasury shares or with the sanction Holders of Ordinary shares are entitled to attend, speak of a special resolution passed at a separate general and vote at general meetings.
In a vote on a show of meeting of the holders of those shares.
hands, every member present in person or every proxy present, who has been duly appointed by a member, Shares acquired through the employee share schemes will have one vote and on a poll every member present rank equally with all other Ordinary shares in issue.
in person or by proxy shall have one vote for every Barclays Private Bank & Trust Isle of Man Limited, Ordinary share held.
These rights are subject to any as trustee of the Legal & General Employees Share special terms as to voting upon which any shares may Ownership Trust, holds 0.52% of the issued share capital be issued or may at the relevant time be held and of the Company as at 16 March 2011 in trust for the benefit to any other provisions of the Companys Articles of of the executive directors, senior executives and managers Association.
Under the Companies Act 2006 and the of the Group.
This includes shares held as nominee on Articles of Association, directors have the power to behalf of Legal & General Share Scheme Trustees Limited, suspend voting rights and, in certain circumstances, as trustee of the Legal & General Employee Share Trust, the right to receive dividends in respect of shares where which is in the process of being wound up.
The voting the holder of those shares fails to comply with a notice rights in relation to these shares are exercised by the issued under section 793 of the Companies Act 2006. trustee.
The trustee may vote or abstain from voting, or accept or reject any offer relating to shares, in any The Board can decline to register a transfer of any share way it sees fit, without incurring any liability and without which is not a fully paid share.
In addition, registration being required to give reasons for its decision.
indd 81 25 03 2011 11:24 82 ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2010 GoVernAnce other stAtutorY And reGulAtorY inforMAtion.
Under the rules of the Legal & General Group Employee merged entity has a credit rating materially weaker than Share Plan Plan, eligible employees are entitled to the Company.
There are no other committed banking acquire shares in the Company.
Plan shares are held arrangements either drawn or undrawn that incorporate in trust for participants by Equiniti Share Plan Trustees any change of control conditions.
Limited, which holds 0.45% of the issued share capital of the Company as at 16 March 2011.
Voting rights are use of finAnciAl instruMents exercised by the trustees on receipt of the participants Information on the Groups risk management process instructions.
If a participant does not submit an instruction is set out on pages 14 to 15.
More details on risk to the trustees, no vote is registered.
In addition, the management and the financial instruments used are set trustees do not vote on any unawarded shares held out in Note 48 of the Financial Statements on page 172. under the Plan as surplus assets.
indeMnities The Company is not aware of any agreements between The Company has agreed to indemnify, to the extent shareholders which may result in restrictions on the permitted by law, each of the directors against any transfer of securities and or voting rights.
liability incurred by a director in respect of acts or omissions arising in the course of their office.
Qualifying chAnGe of control pension scheme indemnities as defined in section 235 There are no agreements between the Company and of the Companies Act 2006 have been granted, its directors or employees for compensation providing to the extent permitted by law, to certain trustees for loss of office or employment whether through of the Companys pension schemes.
The indemnities resignation, purported redundancy or otherwise in were in force throughout 2010 and remain so.
Copies the event of a takeover bid, except for those relating of the deeds of indemnity are available for inspection to normal notice periods.
The rules of the Companys at the Companys registered office.
share plans contain provisions under which options and awards to participants, including executive directors, chAritAble donAtions may vest on a takeover or change of control of the During the period, the Group made UK charitable Company or transfer of undertakings.
Details of the Companys charitable activities are set out on pages The Company has a committed circa 1bn bank 44 to 47. syndicated credit facility which is terminable if revised terms cannot be agreed with the syndicate of banks PoliticAl donAtions in a 30 day period following a change of control.
As at No political donations were made during 2010.
16March 2011, the Company has no borrowings under this facility.
forwArd-lookinG stAteMents The Directors Report is prepared for the members There are no change of control conditions in the terms of the Company and should not be relied upon by of any of the Companys outstanding debt securities.
any other party or for any other purpose.
Where the The terms of the Companys agreements with its banking Directors Report includes forward-looking statements, counterparties, under which derivative transactions these are made by the directors in good faith based are undertaken, include the provision for termination on the information available to them at the time of their of transactions upon takeover merger if the resulting approval of this report.
Such statements should be treated with caution due to the inherent uncertainties underlying such forward-looking statements.
indd 82 25 03 2011 11:24 GoVernAnce ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2010 83 insurAnce The financial position of the Group, its cash flows, The Company has arranged appropriate Directors liquidity position and borrowing facilities are described in and Officers Liability insurance for directors.
This is the Group Results on page 23.
Principal risks are detailed reviewed annually.
In addition, the financial statements include, amongst other things, notes on the Groups indePendent Auditors objectives, policies and processes for managing its The Companys auditors have expressed their willingness capital Note 46, page 164, its financial risk management to continue in office and the Audit Committee has objectives Note 48, page 172, details of its financial recommended their reappointment to the Board.
instruments and hedging activities Notes 21 and 22, Resolutions to reappoint  pages 125 to 135 and its exposures to credit risk Note LLP as auditors to the Company and to authorise the 48, page 178 and liquidity risk Note 48, page 183. directors to determine their remuneration are proposed for the forthcoming AGM.
The 2011 economic climate remains uncertain.
However, based on the available information on the future, the directors interests directors consider that the Group has the plans and The Directors Report on Remuneration on pages 62 resources to manage its business risks successfully, to 79 provides details of the interests of each director, as it has a diverse range of businesses and remains including details of current incentive schemes and long financially strong.
term incentive schemes, the interests of directors in the share capital of the Company and details of their share After making enquiries, the directors have a reasonable options, as at 31 December 2010 and the changes in expectation that the Company and the Group have those interests that have occurred between 1 January adequate resources to continue their operations for the 2011 and 16 March 2011 being the date of approval of foreseeable future.
For that reason, they continue to the Directors Report on Remuneration.
adopt the going concern basis in preparing the accounts.
disclosure of inforMAtion to Auditors stAteMent of directors resPonsibilities Each of the directors who held office at the date The directors are responsible for preparing the Directors of approval of this Directors Report confirms that, Report, including the Directors Remuneration Report, so far as they are each aware, there is no relevant and the Group and parent company financial statements audit information of which the Companys auditors in accordance with applicable law and regulations.
are unaware and each of the directors have taken all reasonable steps they ought to have taken as directors Company law requires the directors to prepare financial to ascertain any relevant audit information and to statements for each financial year.
Under that law, the ensure that the Companys auditors are aware of such directors have prepared the Group financial statements information.
This confirmation is given in accordance in accordance with International Financial Reporting with section 418 2 of the Companies Act 2006.
Standards IFRS as adopted by the EU and the parent company financial statements in accordance with GoinG concern stAteMent UK Accounting Standards UK Generally Accepted The Groups business activities, together with the factors Accounting Principles and applicable law.
In preparing likely to affect its future development, performance and the Group financial statements, the directors have position in the current economic climate are set out in the also elected to comply with IFRS issued by the Directors Report on pages 1 to 39, 42 to 43 and 48 to 83. International Accounting Standards Board IASB.
indd 83 25 03 2011 11:24 84 ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2010 GoVernAnce other stAtutorY And reGulAtorY inforMAtion.
Under company law, the directors must not approve resPonsibilitY stAteMent the financial statements unless they are satisfied that Each of the directors listed on pages 48 and they give a true and fair view of the state of affairs 49 confirms that to the best of their knowledge: of the Company and the Group and of the profit or loss of the Group for that period.
In preparing these a the financial statements, prepared in accordance financial statements, the directors are required to: with the applicable set of accounting standards, give a true and fair view of the assets, liabilities, financial select suitable accounting policies and then apply position and profit or loss of the Company and the them consistently: Group as a whole: and make judgements and estimates that are reasonable b the Directors Report includes a fair review of the and prudent: development and performance of the business and state that the Group financial statements comply the position of the Company and Group as a whole, with IFRS as adopted by the EU and IFRS issued by together with a description of the principal risks and the IASB, and with regard to the parent company uncertainties that they face.
financial statements, that applicable UK Accounting Standards have been followed, subject to any material departures disclosed and explained in the financial By order of the Board statements: and prepare the Group and parent company financial statements on the going concern basis unless it is inappropriate to presume that the Group and parent company will continue in business, in which case there should be supporting assumptions G J tiMMs or qualifications as necessary.
coMPAnY secretArY 16 March 2011 The directors are responsible for keeping proper accounting records that are sufficient to show and explain the Group and Companys transactions and disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the financial position of the Group and parent company and enable them to ensure that the Directors Remuneration Report and the financial statements comply with the Companies Act 2006 and, as regards the Group financial statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
They are also responsible for safeguarding the assets of the Group and for taking such reasonable steps to prevent and detect fraud and other irregularities.
The directors are responsible for the maintenance and integrity of the information included on the Groups website.
Legislation in the UK governing the preparation and dissemination of financial statements may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
indd 84 25 03 2011 11:24 G GR ROU OUP P F FIINA NANC NCIIA AL L S STA TAT TE EM ME EN NT TS S ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2010 85 85 SUPPLEMENTARY FINANCIAL STATEMENTS GROUP CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS EUROPEAN EMBEDDED VALUE BASIS 86 Independent auditors report 195 Consolidated income statement 87 Consolidated income statement 196 Consolidated statement of comprehensive income 88 Consolidated statement of comprehensive income 197 Consolidated balance sheet 89 Consolidated balance sheet 198 Notes to the supplementary financial statements 90 Consolidated statement of changes in equity 216 Independent auditors report 92 Consolidated cash flow statement 93 Notes to the financial statements 93 1.
Accounting policies COMPANY FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 102 2.
Segmental analysis 217 Independent auditors report 114 4.
New business gross of reinsurance 218 Company balance sheet 115 5.
Investment return 219 Company statement of total recognised 115 6.
Net claims and change in insurance liabilities gains and losses 115 7.
Other expenses 219 Company reconciliation of movements 116 8.
Auditors remuneration in total shareholders funds 116 9.
Employee information 220 Notes to the Company financial statements 116 10.
Foreign exchange and exchange rates 117 11.
Disclosure of tax effects relating to each component of other comprehensive income 119 15.
Acquisitions by consolidated private equity investment vehicles 123 17.
Purchased interest in long term businesses PILTB and other intangible assets 123 18.
Reinsurers share of contract liabilities 136 24.
Share capital, share premium and employee scheme treasury shares 140 29.
Value of in-force non-participating contracts 146 34.
Long term insurance valuation assumptions 151 35.
Payables and other financial liabilities 157 38.
Net asset value attributable to unit holders 158 40.
Contingent liabilities, guarantees and indemnities 159 42.
Risk management and control L&G AR10 10-Fins intro p85-86 240311 AT.
indd 85 25 03 2011 11:25 86 ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2010 GROUP FINANCIAL STATEMENTS INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT To the Members of Legal & General Group Plc In our opinion the group financial statements comply with IFRSs We have audited the group financial statements of Legal & General Group Plc for the year ended 31 December 2010 which as issued by the IASB.
comprise the Consolidated Income Statement, Consolidated Opinion on other matter prescribed by the Companies Statement of Comprehensive Income, Consolidated Balance Act 2006 Sheet, Consolidated Statement of Changes in Equity, In our opinion, the information given in the Directors Report for the Consolidated Cash Flow Statement and the related notes.
financial year for which the group financial statements are prepared The financial reporting framework that has been applied in is consistent with the group financial statements.
their preparation is applicable law and International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs as adopted by the European Union.
Matters on which we are required to report by exception We have nothing to report in respect of the following: Respective responsibilities of directors and auditors As explained more fully in the Directors Responsibilities Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, Statement, the directors are responsible for the preparation in our opinion: of the group financial statements and for being satisfied that certain disclosures of directors remuneration specified by law they give a true and fair view.
Our responsibility is to audit are not made: or and express an opinion on the group financial statements in we have not received all the information and explanations accordance with applicable law and International Standards we require for our audit.
on Auditing UK and Ireland.
Those standards require us to comply with the Auditing Practices Boards Ethical Standards Under the Listing Rules we are required to review: for Auditors.
the directors statement on going concern included in the Corporate Governance Statement: and This report, including the opinions, has been prepared for and the part of the Corporate Governance Statement relating only for the companys members as a body in accordance with to the companys compliance with the nine provisions of Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006 and for no other the June 2008 Combined Code specified for our review: and purpose.
We do not, in giving these opinions, accept or assume certain elements of the report to shareholders by the Board responsibility for any other purpose or to any other person to on directors remuneration.
whom this report is shown or into whose hands it may come save where expressly agreed by our prior consent in writing.
Other matter We have reported separately on the parent company financial Scope of the audit of the financial statements statements of Legal & General Group Plc for the year ended An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts 31 December 2010 and on the information in the Directors and disclosures in the financial statements sufficient to give Remuneration Report that is described as having been audited.
reasonable assurance that the financial statements are free from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or error.
This includes an assessment of: whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the groups circumstances and have been consistently applied and adequately disclosed: the Richard Keers Senior Statutory Auditor reasonableness of significant accounting estimates made by the for and on behalf of  LLP directors: and the overall presentation of the financial statements.
Chartered Accountants and Statutory Auditors London Opinion on financial statements 16 March 2011 In our opinion the group financial statements: give a true and fair view of the state of the groups affairs as at 31 December 2010 and of its profit and cash flows for the year then ended: have been properly prepared in accordance with IFRSs Notes: a The financial statements are published on the website of Legal & General Group Plc, as adopted by the European Union: and legalandgeneralgroup.
The maintenance and integrity of the Legal & General Group Plc website is the responsibility of the directors: the work carried out have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of by the auditors does not involve consideration of these matters and, accordingly, the Companies Act 2006 and Article 4 of the lAS Regulation.
the auditors accept no responsibility for any changes that may have occurred to the financial statements since they were initially presented on the website.
Separate opinion in relation to IFRSs as issued by the IASB b Legislation in the United Kingdom governing the preparation and dissemination of financial statements may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
As explained in note 1 to the group financial statements, the group in addition to complying with its legal obligation to apply IFRSs as adopted by the European Union, has also applied IFRSs as issued by the International Accounting Standards Board IASB.
