24 ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2010 our performance risK businesses.
our performance our proDucts 2010 2009 individual protection 1 2 1 2 Covers individuals or families against fi financial PVNBP Contribution Margin PVNBP Contribution Margin m m % m m % losses arising from defi ned events such as death, protection 860 55 6.4 866 68 7.9 disability or critical illness.
annuities 2,065 245 11.9 1,862 217 11.7 total 2,925 300 10.3 2,728 285 10.4 Group protection Products which are designed for employers to 1 The present value of new business premiums PVNBP on the EEV basis offer as a benefi t to their employees.
They protect is defi ned as the present value of annual premiums plus single premiums for any given period.
It is calculated using the same assumptions as for the employers, employees and their families by contributions from the new business but determined as at the point of sale.
assuming the risks and associated costs of an 2 From new business on an EEV basis.
employee falling ill or dying while in employment.
annuities Bought by people converting a lump sum money saved in a pension scheme into alifelong income.
net casH Generation bulk purchase annuities bpas or pensionbuyouts BPAs are offered to pension trustees and companies wishing to transfer all or part of their pension 429m obligations and risk from company pension schemes to an insurance company for a negotiated price.
2009: 504m General insurance Gi Focusing on the household sector, we insure the ifrs operatinG profit fabric of properties and their contents.
network and mortgage club Our network of mortgage advisers provides a link 560m with mortgage lenders, sourcing mortgages for clients and facilitating sales of mortgage linked protection products.
2009: 735m in 2010 we Have broaDeneD our Distribution anD maintaineD our marKet position as a top tHree proviDer for inDiviDual protection, Group protection anD annuities.
JoHn pollocK Group executive Director risK L&G AR10 03 p18-27 230311 AT.
indd 24 25 03 2011 11:14 our performance ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2010 25 awarDs anD acHievements focus on risK manaGement Awards won by our Risk businesses manaGinG lonGevity risK in 2010 include: Longevity risk is a primary insurance risk within an annuity business.
Until recently there has been a very limited secondary market for hedging this Money Marketing: Best Life Protection Provider risk and wehave therefore retained and managed Moneywise Customer Services Awards: longevity risk in-house.
Most trusted Income Provider The Annuity business has built up a considerable Financial Adviser Life & Pensions Awards: amount of expertise in analysing current Term Assurance Provider of the Year mortalitytrends using our large database of Financial Adviser Life & Pensions Awards: pastexperience.
Future longevity trends will be Critical Illness Provider impacted by a range of inter-connected factors, including developments in medical science, Life & Pensions Moneyfacts Awards: lifestyle trends, economic and government Most Competitive IFA Provider policies.
It is impossible to predict the ultimate Personal Touch Financial Services Awards: outcome, but insight canbe gained to the range Product Provider of the Year award of possible outcomes, their likelihood and impact.
We employ a variety of actuaries, statisticians, Personal Touch Financial Services Awards: demographers and epidemiologists, and have Best Protection Provider strong links with the medical profession and relevant organisations through our links with Cover Excellence Awards: Group Life Provider UCL and the Longevity Science Advisory panel.
Cover Excellence Awards: Group Critical Illness Provider We are closely involved in the growing secondary market for reinsuring longevity which gives the Cover Excellence Awards: Individual Critical opportunity to selectively manage longevity Illness Provider exposure, giving us the ability to reinsure risks Mortgage Strategy: Best Strategic Partner where pricing looks attractive.
Mortgage Strategy: Best Mortgage Distributor The Annuity business is also taking a leading British Mortgage Awards: Best Mortgage Club role in the Life & Longevity Markets Association LLMA, which aims to develop wider capital markets participation in longevity risk.
tHe leGal & General networK We have created the Legal & General Network distributor in the market and in 2010 eight new as a single in-house distribution entity to deliver lenders chose to partner with Legal & General.
market outperformance, especially in the mortgage and protection sectors.
We have a unique set of We are well positioned for the Mortgage competencies which can be leveraged to support Market Review, which is proposing changes the mortgage and housing led intermediary market to the FSA regulatory regime and with two where we expect advice to remain important to the years to go before full implementation of majority of UK consumers.
Legal & General has a 14.7% 2009: 12.1% share The pace of consolidation of distribution continues of the intermediated lending market.
The Legal & to increase and we will be examining ways to profi t General Mortgage Club is a leading mortgage from this by growing our share in a diffi cult market.
indd 25 25 03 2011 11:14 26 ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2010 our performance risK businesses.
we continue to improve tHe 2010 saw the continued growth of the successful partnership with Nationwide Building Society, sustained proDucts across our risK volumes from Legal & General Network and a new panel businesses ensurinG tHat arrangement with Openwork.
Direct business increased customer fairness is at tHe to 6% of total APE, reflecting an increase in marketing centre of our business moDel.
activity on the Over 50s product and the development of our affinity partnership with Bounty.
business volumes increaseD by We have increased the maximum expiry age for our 4% on 2009 Despite a cHallenGinG individual critical illness cover CIC from age 65 to age 70, environment wHere volumes reflecting developments in employment trends caused by changes such as the removal of the default retirement age fell across tHe inDustry Due and the increase in the state pension age.
We have also to fallinG payrolls, reDuceD increased the maximum sum assured for CIC, meeting mortGaGe funDs anD activity the needs of more high net worth customers who need a higher level of cover.
Both our income protection anD consoliDation in tHe and CIC products now have a Defaqto 5 star rating.
In November, we successfully moved Nationwide Building Society, our largest tied protection partner, to our core protection system OLP Connect.
This has enabled processing efficiencies for both companies and delivers an improved customer experience.
Over 90% of applications are now received online through OLPC.
Group protection In group protection, traditional corporate markets Risk products are distributed through bank and building continue to be adversely impacted by falling staff society partners, IFAs and consultants, direct sales and numbers and wage freezes.
However, volumes have the Legal & General Network.
been maintained against this backdrop with APE of 57m 2009: 57m through successful distribution, product innovation and continued investment in systems improvements such as the policy In 2010, the Risk division achieved 439m of operational administration platform Elixir.
Net cash generation was 429m 2009: 504m as positive new business strain We have developed an Ill Health Liability Insurance arising from exceptional pricing conditions in annuities product which allows UK Councils to manage their receded.
Operating profit was 560m 2009: 735m but exposure to workers early retirement pensions when IFRS profit before tax was up 28% to 662m following diagnosed with long-term illness.
We were the first the reversal of negative investment variances seen in 2009. provider in the group market to provide employers with IFRS operating profit at 560m 2009: 735m was well an income protection product allowing them to cover ahead of target, although down on the previous year due to all of their employees, whatever their age, following one off events such as exceptional annuities pricing in 2009. the removal of the default retirement age.
inDiviDual protection Our group protection business was the first in the group In individual protection, the weak housing market market to offer tele-underwriting and the first to provide continues to depress demand although intermediaries a free Employee Assistance Programme EAP to all group within the protection market are replacing the loss of life members.
We have expanded into the multinational income from mortgage business with other protection pooling market in order to offer a global solution to sales.
New Business APE remained strong at 96% of corporate customers and have developed superior service that achieved in 2009.
During the year, competitors and risk-assessment capabilities that have enabled us to have withdrawn from the market and there has been grow our business by 40% in the last five years, with 88% some consolidation.
of our customers staying year on year.
indd 26 25 03 2011 11:14 our performance ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2010 27 Our group life business paid out 196 million in claims Distribution to help relieve the financial suffering of over 2,000 In the IFA market, we have consolidated our position by dependants in 2010 and our group critical illness product agreeing a panel arrangement with Sesame, the largest has been improved with the addition of more conditions, network in the market.
We also gained a key position on the inclusion of a shorter survival period and a the Openwork panel, which should provide new APE substantial increase in the free limit.
annuities In the banks and building societies arena we continue Overall APE for annuities was 11% higher than in 2009 to maximise scale from the large volume distributors at 207m 2009: 186m.
The overall annuities profit such as Nationwide Building Society and Barclays while including investment variance stands at 458m working with partners such as Sainsburys Bank to 2009:348m.
Individual Annuities delivered record volumes of more The Legal & General Network had another strong year than 1.1bn in 2010 and full year APE grew by 19% in 2010, maintaining distribution capacity in contrast to 2009:979m.
Individual Annuities benefited from the general reduction of advisers in the market as a increased direct business and higher volumes through whole.
The Legal & General Network is well placed, our relationship with SAGA: additionally there was a one with significant strategic advantages, to outperform off uplift as the minimum retirement age increased to 55. in the intermediary market.
There was also growth in the enhanced annuities market where sophisticated pricing increased market share.
We have taken steps to enhance future distribution through a number of strategic investments in additional We expect to continue to grow in this area having technological solutions and platforms.
entered into an annuity partnership deal with Zurich Financial Services to provide annuities for their pension customers from October.
In the bulk annuity market we continued to focus on small schemes, writing 115 schemes during the year 2009: 82 schemes worth 900m of premium.
We continue to be highly selective in the large bulk annuity market writing outlooK only one scheme in excess of 100m premiums.
Demand for protection products is likely to increase as the UK economy comes out of recession.
Regulatory and General insurance state benefit changes will continue to drive product and In general insurance, gross written premiums of 281m distribution innovation.
In particular, the ECJ ruling with are slightly up on 2009 2009: 273m and new business respect to gender discrimination will affect underwriting is ahead of 2009 with a new banking distribution deal and pricing in individual protection.
Low annuity rates and signed in the period.
Operating expenses have been the removal of compulsion to annuitise will encourage controlled in line with business growth.
the more wealthy to look for alternative retirement income methods, and could lead to increased deferral of An IFRS operating loss of 8 m reflects two periods annuitisation across the market.
of severe cold weather in the year.
In January claims reached 14m and at the end of the year, during what In the BPA market, reinsurance will increasingly be used the Meteorological Office has reported as the coldest to limit the risk and capital required to support both December in the last 100 years, claims are estimated new and existing businesses as the impact of pension to be in excess of 30m.
This experience is expected liabilities on companies balance sheets continues to to be in line with the market and, despite the volume be exposed.
We expect competition consolidation to of December claims, action has been taken to protect continue in the protection markets and distribution customer service levels and good progress has been arrangements to be impacted by the changes the Retail made around initial loss assessment visits.
Distribution Review RDR will bring to this landscape.
