2 Lloyds Banking Group Annual Report and Accounts 2010 GROUP STRUCTURE There are four primary operating divisions within the Group: Retail, Wholesale, Wealth and International, and Insurance.
The key product markets in which they participate and relative contribution to the Groups total income are presented below and a more detailed analysis of their strategy, business and performance is outlined within the Business Review.
All the divisions are focused on delivering the Group Strategy and offering an integrated professional service to customers.
RETAIL WHOLESALE 1 1 46% of total Group income 36% of total Group income Retail operates the largest retail bank in The Wholesale division serves in excess the UK and is the leading provider of of a million businesses, ranging from current accounts, savings, personal loans, start-ups and small enterprises to credit cards and mortgages.
It serves global corporations, with a range of over 30 million customers through one of propositions fully segmented according the largest branch and fee free ATM to customer need.
Retail is also a major Key product markets: general insurance and bancassurance Corporate Banking Services distributor, offering a wide range of Treasury and Trading long-term savings, investment and Asset Finance general insurance products.
30 Key product markets: Secured lending mortgages Unsecured lending credit cards, loans and overdrafts Internet and telephone banking Current accounts OUR MULTI-BRAND APPROACH Savings accounts The Group operates a range of well recognised brands across our four divisions with different 26 brands utilised for different customer segments, geographies and markets.
The main four brands operated by the Group are Lloyds TSB, Halifax, Bank of Scotland and Scottish Widows though a number of other brands are used in specialist markets.
WEALTH AND INSURANCE INTERNATIONAL 1 8% of total Group income 1 10% of total Group income The Life, Pensions and Investments business is the leading bancassurance provider in Wealth and International focuses the UK and is also a leading player in the on the private banking and asset intermediary channel.
The general insurance management businesses of the business is a leading distributor of home Group and also operates the Groups insurance in the UK and also offers a international business.
range of other general insurance products.
Key product markets: Key product markets: Wealth management Life assurance, pensions and Asset management investments International Banking General Insurance 42 36 1 Excludes Group Operations, Central items and insurance claims.
