Overview Business review Governance Financial statements Other information 1 Group profile 1 Summary of Group results 14 Board of Directors 110 Report of the independent Shareholder information 284 Lloyds Banking Group auditors on the consolidated Group structure 2 Divisional results 26 Directors report 112 Glossary 285 Annual Report financial statements 144 Group performance 3 Other financial information 52 Corporate governance report 114 Abbreviations 290 and Accounts 2010 Consolidated Strategy and progress 4 Five year financial summary 56 Directors remuneration report 124 Index to annual report 291 financial statements 146 Chairmans statement 6 Our people 57 Notes to the consolidated financial statements 153 Group Chief Executives review 8 Corporate responsibility 60 Report of the independent Addressing the key issues 10 Risk management 65 auditors on the parent company Marketplace trends 12 financial statements 272 Parent company financial statements 273 Notes to the parent company financial statements 276 GROUP PROFILE OUR VISION IS TO BE RECOGNISED AS THE BEST FINANCIAL SERVICES COMPANY IN THE UK BY SHAREHOLDERS, CUSTOMERS AND COLLEAGUES.
Lloyds Banking Group is a leading UK based financial services group providing a wide range of banking and financial services, primarily in the UK, to personal and corporate customers.
Lloyds Banking Group was formed in January 2009 following the acquisition of HBOS and our main business activities are retail, commercial and corporate banking, general insurance, and life, pensions and investment provision.
The new Group also operates an international banking business with a global footprint in over 30 countries.
The Group is the UKs largest retail bank and has a large and diversified customer base.
Services are offered through a number of well recognised brands including Lloyds TSB, Halifax, Bank of Scotland, Scottish Widows, Clerical Medical and Cheltenham & Gloucester, and a range of distribution channels including the largest branch network in the UK.
Lloyds Banking Group is quoted on both the London Stock Exchange and the New York Stock Exchange and is one of the largest companies within the FTSE 100.
Chairmans statement Group Chief Executives review Addressing the key issues We have a great platform for the future and We achieved a step change in our financial An overview of the key issues currently have established a strong financial and performance, returning the Group to affecting the Group.
profitability while absorbing the substantial costs of reducing risk in the business.
6 8 10 Divisional results Details of our operating divisions, their strategy, achievements, financial results and progress.
Our people A summary of our key people initiatives and how we are recruiting, retaining and rewarding our most valuable resource.
