12 Lloyds Banking Group Annual Report and Accounts 2010 MARKETPLACE TRENDS of some lenders having left the market, The Economy declines in corporate insolvencies are likely to particularly in the higher risk segments of be very slow, limited by the public spending The global economy has continued to mortgages and personal loans, but we have cuts and the weakness of consumer recover from the deep recession of 2009, but also seen a continued desire from customers spending.
House prices and commercial the recovery is fairly weak by past standards to repay debt early where they are able.
property prices are expected to dip slightly in and its continuation is not assured.
Remaining Deposit market growth has also remained 2011 and then rise slowly.
The US recovery is vulnerabilities in the sustainability of public weak, with balances rising by 3 per cent assumed to continue in 2011, and in the finances and the robustness of banking through 2010, as deteriorating disposable Eurozone there is expected to be a wide sectors across the US and Europe have incomes have squeezed savings flows.
divergence in 2011 between recovery in the meant that growth there has faltered during stronger low-deficit countries and the higher Businesses also continue to reduce their 2010 and required monetary policy to be deficit countries that will struggle to grow at indebtedness.
Non-financial corporations kept highly accommodative for longer than all.
The Irish economy, to which we have shrunk their borrowings from banks and expected at the start of the year.
Ireland has exposure, is not expected to grow materially building societies by 3.9 per cent in 2010 after required support from the IMF and EU, and in 2011.
House prices there are expected to a 2.2 per cent reduction in 2009.
Rising profits other high deficit countries in the Eurozone fall a little further in 2011 before flattening in and weak investment spending boosted may do so during 2011.
The US has extended 2012: commercial property prices are deposit growth in the latter part of 2009 and the Bush-era tax cuts, although it is unclear expected to be flat over 2011 and 2012. the first half of 2010, but deposit growth has how much stimulus this will provide given the since weakened to 1.6 per cent over 2010 as need to tighten fiscal policy significantly in Downside risks around this scenario remain a whole, after 4.5 per cent in 2009. the medium term.
Business and consumer confidence remains fragile, and the extent to Low interest rates have, however, been a First estimates suggest that the UK economy which simultaneous fiscal tightening across key benefit to consumers and businesses grew by 1.4 per cent in 2010, below the long Europe might undermine global and UK throughout 2010.
Arrears and defaults rose term average of 2.25 per cent.
Contagion from the Irish by much less during the recession than in peaked in the first half due to the initial boost bail-out to other Eurozone economies could previous recessions, and began to improve from companies beginning to rebuild stocks, drive further fiscal tightening and worsen the in 2010 despite the weakness of the recovery and has slowed during the second half.
Rising commodity prices in the economy.
The number of company Consumer confidence has fallen back and driven by strong recovery in Asia might fuel a liquidations in England and Wales fell by house prices have recently reversed some of further increase in inflation in the West, nearly 16 per cent in 2010 after a 23 per cent their 2009 rise.
Nevertheless, employment prompting short-term interest rates to rise rise in 2009, reducing the rate of failure of has held up relatively well, falling by much more quickly than anticipated.
Since any active companies to 0.7 per cent from less than in previous recessions and shock to growth would also worsen the 0.9 per cent in 2009.
The number of individual beginning to rise much earlier, although the outlook for both public finances and bank insolvencies rose by a further 0.7 per cent in recent trend is broadly flat.
UK corporate capital and funding, a relatively small initial 2010 after a 26 per cent rise in 2009, but liquidations have been on a gradually falling shock could throw economies onto a much insolvencies during the second half of 2010 trend since Q3 2009, much earlier than in weaker path as governments are forced to were 8.7 per cent lower than a year earlier.
previous recoveries, and are now almost back tighten fiscal policy even further or financial The number of mortgages in arrears across to the level at the start of the recession.
institutions are constrained in their ability to the market fell by 10 per cent in 2010, and the Related to that, commercial property prices lend.
A double-dip scenario a second share in arrears by more than 3 months fell to have now risen by 16 per cent from the shallower recession following closely the one its lowest in two years by Q4 2010. trough reached in July 2009.
Even though that the economy is just emerging from house price rises have fallen back slightly Our customer data shows that a combination would result in further significant increases in recently, average prices are still 6 per cent of low interest rates and declining corporate failures and unemployment during above their trough of April 2009.
In addition, residential and indebtedness is beginning to strengthen commercial property would suffer a second households cashflow.
This is positive news The Groups central scenario is for the period of falling prices, tenant defaults would for both impairments and the near-term modest recovery in the UK to continue the increase and central banks would have general economic outlook.
Nevertheless, we projection of slightly less than 2 per cent limited ability to cushion the downturn.
expect that a continuation of weak economic Gross Domestic Product GDP growth in 2011 and slightly less than 2.5 per cent in 2012 is recovery will be accompanied by a sustained close to consensus and slightly below the Impact on our markets period of weak growth in our markets.
November 2010 forecasts from the Office for Consumers and businesses will continue to The weak economic recovery has kept Budget Responsibility.
Private and public deleverage slowly.
Deposit growth will be growth in our markets subdued.
sector deleveraging, which is expected to limited by the pressure on consumers suppress economic growth, should be more On the retail side, net new mortgage disposable incomes from wage growth than offset by a positive contribution from lending all new lending minus repayments below inflation and cuts in welfare benefits, net external trade reflecting the weakness of continued to weaken slightly after a and from rising investment spend by sterling, by further rebuilding of stocks by 72 per cent fall in 2009, so outstanding companies.
Arrears trends should continue companies and by increased investment.
market balances grew by just 0.4 per cent.
to improve, but less quickly in the coming Public spending cuts may increase Net new unsecured consumer lending year than the experience through 2010. unemployment slightly in 2011, but if the improved in 2010 after turning negative in the economy continues to grow, the private second half of 2010, but at 1.4 billion was sector should be able to more than offset less than 11 per cent of the 2007 level.
Similarly, further the weakness in lending is the natural result
