Review of the business Our wider responsibility We believe that to succeed over the longer term we must continue to consider a wider set of stakeholders and issues that might not normally be captured in business as usual activities.
Corporate Responsibility Where necessary we have strengthened our executive team Our people and our reputation, as well as our technology, are our with new talent and, through the acquisition of MillenniumIT, most important assets.
We have a clear set of business principles we gained another group of motivated, innovative employees, to help ensure that the way we conduct our business and our with particular expertise in business technology, which will client focus is consistent with our brand values.
add significant value to our growing organisation.
We have a Corporate Social Responsibility CSR Committee We have created an environment in which employees have consisting of employees from across the Groups core business the ability to voice genuinely held concerns about behaviours areas, which meets six times a year to consider specific actions or decisions that they perceive to be unethical.
Through our consistent with our corporate responsibilities.
These matters whistleblowing policy employees can confidentially report any are represented at Board level by Xavier Rolet, CEO, with the conduct or activity which may violate our business principles.
exception of environmental matters, which are represented by Doug Webb, CFO.
A full health and safety audit is completed annually which includes external advice on new or changing legislation and The CSR Committee aims to reflect our overall business best practice.
There were no reportable illnesses, dangerous objectives, using available resources where we can make the occurrences or liabilities, nor were any health and safety most impact.
In particular, we are committed to reviewing and enforcement notices received during the year.
implementing initiatives that focus on the key areas below.
Our Community Our People We are proud of our roots, and the communities in which we We operate in an increasingly competitive market where the operate in London and other UK cities, across Italy and in quality of our people and their performance is what can set us Sri Lanka.
We believe that engaging with local communities both instils Our performance management policy aims to ensure that all a sense of pride and connectedness among our employees and employees understand how they contribute to the Groups demonstrates that we are a good neighbour.
We endeavour to goals, get regular feedback on how effectively they are be sensitive to the cultural, social and moral principles of the performing, receive meaningful but not excessive reward for communities in which we conduct business and contribute directly their achievements and are encouraged to develop their skills to and indirectly to the general well-being of these communities.
Nearly 40 per cent of employees in the UK and Italy participate in share based reward and savings schemes, We operate community investment programmes in the UK, Italy and this opportunity will be extended to staff in MillenniumIT.
and Sri Lanka which support charitable and other good causes and actively encourage and support our staff in making personal We have launched a new Graduate Programme targeting high contributions whether time or money to their community.
calibre graduates from around the world to become the future In the past year, we contributed corporately and through our leaders of our business.
We have developed a comprehensive charities aid fund to a number of organisations through a variety two-year programme designed to give participants the skills of programmes and initiatives amounting to 506,000 in cash necessary to take an early leadership role in our business.
This donations plus 29,000 of in-kind contributions.
In addition, will include extensive technical and personal development and 100,000 of London Stock Exchange Fine Income was donated an overseas assignment directly linked to our business objectives.
In addition to these specific initiatives we continue to review Highlights include: our remuneration framework, training and development policies and other elements of our Human Resources strategy to ensure Our UK partner charity For the last two years, the Princess that they are fully aligned with our corporate strategy and are Royal Trust for Carers has been the main focus of our UK as compelling as possible to current and potential employees.
Fundraising through dress down days, Voluntary annual employee turnover rate across the UK and quiz nights, talent shows and book sales augmented our own Italy stabilised at eight per cent over the last two years, having 100,000 corporate contribution during the year.
Our total dropped from 16 per cent in 2007 in response to market conditions.
contribution since the partnership began amounted to 30 London Stock ExchangE group AnnuAl RepoRt 2010 Introduction Review of the business Governance Group financial statements Shareholder information far left london Air Ambulance, our new uK partner charity Left Money raised for princess Royal trust for Carers went towards the young carers Summer Camp project 330,000.
Employees in London have selected the London Air We have completed an Environmental Impact Assessment Ambulance Service as its next partner charity for the coming and have identified the other key environmental impacts across two years.
Give as you earn Employees based in the UK have the option group environmental metrics to donate to charitable organisations through our payroll metric 2010 giving scheme.
In 2009, London Stock Exchange received the Water usage m 94,407 payroll giving quality mark gold award for workplace giving.
Waste tonnes 958 Local charitable donations Borsa Italiana, Monte Titoli and CC&G donated 100,000 to a number of local Italian charitable Waste sent for recycling % 63 organisations.
MillenniumIT supports scholarship funds at both the University of Colombo and the University of Morotuwa.
We regularly assess ways in which we can help manage, and Volunteering In both Italy and the UK we offer a number where possible reduce, our impact on the environment.
of volunteer opportunities through various partnerships with local organisations including Tower Hamlets Education This year, we have sought to reduce, reuse and recycle wherever Business Partners and Junior Achievement Italia.
In Italy, more than 50 per cent of our waste is segregated Employee matching Through our staff matching programme, and sent for recycling and in Sri Lanka we have a scheme in place which supports employees own fundraising efforts for charities to capture and re-use rain water.
In the UK we have recycled a close to them, we made 26,000 in charitable contributions.
large portion of our glass and cardboard waste and have committed Local arts and culture After the earthquake in LAquila, Borsa to sending 98 per cent of our food waste to an East London Italiana donated 120,000 for the restoration of Fontana delle community recycling project where it is turned into compost.
99 Cannelle, one of the citys major historical sites.
In the UK, we have donated over 25,000 to the St Pauls Cathedral From April 2010, we will be participating in the UK Governments Foundation and the Lord Mayors Show.
Carbon Reduction Commitment Energy Efficiency Scheme.
We Gifts in-kind In London, where appropriate we offer our have also been seeking to limit travel to business that cannot be events facilities to local charitable organisations and have undertaken via audio or video conferencing and encouraging contributed over 13,000 to supporting their events.
efficient travel practices when travel is required, all of which has business benefits in terms of travel spend.
Environment As a growing business, we recognise that our activities have group calculated co emissions 2 an impact on the environment.
We continue to look for ways to type Source tonnes co2 reduce the environmental impact of our business by supporting Scope 1: Direct emissions gas 562 the principles of sustainable development and committing to a Scope 2: Indirect emissions electricity 9,913 process of continual environmental improvement and pollution Business prevention.
Scope 3: Indirect emissions other travel 1,965 total 12,440 This year we have gathered data on the Groups energy usage and business travel for the first time.
In total, the Group We continue to participate in both the FTSE4Good and the Dow consumed energy amounting to 46,113 MW-h over the year.
Jones Sustainability indices and will continue to look for ways in Of this amount, 51 per cent of our energy consumption comes which we can improve our standings.
from our UK data centres and 12 per cent comes from tenants in properties that we manage.
Our Italian headquarters use energy from renewable sources.
group energy consumption: utilisation by type type mW-h % lseg occupied office areas 17,248 37 sub-let office areas 5,404 12 Data Centre 23,461 51 total 46,113 London Stock ExchangE group AnnuAl RepoRt 2010 31
