Review of the business Post Trade Services London Stock Exchange Groups Post Trade Services division provides a range of risk management and trade processing services to ensure the successful completion of trades and custody of assets.
Introduction Post Trade Services are strategically significant for the development of our trading services, the attractiveness of which can be dependent upon the competitiveness and efficiency of post trade processes, especially clearing.
Our ability to introduce new products in trading is invariably dependent on associated post trade developments.
These services are also critical because they are central to the management of counterparty risk.
They instil confidence in our markets, helping to promote additional liquidity.
The Division has two inter-related objectives: Post Trade Services are strategically To ensure that our markets gain access to the most efficient significant for the development of post trade arrangements, utilising in-house assets whenever our trading services, the attractiveness appropriate: and of which can be dependent upon the To provide the wider European marketplace with the most competitiveness and efficiency of post efficient choice of post trade services and thereby bring down the total cost of trading and increase turnover.
Our post trade assets cover a broad range of services including kEvin miLnE Director of Post Trade Services trade routing, clearing, netting, settlement and custody.
We provide services to multiple platforms and for OTC products as well as Group markets.
Trade Routing Once a trade has been executed the details need to be processed, and where appropriate forwarded on for clearing and settlement.
As the range of assets traded grows and as clients seek greater choice of which post trade provider they use, the routing of trade details becomes more important and complex.
Our multi-purpose routing engine operates links to numerous clearing houses and settlement entities including CC&G, LCH.
Clearnet SA, Euroclear Bank and Clearstream Banking Luxembourg.
In the past year, we handled 1.3 million settlement instructions on a daily basis in Italy with a value of 800 billion, StratEgy up three per cent by volume and 24 per cent by value.
This is mainly attributable to non-captive over the counter activity which provide capital markets With most grew 18 per cent.
efficient post trade arrangements Clearing Build the scale of our offering Our clearing services, provided by CC&G, guarantee trades and throughout the post trade process manage counterparty risk in a range of assets and instruments champion greater post trade efficiency including cash equities, derivatives, energy products and AnD CoMpetItIon In euRope government bonds.
20 London Stock ExchangE group AnnuAl RepoRt 2010 Introduction Review of the business Governance Group financial statements Shareholder information aSSEtS undEr cuStody SEttLEmEnt inStructionS contractS cLEarEd tRIllIon MIllIonS MIllIonS 2.87 111 2.79 52.5 108 2.69 49.3 2.63 103 47.2 46.3 95 2.43 42.7 80 06 07 08 09 10 06 07 08 09 10 06 07 08 09 10 While predominantly clearing Italian based products, the scope Settlement and Custody of our offering is growing.
During the year, we were approved Our settlement and custody business, Monte Titoli, has a broad by the FSA in the UK as a Recognised Overseas Clearing House, client base with a wide range of connections to international and now provide services for our London-based derivatives markets and central counterparties.
During the year, we processed around 50 million settlement By the year end, our customer base had expanded to 140 instructions, an increase of over 15 per cent on the previous year.
members from 11 countries around Europe.
Nearly half of Through our collateral management services, clients achieved the members are now from outside Italy, and they account for significant efficiencies: of the 155 billion required for settlement 56 per cent of volumes in derivatives and 38 per cent in equities.
each day, our settlement algorithm and collateral management programme facility meant that clients were only required to Netting provide 3 billion to execute their settlement instructions.
Netting services provide clients with scale benefits in two ways: a single risk position per member at the end of each day: and a By the year end, assets under custody had reached 2.9 trillion, single settlement instruction per security for each firm.
The first of which 18 per cent was equities, 51 per cent was government is important for clients capital management, the second for their bonds, and 31 per cent was corporate bonds.
post trade costs per transaction.
Our in-house services provide significant netting efficiencies.
For instance, we charge a single fee for clearing a trade, including netting and settlement, leading to lower post trade costs for our large customers in Italy than in the UK despite the difference in market size.
Clients of our UK equity trading services, where post trade services are provided by external suppliers, have not benefitted from the same efficiencies.
Until March of this year, they still had to pay separately for their netting facility on a per trade basis.
Following vigorous campaigning, we secured a fee reduction worth around 10 million for our clients, which we anticipate will stimulate more trading.
induStry dEvELopmEntS the post trade industry is undergoing nevertheless, two landmark panMeanwhile, the implementation date potentially profound change, driven by european industry initiatives are taking for the european central Banks target a combination of clients desires to see longer to reach fruition than we would 2 Securities t2S project, aimed at a more competitive environment and have hoped.
Interoperability, the means facilitating cheaper cross border european regulators desire to create by which central counterparties can settlement across europe, has been a more efficient and safe construct.
We interact with one another thereby delayed beyond 2013. nonetheless, share these objectives and are actively providing valuable choice to trading within these constraints, we continue engaged with the intent of being an agent platforms and their clients requires to enhance our services and develop for positive change.
Indeed, our clearing greater harmonisation of risk new business opportunities.
services are the most open, integrated management procedures across and pro-competitive in europe.
London Stock ExchangE group AnnuAl RepoRt 2010 21
