Introduction Market position and outlook The Segmental review pages 14 to 25 provides an update and analysis of how each of our business divisions performed in the year.
This section examines market conditions and other external factors that may impact on our performance in the coming year.
Global Economic Conditions Many of our organic and strategic actions, including the It is clear that market uncertainties and risks remain, including acquisition of MillenniumIT and Turquoise, in partnership sovereign debt concerns for some Eurozone countries.
Nevertheless, with our customers, are focused on ensuring that the Group can macro economic factors are indicating a recovery from the recent continue to provide neutral and cost efficient trading services economic downturn, with G10 economies moving out of recession and benefit from the growth opportunities inherent within the into growth, and strong demand for equity capital as corporates markets in which we operate.
These opportunities include: rebuild balance sheets and invest for the future.
The potential growth within European cash equities trading This year, we have experienced strong levels of primary and which is still relatively immature compared with the US secondary capital raisings on our markets as we support the markets see charts on page seven, which show similarities capital needs of companies with 77 billion raised around the of GDP between Europe and USA, though large differences globe.
With continuing favourable economic conditions we expect in levels and velocity of shares traded : increased numbers of IPOs to come to market and for secondary The potential increased allocation of funds to equity and other issues to remain healthy, as a means to fund growth and asset classes including emerging markets which are traded on expansion.
As a pre-eminent global listing brand, the Group our platforms: is positioned to compete and benefit from this growth.
The shift from complex, less transparent, high cost OTC products to transparent well run regulated markets and As further evidence of returning confidence in economic growth, products such as exchange traded derivatives and ETFs the principal global indices have seen recoveries from their as we emerge from the financial crisis: post-crisis lows including the FTSE 100 and FTSE MIB.
These Eurozone government debt issuance which is likely to remain rose 45 per cent and 44 per cent respectively over the year: the strong as governments seek to finance large budget deficits FTSE AIM 100 increased 68 per cent.
required to drive the economic recovery: and A focus on cost and competitiveness in post trade services While this growth impacts positively on the turnover velocity and more efficient use of margin and collateral, driving further of cash trading, overall levels of equities trading remain lower increases in trading volumes.
There has been a scaling back of proprietary trading, hedge funds have fide-leveraged and banks have been and potentially will continue to be constrained by higher capital requirements.
Increased competition, tighter margins and further commoditisation of equities trading makes operating in this environment challenging for all participants, including the Groups own equities markets, which together are Europes leading equities trading venue by value traded.
06 London Stock ExchangE gRoUP AnnuAl RepoRt 2010 Introduction Review of the business Governance Group financial statements Shareholder information Regulatory Developments gRoSS domEStic PRodUct EURoPE vERSUS USa us$ TrilliON 2009 As an expected consequence of the financial crisis, regulation of financial markets has come into sharp focus.
This has the 14.8 14.3 potential to change significantly the environment in which we operate.
European regulatory reform is likely to focus on: More transparency on bonds and derivatives: Better quality post trade data in order to counter the effects of fragmentation: Europe USA Harmonisation of standards across regulators: Source: IMF 2009 GDP PPP The function of dark pools and OTC internal crossing networks: and The impact on EU markets of proprietary trading and high EqUitY tRading EURoPE vERSUS USa us$ TrilliON 12 MONThs TO 31 MArch 2010 frequency trading strategies.
56.3 In addition, we expect forthcoming European legislation to include: A move to mandate the use of CCP services for OTC derivatives in order to better understand and mitigate risk: 11.7 Harmonisation of European CCP standards and requirements: European US Trading Trading and Source: FESE Federation of European Securities Exchanges and US exchanges Increased capital requirements affecting risk and proprietary trading of the banks.
vELocitY oF EqUitY tRading 12 monthS to 31 maRch 2010 % As an operator of regulated exchanges and MTFs, the Group is a stable, trusted and neutral provider of market infrastructure 327 and we will continue to respond to this dynamic market 245 environment in order to create value for both customers and shareholders, by providing reliable, transparent and fully 187 compliant products and services.
116 101 Europe UK Italy Nasdaq NYSE Source: LSE, FESE and US exchanges european velocity includes electronic trading on seven major exchanges and five MTfs.
Nasdaq and Nyse velocity is calculated using consolidated trading total trading by all venues in each markets listed stocks.
Methodology of calculation for us trading may differ to european methodology.
The turnover velocity is the ratio between the value of equity traded over 12 months and the average market capitalisation over the same period.
London Stock ExchangE gRoUP AnnuAl RepoRt 2010 07
