Review of the business Capital Markets London Stock Exchange Groups Capital Markets division facilitates companies raising of capital - both equity and debt together with the provision of liquid secondary markets for the trading of those and other securities.
Introduction We are one of just a handful of exchange businesses across the world that can claim to have a truly international primary markets franchise.
In the past year, we have helped companies raise 77 billion in new and further equity issuance.
We have also enabled companies and sovereign states to raise 680 billion of debt.
In our secondary markets, we have continued to provide high levels of liquidity across our markets, and to develop the scope and scale of our offering.
Nevertheless, the value and volume traded on our markets has been affected by the drop in investor activity following the volatility associated with the financial We are one of just a handful of crisis.
Our exposure to both equities cash and derivatives and fixed income provides some diversification over the exchange businesses across the economic cycle.
world that can claim to have a truly international franchise.
Our exposure Fundamental to the success of our strategy is the need to work to both equities and fixed income in partnership with our clients, providing them with the highest standards of service at competitive prices.
provides some diversification over the economic cycle.
Primary Markets At the year end, there were 3,046 companies listed or quoted on raffaELE JEruSaLmi Director of Capital Markets and Chief Executive Officer of Borsa Italiana our markets.
While the IPO market was subdued for much of the year, our markets still assisted companies in raising 77 billion through new and further equity issuance, critically remaining open for business while many other financial markets faltered.
London maintained its pre-eminence as a listing venue for international companies seeking capital, profile and a liquid secondary market in their shares.
We maintained a high level of marketing activity throughout the year in key markets including India, China, Latin America and Russia, all of which we expect to yield listings in the future.
Russia has continued to be a particular success story for the London Stock Exchange, attracting another two companies this StratEgy year.
In total there are now 54 Russian companies listed and traded on our markets see case study on page 17.
Become a more client-centric Business The difficult economic conditions have weighed improve the competitiveness and scale disproportionately on small and medium sized companies, of our cash equities Business making capital more difficult and costly to raise.
Over the past product innovation Beyond equities year we have continued to work with governments, regulators in particular in equity derivatives and and policy makers in particular in the UK and Italy where we FIxeD InCoMe offer listing venues to identify mechanisms by which innovative add value through integrated offering companies might benefit from our markets more easily and from listing to cash trading and indices cost-effectively.
to derivatives trading 16 London Stock ExchangE group AnnuAl RepoRt 2010 Introduction Review of the business Governance Group financial statements Shareholder information numbEr of companiES monEy raiSEd Bn 3,579 106 3,533 3,424 3,304 3,046 77 60 46 45 06 07 08 09 10 06 07 08 09 10 In particular we have engaged in constructive dialogue with the UK Government to both broaden the scope for Venture Capital Trusts to support and invest in innovative smaller companies and enable AIM shares to be eligible for inclusion in Individual Savings Accounts ISAs.
We are grateful to the Government for its commitment to consult on both these matters.
Also in the UK, we have been working with third parties to propose ways to address current imbalances in the taxation system, which promotes debt over equity.
Success may help to increase levels of equity investment and trading.
ruSSian and ciS SErvicE offEring a range of linked capital markets services related to Russian company listings 54 Russian and CIS companies Russian and CIS shares are We also trade related futures and A critical mass of research and listed on our primary markets traded on our secondary markets options through EDX, supported trading expertise in the Russian have a combined market through our International Order by the FTSE IOB tradeable index and CIS market exists in London capitalisation of $590 billion, Book IOB.
$153 billion traded product, created by the Groups 11 Russian-owned brokers making the Group the largest last year and a total $843 billion FTSE indices business.
37.4 actively trading on both the market for Russian and CIS traded through our IOB since the million Russian contracts were London Stock Exchange and companies outside this region.
launch in 2002. traded on EDX last year, up 97 MICEX, one of the leading per cent on the prior year.
rationaLE expansion of products and services based on attracting international provision of these services is complementary to the domestic listings.
offering on the russian market the group has a co-marketing agreement with MICex a leading Russian equity exchange with information available at www.
com London Stock ExchangE group AnnuAl RepoRt 2010 17 Review of the business Capital Markets bit avEragE daiLy numbEr of tradES Secondary Markets 000 Equity trading Within our cash equity trading business, the most important performance metrics are value traded in the London market and 290 volume traded in the Italian market.
In London, the average daily 256 252 242 value traded was down 33 per cent at 4.6 billion reflecting 200 continued uncertainty in the markets together with stronger competition.
The percentage decline also reflects the very strong comparators in the previous financial year, in particular in H1 at 06 07 08 09 10 the height of the global financial crisis.
In Italy the average daily number of trades fell two per cent to 252,000.
Nevertheless, there was a noticeable pick up in Italian retail trading during the year.
LSE avEragE daiLy vaLuE tradEd Bn Over the course of the year, we have made good progress on improving the scope and competitiveness of our offering in the trading of shares and other equity products.
9.0 Following the acquisition of MillenniumIT in October 2009 6.9 6.5 see case study on page 25, we are in the process of migrating to 4.7 4.6 new trading technology, which will be available to London Stock Exchange clients in the latter half of 2010.
The MillenniumIT 06 07 08 09 10 platform will increase the performance and functionality available to clients and lower the operating and development cost of our trading platform.
With lower internal costs, the London Stock Exchange has made a number of pricing adjustments to make its services more attractive to the broadest possible cross-section of its client base.
We believe we will be able to continue to innovate in order to reduce fees to clients, which will help us to compete successfully in cash equities.
However, we believe that unlocking greater turnover velocity in the UK and Europe is the major determinant to our success in this asset class.
Exchange Traded Funds, Commodities and Notes ETFs, ETCs and ETNs have continued to deliver strong growth as individual investors increase the extent to which they personally manage their portfolios.
In aggregate there were 861 ETFs listed on the London Stock Exchange and Borsa Italiana at the year end, up 30 per cent on the previous year.
Average daily turnover for the year reached 366 million, comprising 13,987 trades a day: up 83 per cent on last year and underlining our leading position in European ETF trading.
Derivatives We operate three derivatives businesses: IDEM, which specialises in the trading of Italian equity derivatives: IDEX, which offers trading in Italian energy contracts: and EDX, which offers trading in Russian and Scandinavian equity derivatives products.
The key determinants to our revenue are the number of contracts traded and product mix.
Growth in trading on IDEM has been strong in the past year, with the number of contracts reaching 41.0 million up 11 per cent on the previous year.
As well as strong underlying demand, the volume growth was stimulated by the introduction of a fee cap for large trades: while this lowered our effective yield per contract, the new tariff succeeded in attracting liquidity from some of IDEMs competitors as well as over the counter trading.
18 London Stock ExchangE group AnnuAl RepoRt 2010 Introduction Review of the business Governance Group financial statements Shareholder information IDEX, which was launched in November 2008, has made good Fixed Income progress and seen sustained trading throughout the year.
During We have strengthened our position as the market leader in the the past financial year, there was an average of 61 GWh traded provision of electronic trading services in Fixed Income.
each day, up 49 per cent on the previous year.
The offering was enhanced in November 2009 with the option of physical delivery Within the wholesale market for sovereign debt, MTS, in which as well as cash settlement.
we have a 60 per cent stake, began a strong recovery in the second half of the year.
Value traded was up 31 per cent to In December, EDX migrated to the SOLA trading technology 45 trillion for the year see case study below.
This forms part of an alliance with TMX Group through which TMX made a strategic investment by acquiring Our retail offering also delivered good growth, with Borsa 19.9 per cent of EDX.
The migration also coincided with a market Italianas retail bond market attracting 3.5 million trades linkage between EDX and Oslo Brs for the trading of 2009: 3.4 million.
During the year, the successful Italian market Scandinavian derivatives.
structure was adapted for the UK market.
From 1 February, the London Stock Exchange launched its own retail bond market In the year ahead, we intend to expand our derivatives product offering investors a simple, transparent electronic market for range in a number of areas, including the introduction of a trading in corporate bonds and gilts.
competitive equity derivatives offering in other European markets.
mtS operates Europes premier electronic fixed income trading market Services cover pre trade, Over 500 unique counterparties Benefits trade execution and post trade and average daily volumes Access to premium source of liquidity capabilities across cash and exceeding EUR 175 billion.
Confidence of regulated, orderly and efficient markets repo markets, plus independent Stable and robust technology benchmark data and fixed Open architecture for seamless integration with existing income indices.
internal systems Cost-effective and comprehensive solutions Global view, local expertise rationaLE MtS provides an effective electronic trading platform for We will increase our efficiency in post trading by supporting government bonds, as well as corporate bonds.
We will expand consolidation of depositories and establishment of a european CCp.
our business model to include more dealer-to-client services.
London Stock ExchangE group AnnuAl RepoRt 2010 19
