Review of the business Information & Technology Services London Stock Exchange Groups Information & Technology Services division encompasses a diverse range of services aimed at meeting the varied requirements of our broad, international client base.
Introduction Investment decisions, trading strategies and efficient execution all depend on extensive and reliable market information, delivered in a variety of formats and via ever-faster means of connectivity.
We estimate the global market for such services to be worth at least 50 billion in annual revenues.
Our Information & Technology Services businesses are grouped into three categories: real time data: other information services including reference data, indices and desktop solutions : and technology services.
Real Time Data Our business success depends on our At the core of our real time offering is an unparalleled depth and quality of data on the London and Italian markets, forming the ability to deploy innovative products benchmark for over 40 per cent of Europes most liquid blue chip and services powered by high securities.
Nevertheless, demand for our real time data, which performance technology.
is currently charged for on a per terminal basis, was affected by difficult economic and market conditions in which a number of above, from left to right our clients reduced their headcount.
david LEStEr Director of Information Services and CEO of Turquoise At the year end, there were 93,000 and 142,000 professional tony WEErESinghE users respectively accessing London Stock Exchange and Borsa Director of Global Development and CEO of MillenniumIT Italiana real time data via our direct network and also via over antoinE Shagoury 200 network service providers and market data vendor partners.
Chief Information Officer While these figures were lower than a year earlier 2009: 104,000 and 151,000 respectively, the number of users stabilised in the second half of the year and we expect the coming financial year to show signs of improvement alongside an economic upturn.
Other Information Reference data and software solutions are widely seen as the key building blocks in effective data management and straight through processing STP.
Transaction security sits at the core of our services, with two products in particular delivering strong growth over the year.
We continue to expand our global, multi-asset class SEDOL Masterfile Service SMF, with the addition of nearly 4.5 million StratEgy new identification codes in the past year, bringing the total number to 10 million.
The majority of the new SEDOL codes were deploy loW cost, high performance allocated against exchange traded derivatives, sourced from over trading and information platforms 80 countries worldwide.
The number of SMF customers continues to increase, with over 200 new subscribers across the UK, Europe leverage flexiBle platform to expand and the US, bringing the total customer base to over 1,500 2009: scale and scope of product offering 1,300.
We have also seen significant growth in SMF usage across across the group Asia following the establishment of a stronger sales presence in deliver information services that improve the region.
efficiency of our industry 22 London Stock ExchangE group AnnuAl RepoRt 2010 Introduction Review of the business Governance Group financial statements Shareholder information LSE profESSionaL tErminaLS borSa profESSionaL tErminaLS 000S 000S 112 160 104 151 147 147 142 96 93 88 06 07 08 09 10 06 07 08 09 10 UnaVista, our matching, reconciliation and data validation service, In addition to reference data services, our desktop solutions has continued to expand in scope.
This year we extended our provide a front-end for market data as well as order and execution reconciliation services to facilitate cash and stock reconciliations, management systems, all provided through our Proquote brand, exchange reconciliations and commission sharing.
We also in Italy and the UK.
introduced the UnaVista Confirmation Portal, a central service enabling broker to broker matching and improving post-trade In Italy, Proquote targets a variety of clients including financial communications between sell side and buy side firms.
advisors, banks, brokerage firms and financial institutions, and listed companies.
It allows easy and intuitive access to a store of During the coming year, we will transfer our existing transaction financial information including Italian and foreign market quotes, reporting service onto the UnaVista platform.
This will provide news and security profiles.
We reached 34,000 screens by the year clients with additional levels of data validation and management end, up 8,000 on the previous year.
We continue to offer effective information to help minimise the risks associated to adhering to web solutions to our clients and we aim to further expand our regulatory requirements.
client base by branching out to the retail market in India and China by providing web-based solutions.
turQuoiSE mtf acquired majority control of Turquoise Trading, the pan-European equity trading platform The European marketplace for trading securities has scope to become more efficient and to grow significantly in coming years.
In particular, the provision of pan-European services across a range of asset classes is in increasing demand Important partnership Pan-European venture, Stock coverage extended Trading services comprise with 12 leading global offering trading services in April 2010 to 175 a lit electronic order book, bank clients.
in over 1,800 securities US listed equities, ETFs a dark pool and an order based in 19 European and ADRs.
rationaLE example of aligning services with clients for mutual benefit banks expansion of groups scale and scope, by extending trading to take own 49 per cent and benefit from efficient, neutral, well regulated, place on the MillenniumIt platform, and increasing the range and exchange-run market infrastructure.
number of securities traded in new geographic areas for the group.
London Stock ExchangE group AnnuAl RepoRt 2010 23 Review of the business Information & Technology Services EQuity trading pLatform LatEncy MIllISeConDS 120 120 6 5 1.4 06 07 08 09 10 The UK-based Proquote offering provides cost effective access to Separately, we have sought to broaden the scope of our activities over 160 markets, news and data sources throughout the trading with the acquisition of Turquoise, and its merger with Baikal day.
During the year, the number of desktop users taking real see case study on page 23.
We will develop Turquoises existing time data from Proquote increased from 4,800 to 4,900. range of services in the trading of pan-European equities, from its European market share of 2.5 per cent at year end.
As well as distributing and displaying market data, Proquote provides order management and execution services, Technology Services predominantly to the private client broking community in We provide clients with a wide range of technology services, from the UK.
Central to its appeal is Proquotes leading position connectivity to our markets through to trading platform solutions in connecting brokers with 28 Retail Service Providers RSPs, to other capital markets clients worldwide.
which we believe to be more than any other vendor in the market.
Over the course of the year, Proquotes RSP order flow increased Demand for ever faster trading technology creates a market for a by 150 per cent.
We aim to further expand this service on a more sophisticated means of connecting to our trading platforms, pan-European basis.
in order to reduce the time it takes to send and receive orders to our markets.
ftSE providing global index services Generates revenue from the provision of indices and benchmarking services to a range of investors, consultants, asset owners, fund managers, investment banks, stock exchanges and brokers.
These indices are used for: performance management: asset Over $3 trillion of assets 120,000 end of day and Provides users with fastest Building strong presence in allocation: portfolio benchmarked to FTSE real time indices covering index calculations and emerging markets assets hedging: and creation Indices globally.
broadest range of real under management in the of investment products in 2009 grew 20 per cent.
iShares FTSE Xinhua China such as tracker funds, Index Fund 25 ETF listed in Exchange Traded Funds the US grew 33 per cent and tradeable derivatives.
over the year, at one point rising to over $10 billion.
rationaLE ftse, the global index provider, is a 50-50 joint venture between We are leveraging FtSes expertise in indices products to construct london Stock exchange and the Financial times.
ftse now operating the miB index in italy.
24 London Stock ExchangE group AnnuAl RepoRt 2010 Introduction Review of the business Governance Group financial statements Shareholder information In addition to our established Information Service Provider miLLEnniumit Network business, where we provide a secure and reliable We operate in an extremely competitive marketplace.
network connection to our trading systems offering a variety of At the heart of our ability to compete successfully is the performance and cost of the technology that supports bandwidths, we now also offer hosting services.
Hosting allows our whole range of services.
clients to place their trading algorithms inside our Data Centre, providing sub-millisecond access to our matching engine and last summer, we reviewed 18 different alternative market data.
technology options to replace our trading technology infrastructure.
this assessment included options where we might partner with another exchange to share technology The service underlines our commitment to encouraging market infrastructure costs, upgrade our existing technology or efficiency through the removal of time friction in the system and purchase an existing technology platform.
further extends our variety of connectivity options.
We have 33 clients signed up to our hosting service.
the MillenniumIt platform scored highly on a number of counts: Following the acquisition of MillenniumIT, we provide trading tried and tested in other markets technology to a wide range of exchanges and other capital Based on flexible technology principles markets companies across the world.
Although this was not our run by an innovative software development team flexible and scalable, proven during laboratory trials principal reason for the acquisition see Case study opposite, extremely competitively priced it represents a good business opportunity for the Group.
The independent of any of our major competitors.
research and development team at MillenniumIT continuously strives to ensure that these solutions evolve with the future needs the decision to acquire the company for uS$30 million of customers and with technology capabilities.
We were, and continue to be, impressed by the quality and motivation of the people working for MillenniumIt.
So, in addition to acquiring our next In addition to existing clients such as LME, ICAP and Indian trading platform, we now have a first class software Commodity Exchange, MillenniumIT has secured new contracts development capability within the group, which will since acquisition, including Tullett Prebon and the Egyptian ensure fast and cost efficient technology development.
Exchange, both announced in March 2010.
MillenniumIt will make a positive contribution through its own commercial sales of technology, which are enhanced through our balance sheet backing.
We plan to introduce MillenniumIts technology for the uK equities market later in 2010.
It will also be introduced for the italian market and recently-acquired turquoise.
As well as core trading capabilities, MillenniumIt has expertise in market surveillance, smart order routing and post trade systems amongst other things.
We see scope for group companies to use millenniumits solutions to very good effect in the coming years.
London Stock ExchangE group AnnuAl RepoRt 2010 25
