Governance Directors report The Directors of the London Stock Exchange Group plc are pleased to present their annual report to shareholders, together with the financial statements for the year ended 31 March 2010.
Principal Activities and Results Share Rights The principal activities of the Company and its subsidiaries are The rights and obligations attached to the Companys ordinary the admission of securities to trading, the delivery of trading shares are set out in the Companys Articles of Association, copies systems, clearing and settlement of trading in securities, the of which can be obtained from Companies House in the UK or by organisation and regulation of markets in securities and the writing to the Group Company Secretary.
provision of associated information and technology services.
The Group made a profit before taxation, before impairment Holders of ordinary shares are entitled to attend, speak and vote of goodwill, amortisation of purchased intangible assets and at general meetings of the Company.
Every shareholder who is exceptional items, of 242.0 million 2009: 304.7 million.
After present in person or by proxy shall have one vote on a show of taking into account impairment of goodwill, amortisation of hands and one vote for every ordinary share he or she holds on purchased intangible assets and exceptional items, the profit a poll.
Proxy appointments and voting instructions must be of the Group before taxation for the year ended 31 March 2010 received by the Companys Registrars not less than 48 hours was 144.3 million 2009: 250.8 million loss and profit after before the time appointed for holding a general meeting or taxation was 91.7 million 2009: 332.8 million loss.
adjourned general meeting if in hard copy or electronic form or, in either case, not less than 24 hours before the time appointed Business Review for the taking of a poll where a poll is taken more than 48 hours The information that fulfils the requirements of the Business after it is demanded.
Proxy appointments and voting instructions Review can be found in this Directors Report and in the in hard copy form, where a poll is not taken forthwith but is taken following sections of the Annual Report which are incorporated not more than 48 hours after it is demanded, may be delivered at into this Directors report by reference: the meeting at which the poll was demanded to the Chairman, Secretary or any Director.
Introduction pages one to 13: and Review of the Business including the Financial Review Subject to the provisions of the Companies Act 2006: a the pages 14 to 35.
Company may by ordinary resolution declare dividends in accordance with the respective rights of the shareholders, but no Dividend dividend shall exceed the amount recommended by the Board: The Directors are recommending a final dividend for the year of and b the Board may pay interim dividends if it appears to the 16.0 pence 2009: 16.0 pence per share which is expected to be Board that they are justified by the profits of the Company paid on 16 August 2010 to shareholders on the register on 23 July available for distribution.
Together with the interim dividend of 8.4 pence 2009: 8.4 pence per share paid in January 2010, this produces a total If the Company is wound up, the liquidator may, with the sanction dividend of 24.4 pence 2009: 24.4 pence per share estimated of a special resolution of the Company and any other sanction to amount to 65.4 million 2009: 65.1 million.
required by the Insolvency Act 1986: a divide among the shareholders in specie the whole or any part of the assets of Share Capital the Company and may, for that purpose, value any assets and As at 31 March 2010 the Company had 271.1 million ordinary determine how the division shall be carried out as between the 79 shares in issue with a nominal value of 6 86 pence each, shareholders or different classes of shareholders: b vest the representing 100 per cent of the total issued share capital.
Details whole or any part of the assets in trustees for the benefit of the of the changes to the Companys issued ordinary share capital shareholders: and c determine the scope and terms of those during the year are set out in note 30 to the financial statements trusts.
No shareholder shall be compelled to accept any asset on page 95. on which there is a liability.
B Shares As at 31 March 2009, 1.1 million B shares were in issue, representing 11.1 per cent of the total issued share capital.
All remaining B shares were redeemed by the Company on 1 June 2009 in accordance with their terms.
54 London Stock ExchangE group AnnuAl RepoRt 2010 Introduction Review of the business Governance Group financial statements Shareholder information Subject to the provisions of the Companies Act 2006, if at any by special resolution at a general meeting of the shareholders.
time the capital of the Company is divided into different classes The Company proposes to adopt new articles of association at the of shares, the rights attached to any class may unless otherwise forthcoming AGM in order to reflect further changes in English provided by the terms of allotment of the shares of that class be company law pursuant to the full implementation of the varied or abrogated, whether or not the Company is being wound Companies Act 2006. up, either: Substantial shareholding a with the written consent of the holders of 75 per cent in As at 21 May 2010 the Company had been notified of the following nominal value of the issued shares of that class excluding interests amounting to more than three per cent in the issued any shares of that class held as treasury shares : or share capital of the Company in accordance with DTR 5 of the FSAs Disclosure and Transparency Rules: b w ith the sanction of a special resolution passed at a separate Borse Dubai limited 20.6% general meeting of the holders of the shares of the class, but not otherwise.
Qatar investment Authority 15.1% unicredito italiano S. p. A.
6.0% No shareholder is, unless the Board decides otherwise, entitled intesa Sanpaolo S. p. A.
5.3% to attend or vote at a general meeting or to exercise any other legal & General Group plc 5.0% shareholder rights if he or she, or any person with an interest in horizon Asset management inc. 3.7% shares has been sent a notice under section 793 of the Companies Act 2006 which confers upon public companies the power to Directors require information with respect to interests in their voting shares Details of the Directors are set out on pages 36 and 37. and has failed to supply the Company with the requisite information within the prescribed period.
In certain circumstances, the In accordance with the Companys Articles of Association, at each direction notice may additionally direct that in respect of the AGM one third of the Directors retire and offer themselves for default shares, no dividend is payable and that no transfer of any re-election, and each Director must stand for re-election at least default shares may be registered.
Shareholders rights to vote may once every three years.
Additionally it is the Companys policy in also be restricted where the shares that they hold are not fully paid.
line with the Combined Code that Directors who have served nine years or more will be subject to annual re-election.
Transfers of Shares The Board may refuse to register the transfer of a certificated Powers of the Directors share which is not fully paid, provided that the refusal does not Subject to the provisions of applicable statute, the Companys prevent dealings in shares in the Company from taking place on Articles of Association and any directions given by special an open and proper basis.
The Board may also refuse to register resolution, the business shall be managed by the Board which the transfer of a certificated share unless the instrument of may exercise all the powers of the Company, including without transfer: a is lodged, duly stamped if stampable, at the office limitation the power to dispose of all or any part of the or at another place appointed by the Board accompanied by undertaking of the Company and to issue or buyback shares the certificate for the share to which it relates and such other under the authorities described below.
No alteration of the evidence as the Board may reasonably require to show the right Companys Articles of Association and no such direction shall of the transferor to make the transfer: b is in respect of only invalidate any prior act of the Board which would have been one class of shares: and c is in favour of not more than four valid if that alteration had not been made or that direction had transferees.
Transfers of uncertificated shares must be carried not been given.
out using the relevant system and the Board may refuse to register a transfer of an uncertificated share in accordance with Issue of shares the regulations governing the operation of the relevant system Subject to the provisions of relevant statutes and without and with applicable statute.
prejudice to any rights attached to any existing shares or class of shares, any share may be issued with such rights or restrictions There are no other limitations on the holding of ordinary shares as the Company may by ordinary resolution determine or, subject in the Company and the Company is not aware of any agreements to and in default of such determination, as the Board shall determine.
between holders of shares that may result in restrictions on the transfer of shares or on voting rights.
Corporate Governance Statement The Companys Corporate Governance Report is set out on pages 38 to 43 and is, together with the information on share rights set out above, incorporated into this Corporate Governance Statement by reference.
Articles of Association The Companys Articles of Association adopted by special resolution passed on 9 July 2008 in order to implement changes permitted under the Companies Act 2006 may only be amended London Stock ExchangE group AnnuAl RepoRt 2010 55 Governance Directors report Authority to Allot Shares Political Donations and expenditure The authority conferred on the Directors at last years AGM to The Group made no political donations and incurred no political allot the unissued share capital of the Company up to a maximum expenditure during the year.
The Board is proposing that nominal amount of 6,200,000 representing approximately shareholders pass a resolution at the forthcoming AGM to 33.1 per cent of the issued share capital of the Company as authorise the Company to make political donations and or incur at the date of the notice of the Companys last AGM or, in political expenditure as such terms are defined in sections 362 connection with a pre-emptive offer to existing shareholders to 379 of the Companies Act 2006 in amounts not exceeding by way of a rights issue, up to a maximum nominal amount of 100,000 in aggregate, until the end of the Companys AGM in amount of 12,400,000 representing approximately 66.2 per cent 2011.
It is the Companys policy not to make political donations of the issued share capital of the Company as at the date of the or incur political expenditure and the Board has no intention of Companys last AGM, expires on the date of the forthcoming using this authority for that purpose.
However, the application of AGM.
Shareholders will be asked to give a similar authority the relevant provisions of the Companies Act 2006 is potentially to allot shares at the forthcoming AGM.
very broad in nature and this authority is sought to ensure that the Group does not inadvertently breach these provisions as a Authority to Purchase Shares result of the breadth of its business activities.
The authority for the Company to purchase in the market up to 27 million of its ordinary shares, representing approximately Supplier Payment Policy 10 per cent of the issued ordinary share capital of the Company, It is the Groups ongoing policy to agree payment terms with as at the date of the notice of the Companys last AGM, granted suppliers when business transactions are negotiated and to make at the AGM held on 15 July 2009, expires at the end of the next payments in accordance with those terms when goods and services AGM.
Shareholders will be asked to give a similar authority to have been satisfactorily supplied.
During the year, the London repurchase shares at the forthcoming AGM.
Stock Exchange plc became an approved member of The Prompt Payment Code, part of a structured initiative devised by the UK Directors Interests Government, with the Institute of Credit Management, to tackle Directors interests in the shares of the Company as at 31 March the issue of late payment and help small businesses.
The Prompt 2010 according to the register maintained under the Companies Payment Code can be viewed at: www.
Act 2006 are set out in the Directors Remuneration Report on The creditor days at 31 March based on the aggregate of the pages 51 to 53.
No company in the Group was, during or at the amount which was owed to trade creditors and the operational end of the financial year, party to any contract of significance costs of the Group incurred at the end of the year was 16 days in which any Director was materially interested.
Employees Significant Contracts Information on the Companys employment policies is given on The Company as borrower has entered into: page 30.
The Company provides an induction programme for new employees, including training on health and safety, and a range i a revolving facility agreement with Barclays Bank plc and of development programmes for all staff to develop their skills The Royal Bank of Scotland plc dated 9 February 2006 as and knowledge.
The Company encourages and assists the amended and restated 1 March 2007 and as further amended employment, training and retention of disabled people.
Where by a waiver and amendment request dated 18 July 2007, and changes to working practices or structure affect staff, they are by an amendment letter dated 12 November 2008 the First consulted and given the appropriate support.
All employees are Revolving Facility Agreement : provided with information on matters of concern to them in their work, through regular briefing meetings and internal ii a revolving facility agreement with, among others, Lloyds publications.
TSB Bank plc, Bayerische Hypound Vereinsbank AG, and Intesa Sanpaolo S. p. A. dated 24 July 2008 the Second Donations Revolving Facility Agreement : and Charitable Donations During the year the Group gave 506,000 2009: 300,000 iii a revolving facility agreement with HSBC Bank plc dated to charitable organisations.
24 October 2008 the Bi-lateral Facility Agreement.
Each of these Agreements contains a change of control provision which, if triggered, allows the relevant facility agent upon instructions from the majority lenders and in the case of the Bilateral Facility Agreement upon instructions from the lender itself to cancel the relevant facility and declare all outstanding loans under the relevant agreement, together with accrued interest and all other amounts accrued, due and payable.
56 London Stock ExchangE group AnnuAl RepoRt 2010 Introduction Review of the business Governance Group financial statements Shareholder information The Company has issued two sterling Notes due 2016 and 2019.
Audit Information Both Notes contain a redemption on change of control provision In accordance with Section 418 2 of the Companies Act 2006, which, if triggered by the combination of a change of control the Directors confirm, in the case of each Director in office at the and, within 120 days thereafter, a credit rating downgrade to date the Directors Report is approved, that: non-investment grade, allows Noteholders to exercise their option to require the issuer to redeem the Notes and pay any accrued i So far as the Director is aware, there is no relevant audit and unpaid interest due on the Notes.
information of which the Companys auditors are unaware: and The rules of the Companys employee share plans set out the consequences of a change of control of the Company on ii He has taken all the steps that he ought to have taken as a employees rights under the plans.
Generally such rights will Director in order to make himself aware of any relevant audit vest on a change of control and participants will become information and to establish that the Companys auditors are entitled to acquire shares in the Company although in certain aware of that information.
circumstances the Remuneration Committee has the discretion to defer vesting and to require rights to be exchanged for Auditors equivalent rights over the acquiring companys shares.
A resolution to re-appoint  LLP as the Companys auditors will be proposed at the AGM.
Employee Benefit Trust As at 31 March 2010 the trustee of the London Stock Exchange By Order of the Board employee benefit trust, which is an independent trustee, held 3.0 million shares 2009: 3.6 million under the terms of the Lisa Condron Group Company Secretary trust for the benefit of employees and former employees of the 21 may 2010 Company and its subsidiaries.
The trust is a discretionary trust and the shares are held to meet employees entitlements under the Companys share schemes.
Employees have no voting rights in relation to the shares while they are held in trust.
The trustee has full discretion to exercise the voting rights attaching to the shares or to abstain from voting.
Shares acquired by employees through the Companys employee share plans rank equally with the ordinary shares in issue and have no special rights.
Contractual Arrangements Essential to the Company Under the UK Companies Act 2006 we are required to provide information about persons with whom the company has contractual or other arrangements which are essential to the business.
The Group has contractual arrangements with LCH.
Clearnet for clearing services to London Stock Exchange members and with SIA for the provision of technology to CC&G, Monte Titoli and MTS, which remain essential for the business.
Various Group entities are regulated and the Group attaches the highest priority to complying with local regulatory requirements.
Financial Risk Management The use of financial instruments by the Group and the Groups financial risk management have been specifically considered by the Directors, and relevant disclosures appear in Principal Risks and Uncertainties, on pages 32 to 35 of this report, and in the notes to the Financial Statements on pages 64 to 100.
London Stock ExchangE group AnnuAl RepoRt 2010 57
