18 Man Group plc Annual Report 2010 Business Review Growing our Investor Base constant contact with existing and potential In the aftermath of the global financial crisis clients.
In Japan for example, up to 100 investors and their advisors have become product seminars are conducted prior to a product launch, and around 200 extremely cautious.
As a consequence, the performance reporting sessions are run every year.
This is a resource-intensive but credibility of counterparties has been called into differentiated approach.
question and their conduct during the crisis has Conducting business locally provides us with become the subject of intense scrutiny.
a good feeling for the individual needs of regional investors, which is important when one considers the significant increase in demand for onshore regulated formats.
This, Man has been far from immune to the effects coupled with the depth of Mans structuring of the financial crisis, but has emerged with its experience and execution capabilities, means strong investment brand intact.
We worked that we are well placed to benefit from the Our business is about hard to maintain liquidity for our clients, and to expansion of this sector.
While Man has a long sustain close relationships with excellent client track record of reaching onshore markets, identifying the right solution service and proactive communication.
Man including areas such as Japan, Australia, for each market and client has the experience, financial strength, Canada, Switzerland and Hong Kong, the new infrastructure and scale to take advantage of wave of onshorisation has been significant segment so as to meet their the new opportunities that have arisen as a and we are well placed to participate.
relevant needs in an effective by-product of the crisis and the ensuing industry consolidation.
We are confident that There are numerous initiatives in this area.
Our locally focussed the manner in which we have reacted to the We have been able to deliver AHL in a UCITS approach and the ability to crisis, the way the business is positioned, our format which opens up exciting new market ability to deliver the right products and our opportunities for us in Europe and beyond, recognise the long term international sales presence will result in given the international recognition afforded to potential of fledgling significant asset growth.
We are also launching a European focused long short equity product and have markets, allied with our Private investor trends others in the pipeline.
UCITS has meaningfully world class product While Mans guaranteed products proved to be opened up the UK onshore market to us and generally robust throughout the crisis, this was we have other lucrative onshore jurisdictions structuring and dedication to not necessarily the case across the industry firmly within our sights.
We were also recently client servicing, position us as a whole.
As a consequence, market the first company to launch an onshore perception has been tarnished.
With time, we regulated investment fund in Taiwan.
well to expand both our expect to see renewed demand for robustly Additionally, we have been able to reach the investor base and assets structured products from reputable providers, Brazilian onshore market through a product but the current appetite remains muted.
launched with local partners and, having been under management.
briefly sidelined due to regulatory changes, we By contrast, the sale of open-ended products have re-established a firm foothold in the Christoph Mller has proved much more encouraging.
Given potentially lucrative mass retail market in Global Head of Sales difficult trading conditions for CTAs Canada.
New structures are also in place to Commodity Trading Advisors, AHL sales tap segments of the Australian onshore market slowed down in the second half of the year.
which are not already covered.
However, there are experienced investors who Funds under Management FUM appreciate that previous drawdowns have The onshore market usually means moving $ billion provided attractive entry points and the outlook out of the private placement space and into $14.0 $12.8 $12.6 for fund inflows is improving.
the mainstream retail arena, where barriers to entry are high and there are complexities Continuous active dialogue with our clients surrounding product structures, such as the is crucial to building and maintaining need to provide stipulated liquidity terms.
A relationships and our extensive global comprehensive level of pre and post sale presence remains key to our success.
The client service is also required.
The core ability to respond promptly in local market attributes at the nucleus of the Man business hours fosters closer working relationships model mean that we are ideally placed to with our partners.
Our sales force backed by overcome such obstacles and establish a experienced in-house client service teams competitive presence in this fast-moving 600 people in total worldwide are in market segment.
GUARANTEED OPEN ENDED INSTITUTIONAL PRIVATE PRIVATE 19 Man Group plc Annual Report 2010 Christoph Mller, Global Head of Sales Institutional trends New market case study: How Man was Increasing investor appetite for managed accounts MACs has been a dominant feature first into Taiwan in our institutional business in the last year.
By virtue of Mans long-standing industry presence and excellent reputation, the business continues to benefit from a strong negotiating position in securing scarce capacity and MAC agreements.
Throughout the year, Man has The Cathay-Man Fund has been distributed focused on the ongoing development of its through Cathays extensive distribution MAC capabilities while continuing to adhere network and was also supported by to a quality over quantity philosophy.
securities companies, retail banks and insurance companies.
Extensive training was In addition to concerns over transparency, provided to all these distribution channels as the 12 month period has been one in which most had not had any previous dealings with institutional investors have increasingly focused Man products.
on the mechanics of investment.
Man is singularly placed to add value in respect of The Cathay-Man Fund was the first fund of more sophisticated reporting and the delivery futures funds to be approved under the new of educational materials through its exceptional regulations allowing onshore distribution to resources in quantitative analysis, risk retail investors and it generated a great deal management and client service.
On 10 August 2009 Man, together with of interest in the media, as well as from its strategic partner Cathay Securities financial intermediaries.
At the end of the In terms of strategic developments, it has been Investment Trust, launched the first fund of initial two week offer period, subscriptions of a busy period, with a number of new initiatives futures funds to retail investors in Taiwan $163 million had been received by Cathay.
and developments having already borne fruit known as the Cathay-Man Fund.
This while others will promote future asset-gathering.
followed almost two years of intensive work The fund has provided Man with an In Europe, Man formed a strategic alliance with with both Cathay and the Securities and opportunity to work with a new strategic Credit Suisse, which harnesses our investment Futures Bureau SFB to structure a fund partner in Taiwan and provide retail investors management experience while utilising Credit which would comply with new futures with access to the AHL Diversified Suisses knowledge of their clients structuring fund regulations.
We were delighted with the requirements and financing expertise.
Man has success of this first onshore product in also sought to cement its position in the US with In accordance with those regulations, the Taiwan and look forward to further conew senior appointments taking responsibility structure of the Cathay-Man Fund had to be operation with our new strategic partner in for institutional sales and private clients.
In an onshore New Taiwan dollar denominated this country.
Japan, we have been successful with single trust that must invest in five or more publicly For a video interview with Tim Rainsford, manager distribution to institutions, particularly available futures funds.
Beyond Japan, Asia is seen www.
com as a largely untapped market for providers of As Man has offered AHL funds to retail alternative investments and considerable investors in jurisdictions such as Hong Kong, energy has been devoted to a series of events Australia, New Zealand, Ireland, Guernsey in Hong Kong, Singapore and Korea, where and Japan since 1996 we were in a unique opportunities in managed futures, equity long position to be able to structure the Cathayshort and distressed strategies were highlighted.
Man Fund to comply with these regulations.
Man ends the year with $1.5 billion of new $163m institutional mandates, which are to be Working in conjunction with Cathay in The Cathay-Man Fund included in funds under management in the discussions with the regulator, Man played an raised over $160 million coming quarters.
important role in explaining AHL, including in 10 days.
the use of leverage, risk management and extensive support infrastructure.
Given that discussions took place with the global financial crisis as their backdrop, the regulator needed to be provided with commensurate levels of comfort to allay investor concerns.
