12 Man Group plc Annual Report 2010 Business Review Investment Management AHL Performance Comparison After a very successful 2008, last year 31 March 1996 31 March 2010 proved to be a much more challenging trading environment for the trend following community.
At AHL, we gave back a small part of our 2009 The magnitude of last years losses is financial year gains in the course of the FY commensurate with the types of drawdowns 2010.
Early in the 2009 financial year a number AHL has experienced in the past and is also 97 98 99 00 01 02 03 04 05 06 07 08 09 10 of strong trends developed, most notably the well within statistical expectations.
Man AHL Diversied plc World Stocks World Bonds rise in oil prices to over $140 per barrel and the subsequent steep fall, but a lack of clear trends We encourage investors to look at AHL as at significant investment and development in FY 2010 made trading difficult.
At 31 March least a three to five year investment, over which throughout the course of 2009.
15 people 2010, AHL was 12.9% below its high watermark time frame managed futures has consistently were added to AHL's research team, following for earning performance fee income.
delivered superior, uncorrelated returns the 27 new hires in 2008.
AHLs research team compared to traditional equity classes.
The now numbers 73, out of a total team of 116, Trading conditions were particularly difficult in two-year period which encompasses the which is one of the largest research teams in the bond sector, with energy and agricultural credit crisis is a case in point.
Over 2008 and the managed futures industry.
With this larger markets also generating losses.
Despite the 2009, AHL Diversified plc returned 10.7%, resource comes a richer research pipeline, and broadly unfavourable market environment in compared to 22.0% for the MSCI World in 2008 and 2009 AHL made significant 2009, AHL did find opportunities within Stocks Index.
The ability to generate a positive trading model developments, some of which equities, interest rate and credit markets which return during one of the greatest financial are in the process of being deployed into client helped offset some of the losses incurred from crises in over 50 years reinforces the programmes.
diversification benefits AHL offers to investors.
Current research areas include developing new Negative performance is always disappointing.
Investment in research & technology momentum predictors to enhance the quality However, given the volatility level targeted by Driving AHLs excellent long-term returns is a of our signals.
A new suite of momentum AHL, it is to be expected that drawdowns like world class research team and advanced models using a predictor optimiser framework that of 2009 will be encountered at times.
trading infrastructure, which saw continued has been rolled out and will receive an increased portfolio allocation in the coming months.
The use of fundamental data is also Financial Year 2009 Attribution Analysis being researched, which gives AHL a richer Total return 13.1% information set to advise trades whilst providing a source of uncorrelated returns.
1.1% 1.7% 0.1% 0.5% 8.3% 4.1% 0.8% 2.5% All new trading ideas are extensively researched and rigorously tested before being introduced into client trading.
As new strategies successfully transition into the final stages of development, one of the final checks is to test them in live trading with proprietary capital.
This is a prerequisite before any strategy can AGRICULTURALS BONDS CREDIT CURRENCIES ENERGIES INTEREST METALS STOCK trade with client capital, ensuring that only the RATES INDICIES very best trading ideas are deployed in clients' accounts.
Financial Year 2010 Attribution Analysis Total return -3.0% AHLs pursuit of research excellence is shown 1.7% 4.7% 0.5% 0.2% 2.6% 1.4% 0.0% 4.4% more publicly by our unique collaboration with the University of Oxford, which continues to expand and develop.
Currently there are 10 full time AHL researchers based at the Man Research Laboratory MRL co-located within the Oxford-Man Institute of Quantitative Finance OMI.
In 2009 the OMI held over 100 seminars, conferences and workshops presented by world leading academics.
These AGRICULTURALS BONDS CREDIT CURRENCIES ENERGIES INTEREST METALS STOCK RATES INDICIES seminars and the co-location of the MRL in the 13 Man Group plc Annual Report 2010 same purpose designed building have raised systematic trading models, which are just to improve AHLs research technology, which AHL's profile within the academic world and entering our client portfolios.
As a measure of have resulted in the faster delivery of new provided us with unique access to leading the success of our Oxford initiative, in August strategies.
All of these advancements have scholars across a range of disciplines.
As a 2009 both the OMI and MRL moved into larger increased the robustness and resilience of result, we often gain very early exposure to the shared premises.
AHLs infrastructure, which is integral to the latest academic developments before they continued operational efficiency of AHL.
Our close links with the Like the MRL, AHLs trade execution desk in University have also afforded us the Hong Kong continued to expand in 2009.
Looking to the future opportunity to recruit many of the best and The presence in Hong Kong enables AHLs AHL will continue to invest in its resources brightest graduates into AHL.
execution traders and researchers to build and capabilities by hiring outstanding people stronger relationships with broker across multiple geographic locations and All of AHLs research areas are now counterparties in the region, which has led further developing our research, trading and represented in the MRL, with specialists to significant enhancements to our execution technology infrastructure.
Our continuous particularly in the areas of automated trade throughout the Asia regions markets.
It also investments in research, technology and our execution and trading model development puts AHL in a strong strategic position to people have been key components in driving working jointly with their counterparts in our capitalise on innovations in Asian markets.
AHL forward over the past two decades.
Extensive work has been These factors and the considerable recent devoted to developing adaptive trade Investment in technology is an integral improvements to our trading programmes execution algorithms, and these have been component of AHLs success, and several demonstrate how we continue to lead deployed in 80 or so of the markets AHL advances were made during the last financial innovation in the managed futures industry trades, leading to significantly reduced year.
Trading systems were upgraded and and will go a long way to securing our transaction costs.
Over the last year a major moved into a state-of-the-art global data centre continued success in the years ahead.
research project spanning both our London located outside of London, while research and Oxford offices was undertaken.
The computing facilities were increased three-fold.
output of this is the next generation of In addition, significant investments were made AHL is a world-leading managed futures dynamic volatility process applied across all AHL explained manager, with assets under management positions, which reduces position sizes as totalling $21 billion and over 20 years of trading volatility increases and vice versa.
a variety of risk measures such as VaR, stress testing and leverage are monitored daily to Investment decisions are 100% systematic, ensure portfolios stay within pre-defined limits.
with systems sampling over 4,000 prices daily in order to identify and profit from trends Trades are executed either electronically using across a broad range of sectors, including AHLs proprietary trade execution platform or currencies, bonds, stocks, energies, interest by the 21 strong team of non-discretionary rates, metals, agriculturals and credit.
On average around 1,500 degree of diversification means that the trades are executed daily using a network of allocation to each position is small, which helps over 60 executing brokers.
AHL is fully to control risk within portfolios.
compliant with industry standards for disclosure, risk management, valuation, fund Risk control is of paramount importance, with governance and market related issues, as portfolios targeting a level of volatility rather determined and maintained by the hedge than return.
Risk is controlled in real-time by a fund standards board.
Systematic trading process Trading sysTems T Tr ra ad fide ed d e ele lec cT Tr ro on niic ca all lly y 1 Fundamental 2 data 3 riSk TargeT 1,500 trades Signal FilTerS PoSiTion daily average Technical data 4,000 prices deSk sampled daily TraderS Tim Wong CEO, AHL
