20 Man Group plc Annual Report 2010 Business Review Investor Solutions Man has one of the most extensive ranges of alternative investment products and solutions in the world, with expertise to tailor to a wide range of client needs.
Here are some of this years most significant developments.
Man formed a partnership with a large US 1 institution which primarily invests in single tailored institutional managers and holds in excess of $50 billion in 2 solution total assets.
Under the terms of the relationship, Man provides strategic counsel and industry guidance, with the initial solution comprising a portfolio of managed futures and global macro strategies.
The scope of the mandate was subsequently extended to include a customised portfolio of real assets commodities, energy and real estate, with the funds under consideration rising to $500 million from an initial $100 million.
1 Anthony Lawler Co-Head of Portfolio Management 2 Felicitas Mendrzyk Investment Writer, Marketing 21 Man Group plc Annual Report 2010 Until recently, many investors wishing to From a strategic perspective, the expanded Europe access alternative investment strategies have distribution potential conferred by UCITS UCITS: a globally been prevented from doing so because of high products constitutes a major opportunity for recognised brand minimum contributions, long lock-up periods Man to increase assets under management.
The UCITS III As they are classified as mutual funds from framework addresses most of these issues, regulation and settlement perspectives, UCITS simultaneously expanding the range of options hedge funds can be marketed through available and enhancing diversification potential mainstream channels and fund platforms, for many investors.
opening up a new segment of the intermediary network for Man to penetrate.
In the aftermath We expanded our UCITS business in 2010 of the events of 2008 and the lost decade with Man AHL Trend and Man AHL Diversity, for long-only equity investment, the mutual UCITS III versions of our successful AHL fund market is seeking a viable alternative programme.
Most recently, a fund providing to traditional funds and this appetite for exposure to first class equity long short alternative strategies is shared by the managers trading European equities has been intermediary community.
launched, which complements our MultiManager offering and allows us to offer a Non-European investors now view UCITS III as compelling alternative to traditional long-only a high quality global brand, and UCITS funds equity strategies.
are increasingly seeing interest from investors in Hong Kong, Singapore, Taiwan and the US.
The expansion of our UCITS funds range Man, through its extensive distribution network, reflects Mans ability to combine hedge fund is therefore exploring opportunities and structuring and legal expertise with a deep strategies to promote our UCITS funds knowledge of the evolving UCITS framework, outside Europe.
which we have been actively developing since the launch of our first UCITS product in 2008.
We reached a three-year agreement with the The mandate was awarded following a UK Universities Superannuation Scheme, the UKs rigorous selection process, with the client citing managed account based second largest private-sector pension fund, to Mans impressive risk management processes institutional solution allocate up to $1 billion through Mans and depth of expertise as being key factors in managed account platform.
Man will provide their decision.
advisory services in hedge fund research, operational due diligence and risk management, with the client maintaining responsibility for manager selection.
Man has built a pre-eminent position in the launching a series of open-ended and Australia Australasian market, with over 116,000 non-guaranteed funds, as well as developing business expansion investors in 34 funds and compound annual on-shore Australian unit trusts.
returns of 15.6% from its flagship Australian product Man OM-IP 220 Limited.
It is now The Australian investment industry is supported the largest provider of structured alternative by regular flows of money stemming from the investment products for private investors in the compulsory superannuation legislation, which region and benefits from an expanding requires all Australian workers to contribute 9% institutional business.
of their salary to their own pension plan.
As such, private investors are very receptive to Recently, Man has extended its product alternative strategies and this constitutes a offerings in Australasia by structuring and significant growth opportunity for Man.
