102 Man Group plc Annual Report 2010 Directors Report The directors submit their report, together with the audited financial Substantial voting interests statements for the year ended 31 March 2010 the year.
As at 26 May 2010 the following voting interests in the ordinary share capital of the Company, disclosable under the FSAs Disclosure and Principal activities, business review and results Transparency Rules had been notified to the Company.
Man Group plc the Company is the holding company for the Man group of companies the Group and is domiciled and incorporated in % the United Kingdom.
Details of the principal operating subsidiaries are AXA S. A.
Legal & General plc 3.70 BlackRock Inc 10.16 Information fulfilling the requirements set out in the Companies Act 2006, Schedule 7 of the Large and Medium-sized Companies and Takeover related provisions Groups Accounts and Reports Regulations 2008, the FSAs Listing As part of the Large and Medium-sized Companies and Groups Rules and the Disclosure and Transparency Rules can be found in the Accounts and Reports Regulations the Company is required to make following sections of the Annual Report and are incorporated the following disclosures which are not fully covered elsewhere in this by reference.
Business review, including: Powers of directors Principal business activities The Board is responsible for the management of the business of the Principal risks and uncertainties Company and may exercise all the powers of the Company subject to Key performance indicators the provisions of relevant statutes and the Companys Memorandum Main trends and factors impacting on business performance and Articles of Association.
A copy of each of the Memorandum and Environmental factors Articles is available on request from the registered office of Employee and corporate responsibility 134 the Company.
Audited financial statements 3575 Financial risk management and financial instruments 6768 The Articles give the power to a director to appoint any person to be his alternate subject to the appointment of such person who is Research and development 1213 not another director being approved by the Board.
Directors and Post balance sheet events 75 employees employment contracts do not provide for compensation Board of directors and directors biographical details 82 for loss of office or employment as a result of a takeover bid.
Statement of directors responsibilities 85 Articles of Association Directors interests 99101 The Articles may be amended by special resolution of the Directors indemnities 80 shareholders.
The directors are proposing amendments to the Companys Articles of Association at the 2010 Annual General Share capital and purchase of own shares 6566 Meeting, to incorporate changes brought about by the Companies Act Charitable donations inside back cover 2006.
Further information regarding these changes is set out in the Directors appointments 80 Notice of Meeting to shareholders.
Credit facilities 110 Significant agreements The directors are not aware of any significant agreements to which Essential contracts the Company and or any of its subsidiaries is a party that take effect, The directors consider that there are no contracts which are essential alter or terminate upon a change of control of the Company following to the business.
a takeover bid and employees employment contracts do not provide for compensation for loss of office or employment as a result of a Dividends takeover bid.
The directors recommend a final dividend of 24.8 US cents per ordinary share giving a total of 44.0 US cents per ordinary share for the Employee share incentive schemes year.
Subject to shareholder approval at the Annual General Meeting, The Companys employee share incentive schemes contain provisions the final dividend will be paid in sterling on 20 July 2010, at a rate of whereby, upon a change of control of the Company, outstanding 17.20 pence per ordinary share, to shareholders on the register at options and awards would vest and become exercisable, subject the close of business on 2 July 2010.
The shares will be quoted exin the case of certain schemes only to the satisfaction of any dividend from 30 June 2010.
The Dividend Reinvestment Plan will be performance conditions at that time and any time pro-rating of options available in respect of this dividend.
Where shares are held in trust, the voting rights are not exercisable by the Trustees except in accordance with instructions Material contracts from the participant.
At no time during the year did any director hold a material interest in any contract of significance with the Company or any of its subsidiary Credit payment policy undertakings other than in the service contracts between each It continues to be the Groups policy to honour all of its contractual executive director and the Company.
commitments and this includes paying suppliers according to agreed payment terms.
103 Man Group plc Annual Report 2010 The Company, being a holding company, had no external trade creditors at 31 March 2010 or 31 March 2009.
Political donations During the year the Company did not make any political donations to any political party or other political organisation and did not incur any political expenditure within the meaning of Sections 362 to 379 of the Companies Act 2006.
By Order of the Board Rachel Rowson Company Secretary 27 May 2010
