16 Man Group plc Annual Report 2010 Business Review Industry Trends and Competitive Environment It is notable that the bulk of inflows in the Transitioning back to growth the industry first three months of 2010 were concentrated with firms greater than $5 billion 5.1% of all positions for a second wave of allocations.
funds, which now manage over 62% of industry capital.
Performance-led recovery for that returns have been generated across a The benefit of perspective and the industry as a whole wide range of positions, sectors and regions the early signs of a second wave From a funds under management FUM low with no single theme dominating aggregate of hedge fund allocations point of around $1.3 trillion at the end of March risk exposures in our multi-manager portfolios.
Above all, recent events have enabled investors 2009, the industry began a sustained, There has been no one-way beta bet on to put 2008 performance into perspective and performance-led recovery to end March the equity market rally, or sovereign default, have decisively re-affirmed the defining 2010 with FUM of $1.67 trillion.
and some of the best performing strategies characteristic of hedge fund investing: to take have constructively and methodically sought advantage of multi-directional market Over the period, the industry saw net out undervalued securities or arbitraged opportunities, while actively managing outflows of around $14 billion, but was mispricings.
In a post crisis and more normally downside risk.
able to regenerate momentum through functioning market, experienced managers performance.
The return of liquidity and have maintained overall lower gross exposures On a three year annualised basis until the end counterparty confidence to the markets and modest long to net neutral positions.
of March 2010, fund of hedge fund index enabled managers across many styles to With the retrenchment of banks trading performance is down 1.7% with an annualised record strong performances in 2009.
Fund of desks and fewer peers for competition, volatility of 7.7%, while world stocks are down fund index performance was up 11.5% over there are fewer market participants to trade 7.7% with an annualised volatility of 19.6%.
The calendar year 2009, with notable style greater opportunities.
picture is stronger still for individual styles.
Over contributions from equity long short 24.5% the same period, AHL, as a leading exponent and event driven 25.0%.
Not all funds have shared equally in the of the managed futures style, is up 12% with recovery.
By the end of 2009, an estimated an annualised volatility of 16.5% and with a Into 2010, the picture has been more 2,000 funds had liquidated since the inception correlation to world stocks of 0.25 over mixed, as a differentiated recovery continues.
There has been a three years.
The dispersion trade is now firmly centre stage shake-out, with pre-2008 industry participants as managers across styles look to exploit now in three groups.
For private investors looking at portfolio differentials between corporates, commodities, diversification and newly mindful of stock currencies and nation states.
Investors are Those that have not made the grade market volatility, as much as for pension showing preferences for styles which are Those who benefited from a performance schemes, insurance companies and university nimble, pragmatic and liquid.
Equity hedge and lifeline, but remain under-prepared for the endowments looking at longer term liabilities event driven were the main beneficiaries of changed investment landscape and funding gaps, the compelling nature of calendar first quarter 2010 flows.
A select group of firms who are able to the risk return profile of hedge fund styles and demonstrate multiple year track records, hedge fund investing techniques is beginning Our own research into hedge fund managers institutional quality infrastructure and the to drive renewed interest.
Throughout the trading activities over the last year has shown confidence of counterparties and regulators.
period, survey evidence has underscored this.
For example, in February 2010, 80% of North American investment consultants, representing around $5.6 trillion of assets Industry flows by firm size Q1 2010 under management, predicted strong or moderate search activity in relation to hedge funds and fund of funds.
$545m $814m $1,181m $-2,170m $-1,531m $14,918m We have begun to see this trend underscored by allocations.
Man itself towards the end of the period announced $1.5 billion in new investment mandates from institutions seeking to marry a conviction view on hedge funds, with the benefits of Mans managed account platform.
Building trust and confidence to unlock allocations For investors to re-engage with the asset class, it is clear that they need to develop similar levels of trust and confidence in allocating to hedge fund styles as they have in allocating to more $100m $100m$250m $250m$500m $500m$1bn $1bn$5bn $5bn traditional investments in equities and bonds.
17 Man Group plc Annual Report 2010 Key to generating and maintaining this trust Man has participated in the UK FSAs hedge The challenge of co-ordinating and confidence are: fund survey since inception and welcomes the regulatory initiatives and the moves to co-ordinate  impact of adjacent legislative Enhanced transparency around the world.
Consistent standards in this proposals Security of assets area will increase regulator understanding There have been examples over the period of Control and flexibility in portfolios often whilst mitigating the operational and differing regional approaches to similar policy with high levels of liquidity compliance cost for managers.
April 2010s G20 Communique Well understood and locally regulated the enhanced levels of manager regulation and reaffirmed the importance of international product formats transparency will place a premium on co-ordination, if the policy approach to a global Demonstrable financial strength operational strength and experience.
industry like hedge funds is to be effective.
Business sustainability on the part of managers Regulating hedge fund managers The regulation of hedge funds takes place At the global, regional and individual country within a much broader regulatory context, Managed accounts have been a key tool in level there has also been an increased call for with notable focus on the banking industry.
delivering the first three of these and the focus more uniform regulation of hedge fund Proposals include enhanced regulatory capital of significant industry commentary throughout managers with recent examples including G20 rules and the introduction of banking taxes and the year.
Mans managed accounts offering is Communiques, the European proposals for an levies.
It is important that these measures do investment led, independent and scaleable, Alternative Investment Fund Manager Directive not penalise hedge fund managers, impose and positions us well to benefit from industryAIFMD and the US draft bills on financial disproportionate burdens on them, nor wide increases in FUM in MAC format.
We have also seen an increased crucially confuse the role of asset managers PG 14 focus on internal governance for example, the with that of banks.
Providing hedge fund investment exposures A new era of asset management in established formats and brands familiar to As a long-standing listed entity, Man Group The past year has done much to restore the investors from their more traditional investment has followed the highest standards of performance credentials for hedge funds over allocations has been a further much publicised corporate governance for many years.
There is an increasing theme over the period.
welcome proportionate and considered recognition that different hedge fund styles regulation.
We have operated through have varying performance, volatility and UCITS, a pan European regulated product regulated management entities in a number liquidity characteristics, but that the common format with a global market size of around of jurisdictions for many years, and welcome thread is a revitalised, sophisticated approach $7 trillion, has been a particular focus for increased co-ordination in the regulation of to the markets, which is built around a commentary.
While much of the media focus managers across different jurisdictions.
Momentum is has been on UCITS, in practice onshorisation building for hedge funds to earn a place in of hedge fund content is a global phenomenon.
Trading centralised every investors portfolio.
Mans worldwide local presence positions us and on-exchange well, as new territories develop frameworks The financial crisis and collapse of Lehman Becoming widely accepted modern asset to allow a wider audience to access hedge saw a renewed focus on trading, particularly managers by meeting the expectations and fund benefits.
PG 20 in relation to OTC derivatives.
Concerns were requirements of investors and regulators in raised most notably regarding transparency multiple jurisdictions around the world An industry which is transparent, and the lack of centralised clearing.
We have represents both a challenge and a tremendous regulated, and investor friendly now seen proposed legislation in the US, with opportunity for the hedge fund community.
In parallel to renewed investor momentum the EU soon to follow, regarding moves behind the institutionalisation of the asset towards on-exchange trading and centralised class, regulators too have been looking to put clearing developments which could provide hedge funds on the same footing as more benefits to market participants, provided the traditional asset management businesses.
details are worked out effectively.
This will place 1 2 a premium on the operational capability to Transparency on hedge fund match the complexities of any new regulations.
activity First and foremost and in a move which mirrors investor requirements for greater transparency, regulators have sought increased disclosures on hedge fund activities and operations.
Regulators have sought more and more co-ordinated information on trading activity, for example the information sharing arrangements announced in 2009 by the UK and US 1 Stephen Ross regulators.
General Counsel 2 Robert Aitken Head of Compliance
