14 Man Group Annual Report 2010 Business Review Investment Management Multi-Manager management capabilities.
Mans strong In March 2009 Man announced the launch investment brand and global scale provide significant competitive advantage when of Man Multi-Manager an integrated negotiating for scarce MAC capacity.
During the course of the 2009 10 financial year the hedge fund management business with a Multi-Manager business launched 28 new strengthened investment proposition.
MACs and by March 2010 had over $7 billion run across 74 accounts.
Mans managed account offering is Man Multi-Manager was designed to fulfil two The Multi-Manager business has one of the clear strategic objectives.
largest hedge fund research teams in the Investment led: resulting in high quality industry with analysts averaging 13 years of of approved managers and low levels 1 To launch an integrated investment investment experience based in Chicago, of tracking error management business, combining the London, New York, Singapore and Independent: allowing best in class third strengths of Mans three multi-strategy Switzerland.
The selection process is party service providers to be selected by operations Glenwood, MGS and RMF.
supported by a proprietary software Mans operational and risk specialists application which serves as a central Scaleable: the resources available across 2 To expand Mans managed account MAC information repository to create a structured, Man allow investors a full breadth of platform and make this core component of consistent approach across all research investment strategy and access choice Mans product offering available to a wider stages.
Drawing on a broad network of range of private and institutional investors.
industry contacts, the hedge fund research The successful expansion of Mans MAC team identifies high-calibre managers with the capabilities as part of an integrated MultiBy July 2009 the integrated business had ability to generate alpha on a consistent basis.
Manager business has allowed us to deliver become operational, with a new organisational The team establishes contact with about investment solutions with transparent access structure and enhanced investment process 300-400 managers each year as part of their to a broader range of private and institutional in place to meet the evolving requirements of new manager sourcing efforts, and maintains investors.
an approved list of over 150 managers, around half of which are allocated through Client offering In October, Fitch Ratings assigned Mans managed accounts.
The Multi-Manager business provides a Multi-Manager business an M2 rating, the comprehensive client offering, a range of highest ranking achieved by a fund of hedge Managed accounts advisory solutions and support services fund group.
For more than 12 years, Man has built its tailored to meet specific investor requirements.
managed account capabilities as an investor.
Man Multi-Manager has attracted significant This is a key differentiator to the flow-driven Both private and institutional investors are able interest from investors and has a growing business of competing providers.
to allocate to off-the-shelf portfolios, such as pipeline of new mandates.
In our last financial Man Transparency, that allocate capital to a quarter, we secured around $1.5 billion of new MACs are a separate legal entity, owned by the selection of managed accounts which is mandate wins.
investor, in which the hedge fund managers actively managed according to Mans strategic involvement is restricted to the role of and tactical asset allocation process.
Investors Investment strategy investment advisor, with third party service receive detailed risk reporting on aggregated Man Multi-Manager is founded on the core providers performing the operational and exposures, daily estimates, weekly proposition that long-term investment success custodial duties.
In addition to greater control performance statistics and monthly liquidity.
comes from achieving the right balance of assets and transparency, MACs enable between uncovering opportunities and investment policy and risk guidelines to be Institutional investors have the additional managing risk.
We seek to add value through framed to meet the needs of individual flexibility of allocating to customised portfolios the full market cycle, relying on the deep investors.
Furthermore, enhanced terms of designed to meet their specific risk return experience of our senior investment engagement may include preferential liquidity, objectives and the structuring requirements of professionals, asset allocation, bottom-up authority limits and special termination clauses regional markets, both onshore and offshore.
research, and active portfolio management.
relative to the master fund on which the MAC These bespoke portfolios can also be created Our aim is to provide investors with attractive is based.
Consequently, there are numerous for investors that want the ability to co-manage long-term, risk-adjusted returns, achieved benefits to institutional investors in choosing by having input into asset allocation and through controlled risk-taking across multiple a partner with deeply established MAC manager selection decisions, while benefiting portfolio dimensions, with a focus on downside capabilities.
from Mans infrastructure, industry knowledge deviation.
Our investment philosophy and risk insight.
These tailor-made advisory combines a structured, process-driven Man uses MACs as part of our broader solutions are becoming the model of choice in approach with qualitative judgement and investment strategy, only investing with local markets ranging from Italy and Germany agility, counterbalanced by various risk managers where the strategy and terms will in Europe to Korea and Taiwan in Asia.
contribute positively to Mans overall portfolio Products can be built to meet cross border and local regulations such as UCITS III.
15 Man Group Annual Report 2010 Multi-Manager Benchmarks: Performance to 31 March 2010 Annualised Returns Risk 3 years The multi-manager business Annualised Worst Product Type 3 years 5 years Volatility Drawdown provides a comprehensive Highly Diversified Man Four Seasons Strategies 1.1% 2.8% 6.6% 18.1% client offering, from readyDiversified Man Dynamic Selection 3.8% 6.0% 6.4% 9.5% made portfolios through Thematic Man Commodity Strategies 2.2% 9.2% 6.5% 10.5% Structured product Man IP220 USD-class bonds 5.7% 7.7% 17.4% 20.8% customised solutions to direct access to Mans managed World Stocks MSCI World Total Return Index 7.7% 1.0% 22.2% 53.6% accounts infrastructure.
Hedge Fund Industry HFRI Funds of Funds Composite Index 1.7% 2.9% 7.7% 22.2% HFRX Investable Global Hedge Fund Index 3.2% 0.9% 8.9% 25.2% A further level of customisation has been fundamental questions surrounding their developed over the course of 200910 to investments provide large, sophisticated institutional investors with direct access to Mans managed Return information and attribution what account infrastructure and experience.
In are the sources of returns?
January 2010 Man was selected by the Risk information and attribution what are Universities Superannuation Scheme USS, the sources of risks?
the UKs second largest private-sector fund, as Time Perspective what is the current level, the preferred provider for a mandate that could its monthly change and its history?
PG 20 Active portfolio management and Risk management performance Risk management is a pervading culture rather All portfolios are structured to optimise returns than simply a component of the investment for the level of risk taken across the market process.
Mans significant resource dedicated cycle and to limit potential downside during to the function drives our ability to deliver adverse market conditions.
Portfolios are transparency, liquidity and control to investors.
constructed to three specific mandates We take a holistic approach to risk 1 Discretionary portfolios management, which is applied to our market, 2 Guided asset allocation credit, liquidity, financial and operational risks 3 Structured products.
Risk management is fully integrated into the Over the course of the year the Man Multiinvestment process with dedicated teams Manager has delivered performance in line working together to ensure a structured with its targeted low-beta, diversified approach.
Risk Managements In general this approach saw it underperform 2 1 reporting lines are completely independent in the beta-driven markets of 2009 but from investment management.
outperform in 2008, giving an annualised three year performance in line with its peer group, One of the factors in successfully enhancing but with lower levels of volatility.
the transparency our investors receive has been thorough risk reporting.
We seek to Our dedication to research and portfolio provide investors with a clear picture on the management across all hedge fund styles has meant that thematic portfolios have delivered strong performance, with the Emerging Market Opportunities Fund and the Energy Fund recently winning industry awards.
1 John Rowsell Managing Director Man Multi-Manager 2 Herbert Item Chief Investment Officer Man Multi-Manager
