PartyGaming Plc Annual Report 2010 PartyGaming Plc Annual Report 2010 PartyGaming Plc Annual Report 2010 Overview 32 Business review 32 33 Our risks Our values Governance Financial statements Responsibility Other information We remain of the view that our conservative We are focused on the long-term returns that While there is no formal requirement to have an Training: training was not discussed approach and proven management of can be obtained from committed investment Ethics Committee, the Board agreed back in 2005 systematically in staff appraisals.
Managers now regulatory compliance, together with the scale in responsible business practices.
that the importance of CSR to the long-term know how to discuss training opportunities as that we will enjoy following the merger with bwin prospects of the Group justified its formation.
part of the employee appraisal process and we Corporate Social Responsibility CSR is a long will result in significant business opportunities over The Committee has a broad remit, it includes have also launched a Learning All Sorts portal and complex chain of many different and the medium to longer term.
reviewing the adequacy of our CSR-related through which employees can gain access individual steps, meaning that we have to draw policies, proposals and procedures, which in turn to more than 6,000 hours worth of training Unlevel playing field in poker upon both internal and external expertise and include, responsible gaming, compliance with programmes for a wide variety of subjects and Without regulatory change in the US, we and procedures to ensure that our high standards are our gaming licences, anti-money laundering, disciplines.
many other online poker operators can expect not undermined.
We have invested large amounts the fairness and integrity of our gaming systems to continue to face a tough competitive of human as well as financial capital in building Responsible gaming: to address some as well as our impact on the environment and environment, particularly against those sites that the requisite trust and confidence in our products inconsistent use of responsible gaming the communities where we have offices.
accept online gaming customers from the US.
and brands to succeed and as a result are not messages, we conducted a full audit to ensure To mitigate the impact of this unlevel playing field prepared to compromise on anything that might GoodCorporation a responsible gaming link and No under 18s in online poker, we are concentrating our efforts damage these important attributes in the eyes of As referenced in the Chairmans Statement on message on the home page of all of our on operational excellence, increasing our brands our key stakeholders.
page 7, since 2005 we have been subject to websites.
strength and keeping the consumer at the heart an independent assessment of our stakeholder Our high ethical standards apply to all aspects of Affiliate advertising: we tightened up on the of everything we do.
management and policies by GoodCorporation, our business: how we deal with our customers terms and conditions for all affiliates to ensure which has gained worldwide recognition as one Taxation the fairness and integrity of our games have to be that any advertising on young peoples websites of the leading organisations working in the field of Taxation is the fourth category of risk which we upheld and ring-fenced: they also apply to our will not be tolerated under any circumstances.
corporate responsibility and business ethics.
Group companies operate suppliers and how we agree to do business Protection: a system has been put in place only where they are incorporated, domiciled or together: as well as our employees through a The conclusion of the GoodCorporation 2009 10 to ensure that responsible gaming training is registered.
Revenues earned from customers variety of channels from health and safety to nonreport was an overall strong performance by the undertaken by all staff, not just customer-facing located in a particular jurisdiction may give rise to discriminatory employment terms and conditions.
We were commended for our support for staff and anti-money laundering training is also further taxes in that jurisdiction.
If such taxes are But acting responsibly is not just about how we community activities and received merits for 45% undertaken by all relevant staff.
levied, either on the basis of existing law or the operate and interact with our immediate of the policies and processes assessed by current practice of any tax authority, or by reason stakeholders.
We also believe we should put GoodCorporation.
Following completion of the merger, it is of a change in law or practice, then this may something back into society through charitable expected that a formal review of the policies and Following our announced merger with bwin, we have a material adverse effect on the amount donations and via a pro bono scheme for procedures for bwin.
party digital entertainment chose not to conduct a separate assessment in of tax payable by the Group.
plc will be conducted as soon as is practicable.
2010 11 but we did continue to address areas that risks by considering tax as part of our business We believe that it is important to have both a high were identified as having room for improvement in The remainder of this section of the Annual Report planning.
level and independent oversight of responsible the GoodCorporation 2009 10 report.
gives insight into our approach to responsible Integration with bwin gaming and wider CSR initiatives.
Martin Weigold, gaming, our relationships with employees and Examples of some of the areas we addressed in The process of integrating PartyGaming and Group Finance Director, has executive customers, and how we interact with our suppliers, 2010 were as follows: bwin is expected to be complex and represents responsibility for our CSR-related matters, a role local communities, the environment, shareholders a substantial challenge for the Directors and the he has held since 2005.
The overall process is Reorganisation management: with regards to and other providers of capital.
rest of the management team.
In particular, overseen by the Ethics Committee of the Board, concerns raised by employees in London, we combining the resources of two groups that rely which is chaired by Tim Bristow who became an focused on improving the skills of our Human upon different technology platforms may prove Independent Non-Executive Director in 2007.
Resources staff so that they could in turn costly and difficult to achieve technically.
Second, coach all line managers about how to better The Committee comprises three other Board the integration of the two groups is expected to communicate business restructuring plans members, being Rod Perry, Lewis Moonie and require substantial management attention and and to manage the transition to a new Rami Lerner, who meet to consider ethical and other resources.
While there can be no guarantee organisational structure.
social matters relating to all of our activities and that all elements of the integration will be are responsible for preparing and maintaining the Health and Safety: gaps were identified in successful, both PartyGaming and bwin expect Groups ethical and social policies.
this area at recently acquired companies.
that the significant investment in planning and Health and Safety representatives have now preparation that has already taken place will been appointed in each location and are help to ensure a smooth transition.
An in-depth co-ordinated centrally from Gibraltar to establish analysis of the risks faced by PartyGaming and core standards for first aiders, fire marshals and bwin and bwin.
party can be found in the Circular basic health and safety policy across all offices.
and Prospectus published on 23 December 2010 and available at www.
indd 32 06 05 2011 04:47 PartyGaming Plc Annual Report 2010 PartyGaming Plc Annual Report 2010 PartyGaming Plc Annual Report 2010 O Ov five errv viie ew w B Bu us siin ne es ss s rre ev viie ew w 33 32 33 Our risks Our values Governance Governance Financial statements Financial statements Responsibility Other information Other information We remain of the view that our conservative We are focused on the long-term returns that While there is no formal requirement to have an Training: training was not discussed approach and proven management of can be obtained from committed investment Ethics Committee, the Board agreed back in 2005 systematically in staff appraisals.
