PartyGaming Plc Annual Report 2010 PartyGaming Plc Annual Report 2010 26 26 Our markets, products and brands The online gaming industry has grown rapidly These forces have resulted in a highly polarised since coming into being in the mid-1990s.
It is a online gaming industry.
In February 2011, popular form of entertainment for millions of adults Casinocity.
com, an independent online gaming around the world and independent forecasters directory, listed 2,288 online casinos, poker rooms predict that the industry will continue to grow and other gaming sites that were open for over the coming years.
However, only a small number of these sites have meaningful scale and most of them Excluding the US and focusing on the four major are small and are unlikely to establish a global product segments of sports betting, poker, casino footprint that can attract enough customers to and bingo, H2GC, a leading independent generate significant revenues.
consultancy estimates that online Gross Gaming Yield GGY in 2010 was $21.4bn, up 12.0% on the While the ready availability of third-party software 1 previous year.
The consultancy also estimates makes it relatively straightforward for an operator that each of the four major online segments will to enter the market, the barriers to success are continue to grow, reaching approximately much higher and the advantages of scale have $30.5bn by 2015, implying a compound already resulted in the emergence of a few annual growth rate of approximately 7.3%.
These barriers can be expected to Source: H2GC, February 2011. increase as regulatory shifts require operators to pay gaming taxes and incur compliance costs.
In the last few years online gamings development It is widely expected that these developments has benefited from the roll-out of broadband are likely to result in further industry consolidation services: from significant investment by the online and the emergence of a limited number of gaming industry to promote its services: from international, multi-product operators.
increased consumer confidence in effective and low-cost payment mechanisms: and from As alluded to above, the online gaming industry traditional bricks and mortar businesses making is now entering an unprecedented phase of their products available on the internet.
In Europe, as well responding to pressure from the European Commission to Growth has also been driven by an expanding reduce trade barriers, an increasing number of customer demographic.
As the early adopters, countries are recognising the economic and who typically were in the 1825 age-bracket, consumer benefits that can be attained through become older and continue to play, they are implementing proper regulatory regimes for online being joined by the next generation of gamers, gaming.
Similar considerations are also taking many of whom now choose to enjoy their first place outside Europe in regions such as North gaming experience online rather than in landand South America.
This shift towards regulated based gaming premises.
In addition to these markets, especially in Europe, can be expected factors, regulatory shifts and technological to be a major factor affecting the evolution and developments such as the introduction of smart direction of the online gaming industry over the phones and computer tablets can also be next few years.
Europe is a prime territory for expected to increase online gaming as a PartyGaming.
proportion of total gaming revenue.
The global online gaming sector, excluding the US can be divided into four prime categories.
Excluding lotteries, which in the majority of cases are the preserve of state-controlled entities, sports betting is the largest segment, estimated to have been worth $10.5bn of GGY in 2010 48.1% of the market, followed by casino at $5.1bn 23.5%, poker at $3.7bn 17.2% and bingo at $2.4bn 11.2%.
1 Source: H2 Gambling Sp Capital, February 2011 14119 PG p14-109.
indd 26 17 05 2011 12:11 PartyGaming Plc Annual Report 2010 PartyGaming Plc Annual Report 2010 O Ov five errv viie ew w B Bu us siin ne es ss s rre ev viie ew w 27 27 Governance Governance Financial statements Financial statements Other information Other information PartyGaming offers Party-branded offerings for all Acquired by PartyGaming in late 2009, the WPT four of these categories through an integrated has continued to extend its reach outside of platform and a shared wallet that enables the US by hosting six events in Europe in 2010. consumers to move seamlessly across all of its Also in 2010, WPT-branded poker and casino sites products without the need to have separate were launched on the PartyGaming platform.
Customers can play any WPT programming was broadcast in over Party-branded game once they have created 150 countries.
and deposited in their unique Party Account.
Online poker operators have capitalised on the We also offer a variety of games under different acceptance of gambling as a mainstream form brands that reside on third-party technology of adult entertainment and the convenience platforms.
If players choose to leave one of our offered by the internet.
H2GC estimates that the Party-branded sites, we aim to use these brands, global online poker market was worth $5.1bn of which offer an alternative gaming experience, to GGY in 2010, a 6.6% increase over 2009.
The US retain their custom.
market remained a dominant force in online poker with H2GC estimating it generated $1.3bn Whilst PartyPoker is our flagship brand, we have of global GGY yield in 2010, compared with successfully diversified our business in recent years $1.2bn in the previous year.
and have established market leading positions in casino, principally through PartyCasino, and in Predicting the future growth rate and trends for bingo following the purchase of Cashcade in the global poker revenue is being made more difficult summer of 2009.
Sports betting was the smallest of due to the changes to the regulatory landscape our four main products in 2010 but, as we said we referred to above.
Following the introduction of a would, we remained focused on becoming a ring-fenced market in Italy, where only residents leader in this field and announced our proposed based in the country can play against each other, merger with bwin in July last year.
France followed suit last year with its own ringfenced regime.
Poker Looking at PartyGamings product categories in More European countries are expected to roll-out turn, poker has been around for centuries and regulated regimes for online poker, but it remains is arguably the worlds favourite card game unclear as to whether they will adopt a ringboth offline and online.
A main catalyst for the fenced approach or accept the industrys explosive growth in the early years of online poker traditional pooled liquidity approach whereby was the World Poker Tour WPT, which broke players from different countries can play against new ground in 2003 by televising high stakes each other on the same table.
As a result of these tournaments that proved to be a hugely developments, there are three distinct market popular format.
models: regulated and ring-fenced so-called dotnational markets, regulated and non-ring fenced Televised coverage of poker games has soared and the unregulated, shared liquidity dotcom since the WPT enabled viewers to see each market.
As more countries regulate betting and players cards during a game, enhancing the gaming by their residents and assuming they also broadcasting appeal of the game.
The financial seek to ring-fence their player liquidity, so the rewards available to players has also soared since unregulated dotcom market can be expected poker became popular viewing on television, to grow more slowly, or even decline, while newly with a number of internationally renowned regulated markets expand.
tournaments including the WPT and The World Series of Poker where players can win large prizes: Excluding the US, the global online poker market the 2010 winner of the World Series of Poker, is forecast to achieve a CAGR of 10.4% between 23-year-old Jonathan Duhamel, scooped almost 2010 and 2015 when the total gross gaming yield $9m in prize money compared with the $10.2m from online poker is expected to reach $6.1bn 1 won on last years ATP Tour by Rafael Nadal.
CAGR includes online poker, casino, bingo and sports betting.
indd 27 06 05 2011 04:47 PartyGaming Plc Annual Report 2010 PartyGaming Plc Annual Report 2010 PartyGaming Plc Annual Report 2010 Overview 28 Business review 28 29 Our markets, products and brands Governance Financial statements Other information Another useful independent data source that Despite the challenges presented by the unlevel PartyCasinos rise to the forefront of the online The Groups position in online bingo was analyses poker player traffic is www.
playing field in online poker, PartyPoker.
com, casino industry in recent years has been transformed in the summer of 2009 by the The sites analysis does have limitations as it is which was launched in 2001 is the worlds third supported by the introduction of a variety of new acquisition of Cashcade that owns some of restricted to cash games only, excluding largest poker site in terms of player liquidity and is content, including some unique slot games that the most popular online bingo brands in the tournament games that typically constitute set to consolidate its position further following the have been developed in-house and incorporated UK.
According to H2GC, the UK is the largest approximately 30% of total poker traffic.
It also is completion of the merger with bwin that owns into our portfolio.
Image and media rights online bingo market in the world, generating unable to analyse the value of individual players.
the Ongame network, the fifth largest pool of agreements with Hollywood studios and other approximately $491.5m of GGY in 2010.
It does however provide a useful proxy for the dotcom poker player liquidity.
Poker remains companies have been used by our in-house team PartyBingo, Foxy Bingo, Think Bingo and Cheeky overall structure of the market.
Using data from a significant business segment for the Group, to produce an exclusive range of slots that include Bingo are some of the Groups most popular the week ending 26 February 2011, the site generating 34.9% of total revenue in 2010 2009: The Godfather, Rambo, Terminator, Gone With bingo brands.
showed the market shares of the top five leading 44% and 19.2% of Clean EBITDA 2009: 32%.
The Wind and Resident Evil.
The acquisition of Cashcade has transformed our operators as follows: PokerStars 41%, Full tilt 22%, In addition to the Groups PartyPoker.
com site, We have also created several of our own bingo performance, both in terms of revenue and PartyGaming 6%, iPoker owned by Playtech PartyPoker.
it which was launched in May 2009, branded games, drawing upon the skills of our Clean EBITDA.
Together with PartyBingo, which 5% and OnGame owned by bwin 4%.
fr went live in July 2010 following the in-house design team.
The movie-branded slots as went through a major make-over in 2010, our As mentioned elsewhere in this Annual Report, an introduction of a regulatory regime for French well as the other games developed in-house are bingo sites collectively produced revenue in 2010 unlevel playing field in the global poker market is residents by the French government.
Our French amongst our most popular, generating attractive of 51.4m 2009: 22.8m and Clean EBITDA of being driven by the fact that a limited number of site, which is outside of the Groups main poker margins for the Group.
sites continue to accept real money customers liquidity pool, operates with a ring-fenced pool of customers can also enjoy a range of the many Like poker, player liquidity in bingo is important from the US, which remains the largest individual French players and forms the cornerstone of the well-established online slot games that have been for long-term success.
As a pari mutual game, online poker market in the world, but one where Groups French poker network that also includes developed by third-party suppliers, including such the more players there are then the bigger the PartyGaming and other publicly listed companies our network services partner PMU, as well as white titles as Monopoly, Midas Millions and Cleopatra.
potential prizes on offer to customers.
The online believe it is prohibited to offer online poker games.
labels for AB Groupe and Aviation Club fide Elsewhere, we continue to seek to improve some bingo experience has sought to replicate many This situation complicates the dynamics of the France.
of our classic table games including blackjack of the offline bingo characteristics including poker market as the US-facing sites are able to Casino and roulette and also through introducing the ability for players to socialise through online exploit their high levels of player liquidity and Poker is, however, just one part of the online innovative new games such as those that use chat rooms.
significant US profits in order to secure strong gaming industrys growth story.
It remains to be seen Another important success factor and business emerged in the mid-1990s and have grown what action, if any, the authorities in the US will Bingo driver for online bingo operators are side games strongly since then.
Excluding the US, the global take against such companies.
Our third largest product segment, our bingo games played while the main bingo game is online casino market was estimated at $5.1bn business operates in a fast-growing but highly taking place.
Our players have access to a broad In addition to the need for excellent software, of GGY in 2010 and is forecast by H2GC to reach fragmented global market.
H2GC estimates range of games including our progressive jackpot multi-lingual customer services and safe and $8.0bn by 2015, implying a compound annual that the global online bingo market generated slots Melon Madness, Gold Mega Jackpot and secure payments, sufficient player liquidity is a growth rate of 9.3%.
$2.7bn of GGY in 2010, an increase of 22.1% over Marvel Hero Jackpot.
pre-requisite for success in online poker.
It means Our online casino business has a global footprint the previous year.
Excluding the US, the global that players can quickly find a table to play at the We are focused on expanding our bingo and is a market leader, predominantly achieved online bingo market was worth an estimated stakes they want.
Being able to offer attractive customer base outside of the UK and in late 2010 through our main and also the industrys $2.4bn in 2010.
H2GC also forecasts that tournaments and promotions are also important we launched a site into the Scandinavian market.
Casino was our excluding the US bingo GGY will reach $3.5bn for success.
Other potential markets for online bingo include largest segment in 2010, generating revenue by 2015, implying a compound annual growth Spain and a number of Latin American countries.
Casino players play against the house and so player liquidity is not as important for delivering an enjoyable player experience.
However, a large number of players is important as it means that operators can offer larger jackpot prizes that are a major attraction for casino customers.
PartyCasino offers some of the largest jackpots on the internet: our Melon Madness slot, which was developed by our in-house team, re-seeds at $1.5m after the jackpot has been hit.
Big jackpot wins paid out on PartyCasinos slots in 2010 included 2.3m on Sweet Hawaii, 1.8m on Fire Drake, 1.9m on Melon Madness and 1.5m on Snow Business, another of our in-house productions.
indd 28 06 05 2011 04:47 PartyGaming Plc Annual Report 2010 PartyGaming Plc Annual Report 2010 O Ov five errv viie ew w B Bu us siin ne es ss s rre ev viie ew w 29 29 Governance Governance Financial statements Financial statements Other information Other information PartyCasinos rise to the forefront of the online The Groups position in online bingo was casino industry in recent years has been transformed in the summer of 2009 by the supported by the introduction of a variety of new acquisition of Cashcade that owns some of content, including some unique slot games that the most popular online bingo brands in the have been developed in-house and incorporated UK.
According to H2GC, the UK is the largest into our portfolio.
Image and media rights online bingo market in the world, generating agreements with Hollywood studios and other approximately $491.5m of GGY in 2010. companies have been used by our in-house team PartyBingo, Foxy Bingo, Think Bingo and Cheeky to produce an exclusive range of slots that include Bingo are some of the Groups most popular The Godfather, Rambo, Terminator, Gone With bingo brands.
The acquisition of Cashcade has transformed our We have also created several of our own bingo performance, both in terms of revenue and branded games, drawing upon the skills of our Clean EBITDA.
Together with PartyBingo, which in-house design team.
The movie-branded slots as went through a major make-over in 2010, our well as the other games developed in-house are bingo sites collectively produced revenue in 2010 amongst our most popular, generating attractive of 51.4m 2009: 22.8m and Clean EBITDA of margins for the Group.
customers can also enjoy a range of the many Like poker, player liquidity in bingo is important well-established online slot games that have been for long-term success.
As a pari mutual game, developed by third-party suppliers, including such the more players there are then the bigger the titles as Monopoly, Midas Millions and Cleopatra.
The online Elsewhere, we continue to seek to improve some bingo experience has sought to replicate many of our classic table games including blackjack of the offline bingo characteristics including and roulette and also through introducing the ability for players to socialise through online innovative new games such as those that use chat rooms.
Another important success factor and business Bingo driver for online bingo operators are side games Our third largest product segment, our bingo games played while the main bingo game is business operates in a fast-growing but highly taking place.
Our players have access to a broad fragmented global market.
H2GC estimates range of games including our progressive jackpot that the global online bingo market generated slots Melon Madness, Gold Mega Jackpot and $2.7bn of GGY in 2010, an increase of 22.1% over Marvel Hero Jackpot.
Excluding the US, the global We are focused on expanding our bingo online bingo market was worth an estimated customer base outside of the UK and in late 2010 $2.4bn in 2010.
H2GC also forecasts that we launched a site into the Scandinavian market.
excluding the US bingo GGY will reach $3.5bn Other potential markets for online bingo include by 2015, implying a compound annual growth Spain and a number of Latin American countries.
indd 29 06 05 2011 04:47 PartyGaming Plc Annual Report 2010 P Pa ar rt ty yG Ga am miin ng g P Pllc c A An nn nu ua all R Re ep po or rt t 2 20 01 10 0 PartyGaming Plc Annual Report 2010 O Ov five er rv viie ew w 30 B Bu us siin ne es ss s r re ev viie ew w 30 3 31 1 Our markets, products and brands O Ou ur r r riis sk ks s G Go ov five er rn na an nc ce e F Fiin na an nc ciia all s st ta at te em me en nt ts s O Ot th he er r iin nf fo or rm ma at tiio on n Sports Betting Other O Ou ur r a ap pp pr ro oa ac ch h t to o a as ss se es ss siin ng g a an nd d m ma an na ag giin ng g o ou ur r r riis sk ks s M Mo os st t o of f o ou ur r g ga am miin ng g t te ec ch hn no ollo og gy y iis s p pr ro op pr riie et ta ar ry y, Determined to secure a market leading position in In addition to poker, casino, sports betting and r re em ma aiin ne ed d f fo oc cu us se ed d o on n a as sk kiin ng g o ou ur rs se ellv five es s w wh ha at t iif f?
w wh hiic ch h m me ea an ns s t th ha at t w we e a ar re e b be et tt te er r p plla ac ce ed d t to o each of our four product verticals, in July last year bingo, in 2010 we rebranded our PartyMarkets IIn n 2 20 01 10 0 w we e h he elld d 1 12 2 m ma ajjo or r w wo or rk ks sh ho op ps s t to o a as ss se es ss s m ma an na ag ge e r riis sk ks s a as ss so oc ciia at te ed d w wiit th h t te ec ch hn no ollo og giic ca all a an nd d we announced our transformational merger with financial markets, spread betting and trading w wh he et th he er r a an ny y iin nd diiv viid du ua all r riis sk k h ha ad d iin nc cr re ea as se ed d, r re eg gu ulla at to or ry y c ch ha an ng ge e c co om mp pa ar re ed d t to o c co om mp pe et tiit to or rs s bwin, which is a market leader in sports betting.
contracts for difference product as d fide ec cr re ea as se ed d o or r b be ec co om me e o ob bs so olle et te e s siin nc ce e iit t w wa as s lla as st t t th ha at t a ar re e h he ea av viilly y r re elliia an nt t o on n t th hiir rd d- -p pa ar rt ty y s so of ft tw wa ar re e InterTrader.
This site, which we classify as an a as ss se es ss se ed d:: t to o iid fide en nt tiif fy y a an ny y n ne ew w r riis sk ks s, e es sp pe ec ciia alllly y f fr ro om m a an nd d s sy ys st te em ms s..
In 2010 our sports segment, which comprised emerging product, allows customers to make bets r re ec ce en nt t k ke ey y b bu us siin ne es ss s e ev five en nt ts s:: a an nd d t to o iid fide en nt tiif fy y t th he e of the Gamebookers and PartyBets brands, H Ho ow we ev five er r, w we e s sh ha ar re e t th he e iin nd du us st tr ry y s s g ge en ne er ra all based on movements in the financial markets.
lliik ke elliih ho oo od d o of f a a r riis sk k o oc cc cu ur rr riin ng g a an nd d iit ts s p po os ss siib blle e generated 20.8m of net revenue and r riis sk ks s t th ha at t a ar riis se e f fr ro om m s so ou ur rc ciin ng g b br ro oa ad db ba an nd d a an nd d iim mp pa ac ct t o on n t th he e G Gr ro ou up p.. Clean EBITDA of 9.0m.
c co om mm mu un niic ca at tiio on ns s, d da at ta a m ma an na ag ge em me en nt t a an nd d s st to or ra ag ge e T Th he e w wo or rk ks sh ho op ps s a alls so o h he ellp p t to o iin ng gr ra aiin n t th he e iim mp po or rt ta an nc ce e s se er rv viic ce es s a as s w we ellll a as s a a r ra af ft t o of f o ot th he er r s se er rv viic ce es s f fr ro om m The global sports betting market is made up of o of f r riis sk k m ma an na ag ge em me en nt t t th hr ro ou ug gh ho ou ut t a allll b bu us siin ne es ss s e ex xt te er rn na all s su up pp plliie er rs s.. W We e s se ee ek k t to o o of ff fs se et t t th he es se e r riis sk ks s a high number of private companies, making it f fu un nc ct tiio on ns s.. F Fa ac ciilliit ta at te ed d b by y t th he e IIn nt te er rn na all A Au ud diit t & & R Riis sk k t th hr ro ou ug gh h e en ns su ur riin ng g w we e a ar re e n no ot t o ov five er rlly y r re elliia an nt t o on n a an ny y difficult to obtain accurate market share data.
M Ma an na ag ge em me en nt t t te ea am m, t th he e w wo or rk ks sh ho op ps s iin nv vo ollv five e k ke ey y s siin ng glle e s su up pp plliie er r a as s w we ellll a as s h ha av viin ng g iin n p plla ac ce e f fu ulllly y However, excluding the US, it is estimated that p pe eo op plle e f fr ro om m e ea ac ch h o of f t th he e G Gr ro ou up p s s p pr riim me e f fu un nc ct tiio on ns s f fu un nc ct tiio on na all d diis sa as st te er r r re ec co ov five er ry y c ce en nt tr re es s.. the global online sports betting segment was iin nc cllu ud diin ng g T Te ec ch hn no ollo og gy y, M Ma ar rk ke et tiin ng g, H Hu um ma an n worth $10.5bn of GGY in 2010, up by 10.4% on the R Re eg gu ulla at tiio on n a an nd d c co om mp plliia an nc ce e R Re es so ou ur rc ce es s, O Op pe er ra at tiio on ns s, F Fiin na an nc ce e, L Le eg ga all a an nd d previous year.
This growth is expected to continue R Re eg gu ulla at tiio on n a an nd d c co om mp plliia an nc ce e iis s p pr ro ob ba ab blly y t th he e C Co om mp pa an ny y S Se ec cr re et ta ar riia all.. with H2GC forecasting that it will reach $13.4bn by m mo os st t c co om mp plle ex x o of f o ou ur r m ma aiin n r riis sk k g gr ro ou up ps s a an nd d iis s 2015, a compound annual growth rate of 5.0%.
T Tw wo o h hiig gh h- -lle ev five ell w wo or rk ks sh ho op ps s w we er re e c co on nd du uc ct te ed d b by y a a c cr riit tiic ca all m ma an na ag ge em me en nt t p pr ro oc ce es ss s f fo or r t th he e G Gr ro ou up p.. t th he e E Ex xe ec cu ut tiiv five e R Riis sk k C Co om mm miit tt te ee e iin n 2 20 01 10 0 a an nd d O Ou ur r iin nt te er rn na at tiio on na all r re ea ac ch h a ac cr ro os ss s m ma an ny y d diif ff fe er re en nt t The popularity of different sports varies by territory a at tt te en nd fide ed d b by y t th he e E Ex xe ec cu ut tiiv five e D Diir re ec ct to or rs s, p pr riim ma ar riilly y r re eg giim me es s r re eq qu uiir re es s t th ha at t w we e c ca at te er r f fo or r w wh ha at t iis s a a which impacts the mix of wagers and the margins t to o e en ns su ur re e t th ha at t a allll s st tr ra at te eg giic c r riis sk ks s w we er re e iid fide en nt tiif fiie ed d c co om mp plle ex x w we eb b o of f p po olliit tiic ca all a an nd d c cu ullt tu ur ra all a at tt tiit tu ud fide es s available to betting operators.
Horse racing and a an nd d t to o r re ea ac ch h a a c co on ns se en ns su us s o on n t th he e s siig gn niif fiic ca an nt t t to ow wa ar rd ds s o on nlliin ne e g ga am miin ng g.. O Ou ur r c co om mp plliia an nc ce e football are particularly popular in the UK while r riis sk ks s r re es su ullt tiin ng g f fr ro om m t th he e 1 12 2 f fu un nc ct tiio on na all w wo or rk ks sh ho op ps s.. o ob blliig ga at tiio on ns s r ra an ng ge e f fr ro om m t th he e a ad dm miin niis st tr ra at tiio on n o of f o ou ur r football and tennis are among the most popular F Fiin na alllly y, t th he e A Au ud diit t C Co om mm miit tt te ee e t th he en n r re ev viie ew we ed d g ga am miin ng g lliic ce en nc ce es s iin n G Giib br ra allt ta ar r, IIt ta ally y, F Fr ra an nc ce e a an nd d events in other parts of continental Europe.
t th he e o ou ut tc co om me es s f fr ro om m a allll 1 14 4 w wo or rk ks sh ho op ps s o on n t tw wo o A Alld fide er rn ne ey y t to o a as ss se es ss siin ng g w wh ha at t iim mp pa ac ct t c co ou un nt tr ry y- -s sp pe ec ciif fiic c Offering odds on a wide variety of sporting events s se ep pa ar ra at te e o oc cc ca as siio on ns s.. a an nd d p pa an n- -r re eg giio on na all r ru ulle es s a an nd d r re eg gu ulla at tiio on ns s m miig gh ht t is important.
So too is scale, because a broadlyh ha av five e o on n o ou ur r b bu us siin ne es ss s a an nd d t th he e w wiid fide er r iin nd du us st tr ry y.. M Ma an ny y o of f t th he e t th hr re ea at ts s a an nd d c ch ha alllle en ng ge es s f fa ac ce ed d b by y based pool of bets means that an operator W Wh hiills st t a at tt tiit tu ud fide es s t to ow wa ar rd ds s o on nlliin ne e g ga am miin ng g a as s a a lle eiis su ur re e o on nlliin ne e g ga am miin ng g c co om mp pa an niie es s a ar re e s siim miilla ar r t to o t th ho os se e is better able to manage its portfolio of risk.
p pu ur rs su uiit t c co on nt tiin nu ue e t to o e ev vo ollv five e, t th he er re e iis s a allw wa ay ys s a a r riis sk k f fa ac ce ed d b by y o ot th he er r lle eiis su ur re e a an nd d e en nt te er rt ta aiin nm me en nt t Punters bet against the house and so it is possible t th ha at t c ce er rt ta aiin n t te er rr riit to or riie es s m ma ay y s se ee ek k t to o o ou ut tlla aw w o on nlliin ne e iin nd du us st tr riie es s.. T Th he ey y iin nc cllu ud fide e c co om mp pe et tiit tiio on n, c ch ha an ng ge es s t to o for the operator to lose money if it fails to set odds g ga am miin ng g e en nt tiir re elly y o or r o on ne e o or r m mo or re e o of f t th he e p pr ro od du uc ct ts s c co on ns su um me er r t ta as st te es s, m ma aiin nt ta aiin niin ng g h he ea allt th hy y f fiin na an nc ciia all correctly: but, across a wide variety of bets and w we e o of ff fe er r.. r ra at tiio os s iin n c co om mp plliia an nc ce e w wiit th h b ba an nk kiin ng g c co ov five en na an nt ts s, llo os ss s events, an operator should be able to make a o of f k ke ey y p pe er rs so on nn ne ell a an nd d s so o o on n.. W We e a ad dv vo oc ca at te e t th ha at t t th he e b be es st t w wa ay y t to o p pr ro ot te ec ct t positive return, or gross win margin.
c co on ns su um me er rs s iis s t to o lliic ce en ns se e a an nd d r re eg gu ulla at te e o on nlliin ne e T Th he er re e a ar re e a alls so o c ce er rt ta aiin n r riis sk ks s t th ha at t a ar re e m mo or re e s sp pe ec ciif fiic c g ga am miin ng g, a a c co on nc ce ep pt t t th ha at t iis s n no ow w b be eiin ng g a ad dd dr re es ss se ed d t to o P Pa ar rt ty yG Ga am miin ng g a an nd d t to o t th he e o on nlliin ne e g ga am miin ng g iin nd du us st tr ry y b by y s se ev five er ra all c co ou un nt tr riie es s a ar ro ou un nd d t th he e w wo or rlld d a an nd d t th ha at t d fide es se er rv five e p pa ar rt tiic cu ulla ar r m me en nt tiio on n.. T Th he ey y c ca an n b be e p pa ar rt tiic cu ulla ar rlly y s so o iin n E Eu ur ro op pe e:: iin n 2 20 01 10 0 F Fr ra an nc ce e jjo oiin ne ed d t th he e c ca at te eg go or riis se ed d u un nd fide er r f fo ou ur r m ma aiin n g gr ro ou up ps s, b be eiin ng g:: U UK K, M Ma allt ta a a an nd d IIt ta ally y b by y iin nt tr ro od du uc ciin ng g o on nlliin ne e g ga am miin ng g t te ec ch hn no ollo og gy y, r re eg gu ulla at tiio on n, a an n u un nlle ev five ell p plla ay yiin ng g f fiie elld d r re eg giim me es s f fo or r o on nlliin ne e s sp po or rt ts s b be et tt tiin ng g a an nd d o on nlliin ne e p po ok ke er r iin n o on nlliin ne e p po ok ke er r a an nd d t ta ax xa at tiio on n.. A Ad dd diit tiio on na alllly y, t th he er re e o on nlly y b biin ng go o a an nd d c ca as siin no o w we er re e e ex xc cllu ud fide ed d, a at t lle ea as st t a ar re e s sp pe ec ciif fiic c r riis sk ks s a as ss so oc ciia at te ed d w wiit th h P Pa ar rt ty yG Ga am miin ng g s s f fo or r n no ow w.. H Ho ow we ev five er r, u un nlliik ke e t th he e U UK K, t th he e IIt ta alliia an n a an nd d m me er rg ge er r w wiit th h b bw wiin n.. F Fr re en nc ch h g go ov five er rn nm me en nt ts s h ha av five e s so ou ug gh ht t t to o r riin ng g- -f fe en nc ce e T Te ec ch hn no ollo og gy y t th he eiir r n na at tiio on na all m ma ar rk ke et ts s.. D fide en nm ma ar rk k iis s e ex xp pe ec ct te ed d t to o B Be eg giin nn niin ng g w wiit th h t th he e f fo ou ur r m ma aiin n r riis sk k g gr ro ou up ps s, iim mp pr ro ov viin ng g f fo ollllo ow w t th he e U UK K a an nd d M Ma allt ta a b by y a ad do op pt tiin ng g a a m mo or re e o ou ur r g ga am miin ng g p plla at tf fo or rm m a an nd d p pr ro od du uc ct ts s iis s a a n ne ev five er r- - p pr ro og gr re es ss siiv five e r re eg gu ulla at to or ry y m mo od fide ell iin n 2 20 01 11 1 w wiit th h t th he e e en nd diin ng g a an nd d v viit ta all p pr ro oc ce es ss s t th ha at t h he ellp ps s m ma aiin nt ta aiin n o ou ur r r re eg gu ulla at tiio on n o of f p po ok ke er r, s sp po or rt ts s b be et tt tiin ng g a an nd d c ca as siin no o c co om mp pe et tiit tiiv five e e ed dg ge e, k ke ee ep ps s u us s a ab br re ea as st t o of f e ev vo ollv viin ng g g ga am me es s a an nd d a at t t th he e s sa am me e t tiim me e a allllo ow w iit ts s r re es siid fide en nt ts s c co on ns su um me er r t ta as st te es s a an nd d u up ph ho olld ds s o ou ur r v va allu ua ab blle e t to o p plla ay y a ag ga aiin ns st t p plla ay ye er rs s f fr ro om m o ot th he er r c co ou un nt tr riie es s.. r re ep pu ut ta at tiio on n f fo or r o of ff fe er riin ng g r re es sp po on ns siib blle e, s sa af fe e a an nd d IIt ta ally y iis s p po oiis se ed d t to o f fu ur rt th he er r lliib be er ra alliis se e iit ts s m ma ar rk ke et t s se ec cu ur re e g ga am miin ng g o on nlliin ne e.. w wiit th h t th he e o op pe en niin ng g o of f c ca as sh h g ga am me e p po ok ke er r, c ce er rt ta aiin n c ca as siin no o t ta ab blle e g ga am me es s a as s w we ellll a as s o on nlliin ne e b biin ng go o.. S Sp pa aiin n, G Ge er rm ma an ny y, G Gr re ee ec ce e a an nd d H Ho olllla an nd d a ar re e a am mo on ng g s se ev five er ra all E Eu ur ro op pe ea an n c co ou un nt tr riie es s t th ha at t a ar re e n no ow w a ac ct tiiv five elly y c co on ns siid fide er riin ng g d fide ev five ello op piin ng g t th he eiir r o ow wn n r re eg gu ulla at to or ry y r re eg giim me es s.. 14119 PG p14-109.
