The Mercantile Investment Trust plc Annual Report & Accounts 2010 5 Investment Managers Report Market Background Performance attribution for the During 2009 the UK stockmarket experienced its largest gain since 1993. year ended 31st January 2010 1 Year At the beginning of the year confidence remained low and fragile with %% the market fearing debt, depression and deflation.
Global financial Contributions to Total Returns markets have endured the largest economic contraction since the Second Benchmark total return 57.6 World War.
Since the onset of the crisis UK GDP has fallen by 6.2%, the Allocation effect 5.4 most severe downturn since records began.
Many jobs have been lost Selection effect 2.8 and the fiscal deficit in the UK has grown to 178 billion.
However, fears Gearing cash effect 3.8 of prolonged depression and deflation were exaggerated.
The UK stockmarket raised 82 billion to repair the balance sheets of quoted Portfolio total return 58.8 companies.
Wage freezes, cuts and reduced working hours meant that Fees Expenses 0.6 Share buybacks 0.1 both employment and company profitability fell by less than expected.
Proposed dividend 2.0 Governments and Central Banks around the World implemented stimulus packages and quantitative easing programmes.
March 2009 signalled a Net asset value total return 56.3 turning point in investor risk appetite.
As economic data improved and Effect of decrease beat expectations the market built on its new found momentum.
increase in discount 2.5 Share price total return 51.6 Performance Source: Xamin JPMAM AIC Morningstar.
The performance of small and mid sized UK companies for the year was The table provides a breakdown, greater than that for the stockmarket as a whole as investors risk relative to the benchmark, of the appetite increased and as the reported profits from small and mid sized contributions to total return.
companies started to exceed forecasts, mainly as a result of actions taken to cut costs.
Last year saw the biggest rise in your Companys A glossary of terms and definitions is provided on page 55. small and mid cap benchmark index since its introduction in 1994.
The total net asset value return at the portfolio level was 58.3% for the year ended 31st January 2010 which was ahead of the Companys benchmark index, the FTSE All-Share excluding FTSE 100 constituents and investment companies, which returned 57.6%.
However, this was reduced to 56.3% after taking into account the proposed payment of part of the final dividend from reserves.
This compares with a return of 33.2% for the broader FTSE All-Share Index.
The contributors to performance are analysed in the table to the left.
The bar chart below shows the relative contributions to performance for the year for the five best and five worst sectors within the portfolio.
The dark green bars to the right show the positive contributions to performance relative to the benchmark index and reflect both sector weightings and stock selection.
The light blue bars to the left show the negative relative contributors.
6 The Mercantile Investment Trust plc Annual Report & Accounts 2010 Investment Managers Report continued Sector performance contribution analysis.
Year to 31st January 2010 0% Top 5 Support Services 2.7% Food Producers 0.8% Automobiles and Parts 0.7% 0.6% Household Goods Industrial Transportation 0.6% Bottom 5 Industrial Engineering 0.7% 0.7% Financial Services Technology, Hardware & Equipment 0.9% 2.2% Travel and Leisure 2.2% Mining Relative Contribution Source: Factset This shows that the biggest contributor to performance was the Support Services sector.
It is the biggest sector in our benchmark representing 15% of the index: many stocks in this sector are exposed to UK public sector spending.
We have held an underweight position in the sector for the last two years, believing that these companies would not be as immune from the economic downturn as investors believed.
During the year many Support Services companies lost their premium ratings as their earnings prospects deteriorated.
The Food Producers and Industrial Transportation sectors benefited from strong contributions from Premier Foods and BBA respectively.
Recapitalisations were a major theme last year and stocks such as GKN and Taylor Wimpey were strong contributors in the Automobiles and Parts and Household Goods sectors respectively.
Mercantile participated in 24 sub-underwriting opportunities last year as 17 billion was raised in the stockmarket for small and mid sized UK companies.
Because of the uncertainty in markets we were offered these opportunities on attractive terms of typically a 40% discount to the share price and we earned a sub-underwriting commission of 1.75%.
This generated an income of 4 million for the Company.
Of the negative contributors to relative performance the worst sector was Mining where the majority of the underperformance was caused by not holding Lonmin which recovered very strongly and was promoted back into the FTSE 100 index in March.
The portfolio was overweight in Travel and Leisure, which includes the bus and rail companies and Ladbrokes and William Hill the bookmakers.
This detracted from performance as these stocks lagged the market recovery.
The relative underperformance in the Technology, Hardware and Equipment sector resulted mainly from not holding ARM which was also promoted into the FTSE 100 index.
One of our advantages as an investment trust is to be able to use gearing, that is to invest borrowings in the stockmarket, and that added to performance last year as the stockmarket rose strongly.
The Mercantile Investment Trust plc Annual Report & Accounts 2010 7 Activity Gearing was managed actively throughout the year.
Having begun to reinvest our 10% net cash position in the stockmarket from September 2008 and starting this financial year with gearing of 103% we continued to increase gearing into the falling market in February believing the stockmarket was then fundamentally cheap and that long term value was present.
By March we had increased gearing to 110% and it was then held in a range of approximately 110-112% for the remainder of the year.
The investment managers have the flexibility to operate within a gearing range of 90%-120% invested and a more specific tactical range is agreed regularly with the Board.
The portfolio retains its style of board diversification across all sectors, and holds 120 stocks of which 80 are mid-sized and 40 are smaller companies.
By value, approximately 80% of the portfolio is invested in mid sized stocks and 20% in smaller companies.
The table below shows that our holdings in companies which are larger than 1 billion in market capitalisation are greater than for the benchmark index.
This reflects an overweight holding in those successful larger companies which are progressing towards inclusion in the FTSE 100 Index and also newer holdings in those out of favour companies which have recently fallen out of the FTSE 100 Index.
The portfolio is also overweight in the very smallest companies.
These can often offer the best growth opportunities.
Portfolio Size Distribution Benchmark index Fund Relative Market weighting weighting weighting capitalisation % % % More than 1.5bn 24.6 27.5 2.9 1.0bn to 1.5bn 28.1 33.8 5.7 500m to 1.0bn 23.9 15.8 -8.1 300m to 500m 11.7 9.2 -2.5 100m to 300m 9.9 6.5 -3,4 50m to 100m 1.6 4.9 3.3 Less than 50m 0.2 2.3 2.1 Total 100.0 100.0 0.0 As at 31st January 2010 Our ten largest holdings reflect a repositioning of the portfolio during the year.
Of the ten largest holdings as at 31st January 2010 which are shown on page 12 only one, ITV, was in the top ten last year.
Two, GKN and Songbird, were held in the portfolio a year ago and our holdings in them were increased on their re-capitalisations: the new holdings in Imagination Technologies and Misys represent an increase in our emphasis on growth technology stocks: and the new holdings in Drax and Pennon, which were both demoted from the FTSE 100, represent an increase in our holdings in Utilities.
During the year we met or visited more than 250 companies and this remains a key component in our process of evaluating companies.
We 8 The Mercantile Investment Trust plc Annual Report & Accounts 2010 Investment Managers Report continued believe that properly targeted company meetings can help us to analyse smaller companies that are often overlooked by the mainstream, evaluate managements and resolve issues.
Our fundamental analysis of companies is aided by JPMorgans in-house proprietary screening process which helps us to identify companies that exhibit the best value and growth characteristics.
Takeover activity was relatively low during the year, although Venture Production which was in last years top ten holdings was taken over by Centrica and Puma Brandenburg was taken over by Shore Capital.
We expect takeover activity to increase in the current year and recapitalisations and rescue rights issues, which dominated last year, to reduce.
There were very few Initial Public Offerings last year and we expect the level of activity to increase this year although we shall continue to reject highly priced low growth offerings from Private Equity sellers.
Outlook The risk of a long depression in economic activity that would have resulted from the collapse of the banking system now seems to have been averted by a concerted global policy response of lower interest rates and easier fiscal policy.
This, together with the recapitalisation of companies achieved in the stockmarket, allowed equities to be valued on a forward looking rather than a fearful basis and allowed us to buy strong companies at good valuations.
However, economic recovery will be slow and painful with a danger of set backs.
The financial system remains undercapitalised, weighted down with doubtful assets and still needs taxpayer support.
Since the Companys year end we have reduced gearing towards 100% invested to reflect the substantial rise in share prices of small and mid sized companies in the stockmarket last year.
That said, interest rates are likely to stay low for some time, economic activity is continuing to beat expectations and aggressive cost cutting by companies has limited the reduction in margins and supported profits.
As the economy continues to stabilise, companies profits will be able to recover.
We remain positive on small and mid sized companies and we see the year ahead as being full of opportunities.
Martin Hudson Jane Lennard Investment Managers 31st March 2010
