08 Tomorrow Our industry and our markets will be characterised by changing customer demands, competition and new technology.
We have a robust starting point and an effective strategy to meet these challenges, grow our business, and deliver returns to shareholders.
Wewill do this by operating our existing business better, introducing new services as our customers demand them and developing our presence around our core regional hubs.
Our strategy in action What were doing How were doing it Continuous improvement of customer The mantra of do it better applies to all Do it better service to attract and retain customers areas of operation and across each of our business units.
Providing the best service Improve margins through operational and best network coverage in a market will efficiency and transform our economics provide us with a competitive advantage and a strong customer proposition.
A continuous focus on reducing operational spending and cost of sales and keeping capital expenditure in line with business needs will help improve margins.
Embracing macro-level cost saving initiatives, like mobile tower sharing, will help transform the economics of our operations.
Pay TV is the key element in a triple play Service growth Pay TV bundle fixed line, broadband and TV.
Develop pay TV services to offer Triple play offers will position our businesses triple play proposition to customers as the core provider of digital home services Triple play to bolster fixed line products and enhance our existing advantage where and protect against competition from we are the leading fixed line operator.
We cable operators are already operating pay TV services in Panama, Monaco and St Lucia, with plans to expand across the Group, particularly through IPTV via our existing broadband networks.
Mobile handset development and improved Mobile data Develop mobile data services for network speeds are creating increasing customer appetite for mobile internet customers on our 3G mobile networks access and value added services.
We are Driving subscriber numbers and average well positioned to meet this demand, with revenues per user ARPU existing 3G networks in many territories and extensive backhaul and cable capacity.
This enables us to deliver high bandwidth mobile data services.
Cable & Wireless Communications Annual report 2009 10 09 Introduction A s an independent business we have an excellent platform for growth, with full service capability and strong financial metrics to build upon.
Tony Rice, Chief Executive Our strategy in action What were doing How were doing it The managed services market is a significant Service growth Managed services opportunity for our business units as each Developing our service capability to serve continued has the required capability, connectivity the needs of enterprise and government and relationships to service high demand customers enterprise and government customers.
Our Offering higher value services to Panama operation has developed a strong customers within, and outside of, managed services business, providing existing markets government sponsored services including the operation of the 911 emergency services platform.
Carrier services The growing levels of internet traffic are Utilising our existing cable networks to driving global demand for cable capacity.
offer wholesale services to other carriers In particular, traffic between North and South America the worlds fastest growing Capturing new revenues arising from intercontinental cable route is being the growing demand for bandwidth driven by increasing broadband penetration in South and Central America.
We have an extensive cable network in the Caribbean and Panama with sufficient capacity to meet this growing demand and capture new opportunities.
Create scale by building our business units In a geographically diverse business, we seek Develop regional hubs around regional hubs to exploit and develop our scale on a regional basis.
We will develop business units around Organic expansion through enterprise regional hubs.
We are well placed to do this capability in the Caribbean, and the Latin American region through Panama, not least through Inorganic expansion where attractive managed and carrier services.
Inorganic economies of scale and synergies exist opportunities will also be considered but always within strict value criteria.
