36 Board of Directors 1 2 3 All Directors were appointed on 25 January 2010.
A Denotes membership of Audit Committee.
N Denotes membership of Nominations Committee.
R Denotes membership of Remuneration Committee.
1 2 3 Chairman of the Audit Committee and NR Sir Richard Lapthorne, CBE Tony Rice Tim Pennington a member of the Remuneration and Chairman Chief Executive Chief Financial Officer Nominations Committees.
Simon Chairman of the Nominations Tony Rice is Chief Executive of the Tim Pennington is Chief Financial Officer was Group FD for 3i Group plc until Committee Company, having served as Chief of the Company.
He previously served November 2008, having served on Sir Richard Lapthorne is Chairman of Executive for the Cable & Wireless as the Group Finance Director for Cable its main board since April 2005.
Prior the Company having been Chairman of Communications business since and Wireless plc and as Chief Financial to this, Simon held a series of senior Cable and Wireless plc since January November 2008, moving from his role Officer for the Cable & Wireless finance and operational roles at 2003.
Richard is also the Chairman of as Group Finance Director, a position he Communications business.
Tim also Dresdner Kleinwort Benson, served the Nominations Committee.
Between held from March 2006, and having been served as an Investor Director on the as Group FD for the Robert Fleming June 2009 and April 2010, he was a Non-executive Director since January Cable & Wireless Worldwide Operating Group and was Director General, Chairman of the McLaren Group.
Tony was Chief Executive of Board from November 2008 to January Finance for the Department for 1999 to May 2003 Richard was Tunstall Holdings Ltd from March 2002 2010.
Previously, Tim was CFO and an Constitutional Affairs.
Chairman of Amersham plc now GE until its sale in September 2005 Executive Director of Hutchison 5 Healthcare having joined its Board as continuing as a Non-executive Director Telecommunications International Ltd. George Battersby a Non-executive Director in 1988. until April 2008.
Tony was previously Tim was also FD of Hutchison 3G UK Executive Director He was Finance Director of British Group Treasurer and then Group MD, Hutchison Whampoas UK mobile George Battersby is an Executive Aerospace plc from July 1992 and Vice Commercial Aircraft, of British business and has corporate finance Director of the Company, having served Chairman from April 1998 until his Aerospace plc.
Tony is the Senior experience with HSBC Investment Bank as Executive Director, Human Resources retirement in 1999.
Richard is a Independent Director of Punch Taverns and Samuel Montagu & Co. for Cable and Wireless plc since July Non-executive Director of Tommys plc and was appointed as Chairman of 4 2004.
Prior to joining Cable and The Baby Charity.
He was NonAlexander Mann Solutions on 28 July ANR Simon Ball Wireless plc, George was an Executive executive Chairman of New Look Group 2008, subsequently reverting to a Deputy Chairman, Director of Amersham plc now GE and Morse plc until November 2007 non-executive role on 1 September Senior Independent Director, Healthcare.
Previously he held senior and February 2008 respectively and 2009.
Chairman of the Audit Committee HR positions in a number of FTSE 100 Her Majesty the Queens Trustee at The Simon Ball is a Non-executive Director companies, including Group HR Director Royal Botanic Gardens, Kew until his of the Company, having previously at Laporte plc and Fisons plc.
George is retirement in September 2009. served as a Non-executive Director of a Non-executive Director and Chairman Cable and Wireless plc since May 2006. of the remuneration committee at Hogg Simon is also the Deputy Chairman, Robinson Group plc and was appointed Senior Independent Director and the to the Board of Ofsted on 4 June 2008.
Cable & Wireless Communications Annual report 2009 10 37 Governance 4 5 6 7 8 9 He was previously Senior Independent 7 8 9 ANR ANR ANR Director and Remuneration Committee Mary Francis Kate Nealon Kasper Rorsted Chairman of SHL plc.
He will stand Chair of the Remuneration Committee Non-executive Director Non-executive Director down from the Cable & Wireless Mary Francis is a Non-executive Kate Nealon is a Non-executive Director Kasper Rorsted is a Non-executive Communications Board in July 2010.
Director of the Company, having of the Company, having previously Director of the Company, having previously served as a Non-executive served as a Non-executive Director of previously served as a Non-executive 6 Director of Cable and Wireless plc since Cable and Wireless plc since January Director of Cable and Wireless plc Nick Cooper July 2009.
Kate is also a member of the since May 2003.
Kasper is a member Corporate Services Director the Remuneration Committee in March Audit, Remuneration and Nominations of the Audit, Remuneration and Nick Cooper is an Executive Director 2010.
Mary is also a member of the Committees.
Kate was Group Head Nominations Committees.
He has served as Audit and Nominations Committees.
of Legal and Compliance at Standard is Chief Executive Officer of Henkel Corporate Services Director for the Mary is Senior Independent Director Chartered plc until 2004, having KGaA, Germany.
Prior to joining Henkel Cable & Wireless Communications of Centrica plc and a Non-executive previously practised international in April 2005, Kasper was Senior Vice business since December 2008 and Director of Aviva plc.
She has previously banking and regulatory law in New York.
President and General Manager, EMEA Group General Counsel and Company been a Non-executive Director of the Kate is a Non-executive Director of for Hewlett-Packard and held various Secretary for Cable and Wireless plc Bank of England, of Alliance & Leicester Shire plc, a senior associate of the Judge senior management positions with since January 2006.
He also served as plc and of St Modwen Properties plc.
Business School at Cambridge Compaq.
Kasper was appointed as a an Investor Director on the Cable & Mary has held a number of positions University and a member of the Non-executive Director of Danfoss A S, Wireless Worldwide Operating Board in the UK Civil Service including advisory council of the Institute Denmark on 24 April 2009 and was a from April 2006 until December 2009.
Financial Counsellor at the British of Business Ethics.
She was also a Non-executive Director of Ecolab, Inc. Nick qualified as a solicitor with London Embassy in Washington DC, Private Non-executive Director of HBOS USA until July 2008. law firm Herbert Smith.
He has held Secretary to the Prime Minister and plc until 16 January 2009. in-house positions as company solicitor Deputy Private Secretary to the Queen.
with Asda and George Clothing and From 1999 to 2005, Mary was Director as General Counsel and Company General of the Association of British Secretary of The Sage Group Plc and Insurers.
Mary is a trustee of the JD Wetherspoon Plc.
In September Almeida Theatre and a senior adviser 2002, Nick was appointed Company to Chatham House.
Secretary and was part of the Executive Management Board of Energis until its acquisition by Cable and Wireless plc.
