38 Directors report the shares in the Company and Cable & Wireless Worldwide plc they The Directors present their report together with the audited financial statements for the year ended 31 March 2010. received persuant to the demerger of 9.50 pence per ordinary share for the year ended 31 March 2010.
The Companies Act 2006 requires information to be provided in the Directors report for Cable & Wireless Communications Plc Share capital and treasury shares the Company from the period since incorporation, 19 January The called-up share capital of the Company, together with details 2010, to 31 March 2010.
To be helpful to shareholders we have of shares allotted during the year, are shown in note 8 to the provided information over the full year to 31 March 2010 during Company financial statements.
No treasury shares were acquired which we operated as Cable and Wireless plc before becoming during the year.
In March 2010, 28 million treasury shares were Cable & Wireless Communications Plc on 19 March 2010. transferred to the Cable & Wireless Employee Share Ownership Trust to fulfil the requirements of the outstanding employees share Principal activities, business review and results awards.
At 31 March 2010, there were no shares in treasury as at The Groups principal activities are detailed on pages 6 to 7.
31 March 2009 33.2 million ordinary shares were held in treasury Through this Annual Report, including the Chairmans statement and by Cable and Wireless plc.
The Company is not aware of any the Business review section pages 2 to 35 that precede this report agreements between holders of securities that may result in and the Corporate governance report that follows, the Board seeks restrictions on the transfer of securities or on voting rights.
to present a balanced and clear assessment of the Groups activities, position and prospects.
Each of these sections is incorporated by The Board intends to seek shareholder approval at the forthcoming reference into this Directors report.
The Groups results for the AGM on 21 July 2010 to make market purchases of up to 10% of its financial year are shown in the consolidated income statement on issued share capital.
Details of the proposed resolution are included page 61.
Shortly before the year end, the demerger of the Cable & in the Notice of Meeting.
Wireless Worldwide business was effected.
Further detail on the Further details on the share capital of the Company are set out in demerger is included in note 2.1 of the Notes to the consolidated note 8 to the Company financial statements on pages 128 to 129 financial statements.
and are incorporated into this report by reference.
Directors Companys shareholders The names and biographical details of the Directors are set out on As at 26 May 2010, the Company has been notified of the following pages 36 and 37.
All of these Directors were appointed to the Board substantial holdings of voting rights in the issued share capital of the of the Company on 25 January 2010, having previously been in Company in accordance with the Disclosure and Transparency Rules: office on the Board of Cable and Wireless plc throughout the year Newton Investment Management Limited 12.42% : Franklin Mutual with the exception of Mary Francis who joined the Board of Cable Advisers, LLC 9.24% : Orbis Holdings Limited 7.61% : Prudential and Wireless plc as a Non-executive Director on 1 July 2009 and Plc group of companies 6.52% : and Legal & General Group Plc Nick Cooper who joined the Companys Board on 25 January 2010 3.75%.
At the 2010 Annual General Meeting AGM, Sir Richard Lapthorne, Ethics Nick Cooper and Kate Nealon will each retire by rotation in Cable & Wireless Communications is committed to sound accordance with Article 87 of the Companys Articles of Association business conduct in all the relationships it has with key stakeholders and will offer themselves for re-election.
shareholders, employees, customers, business partners and suppliers, governments and regulators, communities and society, The interests of the Directors and their connected persons in the and the environment.
The Groups ethics policy applies to all Cable & shares of Cable & Wireless Communications Plc, along with details Wireless Communications companies and employees.
Where Cable of their share awards, are contained in the Directors remuneration & Wireless Communications operates in conjunction with business report set out on pages 46 to 58. partners, third parties or in joint venture arrangements where No Director had a material interest in any significant contract with it does not have management control, it aims to promote the the Company or any of its subsidiaries during the year.
For further application of this policy.
The Group seeks to conduct its operations information, refer to note 39 of the consolidated financial with honesty, integrity and openness, and with respect for the statements.
human rights and interests of our employees.
The Group respects the legitimate interests of all those with whom it has relationships.
The Company has granted indemnities in favour of its Directors against personal financial exposure that they may incur in the course Charitable and political donations of their professional duties as Directors of the Company and or any During the year ended 31 March 2010, the Group gave subsidiaries as applicable.
These indemnities are qualifying third US$1.7 million 2008 09 US$3.7 million to charitable party indemnity provisions for the purposes of the Companies Act organisations including US$190,848 120,000 2008 09 2006 the 2006 Act.
They were granted on appointment of the US$210,972 120,000 to the Porthcurno Trust, a charitable Directors on 25 January 2010 and are still in force.
organisation in the United Kingdom.
More information about the Groups support of the communities in which it operates is set out Dividends on page 33.
The Directors recommend a final dividend of 3.34 pence per ordinary share payable on 12 August 2010 to ordinary shareholders The Company does not make political donations and has no intention on the register at the close of business on 11 June 2010.
This final of making donations to what are generally regarded as political dividend, together with the final dividend of 3.00 pence per share parties within the European Union.
As a precautionary measure recommended by Cable & Wireless Worldwide plc and the interim and in the light of the wide definitions of European Union political dividend of 3.16 pence per ordinary share paid on 22 January 2010 organisations for the purposes of the 2006 Act, a resolution was by Cable and Wireless plc makes a total dividend payment paid to passed at the 2008 AGM permitting Cable and Wireless plc to make shareholders of Cable and Wireless plc assuming they have retained political donations and incur political expenditure.
The Company Cable & Wireless Communications Annual report 2009 10 39 Governance recognises that the cost of control procedures should not exceed intends to propose a similar resolution at the 2010 AGM.
The purpose of the resolution is to ensure that the Company does not the expected benefits.
unintentionally breach the Companies Act 2006.
The proposed The Group operates a risk management process, under which resolution would remain in force until 20 July 2014 or the 2014 the regional businesses identify the key risks to their plans, their AGM, whichever is the earlier.
likelihood and impact and the actions being taken to manage those risks.
The risk register is presented to the Audit Committee on a Supplier payment policy rolling 12 month basis.
The principal risks identified by the Group The Company did not enter into any purchase contracts with are set out on pages 34 to 35. suppliers which required payment during the period from incorporation to 31 March 2010.
It is the Companys policy to agree The Executive Directors report to the Board, on behalf of appropriate terms and conditions in advance with suppliers and to management, significant changes in the Groups business and the make payment in accordance with those terms and conditions, external environment in which it operates.
In addition, they provide provided the supplier has complied with them.
the Board with monthly financial information, which includes key risk and performance indicators.
The Groups key internal control and Employee diversity monitoring procedures include the following: The Groups employment policies comply with local requirements Financial reporting: Each year, an annual budget is agreed and and meet relevant standards on employment of disabled people.
Full approved by the Board.
At each Board meeting, actual results are and fair consideration is given to disabled applicants for employment reviewed and reported against budget and, when appropriate, and training, and career development is encouraged on the basis of revised forecasts.
It is Group policy to retain employees who Investment appraisal: The Group has clearly defined policies for become disabled whilst in its service and to provide specialist capital expenditure.
These include annual budgets and detailed training where appropriate.
appraisal processes for such expenditure.
Monitoring systems: Internal controls are monitored through a Employee involvement programme of internal audits.
The Internal Audit function reports The Group communicates with employees in many ways, including to the Audit Committee on its examination and evaluation of the regular briefings by management, newsletters, intranet sites and effectiveness and adequacy of systems of internal control.
These communications help to achieve a Financial controls: The Group has dedicated resource to embed common awareness among employees of the financial and processes and controls across the businesses.
It operates a operational performance of the Group.
number of additional self-assessment exercises, which include The Group is committed to ensuring that employees share in its monthly certification of compliance with key financial controls and success.
Employees are encouraged to participate in share purchase an annual controls self-assessment.
The latter exercise requires schemes and hold investments in the Groups shares.
management to assess the effectiveness of its fundamental operating controls over all aspects of its operations, in addition Exercise of rights of shares in employee share schemes to the other financial controls covered by our Financial Controls The trustees of the Cable & Wireless Employee Share Ownership Toolkit.
The results of this exercise are utilised by Internal Audit Trust exercise the voting rights on shares held in the employee trust in planning its work for the forthcoming year.
in accordance with their fiduciary duties as trustees, which include the duty to act in the best interests of the beneficiaries of the trust.
Effectiveness of internal control The Board reviewed the effectiveness of the internal control Annual General Meeting systems in operation during the financial year in accordance with the The AGM will be held at 11.00am on Wednesday 21 July 2010 revised Turnbull guidance.
The processes as set out above have been at The Queen Elizabeth II Conference Centre, Broad Sanctuary, in place for the year under review and up to the date of this Annual Westminster, London SW1P 3EE.
Details of the resolutions to Report.
Where appropriate, necessary action has been or is being be proposed at the AGM are given in the Notice of Meeting.
taken to remedy any failings and weaknesses identified as significant during this review.
Auditor The responsibility for internal control procedures within our joint Resolutions to reappoint KPMG Audit Plc as our external auditor and ventures rests with the senior management of those operations.
to authorise the Directors to set the auditors remuneration will be We monitor our investments and exert our influence through proposed at the AGM.
So far as the Directors are aware, there is no relevant audit information as defined in Section 418 3 of the Companies Act Change of control 2006 of which the auditors are unaware and the Directors have The Group has a number of contracts that are subject to change of taken all reasonable steps to ascertain any relevant audit control clauses.
These primarily relate to financing facilities, bonds, information and ensure the auditors are aware of such information.
Under the Groups US$500 million revolving facilities agreement and Internal control, risk management and financial reporting US$100 million term loan agreement, on a change of control the The Board is responsible for the Groups system of internal control lenders are not obliged to fund any further sums and, if the majority and for reviewing its effectiveness on a continual basis.
The Groups lenders require, on not less than ten days notice, the facility can be system of internal control is designed to manage, rather than cancelled and all outstanding loans together with related charges eliminate, the risk of failure to achieve business objectives and can become immediately due and payable.
only provide reasonable, but not absolute, assurance against material misstatement or loss.
The concept of reasonable assurance 40 Directors report The Directors may decline to register the transfer of any shares Under the terms of the US$500 million 7.75% 2017 Senior Secured Notes the Bonds, if a change of control event occurs, each holder that are not fully paid, provided that such refusal does not prevent dealings from taking place on an open and proper basis.
of the Bonds will have the right to require the repurchase of all or any part of their Bonds at a redemption price equal to 101% of the Sanctions: Unless the Directors decide otherwise, a shareholder principal amount of the Bonds purchased, together with accrued shall not be entitled to vote at any general meeting of the Company but unpaid interest.
or at any separate general meeting of the holders of any class of A number of the Groups operating licences and shareholders shares in the Company or exercise any other right conferred by agreements include change of control clauses which may be membership in relation to general meetings if the shareholder has triggered by the sale of a business, or certain types of restructuring.
not paid all amounts relating to those shares which are due at the time of the meeting, or if the shareholder is given a notice following In the event of a change of control, these clauses may require a failure by that shareholder or someone who appears to be consideration to determine their impact on the Group.
At present, interested in the shares to comply with a notice under section 793 risks arising from a change of control are not considered to be of the Companies Act 2006.
Further, if a shareholder holding 0.25% significant.
The Group will take appropriate action to mitigate any or more of the issued shares of a class excluding treasury shares or risks arising from these events should they occur.
For change of interested person is in default of a section 793 notice, the Directors control provisions in relation to the LTIP and Directors, refer to may also state in the notice that: i the payment of any dividend the Directors remuneration report on pages 46 to 58. shall be withheld: ii the shareholder shall not be entitled to elect to receive shares in place of dividends withheld: and iii the transfer of Rights and obligations attaching to the ordinary shares the shares held by such shareholder shall be restricted.
The following section summarises the rights and obligations in the Companys Articles of Association the Articles relating to the Certificated shares: The Company can sell any certificated shares ordinary shares of the Company.
The full Articles can be found on at the best price reasonably obtainable at the time of the sale if: i the Companys website www.
in a period of 12 years at least three dividends have become payable and no dividends have been claimed: ii the Company has published The Articles may be amended by a special resolution of the a notice after the 12 year period stating that it intends to sell the shareholders passed at a general meeting of the Company.
shares: and iii during the 12 year period and for three months after Voting: Each share other than those held in treasury allows the the notice, the Company has not heard from the shareholder or any holder to have one vote at general meetings of the Company on person entitled to sell the shares.
The Directors may decline registration of certificated shares if: i a Dividends: The Companys shareholders can declare dividends by share transfer form is used to transfer more than one class of shares: passing an ordinary resolution, but the payment cannot exceed the ii transfers are in favour of more than four joint holders: or iii the amount recommended by the Directors.
The Directors may also pay share transfer form is not delivered to the office, or such other place interim dividends without shareholder approval if they consider decided on by the Directors, accompanied by the share certificate that the financial position of the Company justifies it.
Subject to relating to the shares being transferred unless the transfer is by a shareholder approval, the Directors may operate scrip or dividend person to whom the Company was not required to, and did not, send reinvestment plans or pay dividends by distributing assets.
No a certificate and any other evidence reasonably asked for by the dividend carries a right to interest from the Company.
If dividends Directors to show entitlement to transfer the shares.
remain unclaimed for 12 years they are forfeited by the shareholder Uncertificated shares: The Directors may decline registration of and revert to the Company.
uncertificated shares if the transfer is in favour of more than four Distribution of assets: If the Company is wound up, the liquidator joint holders or otherwise in accordance with the Uncertificated may divide the whole or any part of the assets of the Company Securities Regulations 2001. among the shareholders subject to the passing of a resolution by Interests in shares: Except where express rights are given, the a 75% majority vote of the shareholders.
No shareholder can be Company will only recognise a current and absolute right to whole compelled to accept any shares or other property which carries shares.
The fact that any share, or any part of a share, may not be a liability.
owned outright by the registered owner is not of any concern to Partly paid shares: The Company has a lien on all partly paid shares the Company.
and dividends, which has priority over claims of others to such US Holders: The Directors may require a shareholder or shares covering any money owed to the Company for the shares.
other person appearing to be interested in shares, to disclose The Directors may sell all or any of such shares where: i the money information relating to the ownership of such shares or to show that owed by the shareholder is payable immediately: ii the Directors such shares are not held by a US Holder defined in the Articles as have given notice demanding payment, stating the amount due and being: i persons resident in the US who hold shares in the Company that the shares will be sold on non-payment: and iii the money has and ii persons who appear to the Directors to fall within subnot been paid within 14 clear days of the service of the notice.
paragraph i of the definition of a US Holder.
The Directors may The Directors may make calls on shareholders to pay any money require a US Holder to sell their shares to someone who is not a US which has not yet been paid to the Company for their shares.
If a Holder, failing which, the Company may effect a sale of such shares call is unpaid, the shareholder will be liable to pay interest and all on the US Holders behalf.
expenses incurred by the Company as a result of non-payment if Disputes: Any disputes between a shareholder and the Company the call remains unpaid for 14 clear days after the date of a notice.
and or the Directors arising out of or in connection with the Articles In addition, failure to comply with any such notice may result in shall be exclusively and finally resolved under the Rules of Arbitration forfeiture of any share which is the subject of the notice, including of the International Chamber of Commerce, as amended from time any unpaid dividends.
to time, in accordance with the Articles.
Cable & Wireless Communications Annual report 2009 10 41 Governance Conflicts of interest Appointment and replacement of Directors The rules about the appointment and replacement of Directors are The Articles permit the Directors to authorise conflicts and potential conflicts.
Procedures have been put in place for the disclosure by contained in the Articles, including the rules for who is eligible to be elected as a Director and the procedure to be followed to nominate Directors of any such conflicts and also for the consideration and such persons.
The Articles must be approved by shareholders in authorisation of these conflicts by the Board.
These procedures accordance with the legislation in force from time to time.
allow for the imposition of limits or conditions by the Board when authorising any conflict, if they think this is appropriate.
The Articles provide that Directors may be appointed by an ordinary resolution of the members or by a resolution of the Directors, Going concern provided that, in the latter instance, a Director appointed in this The Groups business activities, together with the factors likely to way retires at the first AGM following his appointment.
affect its future development, performance and position are set The Articles also provide that at the first two Annual General out in the Business reviews on pages 10 to 25 and Financial review Meetings of the Company, one third of the Directors who are then on pages 26 to 32.
The financial position of the Group, its cash flows, in office shall retire, and detail the circumstances in which and how liquidity position and borrowing facilities are described in the they may be re-elected.
The Companys members may remove a Financial review on pages 26 to 32.
Further, note 43 to the Director by passing an ordinary resolution for which special notice Consolidated financial statements includes the Groups objectives, has been given.
A Director will automatically cease to be a Director policies and processes for managing its capital: its financial risk if: i they resign: ii they offer to resign and the other Directors management objectives: details of its financial instruments and accept that offer: iii all the other Directors being at least three hedging activities: and its exposures to credit and liquidity risk.
require it: iv they are suffering from mental ill health and the The Directors believe that the Groups wide geographic spread, Directors require them to cease to be a Director: v they have robust monitoring and forecasting processes place it well to manage missed Directors meetings for a continuous period of six months its business risks in the current uncertain economic conditions.
In without permission and the other Directors resolve that they shall addition, the Groups forecasts and projections, taking into account cease to be a Director: vi a bankruptcy order is made against them, reasonably possible changes in trading performance, indicate that or they make an arrangement or composition with their creditors: the Group is able to operate within the level of its current available vii they are prohibited from being a Director by law: or viii they facilities.
A formal process for monitoring compliance with debt cease to be a Director under the legislation or are removed from covenants is also in place.
Further information on debt and office under Articles.
associated covenants can be found in note 28 to the consolidated financial statements.
Powers of Directors The powers of the Directors are determined by UK legislation and After reviewing budgets and other longer-term plans and making the Companys Articles.
As provided in the Articles, the Directors enquiries, the Directors have a reasonable expectation that the may exercise all the Companys powers provided that the Articles or Group has adequate resources to continue in operation for the applicable legislation do not stipulate that any such powers must be foreseeable future.
Accordingly, they continue to adopt the going exercised by the members.
The Directors have been authorised to concern basis in preparing the financial statements.
issue and allot ordinary shares, pursuant to Article 12.
The powers By order of the Board under Article 12 are referred to shareholders at the AGM for renewal.
Shareholders are also requested to renew the Directors Clare Underwood power to make market purchases of shares at each AGM.
Any shares Company Secretary purchased may be cancelled or held as treasury shares.
