14 Business review Macau Our Macau business operating as CTM is the only full service operator in its market offering customers mobile, fixed line and broadband as well as enterprise services.
It continues to lead the market in providing the highest quality service and driving the development of Macaus communications infrastructure.
Cable & Wireless Communications Annual report 2009 10 15 Business review 16 Business review Macau Macau: 2009 10 at a glance EBITDA increased 2% to a record US$142 million World class operating expenditure performance, at 16% of revenue New fixed line operating agreement signed for a further ten years Enterprise services revenue increased by 16% 22 million visitors to Macau in 2009, with higher run-rate in 2010 Performance overview 2009 10 2008 09 Revenue US$316m US$302m Gross margin 60% 64% EBITDA US$142m US$139m Capital expenditure US$31m US$35m Mobile customers 387k 397k Mobile ARPU US$17 US$21 Performance With a new agreement in place, we can The early part of 2009 10 was continue to invest in and develop the characterised by lower tourist numbers infrastructure and telecommunications and lower economic activity in Macau.
capability of Macau which will be Real GDP grew by just 1.3% in 2009 with fundamental to the territorys growing negative growth in the first two quarters of economic momentum.
A prime example the calendar year.
Despite the challenging of this commitment was the Governments conditions, our Macau business grew recent award to us of the contract to provide revenue by 5% to US$316 million in the the infrastructure for a public, citywide wi-fi period.
Tight cost control our operational system.
expenditure ratio reduced from 18% to Serving the needs of Macaus major 16% of revenue and an ongoing focus on businesses has been an area of increasing business performance across all service lines focus for us.
Enterprise revenues grew also allowed us to increase EBITDA by 2% by 16% in the year despite the slowdown to a record US$142 million.
An outstanding of hotel development projects.
This was performance in challenging conditions.
driven by an increase in data services, We have retained mobile market leadership including IP and leased lines, as well as an 5% with 50% market share.
We have also initial pick up in managed services, which successfully migrated the majority of our bodes well for when the economic recovery Revenue increased to US$316 million mobile subscriber base, with over 70% of gathers pace in 2010 11.
We are now, more mobile customers now on our 3G service.
than ever, a trusted and important partner We have experienced strong demand for 3G for businesses looking to expand in Macau.
mobile broadband, with our subscriber base In the consumer space, we saw continued $142m growing significantly over the past growth in broadband driven by the 12 months.
introduction of our home wi-fi service.
EBITDA increased by 2% As we announced in November 2009, we Market have also signed a new fixed line operating Situated in the high economic growth region 50% agreement with the Government of Macau.
in the south east of China, Macau is the This extends our tenure for a further ten largest gaming market in the world with Mobile market share years to 2021 and shows the confidence that market leadership gaming revenues of US$15 billion during the Government has in our ability to meet 2009.
Tourism, particularly from China and the telecoms needs of Macaus residents.
Hong Kong, is a major driver of the economy.
Although visa restrictions on Chinese Cable & Wireless Communications Annual report 2009 10 17 Business review Serving the needs of Macaus major businesses has been an area ofincreasing focus for us.
We are now, more than ever, atrusted and important partner for businesses looking to expand inMacau.
Vandy Poon Chief Executive Officer, Macau Outlook tourists impacted visitor numbers in the early part of 2009, these have since been The Macau economy has shown signs of economic improvement from the third relaxed.
Total visitor numbers for the 2009 calendar year were 22 million and in 2010 quarter of 2009.
Investment in Macau is expected to grow during 2010, and the run-rate for monthly visitors is already in excess of that.
forecasts are for stronger GDP growth than last year.
Macau is a mature telecoms market with Our focus is on strengthening our market high mobile penetration of 192%.
The mobile market is competitive, with three operators leadership within the enterprise and data markets, providing a range of innovative able to offer 3G services.
We are currently the exclusive provider of both fixed line and solutions and managed services to capitalise on the opportunities provided by casino broadband services, although we expect competition in these segments in coming and hotel developments.
We aim to develop our carrier services proposition, positioning years.
We are confident of our competitive position.
Both markets are well penetrated, ourselves as a regional hub.
We will also focus on consolidating our position in the with fixed line at more than 100%, and broadband at 74%.
The market for internet mobile space, including growing our mobile broadband customer base further.
We are services has been open for more than nine years but we remain the only active provider.
committed to improving our services and will seek to introduce new services, such as high Our business is well positioned to take Speed & Delivery speed fibre broadband to the home, which advantage of the economic upturn.
We will be able to support high bandwidth Embracing our customers need for are the clear market leader in all three main content, including video and other speed, we are installing a fibre-toservices, and have a strong capability for entertainment services.
the-home broadband network in serving enterprise customers in Macau, an Macau, capable of delivering internet area of business we expect to benefit from a Overall, our business is striving to maintain services at ultra high speeds of up to growing economy.
Whilst the market is set to our market leading financial, customer 100 megabits per second Mbps.
The become more competitive, we have a strong satisfaction and efficiency metrics to ensure fibre-optic network, which will be ready brand CTM and are highly integrated 2010 11 builds on the strong foundations by mid-2010, will enable customers within local communities.
we laid in 2009 10. to replace their existing copper We have the most extensive and modern connections, and receive content, networks in Macau ISO 9001 and ISO including video, at up to ten times faster 27001 accredited and continue to invest than previously.
in cutting edge technology, in our fibre The higher broadband speeds wont be distribution networks and in our highly limited to customers homes, however.
As well as our We are also upgrading our mobile established partnership with the Macau network with HSPA technology, which Government, we are developing strong will allow mobile broadband speeds relationships with Greater China carriers of up to 21Mbps ensuring Macaus and operators.
telecom users remain among the best connected in the world.
