10 Business review Panama Our Panama business is the market leader in mobile, fixed line and broadband in this growing country of3.4 million people.
We are also a majorprovider of services to enterprises and government.
Last year we launched a payTV service, which we bundle withbroadband and fixed line services, providing a triple play offering to customers.
Cable & Wireless Communications Annual report 2009 10 11 Business review 12 Business review Panama Panama: 2009 10 at a glance Maintained leading mobile market share despite new competition Record EBITDA of US$283 million, up 3% Pay TV business launched strong early take-up Broadband momentum building, revenues up 12% Cost control a core priority for 2010 11 Performance overview 2009 10 2008 09 Revenue US$621m US$667m Gross margin 70% 66% EBITDA US$283m US$276m Capital expenditure US$94m US$83m Mobile customers 2,460k 2,337k Mobile ARPU US$12 US$14 Performance We also saw positive signs in the take up The past year has been challenging for of mobile data applications in the year, our Panama business, both in terms of the with more customers choosing smartphone economy and increased competition.
Thanks to our leading coverage, A change of Government led to delays in a we are well positioned to benefit from any number of planned public service projects, growth in this area.
while two new mobile operators also Our most notable new development for the entered the market.
Revenue suffered as year came with the successful launch of our a result of the project delays, although cable-based pay TV business, TV Digital, activity began to pick up in the latter part of in December 2009.
TV Digital already has the year.
Despite this, our EBITDA rose 3% 12,600 subscribers on a network that to a record US$283 million, driven by good currently passes 95,000 homes and is performances from our mobile, broadband extending rapidly.
Meeting the challenge of tighter conditions, we conserved costs Broadband continued to grow strongly, through headcount, marketing and utilities with revenues up 12%, but Panama remains 46% efficiencies.
This boosted our EBITDA an under-penetrated market, with only margins from 41% to 46%.
EBITDA margin up 22% of homes currently connected to from 41% in 2008 09 high speed services a great opportunity With a market share of 54%, we continue to for the business.
lead the mobile market despite the entry of two new operators.
We increased mobile In managed services we remain a leading revenue slightly over the period as well as supplier to government and enterprises.
5% gross margin, in the face of aggressive We are the leading provider of managed Total active mobile pricing and handset subsidies by the new services in Panama, helping to improve customers up 5% from competitors.
The strength of our Movil public health, education and public safety 2.3 million to 2.5 million mobile brand was demonstrated by an through the implementation of new increase in our total active mobile customers technologies and communication systems.
Our strongest We continue to expand our portfolio growth came from pre-paid subscribers with innovative projects in healthcare 12% with almost 100,000 new customers.
Broadband revenues up 12% to $46 million.
Total broadband customers also up 13% to 135k customers Cable & Wireless Communications Annual report 2009 10 13 Business review With a market share of 54%, we continue to lead the mobile market despite the entry of two new operators during the year.
The strength of our Movil mobile brand was demonstrated by an increase in our total active mobile customers to 2.5 million.
Jorge Nicolau Chief Executive Officer, Panama In the enterprise market, the new Our strong financial performance did not come at the expense of corporate Government began tendering on a number of managed services contracts towards responsibility.
Our business was ranked in the top ten across a range of corporate the end of the year, for which we are well positioned.
In the wider region, we continued responsibility measures in a study of Panamas leading companies by the research group to gain traction with enterprises and governments throughout Latin America.
Our Panama team also received the Gallup Great Workplace Award in surveys of employee engagement by Outlook the research group Gallup, in both 2009 Cost control remains a core strategic priority and 2010. as we seek to improve efficiency and productivity in all areas of the Panama Market business.
Panamas economy was resilient to the We will continue to compete and defend our global recession, posting GDP growth in market share in mobile and grow our data 2009 of 2.4% although this was lower than business, as well as building our pay TV the GDP growth of 10.7% in 2008.
The business through targeted customer main growth drivers were transportation, acquisition and triple play sales.
Although construction and telecoms, as well as we are already market leaders, we remain large-scale infrastructure projects including committed to continuous improvement the expansion of the Panama Canal a TV & Entertainment of our customer service.
multi-billion project due for completion In December 2009 we launched in 2014.
We will continue to develop our managed Panamas only 100% digital pay services business domestically and continue In telecoms, new mobile operators invested TV service, TV Digital.
TV Digital establishing our presence through the Latin is aimed at providing the latest TV heavily in marketing and promotional offers.
We also aim to strengthen Our mobile business, Movil, responded programming on a two-way platform our carrier business to ensure we have a solid which allows customers to get the positively with well conceived promotions regional presence and capacity to expand and initiatives that resonated with our programmes and services they want, further.
With a low market penetration when they want them.
customer base, which was supported by in broadband there is the opportunity Movil having the best customer service to grow this segment and leverage our The launch turned the market on its metrics of any telecoms provider in Panama.
bundled offers more extensively with the head as it enabled us to offer triple The market remains heavily competitive but rest of our product portfolio.
play and now has the potential for we continue to have the strongest brand and quadruple play with mobile added to best network coverage of all four operators the bundle.
We are the only operator and are focused on maintaining our market in the market with this capability.
To date 12,600 customers have subscribed and we will continue In fixed and broadband, we changed the competitive landscape through the launch of to roll out our network over the coming year.
We are now competing more effectively with triple play offers bundling fixed line, broadband and TV services.
