22 Business review Monaco & Islands Monaco & Islands is a portfolio business operating in 22 separate territories.
The portfolio, which is divided into four clusters, is balanced between developed and emerging markets.
We are the leader in most of our markets.
Cable & Wireless Communications Annual report 2009 10 23 Business review 24 Business review Monaco & Islands Monaco & Islands: 2009 10 at a glance Resilient performances across the portfolio Control of the Maldives achieved after purchase of 7% stake, boosting revenues and EBITDA Broadband revenue increased 27%, as penetration rises Monaco 3G network developed, driving data growth Continuing investment in enterprise services, including data centres The Monaco & Islands business unit Performance overview operates through four distinctclusters: 2009 10 2008 09 Monaco includes Monaco Telecom, Revenue US$552m US$506m and Monaco Telecom International, Gross margin 64% 60% which invests in and provides services EBITDA US$174m US$137m to telecomsoperators in developing Capital expenditure US$64m US$59m markets including Afghanistan, Mobile customers 476k 153k Kosovo and in North and West Africa Mobile ARPU US$50 US$66 underthe brands Connecteo and Divona.
CIIMB Channel Islands Guernsey, Performance growth, albeit from a low base, driven by Jersey, Isle of Man and Bermuda Across the Monaco & Islands portfolio our some major contract wins with resort hotels.
Indian Ocean Maldives and Seychelles business benefited from some resilient South Atlantic & Diego Garcia the In Monaco, our mobile business benefited performances and the acquisition of a Falkland Islands, StHelena, Ascension from our new 3G network launched in March controlling stake in the Maldives operation.
2009, offering 100% outdoor coverage and Our mobile, broadband and domestic fixed underpinning the success of our unlimited In addition we have three joint ventures line products all performed well.
All business voice, SMS and data bundled offers.
Data in the South Pacific Vanuatu, Fiji and units grew mobile revenue except Guernsey, usage has grown rapidly, boosting our data the Solomon Islands.
where average revenue per user ARPU revenues, and we have improved our Within this portfolio, the Maldives, declined due to competitive pricing pressure.
efficiency through a programme of process Monaco and Guernsey together account Broadband revenue grew strongly, rising simplification across the business.
We have for82% ofthe EBITDA of Monaco & Islands.
27% and penetration is growing in a number worked actively to boost the Monaco of markets.
Telecom brand during the year, and have improved brand loyalty and consumer The portfolio expanded during 2009 10, confidence.
with the acquisition of an additional 7% of the shares in our business in the Maldives.
This In November 2009 we extended our contract increased our stake to 52% providing to supply mobile service platforms to PTK, 9% management control of the business and Kosovos leading mobile business, for a Revenue up 9% to allowing us to consolidate the results.
US$552 million consolidation provided a boost to Monaco & In the CIIMB region, we achieved double Islands profitability, with EBITDA rising by digit growth in mobile subscribers in the Isle 27% to US$174 million, on an improved of Man following the introduction of mobile 27% margin of 32%.
The Maldives business posted number portability, and in Jersey as a result a strong performance during the year, of improvements to network quality, EBITDA up 27% to maintaining its market shares in both mobile US$174 million at coverage and innovative pricing.
In Guernsey and broadband, and growing customer a margin of 32% we defended our market share in the face of numbers in both categories.
intense competition from other mobile We have continued to invest in our mobile and operators.
Good progress was made in broadband network infrastructure across the broadband services, particularly in Guernsey.
52% Maldives, launching a 3.5G mobile service, Across our portfolio we made substantive Controlling stake in mobile broadband and 10Mbps ADSL investments in underlying network Maldives achieved broadband.
Enterprise services in the infrastructure, data centres and the CBUS Maldives achieved over 100% revenue subsea cable system linking Bermuda with the British Virgin Islands.
Cable & Wireless Communications Annual report 2009 10 25 Business review The global economic recession had an impact on trading conditions across the Monaco & Islands portfolio, but each of ourbusinesses responded strongly.
The portfolio expanded in2009 10 with the acquisition of a further 7% of our business intheMaldives.
Denis Martin Chief Executive Officer, Monaco & Islands Outlook In the Falkland Islands, we have also invested in our network, launching a new WIMAX We expect the Monaco & Islands business to benefit from an economic recovery across network, which extended coverage to rural areas in the islands.
the portfolio, particularly in tourism, and international financial services.
Market Several of our businesses have lower The global economic recession had an impact on trading conditions across the Monaco & levels of broadband penetration than more developed markets, offering growth Islands portfolio, but each of our businesses responded strongly.
Network improvement and marketing initiatives such as bundled In the Maldives, tourist arrivals held up well services provide an opportunity to grow this during the 2009 calendar year.
GDP declined segment in these less penetrated markets.
2.8% over the calendar year, but economic activity picked up in the final months of the In Monaco we both aim to gain mobile year and the economy is forecast to return market share through churn reduction and to growth in 2010.
Hotel occupancy rates new customers.
We will develop our product held above 70% during 2009, down slightly set through the introduction of VDSL Very on 2008, but comparing favourably with high bitrate Digital Subscriber Line service other island tourist resort destinations.
and new entertainment services and will also During the year, two new resorts opened continue to pursue managed services increasing the capacity of the country to opportunities.
Several more resorts are In the Maldives, our focus is on growing our Over the 2009 Christmas period, Sure, currently in development.
broadband customer base as we roll out together with Nokia Siemens Networks, In Monaco, the effects of the global service to more of the islands whilst we launched Sure Skate, a series of outdoor recession have been felt across the economy, continue to compete in mobile.
We also see ice rinks, in the Isle of Man, Jersey and particularly in tourism, international trading opportunities in providing enterprise and Guernsey.
Organised in conjunction and real estate.
Despite the more difficult managed services to corporate and with Kyran Brackens Ice Party, it was environment, Monaco Telecom has increased resort customers.
the embodiment of our sponsorship market share in mobile and developed its strategy that aims to provide customers In the CIIMB cluster, we will make further enterprise offering.
with new experiences, as well as investments across all islands with the bringing communities together.
The economies in the Channel Islands, development of an access network for particularly Jersey, slowed during the 2009 enterprise customers in Jersey.
In addition, With no permanent ice rinks on any calendar year, but have shown signs of we will further strengthen our product of the islands, over 51,000 people modest growth in 2010.
The Bermudan portfolio for the consumer, enterprise and visited Sure Skate to watch ice dancing shows and skate themselves, a economy was also affected by the slowdown government sectors by offering a diverse in financial services and tourist activity.
and differentiated range of services.
community initiative we were proud to support.
Competition remains active across the CIIMB portfolio, particularly in Guernsey and Jersey, where there have been price pressure in mobile.
The strength of our mobile brand in the markets, Sure, has positioned us well to compete.
