The Merchants Trust PLC Directors Report The Directors present the annual financial report of the Company and give their report for the year ended 31 January 2010. Business Review Business and Status of the Company The Company is an investment company as defined in Section 833 of the Companies Act 2006.
The Company carries on business as an investment trust and was approved by HM Revenue & Customs as an investment trust in accordance with Section 842 of the Income and Corporation Taxes Act 1988 for the year ended 31 January 2009.
In the opinion of the Directors, the Company has subsequently conducted its affairs so that it should continue to qualify.
The Company will continue to seek approval under Section 842 of the Income and Corporation Taxes Act 1988 each year.
The Company is not a close company for taxation purposes.
Regulatory Environment The Company is listed on the London Stock Exchange and is subject to UK company law, financial reporting standards, listing rules, tax law and its own Articles of Association.
In addition to annual and half yearly financial reports published under these rules, the Company announces net asset values per share on a daily basis for the information of investors.
It provides more detailed information on a monthly basis to the Association of Investment Companies, of which the Company is a member, in order for brokers and investors to compare its performance with its peer group.
The Board of Directors is charged with ensuring that the Company complies with its own objectives as well as these rules.
The Board has appointed RCM UK Limited to carry out investment management, accounting, secretarial and administration services on behalf of the Company.
The Company has no employees or premises of its own.
Investment Objective and Policies The Companys objective is to provide an above average level of income and income growth together with long term growth of capital through a policy of investing mainly in higher yielding UK FTSE 100 companies.
The Companys investment performance is assessed by comparison with other investment trusts within the UK Growth and Income sector.
In addition, it is benchmarked against the FTSE 100 Index, reflecting the emphasis within the portfolio, as well as the FTSE 350 Higher Yield Index, reflecting the Companys higher yield objective.
The Company pays quarterly dividends and the Board has a policy of making these progressive from year to year, in keeping with the Companys stated objective to provide an above average level of income and income growth.
The dividend has increased every year for the past twenty seven years and details of historic dividend payments are set out on page 5.
Performance In the year to 31 January 2010 the NAV per Share rose by 21.8%.
This compares with the capital return on the Companys benchmark indices of 25.0% FTSE 100 and 18.3% FTSE 350 Higher Yield.
At 31 January 2010 the value of the Companys investment portfolio was 488.3m.
The Investment Managers review on pages 6 to 10 includes a review of developments during the year as well as information on investment activity within the Companys portfolio.
Key Performance Indicators KPIs The Board uses certain financial KPIs to monitor and assess the performance of the Company.
The principal KPIs are: Performance against the benchmark indices The Companys performance is benchmarked against the FTSE 100 Index and the FTSE 350 Higher Yield Index.
These are the most important KPIs by which performance is judged.
Performance against the Companys peers The Board also monitors the Companys performance with reference to its investment trust peer group.
Performance Attribution The performance attribution is considered at each Board Meeting and enables the Directors to judge how the Company achieved its performance relative to the benchmark index and to see the impact on the Companys relative performance of factors including stock and sector allocation.
A Performance Attribution Analysis for the year ended 31 January 2010 is given on page 5.
17 The Merchants Trust PLC Directors Report Discount to net asset value NAV The Board has a share buy back programme which has a role to play in enhancing the NAV for existing shareholders, as shares are bought back at a discount, and in minimising the volatility of movements in the discount.
In the year to 31 January 2010 the shares traded between a discount of -9.9% and a premium of 20.7% with debt at fair value.
Total expense ratio TER The most significant expense for the Company is the cost of the management fee and the costs of interest on the Companys borrowings.
Other expenses include the costs of investment transactions, directors fees and insurance, professional advice and regulatory fees and the costs of production of the reports to shareholders.
The TER is calculated by dividing operating expenses, that is, the Companys management fee and all other operating expenses including tax relief where allowable, but excluding interest payments and investment management fee VAT refund as a percentage of total assets less current liabilities at the year end.
Revenue The return attributable to Ordinary Shareholders for the year amounted to 19,498,068 2009 28,017,898.
Earnings per ordinary dividend amounted to 18.91p.
The first and second interim dividends of 5.6p and 5.6p respectively have been paid during the year.
Since the year end the third interim dividend of 5.6p has been paid.
The final proposed dividend of 5.7p is payable on 14 May 2010.
In accordance with FRS 21 Events after the Balance Sheet Date, the third dividend and final dividend are not recognised as liabilities within the financial statements on the basis that they have not been paid and approved, respectively, by the shareholders.
Historical Record The distribution of total assets is shown on pages 13 and 14, and the historical record of the Companys revenue, capital and invested funds over the past ten years is shown on page 5.
Graphs appear on page 15 showing the performance on a total return basis over the past ten years of the Net Asset Value of the Companys Ordinary Shares against the Companys benchmark indices, the growth in net ordinary distributions made by the Company against the Retail Price Index, and the Companys discount to Net Asset Value over the same period.
Invested Funds Sales of investments during the year resulted in net losses based on historical costs of 54,388,557 2009 38,449,932.
Provisions contained in the Finance Act 1980 exempt approved Investment Trusts from corporation tax on their chargeable gains.
Principal Risks and Uncertainties With the assistance of the Manager the Board has drawn up a risk matrix which identifies the key risks to the Company.
These key risks fall broadly under the following categories: Investment Activity and Strategy: An inappropriate investment strategy, e. g. asset allocation or the level of gearing, may lead to underperformance against the Companys benchmark index and peer group companies, and also in the Companys shares trading on a wider discount.
The Board manages these risks by diversification of investments through its investment restrictions and guidelines which are monitored and on which the Board receives reports.
RCM UK Limited RCM provides the Directors with management information including performance data and reports and shareholder analyses.
The Board monitors the implementation and results of the investment process with the investment manager, who attends all board meetings, and reviews data which show risk factors and how they affect the portfolio.
The Board reviews investment strategy at each board meeting.
Accounting, Legal and Regulatory: In order to qualify as an investment trust the Company must comply with Section 842 of the Income and Corporation Taxes Act 1988 Section 842, and details are given above under the heading Business of the Company.
A breach of Section 842 could result in the Company losing investment trust status and, as a consequence, gains in the Companys portfolio would be subject to Corporation Tax.
The Section 842 criteria are monitored by RCM and results are reported to the Board at each Board Meeting.
The Company must comply with the provisions of the Companies Act 2006 Companies Act, and, as the Companys shares are listed on the London Stock Exchange, the Company must comply with the UK Listing Authoritys Listing Rules and Disclosure and Transparency Rules UKLA Rules.
A breach of the Companies Act could result in the Company and or the Directors being fined or becoming the subject of criminal proceedings.
Breach of the UKLA Rules could result in the suspension of the Companys shares which would in turn lead to a 18 The Merchants Trust PLC Directors Report breach of Section 842.
The Board relies on its company secretary and seeks advice from professional advisers to ensure compliance with the Companies Act and UKLA Rules.
Corporate Governance and Shareholder Relations: Details of the Companys compliance with Corporate Governance best practice, including information on relations with shareholders, are set out in the Corporate Governance Statement on pages 21 to 25.
Operational: Disruption to, or failure of, RCMs accounting, dealing or payment systems or the custodians records may prevent accurate reporting and monitoring of the Companys financial position.
RCM has contracted operational functions, principally relating to trade processing and investment administration, to The Bank of New York Mellon London Branch.
Details of how the Board monitors the services provided by RCM and other suppliers and the key elements designed to provide effective internal control are included within the Internal Control section of the Corporate Governance Statement on page 24.
Financial: The financial risks associated with the Company include market risk price and yield, interest rate risk, liquidity risk and credit risk.
Further analysis of these risks can be found in Note 18 on pages 46 to 50.
Future Development The future development of the Company is dependent on the success of the Companys investment strategy against the economic environment and market developments.
The investment manager discusses his view of the outlook for the Companys portfolio in his report beginning on page 6.
Going Concern The Directors have considered the Companys investment objective and capital structure and, having noted that the portfolio consists mainly of securities which are readily realisable, have concluded that the Company has adequate resources to continue in operational existence for the foreseeable future.
For this reason the Directors continue to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the financial statements.
Net Asset Value The Net Asset Value of the Ordinary Shares of 25p at the year end was 372.8p as compared with a value of 306.2p at 31 January 2009.
Share Capital Details of the Companys share capital are set out in Note 11 on page 44.
Payment Policy It is the Companys payment policy for the forthcoming financial year to obtain the best terms for all business and therefore there is no consistent policy as to the terms used.
In general, the Company agrees with its suppliers the terms on which business will take place and it is our policy to abide by these terms.
The Company had no trade creditors at the year end 2009 nil.
Donations and Subscriptions There were no charitable donations and subscriptions in respect of the year 2009 nil.
No political donations were made during the year.
Final Dividend Subject to the final dividend being approved by shareholders at the Annual General Meeting, payment will be made on 14 May 2010 to shareholders on the Register of Members at the close of business on 16 April 2010 at the rate of 5.7p per Ordinary Share.
Further details are provided in Note 6 on page 40.
Capital Structure The Companys capital structure is summarised on page 44.
19 The Merchants Trust PLC Directors Report Voting Rights in the Companys Shares The voting rights at 31 March 2010 were: Number of Voting rights Total Share class shares issued per share Voting Rights Ordinary shares of 25p 103,213,464 1 103,213,464 3.65% Cumulative Preference shares of 1 1,178,000 1 1,178,000 Total 104,391,464 104,391,464 These figures remained unchanged at the date of this report.
Interests in the Companys Share Capital As at 6 April 2010 the following had declared a notifiable interest in the Companys issued share capital: Ordinary Shares: Number Percentage of Name of Shares Voting Rights Rensburg Sheppards Investment Management Group Limited 4,017,845 3.9% AXA S. A.
4,125,070 4.0% Legal & General Group PLC 4,099,823 4.0% Lloyds Banking Group PLC 4,086,614 4.0% 3.65% Cumulative Preference Stock: Number Percentage of Name of Shares Voting Rights P. S. & J. M. Allen 185,582 15.8% Prudential plc 176,000 14.9% Ecclesiastical Insurance Office plc 134,690 11.4% F&C Asset Management plc 60,000 5.1% D. J. Edwards 50,000 4.2% J. Y. Miller 36,000 3.0% The rules concerning the appointment and replacement of directors, amendment of the Articles of Association and powers to issue or buy back the Companys shares are contained in the Articles of Association of the Company and the Companies Act 2006.
There are no restrictions concerning the transfer of securities in the Company: no special rights with regard to control attached to securities: no agreements between holders of securities regarding their transfer known to the Company: no agreements which the Company is party to that might affect its control following a takeover bid: and no agreements between the Company and its directors concerning compensation for loss of office.
Directors and Management All Directors listed on the next page served throughout the financial year under review.
The Directors retiring by rotation at the Annual General Meeting AGM are Hugh Stevenson, Dick Barfield and Sir James Sassoon.
Sir James Sassoon and Mr Barfield each offers himself for re-election and both have the full support of the Board in doing so.
In addition, Simon Fraser, having been appointed since the last AGM, is standing for election at this years AGM.
The Board used an external recruitment consultant in the appointment of Simon Fraser.
Hugh Stevenson is retiring from the Board and so does not offer himself for re-election.
The Board confirms that, since the year end, the performances of all of the Directors have been subject to a formal evaluation and that each continues to be effective and committed to his role.
The Board considers Mr Barfield to be independent, notwithstanding his length of service, and continues to be of the view that his extensive experience and active knowledge of industry and financial services are of great benefit to the Board.
Biographical details of the current Directors are on page 16.
20 The Merchants Trust PLC Directors Report The current Directors and their beneficial interests in the share capital of the Company as at 31 January 2010 and 31 January 2009 are listed below: Ordinary Shares of 25p 2010 2009 H. A. Stevenson 25,000 25,000 R. A. Barfield 2,440 2,440 S. J. Fraser 20,000 Sir James Sassoon 40,145 35,600 M. J. E. McKeon 450 450 H. E. Staunton 10,000 10,000 Joined the Board on 1 August 2009.
No contracts of significance in which Directors are deemed to have been interested have subsisted during the year under review.
Contracts of service are not entered into with the Directors, who hold office in accordance with the Articles of Association.
Management Contract and Management Fee The management contract with RCM UK Limited RCM provides for a fee of 0.35% per annum 2009 0.35% of the value of the assets, calculated quarterly, after deduction of current liabilities, short term loans under one year and any funds within the portfolio managed by RCM.
The management contract is terminable at one years notice 2009 one year.
The Managers performance under the contract and the contract terms are reviewed at least annually by the Management Engagement Committee.
This committee consists of the Directors not employed by the management company in the past five years and therefore includes the entire Board.
During the year, the committee met the Manager to review the current investment framework, including the Trusts performance, marketing activity and total expense ratio.
The committee also reviewed the terms of the management contract and considered the level of the management fee.
The committee was satisfied with its review and believes that the continuing appointment of the Manager is in the best interests of shareholders as a whole.
Related Party Transactions During the financial year no transactions with related parties have taken place which would materially affect the financial position or the performance of the Company.
Individual Savings Accounts The affairs of the Company are conducted in such a way as to meet the requirements for an Individual Savings Account and it is the intention to continue to do so.
Corporate Governance Statement The Board has considered the principles and recommendations of the Association of Investment Companies Code of Corporate Governance AIC Code by reference to the AIC Corporate Governance Guide for Investment Companies AIC Guide.
The AIC Code, as explained by the AIC Guide, addresses all the principles set out in Section 1 of the Combined Code which was issued by the Financial Reporting Council in June 2008, as well as setting out additional principles and recommendations on issues that are of specific relevance to the Company.
The Board considers that reporting against the principles and recommendations of the AIC Code, and by reference to the AIC Guide, will provide better information to shareholders.
The Company has complied with the recommendations of the AIC Code and the relevant provisions of Section 1 of the Combined Code, except in relation to the Combined Code provisions relating to: the role of the chief executive, executive directors remuneration and the need for an internal audit function.
For the reasons set out in the AIC Guide, and in the preamble to the Combined Code, the Board considers these provisions are not relevant to the Company as it is an externally managed investment company.
The Company has therefore not reported further in respect of these provisions.
21 The Merchants Trust PLC Directors Report The Board The Board currently consists of six Directors, all of whom are non-executive and independent of the Companys investment manager.
The Directors biographies, on page 16, demonstrate a breadth of investment, industrial, commercial and professional experience.
The Chairman of the Company is a non-executive Director.
Sir James Sassoon is the Senior Independent Director.
The Board follows the AIC Code and considers Dick Barfield to be independent, notwithstanding that he has served on the Board for more than nine years.
The Board does not consider that length of service has diminished his independence and continues to be of the view that his extensive experience and active knowledge of the industry is of great benefit to the Board.
The composition of the Board is reviewed regularly.
The Boards tenure policy is that new Directors stand for election at the first Annual General Meeting following their appointment and then at least one third of Directors retire by rotation at each Annual General Meeting.
Every Director is required to seek re-election at least every three years and annually after nine years service.
The names of the Directors retiring by rotation and those other Directors retiring in accordance with the Articles of Association at this years Annual General Meeting are given on page 20.
The Board meets at least six times a year and convenes other meetings as and when required.
Between meetings, regular contact with the investment manager is maintained.
The Board has a schedule of matters reserved for its approval to ensure it has full and effective control over appropriate issues.
These issues include approval of the Companys investment policy, capital structure, share price and discount, committee membership and terms of reference, financial reporting, risk management, board appointments and removals, corporate governance, internal controls and contracts.
A procedure has been adopted for Directors, in the furtherance of their duties, to take independent professional advice at the expense of the Company.
The Directors have access to the advice and services of the Company Secretary, who is responsible to the Board for ensuring that Board procedures are followed and that the Company complies with applicable rules and regulations.
When a new Director is appointed there is an induction process carried out by the investment manager.
Directors are provided, on a regular basis, with key information on the Companys regulatory and statutory requirements and internal financial controls.
Changes affecting Directors responsibilities are advised to the Board as they arise.
During the year, the effectiveness of the Board and the performance of individual Directors was assessed through interviews conducted by the Chairman with each Director.
The Chairmans own performance was evaluated by the other Directors in discussions with Sir James Sassoon as Senior Independent Director.
The results of the effectiveness assessment and performance evaluation have been presented to the Nomination Committee.
The effectiveness assessment determined that with the planned recruitment of new Directors the balance of the Board was satisfactory.
The Board has contractually delegated to the investment manager the management of the investment portfolio, and the day to day accounting and company secretarial requirements.
This contract was entered into after full and proper consideration by the Board of the quality and cost of services offered, including the financial control systems in operation, in so far as they relate to the affairs of the Company.
The Board receives and considers reports regularly from the investment manager and ad hoc reports and information are supplied to the Board as required.
The Boards statement on its review of the management contract appears on page 21.
Attendance by Directors at formal Board and committee meetings during the year was as follows: Management Audit Nomination Engagement Director Board Committee Committee Committee No.
of meetings 6211 H. A. Stevenson 6 2 1 1 R. A. Barfield 6211 S. J. Fraser 2 Sir James Sassoon 6211 M. J. E. McKeon 6211 P. J. Scott Plummer# 2 H. E. Staunton 6211 Invited to attend meetings, although not a committee member.
Appointed to the Board in August 2009.
# Retired from the Board in May 2009.
22 The Merchants Trust PLC Directors Report Conflicts of Interest The Companies Act 2006 sets out directors general duties with some changes from the previously existing law.
A director must avoid a situation where he has, or can have, a direct or indirect interest that conflicts, or possibly may conflict, with the Companys interests.
Since 1 October 2008, directors are able to authorise these conflicts and potential conflicts.
The Board reports annually on the Companys procedures for ensuring that its powers of authorisation of conflicts are operated effectively and that the procedures have been followed.
Each of the Directors has provided a statement of all conflicts of interest and potential conflicts of interest relating to the Company.
These statements have been considered and approved by the Board.
The Directors have undertaken to notify the Chairman and Company Secretary of any proposed new appointments and new conflicts or potential conflicts for consideration, if necessary, by the Board.
The Board has agreed that only Directors who have no interest in the matter being considered will be able to take the relevant decision and that in taking the decision the Directors will act in a way they consider, in good faith, will be most likely to promote the Companys success.
The Board is able to impose limits or conditions when giving authorisation if it thinks this is appropriate.
The Board confirms that its powers of authorisation are operating effectively and that the agreed procedures have been followed.
Board Committees Audit Committee The Audit Committee consists of all of the independent non-executive Directors, with the exception of the Chairman, and has defined terms of reference and duties.
The role of the Audit Committee is to assist the Board in relation to the reporting of financial information.
The Audit Committee is chaired by Sir James Sassoon.
The committee considers that, collectively, its members have sufficient recent and relevant financial experience to discharge their responsibilities fully.
The committee meets at least twice each year and reviews the annual and half yearly financial statements and considers the Auditors report on the annual accounts, the planning and the process of the audit and the Auditors independence and objectivity.
It has also considered the non-audit services provided by the Auditors and determined that they have had no impact on the Auditors independence and objectivity.
The Audit Committee reviews the Companys accounting policies and considers their appropriateness.
The Committee also reviews the terms of appointment of the Auditors together with their remuneration.
It meets representatives of the Manager twice-yearly and receives reports on the internal controls maintained on behalf of the Company and reviews the effectiveness of these controls.
The Audit Committee continues to believe that the Company does not require an internal audit function of its own as it delegates its day to day operations to third parties from whom it receives internal controls reports.
As the Company has no employees it does not have a formal policy concerning the raising, in confidence, of any concerns about improprieties, whether in matters of financial reporting or otherwise, for appropriate independent investigation.
The Audit Committee has, however, received and noted the Managers policy on this matter.
Nomination Committee The Nomination Committee meets at least once each year and makes recommendations on the appointment of new Directors and the re-election of existing Directors by shareholders.
The committee also determines the process for the annual evaluation of the Board.
The Committee is chaired by Hugh Stevenson, the Chairman of the Board.
All Directors serve on the committee and consider nominations made in accordance with an agreed procedure.
Management Engagement Committee The Management Engagement Committee meets at least once each year to review the Management Agreement and the Managers performance.
It has defined terms of reference and consists of the non-executive Directors and excludes any Directors previously employed by the Manager.
It is chaired by Hugh Stevenson, the Chairman of the Board.
The Board has not constituted a Remuneration Committee: all Directors are non-executive and remuneration matters are dealt with by the whole Board.
Terms of Reference The Terms of Reference for each of the committees may be viewed by shareholders on request and are published on the website www.
Financial Reporting The Statement of Directors Responsibilities in respect of the financial statements is on page 28.
The Independent Auditors Report can be found on page 31.
23 The Merchants Trust PLC Directors Report Auditors Information Each of the persons who is a Director at the date of approval of this report confirms that: a in so far as the Director is aware, there is no relevant audit information of which the Companys auditors are unaware: and b the Director has taken all the steps he ought to have taken as a Director in order to make himself aware of any relevant audit information and to establish that the Companys auditors are aware of that information.
This confirmation is given and should be interpreted in accordance with the provisions of Section 418 2 of the Companies Act 2006.
Internal Control The Directors have overall responsibility for the Companys system of internal control.
Whilst acknowledging their responsibility for the system of internal control, the Directors are aware that such a system is designed to manage rather than eliminate the risk of a failure to achieve business objectives and can provide only reasonable but not absolute assurance against material misstatement or loss.
The Board has established an ongoing process for identifying, evaluating and managing the significant risks faced by the Company.
This process is subject to review by the Board and accords with the Internal Control Guidance for Directors in the Combined Code published in September 1999 and revised by the Financial Reporting Council in October 2005 the Turnbull guidance.
The process has been fully in place throughout the year under review and up to the date of signing of this Annual Financial Report.
The key elements of the procedures that the Directors have established and which are designed to provide effective internal control are as follows: The Board, assisted by the Manager, undertook a full review of the Companys business risks and these are analysed and recorded in a risk matrix.
Every six months the Board receives from the Manager a formal report which details any known internal controls failures, including those that are not directly the responsibility of the Manager.
The Board continues to check that good systems of internal control and risk management are embedded in the operations and culture of the Company and its key suppliers.
The appointment of RCM UK Limited RCM as the Manager provides investment management, accounting and company secretarial services to the Company.
The Manager therefore maintains the internal controls associated with the day to day operation of the Company.
These responsibilities are included in the Management Agreement between the Company and the Manager.
The Managers system of internal control includes organisation arrangements with clearly defined lines of responsibility and delegated authority as well as control procedures and systems which are regularly evaluated by management and monitored by its internal audit department.
RCM is regulated by the Financial Services Authority FSA and its compliance department regularly monitors compliance with FSA rules.
The Company receives reports at least annually from the manager on its internal controls.
The Company, in common with other investment trusts, has no internal audit department, but the effectiveness of the Managers internal controls is monitored by Allianz Global Investors internal audit function.
There is a regular review by the Board of asset allocation and any risk implications.
There is also regular and comprehensive review by the Board of management accounting information including revenue and expenditure projections, actual revenue against projections and performance comparisons.
Authorisation and exposure limits are set and maintained by the Board.
The Audit Committee assesses the Managers and Custodians systems of controls by reviewing Internal Control reports provided by the Managers and third party service providers, including those of the Companys Registrars, Capita Registrars, and Custodian, HSBC Bank plc.
The Directors confirm that the Audit Committee has reviewed the effectiveness of the system of internal control.
During the course of its review of the system of internal control, the Board has not identified nor been advised of any failings or weaknesses which it has determined to be significant.
Relations with Shareholders The Board strongly believes that the annual general meeting should be an event which private shareholders are encouraged to attend.
The annual general meeting is attended by the Chairman of the Board and the Chairman of the Audit Committee, and the Investment Manager makes a presentation at the meeting.
The number of proxy votes cast in respect of each resolution will be made available at the annual general meeting.
The Manager meets with institutional shareholders on a regular basis and report to the Board on matters raised at these meetings.
All correspondence with shareholders is reviewed by the Board.
24 The Merchants Trust PLC Directors Report Shareholders who wish to communicate directly with the Chairman, the Senior Independent Director or other Directors may write care of the Company Secretary at 155 Bishopsgate, London EC2M 3AD.
The Notice of Meeting sets out the business of the meeting and special resolutions are explained more fully in the Directors Report.
Separate resolutions are proposed for each substantive issue.
Corporate Social Responsibility and Environmental Policy The Investment Manager has been directed by the Board to take account of companies corporate social responsibility and environmental performance when taking investment decisions.
The Board has noted the Managers views on Social Responsibility that it adheres to in engaging with the underlying investee companies and in exercising its delegated responsibilities in voting.
These are that: We believe that good corporate governance includes the management of the companys impacts on society and the environment, as these are increasingly becoming a factor in contributing towards maximising long term shareholder value.
Exercise of Voting Powers The Companys investments are held in a nominee name.
The Board has delegated discretion to discharge its responsibilities in respect of investments, including the exercise of voting powers on its behalf, to the Manager.
The Board has noted the Managers statement of its corporate governance aims and objectives, summarised as: Our primary corporate aim is to maximise shareholder value through the securing of corporate performance whilst protecting this value through operating within established rules of conformance.
Our primary investment management aim is to meet or exceed our clients expectations through generating first class returns within the constraint of their risk tolerance.
RCM votes in all markets wherever possible, and strives actively to encourage both improved levels of disclosure among companies and proper voting infrastructure among custodians and agents globally.
In the UK, RCM is a member of the National Association of Pension Funds NAPF and the International Corporate Governance Network ICGN, and abides by these organisations founding principles.
These guidelines also take into account international codes of corporate governance from a number of sources, including Employment Retirement Income Security Act ERISA legislation and Department of Labor recommendations in the U. S. where appropriate.
Where Directors hold directorships on the boards of companies in which the Company is invested, they do not participate in decisions made concerning those investments.
An extract from the Companys voting record in the previous calendar year will be available for inspection at the annual general meeting each year.
Annual General Meeting Adoption of new Articles of Association In Resolution 9 in the Notice of Meeting on page 54 the Company proposes to adopt new Articles of Association new Articles to replace the current Articles of Association current Articles.
The new Articles incorporate amendments to the current Articles to reflect the provisions of the Companies Act 2006 the 2006 Act and also the Companies Shareholders Rights Regulations 2009 Shareholders Rights Regulations, and otherwise generally update the current Articles for current law, regulation and market practice.
The new Articles, showing all the changes to the current Articles, are available for inspection at the registered office during normal business hours at the Companys Registered Office, 155 Bishopsgate, London EC2M 3AD from the date of this report up until the close of the AGM.
Copies will also be available at 20 Moorgate, London EC2R 6DA being the place of the Annual General Meeting, for 15 minutes prior to, and during, the meeting.
The material changes necessary and recommended due to the entering into force of the Companies Act 2006 and the Shareholders Rights Regulations include: removing the Chairmans casting vote at Shareholder meetings: the removal of the Companys ability to give notice of meetings by advertisement when the post is not available: the removal of references to authorised but unissued shares: the additional manner in which the Companys name can be changed by way of board resolution: the deletion of the ability to close the register: the removal of specific 25 The Merchants Trust PLC Directors Report authorities no longer required on capital reduction or buy backs: the addition of a provision confirming that there is no requirement to check that the proxy is voting according to his instructions: provisions relating to the administration of the Company: and minor changes to proceedings at general meetings.
Purchase of Own Shares The Board is proposing that the Company should be given renewed authority to purchase Ordinary Shares in the market for cancellation.
The Board believes that such purchases in the market at appropriate times and prices are a suitable method of enhancing shareholder value.
The Company would make either a single purchase or a series of purchases, when market conditions are suitable, with the aim of maximising the benefits to shareholders and within guidelines set from time to time by the Board.
Where purchases are made at prices below the prevailing net asset value of the Ordinary Shares, this will enhance net asset value for the remaining shareholders.
It is therefore intended that purchases would only be made at prices below net asset value, with the purchases to be funded from the capital reserves of the Company which are currently in excess of 250 million.
The rules of the UK Listing Authority Listing Rules limit the price which may be paid by the Company to 105% of the average middle-market quotation for an Ordinary Share on the five business days immediately preceding the date of the relevant purchase.
The minimum price to be paid will be 25p per Ordinary Share being the nominal value.
Overall, this proposed share buy-back authority, if used, should help to reduce the discount to net asset value at which the Companys shares currently trade.
The Board considers that it will be most advantageous to shareholders for the Company to be able to continue to make such purchases as and when it considers the timing to be most favourable and therefore does not propose to set a timetable for making any such purchases.
Under the Listing Rules, the maximum number of shares which a listed company may purchase through the market pursuant to a general authority such as this is equivalent to 14.99% of its issued share capital.
For this reason, the Company is limiting its renewed authority to make such purchases to 15,411,738 Ordinary Shares, representing 14.99% of the issued share capital, provided that there is no change in the issued share capital between the date of this report and the Annual General Meeting to be held on 11 May 2010.
The authority was previously in Section 166 of the Companies Act 1985 and the equivalent authority which is in Section 701 of the Companies Act 2006, will last until the Annual General Meeting of the Company to be held in 2011 or the expiry of 18 months from the date of the passing of this resolution, whichever is the earlier.
The authority will be subject to renewal by shareholders at subsequent annual general meetings.
Allotment of New Shares and Disapplication of Pre-emption Rights Approval is sought for the renewal of the Directors authority to allot relevant securities, in accordance with Section 551 of the Companies Act 2006, up to a maximum aggregate nominal amount of 8,567,788, representing approximately 33% of the existing Ordinary Share capital.
This authority is renewable annually and would expire at the conclusion of the Annual General Meeting in 2011.
This authority is equivalent to the previous authority in Section 80 of the Companies Act 1985.
A resolution was passed at the Annual General Meeting held on 12 May 2009 under Section 95 of the Companies Act 1985, to authorise the Directors to allot Ordinary Shares for cash other than pro rata to existing shareholders.
The authority is renewable annually and expires at the conclusion of the Annual General Meeting in 2010.
The equivalent authority under the Companies Act 2006 is in Section 570.
A Special Resolution is therefore proposed under special business at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting to renew this authority for a further year.
This power is limited to the aggregate nominal amount of 2,570,336 Ordinary Share capital, being approximately 10% of the issued Ordinary Share capital of the Company as at the date of this report, provided that there is no change in the issued share capital between the date of this report and the Annual General Meeting to be held on 11 May 2010.
The Directors may allot shares under these authorities to take advantage of opportunities in the market as they arise but only if they believe it would be advantageous to the Companys existing shareholders to do so.
The Directors confirm that no allotment of new shares will be made unless the lowest market offer price of the Ordinary Shares is at least at a premium to net asset value, valuing debt at market value.
Authority to hold a general meeting on 14 days clear notice This resolution is required to reflect the implementation in August 2009 of the EU Shareholder Rights Directive the Directive, which has increased the notice period for all general meetings of the Company to 21 days clear notice.
The Company was previously able to call general meetings other than an Annual General Meeting on 14 days clear notice and would like to preserve this ability.
Under the Directive, Companies are permitted to seek shareholder approval, on an annual basis and by way of a special resolution, for general meetings other than the annual general meeting to be called on 14 days clear notice.
This authority will only be used if it is in the best interests of shareholders and will be 26 The Merchants Trust PLC Directors Report effective until the Companys next Annual General Meeting, when it is intended that a similar resolution will be proposed.
Furthermore, in order to use this authority, all shareholders must be given the opportunity but not the obligation to vote at such a general meeting by electronic means.
Annual general meetings will continue to be held on at least 21 days clear notice.
Auditors The Directors will place a resolution before the Annual General Meeting to re-appoint  LLP as Auditors for the ensuing year.
A resolution to authorise the Directors to determine the Auditors remuneration will also be proposed at the Annual General Meeting.
