18 Business review Caribbean Our business in the Caribbean is the leading full service telecoms provider inthe region, serving communities across 13 islands.
We operate under thebrand LIME Landline, Internet, Mobile, Entertainment reflecting theservices we provide to people, governments and businesses across theregion.
Cable & Wireless Communications Annual report 2009 10 19 Business review 20 Business review Caribbean Caribbean: 2009 10 at a glance Market leading positions sustained despite economic downturn Broadband subscriber numbers increase by 6% One Caribbean programme improving efficiency and service levels Senior management team strengthened under new CEO Economic conditions expected to remain challenging in 2010 11 Performance overview Our Caribbean business unit includes operations in 13 islands including: 2009 10 2008 09 Anguilla Revenue US$873m US$975m Antigua and Barbuda Gross margin 74% 74% Barbados EBITDA US$270m US$337m Capital expenditure US$114m US$150m British Virgin Islands Mobile customers 1,271k 1,254k Cayman Mobile ARPU US$21 US$25 Dominica Grenada Jamaica Performance Our One Caribbean transformation Montserrat The Caribbean region suffered a deep programme, which is focused on improving St Kitts and Nevis economic recession in 2009 10 as tourist the efficiency and service levels of the StLucia numbers and tourist spending fell sharply.
business, has made encouraging progress.
StVincent and Grenadines This had an impact on all telecoms operators During the year we completed many of the Turks andCaicos in the region and led to increased pricing programmes initiatives.
We have improved pressures particularly in mobile.
In this processes around our fault resolution, Our One Caribbean transformation challenging environment, we have customer enquiry and point of sale service programme was designed to bring together successfully maintained our market positions through these programmes and continue to the 13 businesses under one management structure and brand.
Fixed line operations were address a number of other areas of service.
also affected by the recession, with both We have also made good progress in Cable & Wireless Communications also holds domestic and international voice revenues developing a performance culture a minority holding 49% in Telecom Services falling.
Consequently, our earnings reflected among employees.
of Trinidad and Tobago TSTT, a full service the downturn, with EBITDA 20% weaker operator in Trinidad and Tobago.
During the year we also strengthened than the previous year.
our senior team significantly, led by the During the year we continued our leadership appointment of David Shaw as CEO.
We in 9 of the 13 mobile markets in which we have added experience and local market operate and in every fixed line market where knowledge with senior appointments in 1.27m we supply services.
In broadband we lead in our operational, financial, marketing and 11 of 13 markets.
We performed well in commercial functions.
Mobile customers up 1% broadband, increasing subscriber numbers We have also progressed several community by 6% while mobile subscriber numbers and social responsibility initiatives, such as grew by 1%.
We also maintained a healthy our Go Green initiative, which encourages cash flow, once again demonstrating the 74% customers to reduce the amount of paper long-term resilience of our business.
used to produce their bills.
Gross margin maintained 6% Broadband subscriber numbers grew by 6% Cable & Wireless Communications Annual report 2009 10 21 Business review Despite the conditions, we are focused on continuing to improve our processes and positioning the business for the upturn in the regions economies.
We want our Caribbean business to be known for its performance culture and customer focus a goal we believe we can achieve this year.
David Shaw Chief Executive Officer, Caribbean Outlook Market Trading conditions continued to be Overall, we expect the Caribbean economy to remain challenging in 2010 and possibly challenging throughout the year with tourist arrivals well down in most of the holiday beyond.
The regions recovery is expected destinations in which we operate.
GDP to lag behind the US and UK economies by has declined across the region and at least 12 months.
unemployment is increasing our largest Despite the financial conditions, we are market, Jamaica, reported an unemployment focused on continuing to improve our rate of 11%.
During the year the Jamaican processes and positioning the business for Government agreed a US$1.27 billion the upturn in the regions economies.
Our financial aid package with the International new 3G network in Jamaica provides us with Monetary Fund that is dependent on the opportunity to offer mobile data services economic reforms.
Governments are to customers for the first time.
We have the exploring wage freezes in several markets advantage of the largest fixed line networks and seeking greater efficiencies.
Broadband, with low Conditions in the tourism market improved penetration rates, also remains a strategic slightly in the second half.
However, we opportunity in all markets.
In the enterprise believe it is too early to predict an economic and government sector, we will aim to work recovery across the region.
with governments on strategic projects in the security, health and education sectors.
The competitive situation across our Track & Field As governments focus on efficiencies, we markets remained relatively stable, although expect our managed services will be able to Supporting the Caribbean passion for price competition was heightened by the provide new opportunities for growth.
sport, LIME was the presenting sponsor economic conditions.
Promotions activity, of the 2010 CARIFTA Games, one of particularly free on-net minute offers and We will invest in our networks to ensure the premier track and field events in new handset subsidies, were aggressive.
We customers receive the best available the Caribbean.
The Games, which were have at least one other competitor in each coverage.
We will also invest in our brand held in Cayman, are a showcase for market other than our smallest market, LIME is now well known in our markets and the Caribbeans emerging talent, with Montserrat, where the Government has we will continue to develop and evolve it to previous competitors including Jamaicas begun the process of issuing a new mobile connect with our customers, colleagues and Usain Bolt and Kim Collins of St Kitts & licence which will introduce competition.
We want our Caribbean Nevis.
Thanks to our sponsorship the business to be known for its performance The business received some positive news Games were broadcast live to nearly culture and customer focus a goal we immediately after the year end, winning a 20 countries across the Caribbean and believe we can achieve this year.
We have major victory in the UK High Court in a in addition 60,000 people logged on renewed optimism that we are on the long-running case brought against us by our to watch the games via broadband, right track.
Digicels claims that we providing high exposure across the had obstructed their entry in a number of region for the LIME brand.
markets were dismissed by the court with The sponsorship builds on LIMEs existing an award of costs on an indemnity basis.
support for Jamaicas Inter-Secondary Schools Boys and Girls Athletics Championship, as well as its support for athletes such as sprint champion Asafa Powell.
