42 Independent Directors report Turning now to the four questions posed annually as part of Cable & On 26 March 2010 the Cable & Wireless Worldwide business was demerged from the Group, thereby creating two Wireless and now Cable & Wireless Communications approach to measuring effective corporate governance: independent separately listed entities, Cable & Wireless Worldwide plc and Cable & Wireless Communications Plc.
This report focuses on activities within Cable and Wireless plc 1 What is the quality of the relationship between the Chairman over the financial year until demerger and on Cable & Wireless and the Executive Directors?
Communications Plc after that point until the year end.
The Chairman had to undertake a number of structural changes to the Cable and Wireless plc Board during the year including the The demerger was the culmination of four years work by the identification of Non-executive and Executive teams for each of the Central function led by the Chairman and overseen by the Board.
He was also heavily involved in facilitating the transition From March 2006 until demerger, the governance of Cable of John Pluthero from Executive Chairman, Worldwide, to Chairman and Wireless plc was managed by a Central function acting as of Cable & Wireless Worldwide plc with Jim Marsh stepping up to be portfolio manager of two separate businesses, now Worldwide and Chief Executive of a listed entity for the first time.
Each of these was headed by Executive Directors demerger grew closer the attentions of both teams within each reporting to the Chairman with its own Operating Boards.
Each of the businesses became more focused on the affairs of their Operating Board met on a monthly basis and was charged with individual businesses.
During this period the Chairman maintained overseeing the operations of its business.
The Cable and Wireless plc his position of neutrality which was crucial when he was called upon Board sat above the Operating Boards to hold them to account for to resolve a number of issues between the Executive Directors as delivering their respective strategies and business plans whilst part of the separation of the assets of the Group.
ensuring the highest standards of governance were maintained.
The system was strengthened by the presence of Investor Directors who Notwithstanding the size of this challenge the relationship between sat on the Operating Boards and offered additional insight for the the Chairman and the Executive Directors remained strong plc Board into the workings of each of the Operating Boards.
The throughout the year and the demerger process.
Investor Directors consisted of Simon Ball, a Non-executive Director of Cable and Wireless plc and members of the Central team.
2 How open are the Executive Directors with the Board?
The Executive Directors are very open with the Board.
Pre-demerger A number of significant events took place in the lead up to demerger.
the flow of information was reinforced by the presence of the Investor Mary Francis and Penny Hughes joined the plc Board on 1 July 2010.
Directors on each of the Operating Boards and during the first three The addition of Mary and Penny with their breadth of experience months of 2010 by the presence of the new Non-executive teams on ensured that the Group had a sufficient number of quality Nonthose Boards in preparation for separation.
The demerger process executive Directors to fully equip both companies for their called for full and frank disclosure by each of the Executive teams independent existences post demerger.
Jim Marsh, Chief Executive within the businesses to facilitate the preparation of detailed of the Worldwide business joined the plc Board on 1 January 2010 prospectus documents to support the independent listings.
Both to ensure that the Worldwide business was fully represented at plc teams carried out a full verification process under the supervision of Board level through the final stages of the demerger process.
the Cable and Wireless plc Board which required very detailed and Throughout that time Simon Ball, Non-executive Director, continued frank disclosure throughout.
The Non-executive Directors were in his role as an Investor Director on both Operating Boards ensuring reassured by the officers within the Company and by the Companys that the appropriate standards of governance were maintained external advisors that this exercise had been properly carried out.
during this critical demerger period.
The Chairman, working together with the Nominations Committee, 3 What is the visibility of checks and balances between spent a significant part of the year creating two new Boards to take the Executive Directors?
the new businesses forward post demerger whilst ensuring the Visibility of checks and balances between the Executive Directors cohesion of the Cable and Wireless plc Board as a whole and avoiding was significantly greater than in previous years as a result of the the possibility of disputes and conflicts of interest until the demerger attendance of the Non-executives, together with the Investor was finalised.
This process was finalised by the end of the 2009 Directors, at a number of the Operating Boards as well as the Cable calendar year to pave the way for the Non-executive Directors and Wireless plc Board.
allocated to each business to sit on the Operating Boards of those businesses from January 2010 onwards to ensure that the new Boards 4 Have questions asked by the Independent Directors in Board would be ready to discharge their obligations on demerger day.
and Committee meetings been appropriately addressed?
Questions asked by the Independent Directors have been properly The period immediately prior to demerger involved the Chairman addressed throughout the year.
The Independent Directors also working with the Non-executive Directors to oversee the meet separately during the year to discuss any relevant governance preparations for demerger including the refinancing for the new matters.
The Independent Directors are satisfied that the corporate companies, the creation of new constitutions and governance governance controls of Cable and Wireless plc were effective until arrangements and the approval of separate prospectuses.
This demerger and that the Company has established a constitution and period was challenging for all members of the Cable and Wireless controls to ensure it can oversee the Companys operations and plc Board who were required to maintain their focus on the meet its governance obligations in the future.
performance of the Group as a whole whilst focusing on plans for the business they would be joining.
The Board of Cable & Wireless Communications Plc have confirmed that they will publish an Independent Directors report for the year The governance system and the Long-Term Incentive Plan which ended 31 March 2011. supports it were critical to ensuring that both businesses were ready for independence, in reinforcing the behaviours and roles of the Simon Ball Cable and Wireless plc Board during this period and in maintaining Senior Independent Director visibility of all the affairs of the Group leading up to the separation.
