The Merchants Trust PLC Directors The current Directors details are set out below.
All Directors are non-executive and independent of the Manager.
Mr H. A. Stevenson Chairman Born September 1942 joined the Board in September 1999.
Formerly Chairman of Mercury Asset Management Group plc and Equitas Limited, he is Deputy Chairman of the Financial Services Authority.
Mr R. A. Barfield Born April 1947 joined the Board in May 1999.
Formerly Chief Investment Manager of Standard Life Assurance Company, he is a Chairman of The Baillie Gifford Japan Trust PLC and a Director of JPMorgan Fleming Overseas Investment Trust PLC, The Edinburgh Investment Trust PLC and Standard Life Investments Property Income Trust Limited.
He is a member of The Professional Oversight Board, a Non-Executive member of the Pension Protection Fund Board and advises a number of pension funds.
Mr S. J. Fraser Born May 1959 joined the Board in August 2009.
He is a non-executive director of and Chairman-elect of Foreign & Colonial Investment Trust PLC and a non-executive director of Barclays PLC, Barclays Bank PLC, Fidelity European Values PLC and Fidelity Japanese Values PLC.
He spent his career at Fidelity International Limited, where he held a number of positions, including Chief Investment Officer from 1999-2005, President of Fidelity Internationals European and UK Institutional business and latterly President of the Investment Solutions Group.
He stepped down from executive responsibilities at the end of 2008.
Mr M. J. E. McKeon Born October 1956 joined the Board in May 2008.
He is Group Finance Director of Severn Trent plc and prior to that, from 2000 until 2005, he was Group Finance Director of Novar plc.
He held various senior roles at Rolls-Royce plc from 1997 to 2000.
He has extensive experience in a number of overseas positions, having worked at CarnaudMetalbox, Elf Atochem and .
Sir James Sassoon Chairman of the Audit Committee Born September 1955 joined the Board in July 2006.
He is a Director of Nuclear Liabilities Fund Limited, a member of the Economic Recovery Committee of the Shadow Cabinet and a Trustee of the British Museum.
He was formerly President of the Financial Action Task Force, Managing Director, Finance and Industry at HM Treasury and Vice Chairman, Investment Banking, at UBS Warburg.
Mr H. E. Staunton Born May 1948 joined the Board in May 2008.
He is a non-executive director of Ladbrokes plc, Legal & General plc and Standard Bank Plc.
He was previously Finance Director at ITV plc and Granada Group plc.
He was also a non-executive director of Emap plc, BSkyB, Independent Television News Limited, Vector Hospitality plc and Ashtead Group plc, of which he was also Chairman between 2001 and 2004.
Manager and Advisers Fund Manager RCM UK Limited, Represented by Simon Gergel, Portfolio Manager, and Simon White, Head of Investment Trusts Secretary and Registered Office Kirsten Salt BA Hons ACIS, 155 Bishopsgate, London EC2M 3AD.
com Independent Auditors  LLP, Hays Galleria, 1 Hays Lane, London SE1 2RD Bankers HSBC Bank, Barclays Bank Stockbroker JPMorgan Cazenove Legal Advisers Herbert Smith LLP 16
