The Merchants Trust PLC Investment Managers Review Economic Background The year under review witnessed a major recession in most of the developed world as the full effects of the financial crisis were felt.
Reduced availability of finance and lower confidence led consumers and businesses to cut spending, particularly on big ticket items and services.
In response to lower demand, companies aggressively cut costs by reducing production, inventory levels and employment.
The severity of the recession was mitigated by an unprecedented level of government stimulus around the world.
Interest rates were cut to near zero levels in the USA, UK, Eurozone and Japan.
Liquidity was boosted by governments providing bank loan guarantees and via central bank purchases of assets through the Quantitative Easing process.
Enormous government spending packages were introduced to support industries including banking and finance, automobiles and infrastructure investment.
Unemployment rose but not by as much as would normally be expected as many companies reduced working hours and froze wages.
Inflation was generally subdued in a weak demand environment.
As the year progressed the major economies gradually emerged from recession with the UK posting modest growth in the fourth quarter of 2009.
However confidence remained fragile and significant areas of activity remained depressed, such as the important US housing market which saw 550,000 new housing starts compared to a fifty year average of 1.5 million and previous low of 1 million.
Several emerging markets managed to avoid recession, with China in particular delivering rapid growth on the back of a huge infrastructure investment programme and rapid credit expansion.
Arguably the biggest feature of the year was the government support of the global financial system which had been severely strained.
However the costs of the rescue packages and measures to mitigate the recession were massive increases in the developed worlds budget deficits and the ballooning of government debt levels.
Market Trends Financial markets began the year in a state of turmoil and the stockmarket fell heavily in February amid continued concerns about the banking system and the health of the major economies.
However in March the stockmarket began a sharp recovery with the approval of US stimulus packages pointing to a more credible government response to the economic crisis.
Stockmarket recoveries often start at a point of great pessimism and market levels were depressed with many shares looking extremely cheap.
After a slight pause in June and July the market rally continued until the beginning of January 2010 before a minor sell-off in the last few weeks of the financial year.
Overall the FTSE 100 Index delivered a total return of 30% for the year but there were significant differences at the stock and sector level.
In general the more cyclical and higher risk parts of the stockmarket, which had suffered the most in the downturn, saw the sharpest recoveries.
The mining sector more than doubled as commodity prices rebounded in response to a step up in Chinese infrastructure investment.
Bank shares and general retailers rallied hard, rising by over 50% in the first half of the year before consolidating.
There was also a marked outperformance by smaller companies, which tend to be more economically sensitive, with the FTSE 250 Mid Cap Index rising by over 50%.
On the other hand many of the larger, more defensive shares lagged the market rally.
The utilities and pharmaceutical sectors delivered total returns of 6% with virtually no capital gain and tobacco posted a 14% return.
This made it a difficult year for income investors with the FTSE 350 Higher Yield Index returning only 25% as the market focused on recovery rather than dividend yield.
At the individual stock level the polarisation was even more extreme.
Of the 100 constituents of the FTSE 100 Index at the start of the period, 5 produced negative returns and 30 were up less than 15%, whilst the top 30 performers were each up over 70% including 8 stocks that more than doubled.
Within the market there were a large number of dividend cuts and rights issues as companies focused on reducing debt levels as the credit crunch restricted the availability and raised the cost of bank finance.
6 The Merchants Trust PLC Investment Managers Review FTSE 100 Price Index from 31 January 2005 to 31 January 2010 7000 6500 6000 5500 5000 4500 4000 3500 3000 31 Jan 31 Jan 31 Jan 31 Jan 31 Jan 31 Jan 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 Souce: RCM Datastream Investment Performance The Merchants Trust portfolio delivered a strong absolute performance in a rising market.
As the Trust has a policy of investing in high yielding shares which generally lagged the market, performance was behind the total return of the FTSE 100 Index although it was in line with the FTSE 350 Higher Yield Index.
Looking at the individual stock contributions there was a standout performance from many of the more cyclical medium sized companies in the Trust.
Even though the portfolio is predominantly invested in large companies, nine of the top ten positive stock contributions came from outside of the FTSE 100 Index with three of these more than doubling and another three returning over 90%.
Performance further benefited from the decision to increase the Trusts holdings in many mid-caps at depressed levels during the market downturn.
Certain of these stocks passed their dividends during the credit crunch but we decided to retain the holdings due to their compelling valuations.
The only top ten contributor from within the FTSE 100 was Imperial Tobacco where the portfolio benefited from not owning the company as its shares lagged the market considerably.
Contribution to Investment Performance relative to FTSE 100 Index Positive Contributions % Negative Contributions % Inchcape 1.1 Rio Tinto -2.0 Melrose 0.8 BAE Systems -1.5 Britvic 0.6 Xstrata -1.2 International Personal Finance 0.6 Anglo American -1.2 Meggitt 0.6GlaxoSmithKline -1.1 Dairy Crest 0.5 Reed Elsevier -0.8 GKN 0.5 Scottish & Southern Energy -0.8 IG Group 0.4 Standard Chartered -0.7 Imperial Tobacco 0.4 HSBC -0.6 Pendragon 0.3 Vodafone -0.6 In terms of negative contributions, two themes dominate.
Three of the four top negative stocks were mining companies.
We had limited exposure to the sector during the year due to the low or zero dividend yields and our concerns about the industry outlook and valuation.
Performance suffered from not owning these companies as the sector surged in the market rally.
The second clear theme was the muted performance of several large, defensive companies like BAE Systems, GlaxoSmithKline, Reed Elsevier and Scottish & Southern Energy.
Big positions in these high 7 The Merchants Trust PLC Investment Managers Review yielding and lowly valued businesses held back the overall portfolio return.
Two banks also featured in the top 10 negatives.
The portfolio did not own Standard Chartered and had an underweight position in HSBC.
As in the mining sector, these low yielding banks were re-rated on hopes for economic recovery, especially in the key Asian region.
Portfolio Changes Extreme moves within the stockmarket can present both challenges and opportunities for investors.
Activity within the portfolio was quite high, driven primarily by individual stock issues rather than broader industry considerations.
However there were some changes at the sector level as we reduced the portfolios exposure to commodities oil and mining and telecommunications whilst increasing exposure to financial services including real estate and support services.
We added ten new companies to the portfolio and completely sold seven investments.
As described in the interim report, several major market features influenced activity, namely, high volatility, extreme polarisation, dividend cuts and rights issues.
Volatility often presents opportunities to make investments or sales at particularly attractive levels but it can also reflect real risks.
We devoted considerable resource during the economic downturn to stress test the business models of investee companies and to understand how macroeconomic developments might impact them.
Our analysis prompted us to maintain certain positions or even increase them, whilst reducing or exiting others.
Regarding new additions, having not owned any real estate companies for about 12 months, we took advantage of the sectors weakness to buy Hammerson in February when they announced a rights issue to strengthen their balance sheet.
We also bought British Land later in the period.
With property yields well above gilt and cash yields and signs that the property sector was turning, these high yielding companies looked attractive.
Volatility also enabled us to buy the media conglomerate WPP and electricity generator International Power at particularly attractive valuations as described in the interim report.
Another new investment was Premier Farnell, a high service distributor of electronic components.
The shares were depressed after severe industry destocking and the valuation did not reflect either the potential for cyclical recovery or the fundamental restructuring being undertaken to cut costs and target three areas of potentially higher returns: sales over the internet, sales to research and design engineers and sales within emerging markets.
The extreme polarisation of market returns created opportunities.
As investors focused on cyclical businesses, many defensive or higher growth businesses lagged behind the market rally and traded at compelling valuations.
As well as Bunzl and Catlin which were purchased in the first half, we bought Reckitt Benckiser, a leading consumer products and healthcare business with brands such as Finish dishwasher tablets, Cillit Bang, Nurofen and Strepsils.
Reckitts has an excellent record of growth and cash generation and has raised its dividend materially in recent years.
The remaining two new investments were in the financial services arena.
We purchased Ashmore, an emerging market fixed income fund manager which is well placed to exploit the structural trend of greater investment allocations to emerging markets among bond investors.
With a high net cash position on its balance sheet it is financially secure and offers an attractive dividend yield.
Finally we purchased Friends Provident during its takeover by Resolution Plc as the latter is embarking on a strategy of consolidating and restructuring parts of the financial services industry.
There were many additions to existing positions reflecting the opportunities in the volatile and polarised market.
Notable trades included adding to IG Group and International Personal Finance after material weakness with both shares subsequently more than doubling by year end.
We significantly increased the holdings in Unilever, AstraZeneca and BAE Systems all of which are relatively well protected from a tough economic environment and, in our view, represented good value.
We also added to a number of positions via right issues, such as HSBC, Inchcape and GKN.
Dividend cuts were a notable feature of the market, especially in the first half, and drove some of the sell decisions in the year.
Although the Trust has a clear high income objective, we do not automatically sell shares when they cut or pass dividends.
We review each situation on its own merits from a total return perspective, but we also need to consider the impact on the total portfolio yield.
We retained positions in, among others, Barclays and Inchcape and we decided to sell Lloyds Banking Group and Anglo American with considerable uncertainty about the prospects for both businesses.
We switched part of the Anglo holding into BHP Billiton our favoured mining company.
Later in the period we bought back into a modest position in Lloyds Banking Group ahead of their rights issue aimed at avoiding the governments Asset Protection Scheme.
Whilst Lloyds is not paying a dividend we believed the risk profile was significantly reduced by the share issue and it could offer substantial upside in the medium term.
8 The Merchants Trust PLC Investment Managers Review During the year we reduced the portfolios relatively high level of concentration.
The biggest net sale was a reduction of the large BP position in several trades as the shares recovered and the dividend yield looked less enticing compared to other opportunities.
We also reduced Royal Dutch Shell on similar considerations.
With smaller reductions to the GlaxoSmithKline and Vodafone positions, the largest four investments accounted for under 31% of the portfolio at the year end, down from almost 39% a year earlier.
This move reflects a wider range of available high yielding investment opportunities in a more stable economic and financial environment.
Other sales reflected the themes discussed earlier.
The strong recovery of small and mid cap shares provided the opportunity to reduce and ultimately sell out of GKN post rights issue, Dairy Crest and Marshalls at relatively full valuations.
Amongst the more economically defensive stocks, Diageo and Sage had performed well and, with fairly muted short term prospects, they looked expensive compared to many better opportunities elsewhere.
The final complete sale was water company Severn Trent.
A draft determination from the regulator OFWAT looked set to put pressure on the industrys future dividends so we switched the investment into additional shares in utilities National Grid and Scottish & Southern Energy.
Elsewhere, having added to BT at depressed levels in February, we reduced the holding later in the year after the shares had been significantly rerated and more fully reflected the restructuring opportunities in the business.
We also started to sell down the Inchcape position into strength.
After supporting the rights issue at 6p per share, we sold shares as they approached fair value at various levels from 19p up to 35p.
Outside of the top 10 net sales, we reduced positions in a wide range of companies as they rallied and offered less value.
These included mid caps: Britvic, Halfords, Melrose, IG Group and Meggitt, as well as FTSE 100 companies: Home Retail Group, Man Group and Legal & General.
Largest Net Purchases Largest Net Sales m m Unilever 6.4 BP 7.8 British Land 5.5 BT 6.5 AstraZeneca 5.2 Anglo American 5.4 Premier Farnell 5.0 Sage 5.2 Reckitt Benckiser 4.6 GKN 4.9 Bunzl 4.5 Diageo 4.8 International Power 4.4 Dairy Crest 4.5 HSBC 4.3 Royal Dutch Shell B 4.4 BAE Systems 3.6 BHP Billiton 4.0 Catlin Group 3.3 Inchcape 3.8 Derivatives Strategy As explained in the Chairmans Statement, we initiated a strategy of writing selling covered call options on a limited number of stocks within the equity portfolio and using the proceeds to buy out-of-the-money put options on the FTSE 100 Index.
The call option purchaser can buy stock from the Trust at a pre-agreed price for a limited period.
The put options are essentially an insurance policy to provide some downside protection if the market were to fall very significantly.
In January 2010 the directors decided to suspend further purchases of put options.
The fund managers will continue writing call options selectively in order to generate additional income for the Trust, rather than for the purpose of capital protection.
Call options are only written on stocks owned within the portfolio and with a maximum exposure of 20% of gross assets at the time of writing.
Future Policy A year ago the economy was in the deepest recession for a generation and the credit crunch had called into question the viability of many businesses and even the financial system.
Compared with that desperate situation, the outlook today is much clearer with the developed world out of recession and corporate balance sheets and profits recovering.
However compared to more normal times, the economic challenges and risks today remain immense.
Governments and central banks are walking along a delicate tightrope.
On the one hand they need a loose monetary and fiscal policy to stimulate growth and turn a fragile recovery into a more sustainable upturn.
On the other hand they need to reduce spending and raise taxes to bring budget deficits under control.
Failure to sustain growth could lead to a double dip recession and even larger debt problems, whilst failure to cut deficits can lead to a loss of market confidence, rising bond yields, austerity packages, devaluations and in extremis government debt defaults.
These pressures are evident even within the EU, with the Irish economy in a deep recession caused by austerity measures whilst Greece has 9 The Merchants Trust PLC Investment Managers Review suffered a loss of confidence in its debt market with implications for the Euro.
The UK is in a worse funding position than much of Europe, but a floating currency and independent interest rates allow greater flexibility of policy response.
Despite the risks, our central view is that the developed world will continue to see an economic recovery due to the economic stimuli and inflation will not be a major short term concern.
However we expect growth to remain below the longer term trend for a considerable period as both consumers and governments struggle to reduce excessive debt levels.
Several of the key emerging markets are performing better than the developed world, delivering higher growth with stronger financial balances.
China in particular has benefitted from a huge infrastructure and investment boom.
The challenge for China is to rebalance the economy from investment towards consumer spending without serious dislocation.
The equity market is not as cheap as it was a year ago but corporate balance sheets and cashflows have improved materially and aggregate valuations are still reasonable.
There are many anomalies within the market as might be expected after a period of economic volatility and we have positioned the portfolio to take advantage of these.
After two years where macro-economic themes and sector rotation have dominated market moves, a period of lower volatility could lead to a greater focus on company fundamentals.
We think valuations, including dividend yields, are likely to be more important differentiators of stock performance.
Sustainable profits growth may well be more highly rated in a muted economic environment and companies with strong, defendable market positions and pricing power are also likely to be more highly valued.
We continue to have a large exposure to big, multinational, well financed businesses that are not particularly cyclical and generally trade on low valuations with attractive dividend yields.
Examples would include GlaxoSmithKline, Vodafone, BAE Systems, Royal Dutch Shell and National Grid.
We have also built up exposure to higher growth businesses where these were available at attractive valuations and offered a reasonable dividend yield.
Higher growth stocks in general look cheaper than they have been for many years and we have invested in Reckitt Benckiser, IG Group, Bunzl and Ashmore amongst others.
Other themes we are exploiting include seeking companies with exposure to emerging market consumers, such as British American Tobacco, WPP, IPF and Unilever.
Also we favour those companies that benefit from recovering asset values in real estate or credit markets, such as Hammerson, British Land and Aviva.
We are generally cautious about big ticket corporate spending in what is likely to be a relatively muted economic recovery so we have limited exposure to cyclical industrial companies, although we are becoming more positive on day to day spending in areas like advertising.
We have a very low exposure to the mining industry, partly due to unattractive valuations and dividends, but also due to the risk to commodity prices as China slows down its investment spending.
Amongst financials the portfolio has a modest exposure to banks, mainly via HSBC, but we see many opportunities in the broader financial sector.
Banks are extremely difficult to value given the uncertain profile of any cyclical recovery and significant structural challenges including increased regulation, tighter capital restrictions and higher taxation.
Dividends The Merchants Trust has a twenty eight year record of consistently raising its dividend and the portfolio is managed with a view to maintaining a high level of income.
The revenue reserves have allowed the directors to maintain this track record at a time when there have been material dividend cuts across the wider market.
The worst of the dividend cuts seem to be behind us with underlying market dividend growth now positive again.
A year ago we mentioned four significant risks to income generation, namely: the depth and duration of the recession, financial asset values, the level of sterling, particularly against the dollar, and commodity prices, especially oil.
Three of these factors have improved markedly.
Only the US dollar moved against the Trust although even that has moderated recently.
The value of the dollar affects the large amount of dividends paid in dollars when translated back into sterling.
