32 GOVERNANCE BOARD OF DIRECTORS John Pluthero n Jim Marsh John Barton anr Chairman and Chair of the Chief Executive Officer Deputy Chairman and Nomination Committee and Executive Director Senior Independent Director John Pluthero was appointed as a Jim Marsh was appointed as a Director John Barton was appointed as a Director on 25 January 2010 and Director on 25 January 2010 and on 25 January 2010 and became became Chairman on Demerger.
Executive Director and Chief Executive became Deputy Chairman, NonJohn served as an executive director of Officer on Demerger.
Jim was on the executive Director and Senior Cable and Wireless plc from November Cable and Wireless plc board from Independent Director on Demerger.
2005 until the Demerger and served 1 January 2010 until the Demerger.
John served as a non-executive director as Executive Chairman of the Jim has also served as Chief Executive of Cable and Wireless plc from his Cable&Wireless Worldwide Group Officer and a member of the operating appointment on 9 March 2009 until the from April 2006, having previously been board of the Cable&Wireless Worldwide Demerger.
John has been chairman of its Executive Director since November Group since April 2006.
Prior to its Next plc since 2006, having joined their 2005.
During the period from acquisition by Cable and Wireless plc board of directors in 2002, and was 12 November 2007 to 11 November in November 2005, Jim was business deputy chairman from 2004.
He is also 2008, John was also executive development director of Energis.
In this the chairman of Brit Insurance Holdings chairman of the Cable & Wireless role, he oversaw the development and plc and a non-executive director of Communications Group prior to the service of all of Energis channels to WH Smith PLC.
John was formerly appointment of a Cable & Wireless market.
Before joining Energis in 2004, the chief executive of JIB Group PLC Communications Group chief executive.
Jim was chief operating officer at Atos and chairman of Jardine Lloyd From September 2002 until its KPMG Consulting, overseeing the Thompson Group plc and Wellington acquisition by Cable and Wireless plc consulting business across all its Underwriting plc.
in November 2005, John was chief industry sectors.
Prior to becoming executive of Energis.
He was founder a partner at KPMG in 1997, he was and chief executive officer of Freeserve head of strategic planning at Boots Limited now part of Orange, leading the Chemists Limited.
it to its flotation and prior, to this, John held various strategy and operations positions within the Dixons Group Limited.
Cable&Wireless Worldwide Annual Report 33 Clive Butler anr Penny Hughes anr Post year end appointment Non-executive Director and Chair Non-executive Director and Tim Weller of the Remuneration Committee Chair of the Audit Committee Chief Financial Officer and Executive Director Clive Butler was appointed as a Director Penny Hughes was appointed as on 25 January 2010 and became a a Director on 25 January 2010 and On 24 May 2010, Tim Weller was Non-executive Director and Chair of the became a Non-executive Director appointed as an Executive Director Remuneration Committee on Demerger.
and Chair of the Audit Committee and Chief Financial Officer.
Tim was Clive served as a non-executive director on Demerger.
Penny served as a previously chief financial officer of of Cable and Wireless plc from his non-executive director of Cable and United Utilities Group PLC and served appointment in May 2005 until the Wireless plc from her appointment on on its main board of directors since Demerger.
He was appointed as senior 1 July 2009 until the Demerger.
Prior to joining United Utilities independent director of Cable and a non-executive director of Home Retail Group PLC in 2006, Tim was group Wireless plc in July 2006 and chairman Group plc where she is also the chair finance director at RWE Thames Water of Cable and Wireless plcs nominations of the remuneration committee, Royal and also group finance director at RWE committee in July 2007.
Clive was Bank of Scotland Group plc, and Wm npower Holdings PLC formerly Innogy corporate development director at Morrison Supermarkets PLC.
Penny Holdings PLC, the FTSE 100 company.
Unilever plc, serving on its main board spent ten years with Coca-Cola, initially Tim started his career at KPMG, of directors from 1992 until his as marketing director, ending as becoming a partner before joining the retirement in 2005.
He also undertook president of Coca-Cola GB & Ireland, Granada Group PLC in 1997 where he the roles of personnel director and having started her career with Procter worked on the merger with Compass category director for the home and & Gamble Limited and then the Milk Group PLC and the subsequent personal care division, having worked Marketing Board.
Penny has held a demerger of Granada Media plc, after in a variety of marketing and general number of non-executive roles on the which he joined Innogy Holdings PLC.
management roles since joining boards of international businesses, Unilever in 1970. including Reuters Limited, Vodafone Limited, Trinity Mirror plc, Body Shop International plc and Gap, Inc. She is president of the Advertising Association A Denotes membership of Audit Committee and a trustee of the British Museum.
N Denotes membership of Nomination Committee R Denotes membership of Remuneration Committee
