02 INTRODUCTION ABOUT US THE RIgHT PRODUCTS Today we are one of the worlds of high quality managed voice, data Our strategic product set of data, leading communications companies and IP based services and applications.
IP, hosting and application services specialising in providing mission critical We also serve the UK mid-market, continues to become an ever increasing communication services.
directly through THUS and indirectly part of our business.
through our reseller partners, with a We work with large enterprises, as well range of voice, hosting and connectivity as the public sector and carriers both in services tailored to their needs.
the UK and globally to provide a range DRIVEN BY AN OBSESSION FOR THE CUSTOMER At Cable&Wireless Worldwide we Many of the products and services we contribute to the success of their have put customers at the heart of provide are typically tightly integrated business and therefore to ours, our strategy, creating intimate working into our customers operational activity.
and how they might be developed relationships through a detailed A deep understanding of the ways in to generate additional value is understanding of their business.
which our services are used, how they one of the ways in which we differentiate ourselves.
THE CAPABILITY TO DELIVER We continue to expand our network of telecommunications and can provide and our customers.
Our extensive and technologies to improve capability connectivity to 153 countries.
Our UK and global network, together with to meet customer demand, both network reaches far beyond the UK, our product suite and service focus, in the United Kingdom and in our spanning approximately 500,000 km positions us to successfully exploit global footprint.
including interests in more than 69 growing markets and to build on our major global cable systems.
With full track record of increasing market share We operate the UKs biggest fibre resiliency on key routes, this is an in the UK and overseas.
network dedicated to business users unmatched asset for our business Cable&Wireless Worldwide Annual Report 03 Percentage of gross margin IP and data Percentage of gross margin 28 Hosting and applications IP and data Traditional voice and legacy Hosting and applications 56 16 Traditional voice and legacy 153 Connectivity to 153 countries
