Cable&Wireless Worldwide Annual Report 05 INTRODUCTION MISSION CRITICAL COMMUNICATIONS Our world is more connected than ever before.
Communications technology is driving new behaviours fuelled by a desire for constant connectivity and integration.
Businesses are increasingly dependent on networks and technology just to operate.
They need a partner who can deliver a fast, flexible, total solution underpinned by exceptional service if they want to stay ahead of the competition.
Cable&Wireless Worldwide aims to become the first choice for mission critical communications by making integrated communications a reality.
Our customers rely on the telecommunications infrastructure and services that we provide in order to operate their businesses every day.
06 business revieW case study: ryanair cable&Wireless WorldWide has been consistently reliable and they alWays deliver What they say they Will.
eric neville, it director, ryanair Cable&Wireless Worldwide delivers mission Five-year, 15 million contract critical communications to Ryanair, one of Europes leading airlines.
It manages Ryanairs connecting 180 airports entire European telecommunication network including all airports, bases, data centres and in 26 countries corporate offices.
Cable&Wireless Worldwide provides an always-on communications supporting 60 million network that supports passengers from online booking to airport check in.
passengers on more than 850 routes Cable&Wireless Worldwide Annual Report 07 08 business revieW case study: aviva We trust cable&Wireless WorldWide to deliver the best solution For us that meets our needs and We trust them to be there When We need them.
niall Quinn, director oF uk procurement and commercial services, aviva Cable&Wireless Worldwide has worked in 70 separate services, partnership with Aviva for more than a decade to deliver advanced voice and data managed services.
29 are data netWork Key data services include IPVPN, LAN and wireless LAN.
Additionally, Aviva trusts Cable&Wireless services supporting more Worldwide to manage its external email, internet access, remote access and security as well as its than 75,000 service end business critical data centres, e-commerce and mainframe infrastructures.
points With in excess oF 5,000 netWork devices Cable&Wireless Worldwide Annual Report 09 10 business revieW case study: national grid Cable&Wireless Worldwide is responsible 15 year, 207 million contract for designing, delivering and managing a dedicated Next-Generation Operational national grid is an Telecommunications Network OpTel NGN to support National Grids Network Infrastructure international electricity and Operational Systems.
Cable&Wireless Worldwide provides them with a complete, and gas company and one managed next-generation network service.
oF the largest investoroWned energy companies in the World.
Cable&Wireless Worldwide Annual Report 11 the saFe transmission oF electricity over national grids netWork is dependent on cable&Wireless WorldWides operational telecommunications solutions.
