34 GOVERNANCE DIRECTORS REpORT The Directors present their Annual Report together This report has been prepared following the Demerger with the audited financial statements for the year and includes information in respect of the period up to ended 31 March 2010. and including 26 March 2010 when Cable and Wireless plc now Cable & Wireless Limited and, from 19 March 2010, Principal activities, business review and results Cable & Wireless Communications Plc, were respectively the The Groups principal activities are set out on pages 2 to 5. holding company of the Cable&Wireless Worldwide Group.
Through this Annual Report, including the Chairmans statement and the business review section pages 6 to 31 Directors that precede this report and the corporate governance At 31 March 2010 our Board comprised the Chairman, one statement which follows this report, the Board seeks to Executive Director and three Non-executive Directors, all of present a balanced and clear assessment of the Groups whom were former directors of Cable and Wireless plc.
Each of these sections Biographies of those Directors including details of their is incorporated by reference into this Directors report.
committee memberships are shown on pages 32 and 33.
The Groups results for the financial year are shown in On 24 May 2010, the Board increased to six members when the consolidated income statement on page 58.
Tim Weller joined as an Executive Director and Chief Financial Officer.
His biographical details are set out on page 33.
Change of name The Company was incorporated with the name Project The following also served as Directors of the Company Swan No.
1 Limited with registered number 7029206 on during the financial period under review: 24 September 2009 and changed its name to Cable & Wireless Alnery Incorporations No.
1 Limited was appointed as Worldwide Limited on 13 January 2010.
The Company a Director on 24 September 2009 and resigned on re-registered as a public limited company and changed its 25 January 2010: name to Cable & Wireless Worldwide plc on 27 January 2010.
2 Limited was appointed as Demerger a Director on 24 September 2009 and resigned on At a general meeting of Cable and Wireless plc on 25 January 2010: and 25 February 2010, shareholders approved the demerger of the Cable&Wireless Worldwide Group.
The board of Cable Craig Morris was appointed as a Director on 24 September and Wireless plc set up a sub-committee to ensure the 2009 and resigned on 25 January 2010. demerger was carefully managed and completed in At the 2010 Annual General Meeting AGM, Tim Weller will accordance with the agreed timetable.
The key steps required offer himself for election in accordance with Article 86 of the to implement this proposal included the insertion of a new Articles of Association having been appointed to the Board holding company, Cable & Wireless Communications Plc, since the Demerger.
John Pluthero and Penny Hughes will between Cable and Wireless plc and its shareholders via a retire by rotation at the AGM in accordance with Article 87 scheme of arrangement: a reduction of share capital of Cable of the Companys Articles of Association and will offer & Wireless Communications Plc in order to facilitate the themselves for re-election.
demerger and provide potentially distributable reserves for the Cable & Wireless Communications Group: the demerger Directors interests and indemnities of Cable&Wireless Worldwide in return for the issue of Cable The interests of the Directors and their connected persons & Wireless Worldwide plc ordinary shares: and a reduction in the shares of Cable & Wireless Worldwide plc, along with of capital of Cable & Wireless Worldwide plc to provide details of their share options, are contained in the Directors potentially distributable reserves for the Cable&Wireless remuneration report set out on pages 44 to 55.
No Director had a material interest in any significant contract The Demerger became effective and the Company was with the Company or any of its subsidiaries during the year.
admitted to the Official List of the UK Listing Authority and to The Company has granted indemnities in favour of its trading on the London Stock Exchange on 26 March 2010.
Directors against personal financial exposure that they may As part of the Demerger, the Cable & Wireless incur in the course of their professional duties as directors of Communications Group transferred to the Company the the Company and or any subsidiaries as applicable.
These proceeds and obligations under 230 million 5.75% indemnities are qualifying third party indemnity provisions for Convertible Bonds due in 2014.
The bonds were admitted the purposes of the Companies Act 2006 the Companies to the Official List of the UK Listing Authority and to trading Act.
They have been in force since 26 January 2010 and on the London Stock Exchange on 31 March 2010.
Company also increased the facility limit under its revolving credit facility to 300 million.
Further details are shown in Note 24 to the consolidated financial statements.
Cable&Wireless Worldwide Annual Report 35 Dividends Charitable and political donations The Directors have recommended a final dividend for the During the year ended 31 March 2010, the Group gave year ended 31 March 2010 of 3.00 pence per ordinary share.
198,768 to charitable organisations including 136,019 to Subject to approval at the AGM, the final dividend will be organisations in the United Kingdom.
More information about payable on 12 August 2010 to ordinary shareholders on the the Groups support of the communities in which it operates register at the close of business on 11 June 2010. is set out on page 23.
In the Companys prospectus dated 2 February 2010, the The Company does not make political donations and has no Company announced its intention to pay such a final dividend intention of making donations to what are generally regarded and explained that when aggregated with the interim dividend as political parties or political organisations within the of 3.16 pence per share paid by Cable and Wireless plc on European Union.
As a precautionary measure and in the 22 January 2010 and the final dividend of 3.34 pence per light of the wide definitions of European Union political share expected to be declared by Cable & Wireless organisations for the purposes of the Companies Act, a Communications Plc, the resultant notional full year resolution to permit the Company to make political donations dividend for a former holder of Cable and Wireless plc and incur political expenditure not exceeding 100,000 is shares assuming they have retained the shares in the included as a resolution for the AGM.
The purpose of the Company and Cable & Wireless Communications pursuant resolution is to ensure that the Company does not to the Demerger is 9.50 pence per ordinary share.
unintentionally breach the Companies Act.
Subject to shareholder approval, this resolution will remain in force Share capital and treasury shares until 20 July 2014 or the 2014 AGM, whichever is the earlier.
As at 31 March 2010 the called-up share capital of the Company was 2,624,572,024 ordinary shares of 5 pence Supplier payment policy and creditors each and the Company did not hold any ordinary shares in The policy of the Company and its principal operating treasury.
Details of changes to the ordinary shares issued companies is to agree terms of payment prior to commencing and awards and options granted during the year are shown trade with a supplier and to abide by those terms on the at note 30 and 31 to the consolidated financial statements.
timely submission of satisfactory invoices.
Statements on No person holds securities in the Company carrying special the operating companies payment of suppliers are contained voting rights with regard to control of the Company.
The in their financial statements.
The ratio, expressed in days, Company is not aware of any agreements between holders between the amounts invoiced to the Company by its of securities that may result in restrictions on the transfer of suppliers in the period from incorporation on 24 September securities or on voting rights.
2009 to 31 March 2010 and the amounts owed to its creditors as at 31 March 2010 was nil days as calculated Companys shareholders in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act.
As of 24 May 2010 the Company had been notified of the following substantial holdings of voting rights in the issued Employee diversity share capital of the Company: Newton Investment The Groups employment policies comply with local Management Limited 11.9% : Franklin Mutual Advisers LLC requirements and meet relevant standards on employment of 9.24% : Orbis Holdings Limited and its controlled people with disabilities.
Full and fair consideration is given to undertakings 6.84% : Prudential plc group of companies applicants with disabilities for employment and training, and 5.52% : and Legal & General Group Plc 3.75%.
career development is encouraged on the basis of aptitude and ability.
It is Group policy to make all reasonable Ethics adjustments for employees and applicants with disabilities Cable&Wireless Worldwides success flows from its to enable them to maximise their potential.
commitment to sound business conduct and the relationships it has with key stakeholders shareholders, employees, Employee involvement customers, business partners and suppliers, governments The Group communicates with employees in many ways, and regulators, communities and society, and the including regular briefings by management, newsletters, environment.
The Group seeks to conduct its operations intranet sites, mobile phone broadcasts, video conferences with honesty, integrity and openness, and with respect for and consultation forums.
These communications help to the human rights and interests of our employees.
The Group achieve a common awareness amongst colleagues of the respects the legitimate interests of all those with whom it has financial and operational performance of the Group.
The Groups ethics policy applies to all The Group is committed to ensuring that employees share Cable&Wireless Worldwide companies and employees.
Colleagues are encouraged to participate in Where Cable&Wireless Worldwide operates in conjunction share purchase schemes and hold investments in the with business partners and third parties, it aims to promote Companys shares.
the application of this policy.
36 Cable&Wireless Worldwide Annual Report Governance Directors report Exercise of rights of shares by employee share trust The Groups key internal control and monitoring procedures The trustee of the Cable & Wireless Worldwide Share include the following: Ownership Trust is required to abstain from voting any n Financial reporting: each year, an annual budget is agreed shares in which it holds the whole of the beneficial interest and approved by the Board.
At each Board meeting, actual at any general meeting, unless the Company directs that results are reviewed and reported against budget and, the trustee may vote.
When the Company has directed the when appropriate, revised forecasts.
trustee to vote the shares in which the trustee holds the n Investment appraisal: the Group has clearly defined whole of the beneficial interest, the trustee may in its absolute policies for capital expenditure.
These include annual discretion vote in any manner which it thinks fit or may budgets and detailed appraisal processes for such abstain from voting.
The trustees of the Cable & Wireless Share Ownership Trust n Monitoring systems: internal controls are monitored exercise the voting rights on Cable & Wireless Worldwide plc through a programme of internal audits.
The internal audit shares held in the employee trust in accordance with their function reports to the Audit Committee on its examination fiduciary duties as trustees, which include the duty to act in and evaluation of the effectiveness and adequacy of the best interests of the beneficiaries of the trust.
n Financial controls: we operate a number of selfAnnual General Meeting assessment exercises, which include monthly certification The AGM will be held at 2pm on Wednesday 21 July 2010 at of compliance with key financial controls and an annual The Queen Elizabeth II Conference Centre, Broad Sanctuary, controls self-assessment to assist with embedding Westminster, London SW1P 3EE.
A letter from the Board of controls across the business.
The latter exercise requires Directors and the Notice of Meeting accompany this report, management to assess the effectiveness of its fundamental together with notes explaining the business to be transacted operating controls over all aspects of its operations, in at the meeting.
addition to the other financial controls covered by our Auditor resolutions to reappoint KPMG Audit Plc as our Financial Controls Toolkit.
The results of this exercise are external auditor and to authorise the Directors to determine utilised by internal audit in planning its work for the the auditors remuneration will be proposed at the AGM.
Internal control, risk management and financial reporting Effectiveness of internal control The Board is responsible for the system of internal control The Board has reviewed the effectiveness of the internal and for reviewing its effectiveness on a continual basis.
The control systems in operation during the Groups financial system of internal control is designed to manage, rather than year in accordance with the revised Turnbull guidance.
The eliminate, the risk of failure to achieve business objectives processes as set out above have been in place for the period and can only provide reasonable, but not absolute, assurance under review and up to the date of this Annual Report.
Where against material misstatement or loss.
The concept of appropriate, necessary action has been or is being taken to reasonable assurance recognises that the cost of control remedy any failings and weaknesses identified as significant procedures should not exceed the expected benefits.
We operate a risk management process, which identifies the The responsibility for internal control procedures within our key risks to our plans, their likelihood and impact and the joint ventures rests with the senior management of those actions being taken to manage those risks.
We monitor our investments and exert our risk register is reviewed by the Directors and presented to the influence through Board representation.
Audit Committee on a rolling 12 month basis.
The principal Change of control risks identified are set out on pages 30 to 31.
The Group has a number of contracts that are subject to The Executive Directors report to the Board, on behalf of change of control clauses.
These primarily relate to financing management, significant changes in the Groups business facilities, major customer contracts and licence agreements.
and the external environment in which it operates.
In addition, In particular, under the Groups 300 million revolving credit they provide the Board with monthly financial information, facility agreement, unless all the lenders agree otherwise, on which includes key risks and performance indicators.
a change of control the facility shall be cancelled in full and all outstanding amounts together with related charges become immediately due and payable.
Cable&Wireless Worldwide Annual Report 37 Under the Companys 230 million 5.75% Convertible Bonds Distribution of assets: If the Company is wound up, the due in 2014, for a period of 60 days following a change of liquidator may divide the whole or any part of the assets of control of the Company or, if later, notice thereof the the Company among the shareholders subject to the passing conversion price will be adjusted downwards in accordance of a resolution by a 75% majority vote of the shareholders.
with a formula resulting in straight line amortisation of the No shareholder can be compelled to accept any shares or conversion premium of the convertible bonds.
In addition, other property which carries a liability.
on a change of control of the Company, each holder of Partly paid shares: The Company has a lien on all partly convertible bonds may exercise their conversion rights or, paid shares and dividends, which has priority over claims instead, require the Company to redeem any convertible of others to such shares covering any money owed to the bond held by such holder at its principal amount, together Company for the shares.
The Directors may sell all or any of with accrued and unpaid interest.
such shares where: i the money owed by the shareholder is Under a contingent funding agreement with Cable & Wireless payable immediately: ii the Directors have served notice Worldwide Pension Fund Trustee Limited, the pensions demanding payment, stating the amount due and that the trustees of the Cable & Wireless Worldwide Retirement Plan shares will be sold on non-payment: and iii the money have the right on a change of control to procure and call on has not been paid within 14 clear days of the service of a letter of credit up to 100 million or, if less, the value of any the notice.
deficit in the plan at the date of the change of control.
The Directors may make calls on shareholders to pay any In the event of a change of control, these clauses may require money which has not yet been paid to the Company for their consideration to determine their impact on the Group.
If a call is unpaid, the shareholder will be liable to pay present, risks arising from a change of control are not interest and all expenses incurred by the Company as a result considered to be significant.
The Group will take appropriate of non-payment if the call remains unpaid for 14 clear days action to mitigate any risks arising from these events should after the date of a notice.
In addition, failure to comply with they occur.
For change of control provisions in relation to the any such notice may result in forfeiture of any share which LTIP and Directors service contracts, refer to the Directors is the subject of the notice, including any unpaid dividends.
remuneration report on pages 44 to 55.
The Directors may decline to register the transfer of any Rights and obligations attaching to the ordinary shares shares that are not fully paid, provided that such refusal does The following section summarises the rights and obligations not prevent dealings from taking place on an open and in the Companys Articles of Association the Articles relating proper basis.
to the ordinary shares of the Company.
The full Articles can Sanctions: Unless the Directors decide otherwise, a be found on the Companys website www.
shareholder shall not be entitled to vote at any general The Articles may be amended by a special resolution of the meeting of the Company or at any separate general meeting shareholders passed at a general meeting of the Company.
of the holders of any class of shares in the Company or exercise any other right conferred by membership in relation Voting: Each share other than treasury and redeemable to general meetings if the shareholder has not paid all preference shares allows the holder to have one vote at amounts relating to those shares which are due at the time of general meetings of the Company on votes taken on a poll.
the meeting, or if the shareholder is given a notice following a Dividends: The Companys shareholders can declare failure by that shareholder or someone who appears to be dividends by passing an ordinary resolution, but the payment interested in the shares to comply with a notice under section cannot exceed the amount recommended by the Directors.
Further, if a shareholder The Directors may also pay interim dividends without holding 0.25% or more of the issued shares of a class shareholder approval if they consider that the financial excluding treasury shares or interested person is in default position of the Company justifies it.
Subject to shareholder of a section 793 notice, the Directors may also state in the approval, the Directors may operate scrip or dividend notice that: i the payment of any dividend shall be withheld: reinvestment plans or pay dividends by distributing assets.
ii the shareholder shall not be entitled to elect to receive No dividend carries a right to interest from the Company.
If shares in place of dividends withheld: and iii the transfer dividends remain unclaimed for 12 years they are forfeited by of the shares held by such shareholder shall be restricted.
the shareholder and revert to the Company.
38 Cable&Wireless Worldwide Annual Report Governance Directors report Certificated shares: The Company can sell any certificated Appointment and replacement of Directors shares at the best price reasonably obtainable at the time of The rules about the appointment and replacement of the sale if: i in a period of 12 years at least three dividends Directors are contained in the Articles, including the rules for have become payable and no dividends have been claimed: who is eligible to be elected as a Director and the procedure ii the Company has published a notice after the 12 year to be followed to nominate such persons.
period stating that it intends to sell the shares: iii during the The Articles provide that Directors may be appointed by 12 year period and for three months after the notice, the an ordinary resolution of the members or by a resolution Company has not heard from the shareholder or any person of the Directors, provided that, in the latter instance, a entitled to sell the shares and iv the Company has notified Director appointed in this way retires at the first AGM the London Stock Exchange that it intends to sell the shares.
The Directors may decline registration of certificated shares The Articles provide that at each of the first two AGMs if: i a share transfer form is used to transfer more than one following the adoption of the Articles, one third of the class of shares: ii transfers are in favour of more than four Directors who are then in office or, if their number is not three joint holders: or iii the share transfer form is not delivered to or a multiple of three, the number nearest to one third shall the office, or such other place decided on by the Directors, retire from office but shall be eligible for reappointment.
accompanied by the share certificate relating to the shares being transferred unless the transfer is by a person to whom The Articles also provide that at every AGM thereafter, the Company was not required to, and did not, send a Directors who have been in office at the time of the two certificate and any other evidence reasonably asked for previous AGMs retire by rotation, and detail the by the Directors to show entitlement to transfer the shares.
circumstances in which and how they may be re-elected.
The Companys members may remove a Director by passing Uncertificated shares: The Directors may decline an ordinary resolution for which special notice has been registration of uncertificated shares if the transfer is in favour given.
A Director will automatically cease to be a Director of more than four joint holders or otherwise in accordance if: i they resign: ii they offer to resign and the other with the Uncertificated Securities Regulations 2001.
Directors accept that offer: iii all the other Directors being Interests in shares: Except where express rights are given, at least three require it: iv they are suffering from mental ill the Company will only recognise a current and absolute right health and the Directors pass a resolution removing them: to whole shares.
The fact that any share, or any part of a v they have missed Directors meetings for a continuous share, may not be owned outright by the registered owner is period of six months without permission and the other not of any concern to the Company.
Directors resolve that they shall cease to be a Director: vi a bankruptcy order is made against them, or they US holders: The Directors may require a shareholder or other make an arrangement or composition with their creditors: person appearing to be interested in shares, to disclose vii they are prohibited from being a Director by law: or information relating to the ownership of such shares or to viii they cease to be a Director under the legislation or show that such shares are not held by a US Holder defined are removed from office under the Articles.
in the Articles as being: i persons resident in the US who hold shares in the Company and ii persons who appear to the Directors to fall within sub-paragraph i of the definition of a US Holder.
The Directors may require a US Holder to sell their shares to someone who is not a US Holder, failing which, the Company may effect a sale of such shares on the US Holders behalf.
Cable&Wireless Worldwide Annual Report 39 Powers of Directors The Directors believe that the Groups wide geographic The powers of the Directors are determined by UK legislation spread, varying contract lengths and robust monitoring and and the Companys Articles.
As provided in the Articles, the forecasting processes place it well to manage its business Directors may exercise all the Companys powers provided risks in the current uncertain economic conditions.
In that the Articles or applicable legislation do not stipulate that addition, the Groups forecasts and projections, taking into any such powers must be exercised by the members.
The account reasonably possible changes in trading performance, Directors have been authorised to issue and allot ordinary indicate that the Group is able to operate within the level of shares, pursuant to Articles 7, 11 and 12.
The powers under its current available facilities.
A formal process for monitoring Article 12 are referred to shareholders at the AGM for compliance with debt covenants is also in place.
Shareholders are also requested to give the information on debt can be found in note 24 to the Directors power to make market purchases of shares at consolidated financial statements.
Any shares purchased may be cancelled or After reviewing budgets and other longer term plans held as treasury shares.
and making enquiries, the Directors have a reasonable Conflicts of interest expectation that the Company and the Group has adequate From 1 October 2008, there has been a requirement that resources to continue in operational existence for the Directors must avoid a situation where they have, or can foreseeable future.
Accordingly, they continue to adopt have, a direct or indirect interest that conflicts, or possibly the going concern basis of accounting in preparing the may conflict, with the Companys interests.
public companies may authorise conflicts and potential By order of the Board conflicts, where appropriate, if a companys Articles of Association permit.
The Companys Articles contain Philip Davis this authority.
General Counsel and Company Secretary 26 May 2010 Procedures have been put in place for the disclosure by Directors of any such conflicts and also for the consideration and authorisation of these conflicts by the Board.
These procedures allow for the imposition of limits or conditions by the Board when authorising any conflict, if they think this is appropriate.
These procedures are duly followed to approve appropriate conflicts and are now included as a regular standing item for consideration by the Board at its meetings.
Going concern The Groups business activities, together with the factors likely to affect its future development, performance and position are set out in the business review on pages 6 to 31.
The financial position of the Group, its cash flows, liquidity position and borrowing facilities are described in the financial review on pages 26 to 29.
Further, note 39 to the consolidated financial statements includes the Groups objectives, policies and processes for managing its capital: its financial risk management objectives: details of its financial instruments and hedging activities: and its exposures to credit and liquidity risk.
