DIRECTORS REPORT The Managers are signatories of the United Nations Principles for Major Interests in the Companys Shares Responsible Investment and the Carbon Disclosure Project.
of ordinary Conflicts of Interest Name 5p shares held % of issue Each Director submits a list of potential conflicts of interest to the U. S. Steel and Carnegie Pension Plan 12,820,000 4.9 Board on an annual basis.
The Board considers these carefully, taking into account the circumstances surrounding them and, if Rensburg Sheppards Investment Management Limited 10,505,532 4.0 considered appropriate, they are approved for a period of one year.
Having considered the lists of potential conflicts there were no actual Legal and General Group Plc 9,975,424 3.8 direct or indirect interests of a Director which conflicted with the The above information has been intimated to the Company as at interests of the Company.
Investment Managers connection with criminal proceedings in which the Director is convicted The Board as a whole fulfils the function of the Management Engagement Committee.
or civil proceedings brought by the Company in which judgement is given against him her.
In addition, the indemnity does not apply to any An Investment Management Agreement between the Company and liability to the extent that it is recovered from another person.
Baillie Gifford & Co sets out the matters over which the Managers have authority in accordance with the policies and directions of, The Company also maintains Directors and Officers Liability insurance.
and subject to restrictions imposed by, the Board.
In line with best industry practice, and with the agreement of the Managers, the Share Capital notice period for terminating the Management Agreement has been Capital Structure reduced from one year to six months with effect from 1 May 2010.
The Companys capital structure consists of 261,014,859 ordinary Careful consideration has been given by the Board as to the basis shares of 5p each at 30 April 2010.
There are no restrictions on which the management fee is charged.
The Board considers that concerning the holding or transfer of the Companys ordinary shares maintaining a relatively low total expense ratio is in the best interest and there are no special rights attached to any of the shares.
The Board is also of the view that calculating the fee with reference to performance would be unlikely to exert Dividends a positive influence over the long term performance.
Details of the The ordinary shares carry a right to receive dividends.
Interim fee arrangements with Baillie Gifford & Co are shown in note 3 on dividends are determined by the Directors, whereas the proposed page 33. final dividend requires shareholder approval.
The Board considers the Companys investment management and Capital entitlement secretarial arrangements on an ongoing basis and a formal review On a winding up, after meeting the liabilities of the Company, the is conducted annually.
The Board considers, amongst others, the surplus assets will be paid to ordinary shareholders in proportion to following topics in its review: the quality of the personnel assigned their shareholdings.
to handle the Companys affairs: the investment process and the results achieved to date: investment performance: the administrative Voting services provided by the Secretaries: and the marketing efforts Each ordinary shareholder present in person or by proxy is entitled to undertaken by the Managers.
Following the most recent review it is one vote on a show of hands and, on a poll, to one vote for every the opinion of the Directors that the continuing appointment of Baillie share held.
Gifford & Co as Managers, on the terms agreed, is in the interests Information on the deadlines for proxy appointments can be found of shareholders as a whole.
Directors Purchase of Shares Information about the Directors, including their relevant experience, During the year to 30 April 2010 the Company bought back can be found on page 18.
2,630,000 ordinary shares nominal value 131,500 on the London Stock Exchange for cancellation.
The total consideration for Ms Ferguson retires and offers herself for re-election.
Mr McDougall, these shares was 7,312,000.
As at 11 June 2010, the Company being a director of another investment trust managed by Baillie had not bought back any shares since the year end.
Gifford, and having served for more than nine years, retires and offers himself for re-election.
Following formal performance evaluation, The principal reason for share buy-backs is to enhance net asset the Board considers that the performance of Ms Ferguson and Mr value for continuing shareholders by purchasing shares at a discount McDougall continues to be effective and that they remain committed to the prevailing net asset value.
The Board therefore recommends their re-election to The shares were purchased at a price after allowing for costs shareholders.
below the net asset value and subsequently cancelled, thereby Directors Indemnity and Insurance reducing the issued share capital see note 14 on page 38.
As a The Company has entered into deeds of indemnity in favour of each result of such purchases since April 1999, the net asset value of the of its Directors.
The deeds cover any liabilities that may arise to a third Company is approximately 6% higher now than it would otherwise party, other than the Company, for negligence, default or breach of have been.
The Directors are not indemnified in respect of liabilities to the Company, any regulatory or criminal fines, any costs incurred in THE MONKS INVESTMENT TRUST PLC 23
