MANAGERS PORTFOLIO REVIEW Managers Portfolio Review We started the year with quite a large cash position and a relatively Returns From Markets low weighting in equities with the balance of assets in bonds.
We had anticipated that an upturn in markets would be led by a for the year ended 30 April 2010 recovery in corporate bonds, as this was the market exhibiting the Geographical performance against FTSE World Index in greatest degree of dysfunction and where prices were cheap relative sterling terms to long run historical averages.
As it turned out, the rally started with equities and, having been on the point of starting to buy in early 80% March 2009 had the market fallen any further, we found ourselves 70% buying into a rising market, albeit one that was still well below its high in October 2007.
Fortunately, many of our holdings in oil 60% and gas related companies and in Emerging Markets rose by more 50% than the general rise in markets and then, at the end of March, the 40% anticipated recovery in corporate bonds began.
Over the course of 30% the year the corporate bond holdings were reduced as valuations 20% returned to a more normal range and the proceeds recycled mainly 10% into further purchases of equities.
0% UK CONTINENTAL NORTH JAPAN ASIA OTHER Two of the main background assumptions guiding our selection of EUROPE AMERICA PACIFIC EMERGING MARKETS investments have been that growth would rapidly resume its prior Source: Baillie Gifford & Co pace in Emerging Market economies such as China and Brazil and Monks portfolio that growth in most developed countries would be constrained by FTSE World Index the high level of debt and need to rebuild bank balance sheets.
Mindful of the risks should this prove incorrect, we also sought All figures are calculated on a total return basis with net income reinvested.
out investments for which the case is independent of this view of the world.
An example is our investment in a basket of biotech Past performance is not a guide to future performance.
We believe that the fide-rating of the entire biotech sector as a consequence of investors concerns about US healthcare reform has created a buying opportunity in companies with the potential to Largest positive contributions to performance: achieve very rapid growth in profits.
We also believe that there are OGX is a Brazilian oil and gas exploration company and our still opportunities in the area of securitised debt but liquidity in this largest single stock position.
It also made the single largest positive market remains a problem.
contribution to performance the year before.
It is a relatively new company established by a leading Brazilian business man, Eike Toward the end of the year we also invested newly borrowed funds Batista, who hired some of the most successful and knowledgeable into a basket of relatively high yielding shares which we hope will staff from the exploration department of the state oil company, be less sensitive than most to the general moves in equity markets but Petrobras, for his new company.
Armed with their knowledge of provide sufficient income to cover the interest cost on the borrowing.
offshore areas explored by Petrobras in the past it was successful in Our increased equity weighting is largely a consequence of the acquiring at auction some highly prospective acreage at a low cost diminished attractions of the alternatives of cash, the value of which and their IPO in 2008 raised sufficient funds to finance their planned is being eroded in real terms, and bonds, where corporate bonds exploration and development work.
During the last year they have now only look fairly valued relative to expensive government bonds.
carried out a successful drilling programme that has demonstrated It may be that the turmoil in the Eurozone, fears of a hard landing the presence of commercially viable oil and gas deposits in the in China and the desire to take profits in investments that have areas so far drilled.
Their success rate has exceeded expectations performed well in the last year will create opportunities to redeploy and there have been upgrades to estimates of recoverable reserves these funds into investments with greater potential to generate large as a result.
We took profits on a number of occasions during the gains.
If not, and markets instead grind sideways, the high yield year but we still see scope for further upside in the share price based basket should generate a better total return than the market.
on prices paid in deals in the industry during the last year.
The ten largest positive and negative contributors to performance Baillie Gifford Pacific Fund is a pooled fund though which Monks are described below.
In aggregate the positive contributions has the bulk of its exposure to the markets of the Asia-Pacific region outweighted the negative contributions by a comfortable margin.
excluding Japan, Australia and New Zealand, and for which the Four of the largest positive contributors to performance, OGX, the manager receives no additional fees.
It has a large exposure to Credit Suisse 0% Swap Rate Linked Note 2013, Brazil CPI linked China and to economically sensitive stocks elsewhere in the region.
bonds 2045 and Dragon Oil were also in the top ten positive It performed well in the year to 30 April 2010 as confidence grew contributors last year.
One of this years largest positive contributors, in the success of the Chinese authorities in stimulating domestic BG Pacific Fund, was in the list of largest negative contributors for demand to offset weakness in export markets and as the prospects for growth elsewhere improved.
The holding was trimmed back the previous year and none of the investments in the list of negative during the year after a period of strong performance from its contributors for the year to 30 April 2010 were among the top ten underlying holdings.
negative contributors for the previous year.
6 ANNUAL REPORT 2010 MANAGERS PORTFOLIO REVIEW Seadrill is a Norwegian oil services company with a large fleet Athena Debt Opportunities Fund is a fund set up to make selective of modern deepwater drilling rigs.
It has benefited more than most investments in oversold securitised debts.
The market for this type of other drilling companies from the growth in demand for rigs capable securities became dysfunctional following the collapse of Lehman of drilling in deep water owing to its managements astute timing Brothers and the fund suffered from the marking down of many of of the market cycle and it has used the opportunity provided by the its underlying investments without trading actually taking place.
We global financial crisis to buy assets cheaply.
made a modest addition to the holding during the course of the year and, as the market improved the market value of its holdings Petrobras is a Brazilian state-owned integrated oil company.
Its net asset value rose by 89% over the year and we continue recovery in the oil price and the strength of the Brazilian currency to believe that there are opportunities to make money from the contributed to a rise in the sterling value of our holding in Petrobras.
mispricing of this type of debt security.
The company is embarking on a large capital expenditure programme to develop major new fields lying below a layer of salt Largest negative contributions to performance: far beneath the seabed in extremely deep water and, as this will Credit Suisse 0% Swap Rate Linked Note 2017.
This is a bond involve cutting-edge technology, the execution risks are high and whose value on maturity in 2017 is linked to the 30-year sterling the company will need to raise additional funds.
In the light of these interest rate at that time.
It was purchased as a replacement for the risks the holding in what has been a very successful investment was similar note maturing in 2013 described above in the list of largest reduced during the year.
Its subsequent decline in value can be partially Aggreko rents out mobile electricity generators and temperature attributed to a fall in long term swap rates the rates banks charge control equipment in more than twenty countries.
High profile each other in interest rate swaps.
We believe that this is a result of examples of its services include the Olympic Games and the World a temporary dislocation in markets, as the desire of pension funds Cup in South Africa.
It has successfully identified the growing need to lengthen the maturity of their bond portfolios through the use of for temporary power and established the infrastructure and systems swaps has pushed swap rates substantially below the interest rate on necessary to meet this need making it into a global leader within its long term government bonds.
niche and has exceeded market expectations despite weakness in Fastenal is a distributor of fastenings and similar products to the the US market.
industrial and construction markets, mainly in North America.
The Credit Suisse 0% Swap Rate Linked Note 2013.
This is a bond holding was sold in June 2009.
The company had been successful whose value on maturity in 2013 is linked to the 30-year sterling in increasing efficiency but we were concerned that it would not be interest rate at that time.
It was purchased in 2006 and rose in value able to maintain the rate of efficiency improvements and thought that during the last two years despite falling long term interest rates, the shares looked expensive in the light of its prospects despite a largely as a result of increased volatility in markets.
We still believe decline in its share price.
that long rates in the UK are likely to rise in due course but this may Drax is an electricity generating company that owns a large coalnot happen during the remaining life of the bond.
We therefore fired power station in the UK.
The marginal price of electricity in the sold it back to Credit Suisse during the year and replaced it with a UK is determined by the price of natural gas, which is currently low, smaller position in a similar bond maturing in 2017. and profitability for Drax depends on the difference between the cost Petrofac designs, builds, operates and manages oil and gas of burning coal including carbon credits and the selling price for facilities, mainly in the Middle East and the UK.
It has continued to its electricity.
It has one of the most efficient coal-fired power stations win contracts and generate excellent profits despite a slow down in Europe and a large amount of other capacity would become in investment on the part of many oil companies in response to the uneconomic before Drax was forced to shut down.
It is being valued uncertain outlook for economic growth and hence oil demand and at a fraction of the cost to replicate the plant and in the event that financing constraints.
Towards the end of the year it merged its gas and electricity prices rise in future Drax could become extremely North Sea exploration and production business with that of Lupe of profitable.
The share price was weak from the point of purchase to Sweden and the combined entity was spun out to shareholders of the end of the year on concerns about the short term outlook and the both companies as Enquest.
Brazil CPI linked Bonds 2045 are Brazilian index-linked Kroger is a US supermarket operator.
We had hoped that it would government bonds denominated in the local currency.
Real interest improve margins through the expansion of own label products rates are high in Brazil and are likely to continue to fall over time, but it has made less progress than we expected and these efforts which should increase the value of these bonds.
have been overwhelmed by the impact of the recession and strong competition within the supermarket sector.
We sold the holding Dragon Oil is an oil and gas exploration and production company during the year.
whose principal assets are in Turkmenistan.
Production is expected to grow by 15% a year this year and next.
It was subject to a takeover Proshares Ultrashort 20 Year Treasury is an exchange-traded bid from its majority shareholder, Emirates National Oil Company, fund that rises in value if long term US Treasury bonds fall in value which we opposed as we believed it undervalued the companys corresponding to a rise in yields.
We held this fund in order to very attractive assets.
The bid was rejected and the share price benefit from an expected increase in US yields from very low levels subsequently rose.
but sold out as it appeared less likely that yields would rise as quickly as we initially anticipated.
THE MONKS INVESTMENT TRUST PLC 7 MANAGERS PORTFOLIO REVIEW OSX is a newly established Brazilian shipyard company established Allied Irish Banks is a leading Irish Bank with significant stakes by the major shareholder of OGX described above in order to in M&T Bank in the US and Bank Zachodni in Poland.
The Irish allow OGX and other companies operating in the oil and gas banking regulator has ordered a more rapid strengthening of Irish industry in Brazil to meet local content requirements for rigs, platforms Banks capital positions than anticipated.
This is likely to mean and associated infrastructure.
The company has a guaranteed greater dilution for existing shareholders and a more aggressive stream of work from OGX and a partner with an established track timetable for the disposal of its valuable holdings in the US and record in building such equipment in the form of Hyundai Heavy, Poland than we expected.
The decline in the share price on this who will manage the yard.
The company came to the market at a news may prove to have been excessive, and so we have held on difficult time and the shares fell on listing.
We took a holding in the to the position having unfortunately added to it during the year.
aftermarket in March as we believe it has considerable potential, but Monsanto is a US seed and agricultural chemicals business.
It the share price fell further over the remainder of the year.
has issued a number of profit warnings and the holding was sold China Vanke is a Chinese property developer.
It has a broad during the year.
Some weakness in its Round-up herbicide business geographical spread rather than focusing on one or two Chinese was expected, as generic competition is increasing, but of greater cities and it has adopted a cautious approach to the market in concern is the mounting evidence of a loss of pricing power in its recent years.
While we believe it to be one of the soundest and best genetically modified seed business.
The company appears to have placed of the quoted Chinese property developers it is not immune been slow to recognise this and to adjust its business model.
from negative sentiment towards the sector arising from actions to counteract speculation and deflate property bubbles in certain cities.
Over the country as a whole property prices have not seen the same increase as in the hot-spots and the longer term outlook remains positive Heritage Oil is an oil and gas exploration and production company with interests in Africa, the Middle East, Russia and Kurdistan.
The investment case was based on its activities in Iraqi Kurdistan.
Iraq is one of the few places in the world where, from a geological and technical perspective, oil is easy to find and cheap to produce.
Security in the Kurdish region is also less of a problem than in most of the rest of the country and it is relatively easy to link new fields into existing export pipelines.
Unfortunately the company became involved in a merger with a Turkish company that had to be abandoned owing to improper dealing on the part of directors of the proposed merger partner.
We sold the holding during the year but we have exposure to similar assets through the Norwegian company DNO International, and this has performed well.
