DIRECTORS AND MANAGEMENT Directors and Management Directors Directors Service Details JGD Ferguson Date of Due date for James Ferguson was appointed a Director in 2002 and became appointment re-election Chairman in 2005.
He is also Chairman of the Audit Committee.
He is chairman of Value and Income Trust plc, The Scottish Oriental JGD Ferguson 03 01 02 AGM 2011 CC Ferguson 01 09 03 AGM 2010 Smaller Companies Trust Plc, Edinburgh U. S. Tracker Trust and Northern 3 VCT Plc.
He is a director of The Independent Investment EM Harley 03 06 03 AGM 2012 DCP McDougall 30 11 99 AGM 2010 Trust PLC and Audax Properties PLC.
He joined Stewart Ivory in 1970, becoming chairman and chief executive in 1989 and retiring in 2000.
He is a former deputy chairman of the Association of Managers and Secretaries Investment Companies.
Monks is managed by Baillie Gifford & Co, an investment management firm formed in 1927 out of the legal firm Baillie & CC Ferguson Carol Ferguson was appointed a Director in 2003.
A qualified Gifford, WS, which had been involved in investment management since 1908.
Baillie Gifford are one of the largest investment trust Chartered Accountant, she began her investment career with Ivory & Sime, an Edinburgh fund management group.
Thereafter, she managers in the UK and currently manage eight investment trusts.
moved to Wood Mackenzie, stockbrokers, becoming a partner in Baillie Gifford also manage unit trusts and Open Ended Investment 1984.
Her most recent position was as Finance Director for Timney Companies, together with investment portfolios on behalf of pension Fowler, a textiles company.
She is a non-executive director and funds, charities and other institutional clients, both in the UK and chairs the audit committees of BlackRock Greater Europe Investment overseas.
Funds under the management or advice of Baillie Gifford Trust plc and Vernalis plc.
She is a director of Invesco Asia Trust total around 60 billion as at 11 June 2010.
Based in Edinburgh, plc, Standard Life UK Smaller Companies Investment Trust PLC, the they are one of the leading privately owned investment management Chartered Accountants Compensation Scheme and is chairman of firms in the UK, with 35 partners and a staff of around 600. the Association of Investment Companies.
The manager of Monks portfolio is Gerald Smith.
Gerald is a EM Harley partner of Baillie Gifford and is the head of Baillie Giffords Global Edward Harley was appointed a Director in 2003.
He is also Baillie Giffords Deputy Chief Cazenove in 1983, becoming a partner in 1994.
He has Investment Officer, is a member of their Investment Policy Committee considerable experience of overseas markets, having worked in and Chairman of their Emerging Markets Investment Policy Committee.
New York and latterly with responsibility for the firms business in Baillie Gifford & Co are authorised and regulated by the Financial Latin America, S. E. Asia and Australia.
He is currently a director Services Authority.
at Cazenove Capital Management and is president of the Historic Houses Association.
He is also involved with the charitable sector both as a trustee and as a member of investment committees.
DCP McDougall Douglas McDougall was appointed a Director in 1999 and is the Senior Independent Director.
He is chairman of The Scottish Investment Trust plc, The Law Debenture Corporation plc, The Independent Investment Trust PLC and The European Investment Trust plc.
He is a director of Stramongate Assets PLC, Herald Investment Trust plc and Pacific Horizon Investment Trust PLC and is a member of the University of Cambridge Investment Board.
From 1969 to 1999 he was a partner in Baillie Gifford & Co and from 1989 to 1999 was joint senior partner and chief investment officer.
He is a former chairman of the Investment Management Regulatory Organisation, the Fund Managers Association and the Association of Investment Companies.
All Directors are members of the Audit Committee.
