CHAIRMANS STATEMENT Chairmans Statement Performance Long Term Borrowing In the year to 30 April 2010 net asset value per share, with The Board takes a long term and strategic view of the Companys borrowings at fair value, rose by 42.8% and the FTSE World Index capital structure.
The 11% debenture stock will mature in 2012 and 3 in sterling terms rose by 31.5%.
During the first half of the year net the 6 8% debenture stock in 2023.
Current long term interest rates asset value per share rose by 20.8% while the comparative index are low relative to past history and, on balance, it seems more likely rose by 12.4% and during the second half net asset value per share that they will rise than that they will fall.
Locking in current long term rose by a further 18.2% and the index advanced by another 17.0%.
rates is therefore an attractive option.
Such funding is, however, The share price ended the Companys year at 313p, 32.3% higher difficult to obtain in practice owing to the unwillingness of banks than at the end of the previous year.
Over the five years to 30 April to lend and the limited market for investment trust debentures.
After 2010 the net asset value per share rose by 67.1% and the share examining the options available, we entered into a thirty year interest price by 69.6% while the comparative index rose by 40.2%.
rate swap for 40m which locks in the rate banks charge to each other.
We then borrowed this amount under a shorter term facility Markets rallied as the financial system appeared to have been with the margin over the rate at which banks lend to each other fixed stabilised, greatly reducing the risk of a complete meltdown and, after for one year.
The net effect of these two transactions is that part of a severe shock, economic growth resumed in most parts of the world.
the cost of borrowing over the next thirty years has been locked in Over and above the general rise in equity markets around the at attractive rates but the smaller element that is determined by the world the largest positive contributions to performance were made additional margin banks charge non-bank customers has only been by our equity holdings in Emerging Markets and Europe.
This margin is currently high compared to past levels Managers Portfolio Review on pages 6 to 8 contains more detail and so may well decline in future, making it unattractive to fix this on the individual investments that made the greatest positive and element of the borrowing cost.
Taking the two transactions together negative contributions to performance.
Of particular note was the current interest rate on the 40m of additional borrowing is the performance of our holdings of bonds, which in aggregate 5.4%.
More details on the interest rate swap are to be found on exceeded that of the comparative index during a period of strong page 44.
The funds were invested in a diversified basket of equities equity markets.
with an initial yield of more than 6%.
Earnings and Dividend Investment Activity Earnings per share was 4.02p compared to last years exceptionally Over the course of the year there were significant changes to high 6.97p, a decrease of 42.3%, mainly as a result of lower the portfolio.
In the latter half of the previous year we were able income from shares and a reduced amount of deposit income.
to purchase a number of corporate bonds trading at distressed Earnings last year also included an amount for the recovery of VAT prices owing to the dysfunctional nature of the market following the paid in previous years together with interest thereon see note 21 to collapse of Lehman Brothers.
During the course of the year to 30 the financial statements, excluding which the decrease in earnings April 2010 this investment paid off and the majority of these bonds per share was 35.2%.
were sold for substantially higher prices and some matured.
The proceeds were largely reinvested in equities resulting in net sales Monks invests with the aim of achieving capital growth rather than of 125.6m of bonds.
The cash balance at the start of the year income and all costs are charged to the Revenue Account.
As a was also almost entirely invested by the year end as were the funds result earnings fluctuate from year to year.
The year before was an raised by additional borrowing of 40m.
Net purchases of equities exceptional period in terms of income received from investments as amounted to 206.3m and overall there was a net investment of many of the companies in which we invest increased their dividends 80.7m in the combination of shares and bonds.
despite the deteriorating economic background, and we also received a relatively large amount of income from bonds.
Since then, companies At the year end, equities as a percentage of shareholders funds have become more cautious in their dividend policies in response to were 102% and equities and bonds together were 110%.
This an increase in uncertainty about future revenues and the availability of represents both a substantial increase in exposure to equities from financing from banks.
As a consequence, a number of the companies 74% at the end of the previous year and an increase in exposure to in our portfolio cut their dividends.
Interest income from bonds with the combination of equities and bonds from 98%.
The funds raised variable coupons also declined owing to the downward trend of short by additional borrowing were, however, invested in a basket of term interest rates and we also reduced the holdings of bonds and shares of companies with what appear to be sustainable dividends cash during the year, with an adverse effect on income.
and relatively high yields, and this may to some extent mitigate the increase in the sensitivity of shareholders funds to fluctuations in the The Board has taken the decline in the Companys income and its general level of equity markets.
investment objective of capital growth into account in recommending a final dividend of 0.50p, which together with the regular interim 0.50p and second exceptional interim 2.00p already paid, would make the total dividend for the year 3.00p, a decline of 50% from the much higher than normal 6.00p paid last year.
Past performance is not a guide to future performance.
