COMPANY SUMMARY Company Summary Monks objective is to invest internationally to achieve capital growth, which takes priority over income and dividends.
Investment Policy Capital Structure Monks invests principally in a portfolio of international quoted At the year end the Companys share capital consisted of equities.
The Company is prepared to move freely between 261,014,859 fully paid ordinary shares of 5p each.
The different markets as opportunities arise.
Asset classes other than Company has been granted authority to buy back a limited equities may be purchased from time to time including fixed number of its own ordinary shares for cancellation.
Long term interest holdings, unquoted securities and derivatives.
The equity gearing has been secured by the issue of 80 million nominal portfolio may be relatively concentrated for a global fund.
value of debenture stocks together with a 40 million one year variable rate loan facility and a 30 year interest rate swap.
Further details of the Companys investment policy are given in the Directors Report.
AIC The Company is a member of the Association of Investment Comparative Index Companies.
The principal index against which performance is measured is the FTSE World Index in sterling terms.
The composition of the Savings Vehicles portfolio is likely to vary substantially from that of the index.
Monks shares can be held through a variety of savings vehicles see page 48 for details.
Management Details Baillie Gifford & Co are appointed as investment managers and Notes secretaries to the Company.
The management contract can be None of the views expressed in this document should be terminated on 6 months notice.
construed as advice to buy or sell a particular investment.
Management Fee Investment trusts are UK public listed companies and as such Baillie Gifford & Cos annual remuneration is 0.45% of total comply with the requirements of the UK Listing Authority.
They are assets less current liabilities, calculated on a quarterly basis.
not authorised or regulated by the Financial Services Authority.
THE MONKS INVESTMENT TRUST PLC 1
