DIRECTORS REPORT Directors Report The Directors submit their Annual Report together with the results of levels, and the extent of equity gearing, are discussed by the Board the Company for the year to 30 April 2010. and Managers at every Board meeting and adjusted accordingly with regard to the outlook.
New borrowings will not be taken out Business Review if this takes the level of effective equity gearing to over 30% of shareholders funds.
Equity exposure will, on occasions, be below Business and Status 100% of shareholders funds.
The Company is an investment company within the meaning of section 833 of the Companies Act 2006.
Performance At each Board meeting, the Directors consider a number of The Company carries on business as an investment trust.
In the opinion performance measures to assess the Companys success in achieving of the Directors, the Company conducts its affairs so as to enable it its objectives.
to obtain approval by HM Revenue & Customs as an investment trust under section 842 of the Income and Corporation Taxes Act 1988.
The key performance indicators used to measure the progress and The Company was approved as an investment trust for the year ended performance of the Company over time are established industry 30 April 2009, subject to matters that may arise from any subsequent measures and are as follows: enquiry by HM Revenue & Customs into the Companys tax return.
the movement in net asset value per ordinary share on a total The Company will continue to seek approval under section 842 of the return basis: Income and Corporation Taxes Act 1988 each year.
the movement in the share price on a total return basis: Objective The Companys objective is to invest internationally to achieve the discount: and capital growth, which takes priority over income and dividends.
Investment Policy The five year record for the net asset value and share price Monks seeks to meet its objective of achieving capital growth performance compared to the FTSE World Index can be found on through investment principally in a portfolio of international quoted page 3 along with the five year record for the discount.
Equities are selected for their inclusion within the portfolio the total expense ratio can be found in the ten year record on page solely on the basis of the strength of the investment case.
17 along with other financial highlights.
In addition to the above, When investing, the Company is prepared to move freely between the Board also considers peer group comparative performance.
different markets as opportunities arise.
There are no limits to Financials geographical or sector exposures, but these are reported to, The net asset value per share after deducting borrowings at fair and monitored by, the Board in order to ensure that adequate value increased by 42.8% during the year, compared to an diversification is achieved.
The equity portfolio is relatively increase in the comparative index of 31.5%, and the discount of the concentrated for a global fund and, as at the financial year end, it share price to net asset value widened from 7.3% to 14.0%.
contained 123 equity holdings including 19 investments in funds.
The number of holdings in equities and funds will typically be Review of the Year and Future Trends between 70 and 200.
A portfolio review by the Managers is given A review of the year and the investment outlook is contained in the on pages 6 to 8 and the investments held at the year end are listed Chairmans Statement and the Managers Portfolio Review on pages on pages 12 to 16.
Investment may also be made in funds open and closed-ended Principal Risks and Uncertainties including those managed by Baillie Gifford & Co.
The maximum The Companys assets consist mainly of listed securities and its permitted investment in UK listed investment companies in aggregate principal risks are therefore market related and include market risk is 15% of gross assets.
Asset classes other than equities will be comprising currency risk, interest rate risk and other price risk, purchased from time to time including fixed interest holdings, liquidity risk and credit risk.
An explanation of those risks and unquoted securities and derivatives.
The Company may use how they are managed are contained in note 23 to the financial derivatives for the purpose of efficient portfolio management statements on pages 40 to 44. including reducing, transferring or eliminating investment risk in its Other risks faced by the Company include the following: investments and protection against currency risk and to achieve capital growth.
Regulatory Risk failure to comply with applicable legal and regulatory requirements could lead to suspension of the Companys While there is a comparative index for the purpose of measuring Stock Exchange Listing, financial penalties or a qualified audit performance, no attention is paid to the composition of this index report.
Breach of section 842 of the Income and Corporation Taxes when constructing the portfolio and the composition of the portfolio Act 1988 could lead to the Company being subject to tax on is likely to vary substantially from that of the index.
A long term view capital gains.
is taken and there may be periods when the net asset value per share declines both in absolute terms and relative to the comparative Baillie Giffords Heads of Business Risk & Internal Audit and index.
Payment of dividends is secondary to achieving capital Regulatory Risk provide regular reports to the Audit Committee on growth.
The shares are not considered to be a suitable investment for Baillie Giffords monitoring programmes.
The Managers monitor those seeking a regular or rising income.
investment movements and the level of forecast income and Borrowings are invested in equity and other markets when this is expenditure to ensure the provisions of section 842 are not breached.
considered to be appropriate on investment grounds.
Gearing THE MONKS INVESTMENT TRUST PLC 19
