DIRECTORS REPORT Internal Audit Directors Interests The Audit Committee carries out an annual review of the need for an Nature Ordinary 5p shares held at internal audit function.
The Audit Committee continues to believe that Name of interest 30 April 2010 30 April 2009 the Managers compliance and internal control systems and internal audit function provide sufficient assurance that a sound system of JGD Ferguson Beneficial 220,000 220,000 internal control, which safeguards shareholders investment and the CC Ferguson Beneficial 50,000 50,000 Companys assets, is maintained.
An internal audit function, specific EM Harley Beneficial 200,000 200,000 to the Company, is therefore considered unnecessary.
DCP McDougall Beneficial 1,383,148 1,382,500 Accountability and Audit The Directors at the end of the year under review, and their The responsibilities of the Directors and the Auditors in connection with interests in the Company, are as shown above.
During the period the Financial Statements are set out on pages 25 and 27 respectively.
from 1 May 2010 to 11 June 2010 Mrs C J McDougall, wife of DCP McDougall, sold 17,500 shares.
There have been no other Going Concern changes intimated in the Directors interests up to 11 June 2010.
The Companys principal risks are market related and include market risk, liquidity risk and credit risk.
An explanation of these risks and how they are managed is contained in note 23 to the financial statements.
partner and staff and the nature of services provided, the Committee remains satisfied with the Auditors effectiveness.
The audit partners The Companys assets, the majority of which are investments in responsible for the audit are rotated every 5 years and the current quoted securities which are readily realisable, exceed its liabilities lead partner has been in place for 3 years.
There are no contractual significantly.
All borrowings require the prior approval of the Board.
obligations restricting the Companys choice of external auditor.
Gearing levels and compliance with borrowing covenants are The Committee receives confirmation from the auditors that they reviewed by the Board on a regular basis.
Accordingly, the financial have complied with the relevant UK professional and regulatory statements have been prepared on the going concern basis as it is requirements on independence.
Non-audit fees for the year to the Directors opinion that the Company will continue in operational 30 April 2010 were 36,000, comprising 1,000 in relation to existence for the foreseeable future.
the certification of financial information for the debenture trustees and Audit Committee 35,000 in relation to professional services provided in connection An Audit Committee has been established consisting of all Directors.
with a case brought against HMRC for recovery of VAT suffered Its authority and duties are clearly defined within its written terms of in prior years see note 21 on page 40.
The Committee does not reference which are available on request and on the Companys believe that this has impaired the Auditors independence.
page of the Managers website: www.
Relations with Shareholders Mr JGD Ferguson is Chairman of the Audit Committee.
The Board The Board places great importance on communication with believes it is appropriate for Mr Ferguson to be Chairman of the shareholders.
The Companys Managers meet regularly with Committee as he is considered to be independent and there are no shareholders and report shareholders views to the Board.
The Chairman conflicts of interest.
is available to meet with shareholders as appropriate.
Shareholders The Committees responsibilities which were discharged during the wishing to communicate with any members of the Board may do so by year include: writing to them at the Secretaries address on the back cover.
monitoring the integrity of the half-yearly and annual financial The Companys Annual General Meeting provides a forum for statements and any formal announcements relating to the Companys communication with all shareholders.
The level of proxies lodged for financial performance: each resolution is announced at the AGM and is published on the reviewing standards of internal control and risk management: Companys page of the Managers website www.
co. uk subsequent to the meeting.
making recommendations to the Board in relation to the appointment of the external auditors and approving the Shareholders and potential investors may obtain up-to-date remuneration and terms of their engagement: information on the Company from the Managers website.
developing and implementing policy on the engagement of the Voting Policy and Socially Responsible Investment external auditors to supply non-audit services: The Company has given discretionary voting powers to the investment managers, Baillie Gifford & Co.
The Managers vote reviewing and monitoring the independence, objectivity and against resolutions they consider may damage shareholders effectiveness of the external auditors: rights or economic interests.
The Company believes that it is in reviewing the arrangements in place within Baillie Gifford & the shareholders interests to consider environmental, social and Co whereby its staff may, in confidence, raise concerns about governance factors when selecting and retaining investments and possible improprieties in matters of financial reporting or other have asked the Managers to take these issues into account as long matters insofar as they may affect the Company: as the investment objectives are not compromised.
The Managers reviewing annually the terms of the Investment Management do not exclude companies from their investment universe purely Agreement: and on the grounds of environmental, social and governance issues but adopt a positive engagement approach whereby matters are considering annually whether there is a need for the Company to discussed with management with the aim of improving the relevant have its own internal audit function.
The Managers policy has been  LLP are engaged as the Companys reviewed and endorsed by the Board.
Having considered the experience and tenure of the audit 22 ANNUAL REPORT 2010
