CHAIRMANS STATEMENT Overall global demand has also been greatly assisted by the Discount and Buybacks success of efforts to stimulate the Chinese economy in the face The discount at fair value widened to 14.0% from 7.3% over the of the collapse of export markets.
This has boosted demand for course of the year.
The Board considers the level of discount and commodities in general and helped to stimulate the more resource has authorised the repurchase of shares when this will be of benefit based economies such as Australia and Brazil.
to continuing shareholders as well as being in the interest of those shareholders who may need to sell some or all of their shares.
While fears of mal-investment on a grand scale in China may well be exaggerated, the authorities are clearly concerned and measures During the year to 30 April 2010 7.3m was spent on the aimed at property speculation may have an adverse effect on repurchase of 2,630,000 shares.
Since the power to buy back demand for commodities in the short term.
Interest rates have also shares was first granted in 1999, 126.9m shares have been bought risen in some of the faster growing economies and may have further back and cancelled, representing 33% of the share capital at the to rise if inflation is not to get out of control.
The Board will continue to buy back shares if suitable opportunities appear.
With so many forces pulling in different directions the immediate outlook is unclear and after the rises of the last year there are fewer Outlook pockets of value.
In general terms, however, equities appear more The magnitude of the decline in output makes this the worst recession attractive than government and corporate bonds, while the value of in the post war period and unemployment has risen sharply in many cash is falling in real terms.
Taking a longer term view, the prospects countries.
It has been unusual in that it was not triggered by the for achieving capital growth through exposure to the areas of most need to raise interest rates to control inflation and instead interest rapid growth in demand remain bright.
rates were slashed to record low levels.
This has meant that for the majority of those with jobs and mortgages disposable income has AGM held up or actually risen.
This in turn means that consumers in the I hope shareholders will come to the Annual General Meeting, heavily indebted countries have been able to maintain relatively high which will be held on 3 August 2010 at 11.00am at the Institute spending levels and at the same time save more or pay down debt.
of Directors see map on page 45.
Our manager will give a short Companies have been able to cut costs by reducing employment presentation and there will be an opportunity to ask questions.
and have also cut back on investment while their revenues have been higher than anticipated.
This has enabled companies to pay down debt and increase earnings.
Unfortunately, the improvements in the balance sheets and cash flows of companies and individuals have been achieved at the cost of a dramatic deterioration in public finances.
In effect, the parcel of debt that caused the problem is still there and has just been James Ferguson passed to the public sector.
In many parts of the world the period of 15 June 2010 fiscal stimulus is coming to an end as governments are discovering the limits to their ability to borrow.
This will create a headwind for growth.
THE MONKS INVESTMENT TRUST PLC 5
