Your Board of Directors The Directors, all of whom are non-executive and independent of the Manager, supervise the management of Murray Income Trust PLC and represent the interests of shareholders.
Humphrey van der Klugt BSC Patrick Gifford BA Marian Glen MA LLB Hons, FCA Status: Chairman and Independent Status: Non-Executive Director Status: Independent Non-Executive Non-Executive Director Length of Service: 7 years and 4 Director, Chairman of Audit Length of Service: 10 years 11 months months Committee, Chairman of Remuneration Experience and other public Experience and other public Committee and Senior Independent company directorships: Patrick company directorships: Marian Glen is Director Gifford was previously a director of General Counsel for AEGON UK.
She Length of Service: 6 years and 2 Robert Fleming Holdings Ltd and was formerly head of Funds and months chairman of Fleming Investment Trust Financial Services at Shepherd Experience and other public Management Ltd.
He is chairman of Wedderburn Solicitors.
company directorships: Humphrey Invesco Perpetual Select Trust PLC, Employment by Manager: None van der Klugt was previously a director Martin Currie Pacific Trust PLC and Other connections with the Trust or of Schroder Investment Management Vtesse Networks Ltd.
He is also a Manager: None Limited.
In a twentytwo year career at director of AlphaGen Aldebaran Fund Shared Directorships with any other Schroders, he was a member of the Ltd, JPMorgan Russian Securities and Trust Directors: None Group Investment and Asset Allocation Tapestry Investment Company PCC Ltd. Shareholding in Company: Beneficial Committees: and as a UK equity Employment by Manager: None 3,042 Ordinary shares manager, he was directly responsible Other connections with the Trust or Remuneration: Year ended 30 June for 3 billion of funds under Manager: None 2010 18,000 management, including the Schroder Shared Directorships with any other UK Equity and Schroder Income Funds.
Trust Directors: None He is currently chairman of Fidelity Shareholding in Company: Beneficial European Values PLC, and a non- 28,356 Ordinary shares executive director of BlackRock Remuneration: Year ended 30 June Commodities Income Investment Trust 2010 25,000 plc and JPMorgan Claverhouse Investment Trust PLC.
Employment by Manager: None Other connections with the Trust or Manager: None Shared Directorships with any other Trust Directors: None Shareholding in Company: Beneficial 7,500 Ordinary shares Remuneration: Year ended 30 June 2010 20,032 20 Murray Income Trust PLC Neil Honebon MA David Woods MA, MSC, FIA Status: Independent Non-Executive Status: Independent Non-Executive Director Director Length of Service: 4 years and 11 Length of Service: 1 year and 6 months months Experience and other public Experience and other public company directorships: Neil Honebon company directorships: David is is a director of Fleming Family and currently non-executive Chairman of Partners Asset Management.
He has 30 Royal Liver Assurance, a non-executive years experience in investment analysis director and chairman of the risk and research and, while previously at committee of Phoenix Group Holdings Flemings, he was Head of Global plc, and a non-executive director of Research and deputy chair of the asset Standard Life UK Smaller Companies allocation committee.
He is also a Trust plc and of The Moller Centre for director of Volantis and Octanis, two Continuing Education.
He is also hedge funds within Gartmores Chairman of the Pension Fund Trustees AlphaGen range.
for all of the UK companies in the Employment by Manager: None Steria Group and a trustee of the Other connections with the Trust or Scottish Provident Pension Fund.
Manager: None Employment by Manager: None Shared Directorships with any other Other connections with the Trust or Trust Directors: None Manager: None Shareholding in Company: Beneficial Shared Directorships with any other 20,000 Ordinary shares Trust Directors: None Remuneration: Year ended 30 June Shareholding in Company: Nil 2010 18,000 Remuneration: Year ended 30 June 2010 18,000 Murray Income Trust PLC 21
