Corporate Summary Board has set its gearing limit at a maximum of 25% of Net Investment Objective Asset Value at the time of draw down.
Gearing is used The Companys investment objective is to achieve a high and selectively to leverage the Companys portfolio in order to growing income combined with capital growth through enhance returns where and to the extent this is considered investment in a portfolio principally of UK equities.
Particular care is taken to ensure that any bank covenants permit maximum flexibility of Benchmark investment policy.
Significant changes to gearing levels will The Companys benchmark is the FTSE All-Share Index.
Investment Policy The Directors are responsible for determining the investment In pursuit of the Companys objective, the Companys policy and the investment objective of the Company, while investment policy is to invest in the shares of companies that day-to-day management of the Companys assets has been have potential for real earnings and dividend growth, while at delegated to Aberdeen Asset Managers Limited the the same time providing an above-average portfolio yield.
The Manager invests in a diversified range of UK The emphasis is on the management of risk and on the and overseas companies, following a bottom-up investment absolute return from the portfolio, which is achieved by process based on a disciplined evaluation of companies ensuring an appropriate diversification of stocks and sectors, through direct visits by its fund managers.
Stock selection is with a high proportion of its assets in strong, well-known the major source of added value, concentrating on quality companies.
The Company makes use of low-cost, flexible first, then price.
Top-down investment factors are secondary borrowing facilities to enhance shareholder returns when in the Managers portfolio construction, with diversification appropriate.
rather than formal controls guiding stock and sector weights.
The Manager is authorised to invest up to 15% of the The Company maintains a highly-diversified portfolio of Companys gross assets in any single stock.
Currently, the top investments, typically comprising between 30 and 70 five holdings may not exceed 40% of the total value of the holdings but without restricting the Company from holding portfolio, and the top three sectors represented in the a more or less concentrated portfolio from time to time.
The portfolio may not exceed 50%.
The Manager is permitted to Company is unconstrained as to the market sectors in which invest in options and in structured products, provided that it may invest.
"any structured product issued in the form of a note or bond has a minimum credit rating of ""A""."
The Company may invest up to 100% of its gross assets in UK-listed equities and other securities and is permitted to A detailed description of the investment process and risk invest up to 20% of its gross assets in other overseas listed controls employed by the Manager is set out on page 19.
The Company invests primarily in the portfolio at the year end is set out on page 14 and 15, and its equity securities of large, well-known UK and overseas analysis on page 16.
At the year end the Companys portfolio companies with an emphasis on investing in quality consisted of 44 holdings including four fixed-interest companies with good management, strong cash flow and a securities.
sound balance sheet, and which are generating a reliable earnings stream.
Capital Structure The Companys issued share capital as at 30 June 2010 The Company may use derivatives for the purpose of consisted of 64,689,458 Ordinary shares of 25p and enhancing portfolio returns and for hedging purposes in a 1,727,000 Ordinary shares held in treasury.
At 15 September manner consistent with the Companys broader investment 2010, these numbers were unchanged.
Total Assets and Net Asset Value It is the Companys policy to invest no more than 15 per At 30 June 2010, the Company had Total Assets see cent of its gross assets in other listed investment companies definition on page 55 of 389.4m and a Net Asset Value per including investment trusts.
The Company complies with Ordinary share of 547.9p.
Section 1158 of the Corporation Tax Act 2010 formerly Section 842 of the Income and Corporation Taxes Act 1988 Borrowings and does not invest more than 15% of its assets in the shares of any one company.
The borrowings at 30 June 2010 of 35 million represent 9.9% of Net Assets.
Borrowing facilities of 45 million are The Board is responsible for setting the gearing policy of the committed to the Company until 6 October 2010.
Financial Company and for the limits on gearing.
The Manager is covenants contained within the loan agreement provide, responsible for gearing within the limits set by the Board.
The inter alia, that borrowings shall at no time exceed 25% of 2 Murray Income Trust PLC Net Assets, and that the Net Assets must exceed 225 Company Secretary million.
The Net Assets were 354.4 million at 30 June 2010.
Aberdeen Asset Management PLC, If any of the financial covenants are breached, the lender is 40 Princes Street, entitled, following the serving of notice to the Company, to Edinburgh, EH2 2BY declare the loans and all accrued interest, fees and other Email: company.
co. uk sums owed under the agreements to be immediately due and repayable.
Please refer also to the statement of Going Customer Services Concern on pages 25 and 26.
Freephone: 0500 00 00 40 open Monday Friday 9am 5pm Duration The Company does not have a fixed life.
com Risk Equity markets are volatile, and short-term movements may therefore be greater than justified by longer-term trends.
The use of gearing is likely to lead to an increase in the volatility of the Companys Net Asset Value.
Currently, 50% of the investment management fees and interest costs are charged to capital.
This increases distributable income at the expense of capital growth, which will be reduced to the same extent.
The policy of investing in higher-yielding shares may also diminish capital growth.
There is no guarantee that the market price of investment trust shares will accurately reflect their underlying Net Asset Value or move in line with it.
More detailed information is available in note 17 to the financial statements.
Share Dealing Shares in Murray Income Trust can be bought in the open market through a stockbroker.
They can also be purchased through the Aberdeen savings schemes, and fully qualify for inclusion within tax-efficient ISA wrappers see page 53.
Management Agreement The Company has an agreement with Aberdeen Asset Managers Limited, a wholly-owned subsidiary of Aberdeen Asset Management PLC, for the provision of investment management and other services for a fee, as detailed in the Directors Report on page 25 and in note 3 on page 43.
AIC Murray Income Trust is a member of the Association of Investment Companies.
com Murray Income Trust PLC 3
