Managers Review the stock cycle.
In the euro area, with the notable exception Background of Germany, evidence of a durable recovery has been weaker.
The UK equity market performed very strongly during the Concerns over Greece resulted in a comprehensive package year to the end of June 2010, despite a still fragile domestic of support by the EU, IMF and ECB, but not before the economic climate.
The FTSE All-Share Index rose by 21.1%, market had taken fright at the potential for sovereign debt largely recouping the fall of 20.5% experienced in the prior risk to extend to Spain and Portugal as well.
The first half of the period was characterised by provided the catalyst for an acceleration of fiscal particularly high returns as improving global economic consolidation and additional measures to reduce government conditions, robust company results and easing credit markets deficits.
That suggests, in the shorter term, a deteriorating buoyed the market against a backdrop of low expectations.
economic picture in those states most affected.
Some of these gains were relinquished in the second half, as investors attention shifted to the strength and stability of Two noteworthy aspects of the year have been the governments balance sheets and the recognition that the strengthening of company balance sheets and the return of hurdles facing the global economy still remained significant.
Following the transfer of debt from the private sector to the public sector, indebted governments From an economic growth perspective, the financial year may well now look enviously at the healthy balance sheets of started poorly for the UK as the recession extended into a the corporate sector.
The temptation to create taxes or sixth quarter: a disappointing performance bearing in mind regulations to transfer part of that economic benefit to the the weakness of sterling and improving external demand.
The state may be difficult to resist.
Corporate activity has UK emerged, but only just, from recession during the final returned as managements become confident enough in the quarter of 2009.
However, the underlying pace of growth has outlook to start buying other businesses.
The Company subsequently improved with initial estimates of second benefited from the approach by Deutsche Bahn for Arriva quarter 2010 real GDP growth of 1.1%.
Inflation, having and, while the Prudential offer for AIA was rejected by its fallen to 1.1% in September, reached a high point of 3.7% in own shareholders, our holdings of Weir Group, Unilever and April, as measured by the CPI, before gradually falling back Pearson have all acquired new businesses.
over the final months of the year.
The high levels of spare capacity in the economy have assuaged the MPCs Performance immediate concerns and, as a result, interest rates remained The Company generated a positive net asset value per share unchanged throughout the year at 0.5%.
The MPC extended total return of 26.4% in the year to 30 June 2010, compared the asset purchase programme just once in November, to to a rise in the FTSE All-Share Index of 21.1%, an 200bn.
Over the longer term, inflation prospects in the UK encouraging result on an absolute and relative basis.
On a and hence the movement of interest rates remain delicately total return basis, the Companys share price increased by balanced between, on the one hand, the requirement for 27.2%, which reflected a narrowing of the discount to Net fiscal consolidation and the elevated level of spare capacity, Asset Value at which the shares traded over the year.
and, on the other hand, the effect of monetary stimulus coupled with weak sterling.
On a gross assets basis, the portfolio outperformed the benchmark, with the gearing effect adding to this Although lending to households and companies has generally outperformance on a net assets basis.
During the year, the remained weak, the improving economic environment has Company maintained its borrowings at 35m, although the shown up in higher house prices and greater consumer level of actual gearing tended to be lower, given the policy of confidence.
This is partly because unemployment has risen holding cash to cover potential put option assignments.
less than expected, compared to previous recessions.
The new coalition government has been quick to demonstrate its As the economic environment improved, investors appetite willingness to focus on the deficit, with an emergency budget for risk increased commensurately, with those companies shortly after the election.
To the extent that this is likely to which are exposed to higher rates of global growth herald a more painful period of adjustment, it is also performing particularly strongly.
As a consequence, across necessary to place the economy on a more stable longerthe market, the Engineering, Mining and General Industrials term footing.
In contrast, the majority of the more defensive areas, such as Pharmaceuticals, Food Economic growth outside the UK, although uneven, was Retailers and Utilities, underperformed.
The Oil & Gas sector generally stronger than expected, particularly over the performed very poorly, generating a negative total return, second half of 2009, and this provided positive momentum due mostly to the widely-reported fall in the share price of to equity markets.
Despite some concerns about the BP during the final quarter of the year.
sustainability of growth towards the end of the year, both the United States and Chinese economies have performed strongly, aided by government stimulus and the reversal of 6 Murray Income Trust PLC From a size perspective, both the Small and Mid Cap Indices Stock selection equities % outperformed the FTSE 100 Index, a function of increasing Oil & Gas 1.2 risk appetite as the prospects for recovery improved, and also Basic Materials 0.1 the underperformance of BP towards the end of the year.
Industrials 1.0 Consumer Goods 0.7 The Company benefited, in asset allocation terms, from its Health Care 0.1 underweight position in Oil & Gas and overweight positions in Consumer Goods and Industrials.
Stock selection in Consumer Services 3.3 Consumer Services was noteworthy, with the performances Telecommunications 0.1 of Whitbread, Arriva, Millennium & Copthorne and Daily Mail Utilities 0.3 particularly strong.
Over the year, Arriva provided the largest Technology contribution to relative return due to the takeover approach Financials 0.1 from Deutsche Bahn.
Total stock selection equities 2.5 Although our underweight position in BP has benefited Asset allocation equities relative performance, the events in the Gulf of Mexico have Oil & Gas 2.0 destroyed significant value in the company.
We have Basic Materials 1.3 monitored events extremely closely and, although our Industrials 0.5 central thesis is that the market had over-reacted, we have Consumer Goods 0.3 taken no action: we have been unwilling to commit fresh capital to the company given the potential uncertainty over Health Care 0.1 future dividend payments.
Consumer Services 0.3 Telecommunications There were a number of holdings that detracted from relative Utilities 0.3 performance.
Most notably, National Grids rights issue, Technology 0.2 coupled with concerns over its operations in the US, resulted Financials 0.2 in relative weakness over the year.
Total asset allocation equities 1.6 In the Financials sector, we benefited from being Non-equity Investments & Options 0.1 underweight in banks given our concerns regarding the Gearing cash effect 2.0 opacity of regulation, capital requirements and asset quality, Management fees & other expenses 0.7 coupled with the miserly dividends available.
However, this Residual effect 0.2 benefit was only partly able to offset poor performances from Aviva and Resolution in the life insurance area.
Aviva Total 5.3 performed poorly due to concerns over its exposure to Sources : Aberdeen Asset Management, The Bank of New York Mellon & Factset sovereign debt, as did Resolution, due to its business model.
Notes: Stock Selection measures the effect of equity selection relative to the Furthermore, our underweight position in Mining was the benchmark.
Asset Allocation measures the impact of over or underweighting most significant detractor from performance from an asset each industry basket in the equity portfolio, relative to the benchmark weights.
We remain underweight for three key Nonequity Investments & Options effect measures the impact on relative returns of the two asset categories.
Gearing cash effect measures the impact reasons: we have concerns about the quality of various on relative returns of net borrowings.
Management fees & other expenses companies within the sector: the dividend yields available are these reduce total assets and therefore reduce performance.
The effect is comparatively poor: and, finally, we believe that many of the calculated by dividing expenses incurred during the year by average total assets companies do not at present represent attractive value.
Residual effect this arises as a result of the different methodologies for calculating performance between the NAV total return, the Performance Attribution for the year to 30 June benchmark provider Factset and the performance attribution system.
2010 Portfolio Activity and Structure 2010 Over the year, the most significant activity within the % portfolio has been with the dual aims of, firstly, adding to Net asset value total return for year per 26.4 high-quality holdings, which we believe will be able to Ordinary share prosper in an environment where economic growth may be FTSE All-Share Index total return 21.1 muted and the prospect of future shocks remain a possibility Relative return 5.3 and, secondly, where possible, of improving the incomegenerating capability of the portfolio.
Murray Income Trust PLC 7 Managers Review continued We sold five holdings over the year: BT: Ladbrokes: Tomkins: for their ability to diversify risk in concentrated sectors and Resolution: and Arriva.
BT had disappointed the market due improve the quality of the portfolio, as well as enhance the to the poor performance of its global services division and revenue account.
ENI, the Italian oil company, has attractive concerns over the scale of the companys pension deficit.
As upstream growth characteristics, a low valuation and a management executed their turnaround strategy in global generous yield.
Roche offers pharmaceutical exposure with a services, and, with the recovery in markets assuaging fears strong early stage pipeline, and without the significant over the pension deficit, we took advantage of a recovery in patent cliff that characterises many other pharmaceutical the share price to sell our holding.
Ladbrokes had been beset by concerns over the cyclicality of As in previous years, we continued to add to high-quality the business, internet competition and the companys holdings, including Centrica, Tesco and Pearson.
In contrast, stretched balance sheet.
Although it was a painful decision to following significant outperformance, we reduced the sell, it turned out to be well-timed, with the company holdings in Daily Mail, Millennium & Copthorne, GKN and announcing a rights issue and dividend cut shortly after our Mothercare.
From an income-oriented perspective, we purchased reverse Tomkins end markets over the past couple of years have convertibles in both Unilever and GlaxoSmithKline, while been very difficult with exposure to both the global auto rolling forward our BP reverse convertible for another year.
In response, the management We also increased the rate of put and call writing, taking team had undertaken a significant restructuring of the advantage of attractive option pricing, with the aim of business.
As the share price recovered and, mindful that the smoothing the contours of the holdings and increasing the company had reduced its dividend payout, we sold our income generated.
This was done with the objective of holding.
We also sold our holding in Resolution, having reducing those companies that had performed particularly reappraised the company from a quality perspective.
We well, while adding to holdings that further improved the were concerned about the long payback periods in the quality of the portfolio.
industry, and the necessity for the company to buy other life assurance businesses in order to fulfil its consolidation The actions above have marginally altered the sector strategy.
In addition, we believed that future dividend positioning of the Company.
The weighting in the Oil & Gas payments were a secondary priority for the company.
One of sector has reduced slightly over the year, as the addition of our core holdings, Arriva, was the subject of a takeover bid Wood Group and ENI failed to offset the fall in BP.
Following shareholder acceptance of exposure to the Healthcare sector has reduced given the the bid, we disposed of our holding.
However, as there is still weak relative performance of the sector despite the addition significant scope for the company to continue to grow in of Roche.
Following the sale of Arriva and profit-taking in the Europe, we felt a little disappointed to be giving up our sector, the weight in Consumer Services has decreased.
The exposure, given the attractive longer-term potential.
weight in Telecoms has fallen due to the sale of BT.
Over the course of the year we introduced four new Income companies: Wood Group: Sage: ENI: and Roche.
Wood Group For the financial year ended 30 June 2010, the Company has is an attractively-valued oil services company with exposure witnessed a fall in the level of income generated, with the to high-growth areas.
The exposure that the company revenue return per share declining from 28.1p to 25.4p, or by provides dovetails with our thesis that services companies 9.6%.
The increase in option income, together with the are an attractive means of benefiting from the increased depreciation of Sterling over the year, has helped to cushion expenditure that oil companies will be required to lay out as the impact of lower income compared to the previous year.
the exploration, development and production of oil becomes We continue to keep a very close watch on the revenue more complicated and difficult.
account, but we remain relatively comfortable with the income characteristics of the underlying portfolio and the Sage, the accountancy software company, offers an capability to rebuild dividend cover over time.
attractive mix of defensive earnings growth, underpinned by high levels of recurring revenues and high-touch customer Aside from the issues at BP, the outlook for income has relationships.
Given its strong cashflow characteristics, we generally improved over the year as the operational backdrop believe it has the scope to increase its dividend payments has changed for the better and interest rates remain low.
worth noting that market dividends, in aggregate, are expected to increase by 10% and 15% in the financial years The widening of the investment policy allowed us to 2011 and 2012 respectively.
Of our holdings, at the year end, introduce our first two non-UK companies.
Both were chosen only Persimmon, GKN and BP did not pay dividends.
8 Murray Income Trust PLC Subsequently, Persimmon and GKN have returned to the dividend list, and BP is likely to recommence paying dividends in 2011.
Outlook At the time of writing, the market has recovered from the lows at the end of June 2010.
We take comfort that equity market valuations are neither expensive relatively nor absolutely, but, on a fundamental basis, we still believe that the path to sustainable economic growth remains challenging, and the outlook uncertain.
Many risks still exist: fide-leveraging in the West is likely to be a painful process, there are still significant imbalances in the global economy, central banks have only just started to unwind monetary support mechanisms, unemployment provides an incentive for protectionism and unrest, and the regulatory change agenda may result in unintended consequences.
However, although growth is weaker than we might like, the portfolio retains exposure to good-quality companies.
It seems likely that markets will remain volatile as investors over-react to both good and bad news, and, where valuation opportunities present themselves, we will add to our holdings which we believe have robust financial characteristics and strong business models.
We continue to believe that these company attributes are the best way to ensure good long-term performance and dividend growth.
Charles Luke & Anne Richards Aberdeen Asset Managers Limited Investment Manager 15 September 2010 Murray Income Trust PLC 9
