Directors Report The Directors submit their Annual Report together with the Net asset value total return relative to the Companys Financial Statements of the Company for the year ended 30 benchmark June 2010.
Share price total return Discount to net asset value Performance attribution Review of the Business Earnings and dividends per share.
A review of the Companys activities is given in the Corporate Summary on pages 2 and 3, the Chairmans A historical record of these measures except performance Statement on pages 4 to 5 and in the Managers Review on attribution is disclosed on pages 10 and 11.
This includes a review of the business of the our performance with the Companys benchmark and Company and its principal activities, and likely future selected peer companies.
A range of comparator groups are developments of the business.
used, including the AIC UK Growth & Income peer group and the Open-Ended UK Equity Income peer group.
Investment Objective and Policies The Boards objective is to achieve a high and growing Management of Risk income combined with capital growth through investment in The Board regularly reviews the major strategic risks that the a concentrated selection of principally UK equities.
The Board and the Manager have identified, and against these the shares that make up the portfolio are selected from UK and Board sets out the delegated controls designed to manage overseas companies that have potential for real earnings and those risks.
The principal risks facing the Company relate to dividend growth, while at the same time providing an abovethe Companys investment activities and include market average portfolio yield.
The emphasis is on the management price, interest rate, liquidity and credit risk.
An explanation of of risk and on the absolute return from the portfolio, which is these risks and how they are managed is contained in note achieved by ensuring an appropriate diversification of stocks 17 to the financial statements on pages 48 to 51.
Such key and sectors, with a high proportion of its assets in strong, risks relating to investment and strategy as, for example, well-known companies.
The portfolio at the year end is set inappropriate asset allocation or gearing, are managed out on pages 14 and 15, and its analysis on page 16.
The through investment policy guidelines and restrictions, and by Company makes use of low-cost, flexible borrowing facilities the process of oversight at each Board meeting outlined to enhance shareholder returns when appropriate, and the above.
Operational disruption, accounting and legal risks are Board regularly reviews gearing, which was 9.9% of net also covered annually, and regulatory compliance is reviewed assets at 30 June 2010 2009 11.9%.
The major risks associated with the Company are: Investments are not formally limited as to market capitalisation or sector weightings within the UK.
It is the Resource risk like most other investment trusts, the Companys policy to have a focused portfolio.
There were 44 Company has no employees.
The Company therefore relies holdings at 30 June 2010. on services provided by third parties, including, in particular, the Manager, to whom responsibility for the management It is the Companys policy to invest no more than 15 per of the Company has been delegated under an investment cent of its gross assets in other listed investment companies management agreement the Agreement further details including listed investment trusts.
The Companys of which are set out on page 25.
The terms of the investment policy is set out in full in the Corporate Summary Agreement cover the necessary duties and conditions on page 2. expected of the Manager.
The Board reviews the performance of the Manager on a regular basis, and their Oversight and Review of Performance compliance with the Agreement formally on an annual The Board meets at least five times a year to review basis.
As well as carrying out the Investment objective the objective of the Company is to matters set out in the Statement of Corporate Governance achieve a high and growing income combined with capital pages 27 to 32, the Board receives, for each meeting, a growth.
As a consequence, the investment portfolio may detailed portfolio report and an analysis of economic not always match that of the stock market as a whole, with indicators, and discusses performance and strategy, a consequential impact on shareholder returns.
The Boards considering perceived risks and economic conditions.
It uses aim is to maximise absolute returns to shareholders while measures such as attribution analysis against the benchmark, managing risk by ensuring an appropriate diversification of active weights and valuation matrices to assess the stocks and sectors.
Companys success in achieving its objectives.
The key Investment policy and gearing a major risk affecting the performance indicators are established industry measures, Company is inappropriate sector and stock selection and are as follows: leading to under-performance relative to the Companys 22 Murray Income Trust PLC benchmark index and peer group.
In addition, the use of The Directors now recommend a final dividend of 11.50p per borrowing facilities to invest in markets may have a Ordinary share payable on 27 October 2010 to holders of negative impact if markets fall.
To mitigate these risks, the Ordinary shares on the register on 24 September 2010.
The Manager operates within investment guidelines and agreed relevant ex-dividend date is 22 September 2010.
Performance against the benchmark in respect of the final dividend will be proposed at the index and the peer group is regularly monitored.
During the forthcoming Annual General Meeting.
year, an element of portfolio protection was put in place by the purchase of put options.
Dividends are paid by means of three interim dividends, Discount volatility - investment trust shares tend to trade normally in January, April, July, and a final, after the Annual at discounts to their underlying net asset values, although General Meeting in October or November.
Further they can also trade at premia.
Discounts and premia can information on dividends is contained in the Chairmans fluctuate considerably.
In order to seek to minimise the Statement on pages 4 to 5. impact of such fluctuations, where the shares are trading at a discount, the Company has operated a share buy-back Principal Activity and Status programme for a number of years.
If the shares trade at a The Company is an investment company within the meaning premium, the Company has the authority to issue new of Section 833 of the Companies Act 2006, and carries on shares or re-issue shares from treasury.
Whilst these business as an investment trust.
The Directors do not measures seek to minimise volatility, it cannot be envisage any change in this activity in the foreseeable future.
guaranteed that they will do so.
Foreign currency risk a proportion of the Companys In the opinion of the Directors of the Company, its affairs investment portfolio is invested in overseas securities and have been conducted in a manner as to satisfy the conditions the value of the Companys investments and the income which enable it to continue to obtain approval as an derived from them can, therefore, be affected by investment trust under Section 1158 of the Corporation Tax movements in foreign exchange rates.
HM Revenue & Customs will grant Section 1158 earnings of the Company's other investments may also be status, if requested, provided that the Companys affairs have affected by currency movements which, indirectly, could been conducted in such a manner as to satisfy the conditions have an impact on the Company's performance.
of that section, although approval for the period would be Regulatory risk - the Company operates in a complex subject to review were there to be any enquiry under the regulatory environment and faces a number of related risks.
Corporation Tax Self Assessment regime.
HM Revenue & A breach of Section 1158 of the Corporation Tax Act 2010 Customs approval for such status under Section 842 of the could result in the Company being subject to capital gains Income and Corporation Taxes Act 1988 has been given for tax on the sale of its investments.
Serious breach of other the year ended 30 June 2009. regulations, such as the UKLA Listing Rules and the Companies Act, could lead to suspension from the Stock The Company intends to manage its affairs so that the Exchange and reputational damage.
The Board receives Companys shares will be qualifying investments for the monthly compliance reports from the Manager to monitor stocks and shares component of an ISA.
Share Capital Results and Dividends There have been no changes to the Companys issued share The total return attributable to equity shareholders for the capital during the year.
The issued Ordinary share capital at year amounted to 77,785,000.
30 June 2010 consisted of 64,689,458 Ordinary shares of 25p and 1,727,000 Ordinary shares held in treasury.
At 15 A third interim dividend of 5.5p per Ordinary share was paid September 2010, these numbers were unchanged.
on 17 July 2009, and the final dividend for the year ended 30 June 2009 of 11.25p per Ordinary share was paid on 28 Each Ordinary share of the Company carries one vote at October 2009.
The first and second interim dividends for the general meetings of the Company.
year ended 30 June 2010 of 5.5p per Ordinary share each were paid on 15 January 2010 and 1 April 2010 respectively, Special Business at Annual General Meeting making a total distribution to Ordinary shareholders of Issue of New Shares and Sale of Treasury Shares 17,930,000 as shown in note 6 on page 43.
The sum of Ordinary Resolution No.
8 in the Notice of Annual General 1,506,000 has been deducted from the Companys revenue Meeting will renew the authority to allot the unissued share reserve.
The third interim dividend of 5.5p per Ordinary share capital up to an aggregate nominal amount of 808,618 was paid on 16 July 2010. equivalent to 3,234,472 Ordinary shares, or 5 per cent of the Companys existing issued share capital on 15 September Murray Income Trust PLC 23 Directors Report continued 2010 excluding treasury shares.
Such authority will expire sales from treasury would only take place when the Board on the date of the next Annual General Meeting or after a believes that to do so would assist in the provision of period of 15 months from the date of the passing of the liquidity to the market.
The Directors recommend that resolution, whichever is earlier.
This means that the authority shareholders vote in favour of Resolutions 8 and 9. will have to be renewed at the next Annual General Meeting.
Share Repurchases When shares are to be allotted for cash, Section 561 of the At the Annual General Meeting held on 27 October 2009, Companies Act 2006 the Act provides that existing shareholders approved the renewal of the authority shareholders have pre-emption rights and that the new permitting the Company to repurchase its Ordinary shares.
shares must be offered first to such shareholders in proportion to their existing holding of shares.
However, The Directors wish to renew the authority given by shareholders can, by special resolution, authorise the shareholders at the previous Annual General Meeting.
The Directors to allot shares otherwise than by a pro rata issue to principal aim of a share buy-back facility is to enhance existing shareholders.
9 will, if passed, shareholder value by acquiring shares at a discount to net give the Directors power to allot for cash equity securities up asset value, as and when the Directors consider this to be to an aggregate nominal amount of 808,618 equivalent to appropriate.
The purchase of shares, when they are trading at 3,234,472 Ordinary shares, or 5 per cent of the Companys a discount to net asset value per share, should result in an existing issued share capital on 15 September 2010, as if increase in the net asset value per share for the remaining Section 561 of the Act does not apply.
This is the same shareholders.
This authority, if conferred, will only be nominal amount of share capital which the Directors are exercised if to do so would result in an increase in the net seeking the authority to allot pursuant to Resolution No.
8. asset value per share for the remaining shareholders and if it This authority will also expire on the date of the next Annual is in the best interests of shareholders generally.
Any General Meeting or after a period of 15 months, whichever is purchase of shares will be made within guidelines established earlier.
This authority will not be used in connection with a from time to time by the Board.
It is proposed to seek rights issue by the Company.
shareholder authority to renew this facility for another year at the Annual General Meeting.
The Directors intend to use the authority given by Resolutions 8 and 9 to allot shares and disapply pre-emption Under the current Listing Rules, the maximum price that may rights only in circumstances where this will be clearly be paid on the exercise of this authority must not exceed the beneficial to shareholders as a whole.
The issue proceeds higher of i 105% of the average of the middle market would be available for investment in line with the Companys quotations for the shares over the five business days investment policy.
No issue of shares will be made which immediately preceding the date of purchase and ii the would effectively alter the control of the Company without higher of the last independent trade and the highest current the prior approval of shareholders in general meeting.
Under independent bid on the trading venue where the purchase is the Companies Acquisition of Own Shares Treasury carried out.
The minimum price which may be paid is 25p per Shares Regulations 2003 as amended the Treasury Share share.
Shares which are purchased under this authority will Regulations the Company is permitted to buy back and either be cancelled or held as treasury shares.
hold shares in treasury and then sell them at a later date for cash, rather than cancelling them.
The Treasury Share Special Resolution No.
10 in the Notice of Annual General Regulations require such sales to be on a pre-emptive, pro Meeting will renew the authority to purchase in the market a rata, basis to existing shareholders unless shareholders agree maximum of 14.99% of shares in issue at the date of signing by special resolution to disapply such pre-emption rights.
this Report amounting to 9,696,949 Ordinary shares.
Such Accordingly, in addition to giving the Directors power to allot authority will expire on the date of the next Annual General unissued Ordinary share capital on a non pre-emptive basis, Meeting, or after a period of 15 months from the date of Resolution No.
9, if passed, will give the Directors authority passing of the resolution, whichever is earlier.
This means in to sell Ordinary shares held in treasury on a non pre-emptive effect that the authority will have to be renewed at the next basis.
No dividends may be paid on any shares held in Annual General Meeting, or earlier, if the authority has been treasury and no voting rights will attach to such shares.
The Directors recommend that shareholders vote benefit of the ability to hold treasury shares is that such in favour of Resolution No.
This should give the Company greater flexibility in managing its share capital, and improve liquidity Directors in its shares.
It is the intention of the Board that any re-sale The Directors, who held office throughout the year under of treasury shares would only take place at a price of greater review, are shown on pages 20 and 21 of the Annual Report, than 0.5% above the net asset value per share prevailing at and their share interests are shown opposite.
It is also the intention of the Board that retired as a Director on 27 October 2009.
24 Murray Income Trust PLC Mr Gifford and Mr Honebon retire by rotation at the A monthly fee at the rate of one-twelfth of 0.55% on the forthcoming Annual General Meeting.
Mr Gifford and Mr first 400 million of net assets, 0.45% on the next 150 Honebon, being eligible, offer themselves for re-election.
million of net assets and 0.25% on the excess over 550 Resolutions 4 and 5, to this effect, will be proposed at the million.
The value of any investments managed within the Annual General Meeting.
Aberdeen Asset Group is deducted from net assets.
The investment management fee is chargeable 50% to revenue No contract or arrangement significant to the Companys and 50% against capital reserves.
A secretarial fee of 75,000 business and in which any of the Directors is interested has per annum is also payable, which is chargeable 100% to subsisted during the year.
A report on the Directors Remuneration is set out on pages The management and administration contracts may be 34 and 35. terminated by either the Company or the Manager on the expiry of three months written notice.
On termination, the Directors Interests Manager would be entitled to receive fees which would The interests of the Directors in office at the end of the year otherwise have been due to that date.
in the Ordinary share capital of the Company were as follows: The management and secretarial fees paid during the year ended 30 June 2010 are shown in notes 3 and 4 on page 43.
At 30 June 2010 At 1 July 2009 Ordinary shares Ordinary shares In monitoring the performance of the Manager, the Board P A F Gifford 27,725 24,351 considers the investment record of the Company over the M Glen 3,022 3,000 short term and longer term, taking into account both its N A Honebon 20,000 20,000 performance against the benchmark index and peer group H van der 7,500 7,500 investment trusts.
The Board also reviews the management Klugt processes, risk control mechanisms and marketing activities D E Woods - - of the Manager.
As a result of these reviews, the Board considers the continuing appointment of the Manager to be Mr Giffords interest in the Companys shares increased to in the interests of shareholders because the Aberdeen Asset 28,356 Ordinary shares by the acquisition of 280 Ordinary Management Group has the investment management, shares on 19 July 2010, 176 Ordinary shares on 27 July 2010 marketing and associated secretarial and administrative skills and 175 Ordinary shares on 23 August 2010.
Ms Glens required for the effective operation of the Company.
The interest in the Companys shares increased to 3,042 by the Board continues to keep this matter under review.
acquisition of 20 Ordinary Shares on 20 July 2010.
As at 15 September 2010, there have been no other changes in the Corporate Governance above holdings.
The Statement of Corporate Governance is contained on pages 27 to 32.
Directors' Insurance and Indemnities The Directors have the benefit of the indemnity provision Audit Committee contained in the Companys Articles.
The Directors of the Details of the Audit Committee are contained in the Company have, during the year ended 30 June 2010, been Statement of Corporate Governance under the heading granted a qualifying third party indemnity provision, which Audit Committee on page 29. remains in force.
Directors' and Officers' liability insurance cover has been maintained throughout the year at the Political and Charitable Donations expense of the Company.
The Company has not made any political or charitable donations in the year 2009 - nil.
Manager and Company Secretary Investment management services are provided to the Going Concern Company by Aberdeen Asset Managers Limited.
Company In accordance with the Financial Reporting Councils secretarial, accounting and administrative services are guidance on Going Concern and Liquidity Risk issued in provided by Aberdeen Asset Management PLC.
October 2009 the Directors have undertaken a rigorous review of the Companys ability to continue as a going For the year ended 30 June 2010, the management and concern.
The Companys assets consist of a diverse portfolio secretarial fees payable to the Manager were calculated and of listed equity shares which in most circumstances are charged on the following basis: realisable within a very short timescale.
The Directors are Murray Income Trust PLC 25 Directors Report continued mindful of the principal risks and uncertainties disclosed on Additional Information page 3 and have reviewed forecasts detailing revenue and Where not provided elsewhere in the Directors Report, the liabilities and they believe that the Company has adequate following provides the additional information required to be financial resources to continue its operational existence for disclosed by Part 15 of the Companies Act 2006: the foreseeable future and at least 12 months from the date of this Annual Report.
Accordingly, the Directors believe that There are no restrictions on the transfer of Ordinary shares in it is appropriate to continue to adopt the going concern basis the Company other than certain restrictions which may from in preparing the Financial Statements.
Borrowing facilities of time to time be imposed by law for example, insider trading 45 million are committed to the Company until 6 October law.
As part of the going concern review the Directors noted that the Company has opened negotiations for a loan The Company is not aware of any agreements between facility to follow on from the expiry of the 45 million loan shareholders that may result in a restriction on the transfer facility, but at this stage has not finalised terms, although it of securities and or voting rights.
expects to receive acceptable terms from its existing bankers or an alternative.
If acceptable terms are not forthcoming, The rules governing the appointment of Directors are set out any outstanding amounts will be repaid through the in the Statement of Corporate Governance on pages 27 to proceeds of equity sales.
The Companys Articles of Association may only be amended by a special resolution at a general meeting of Creditor Payment Policy shareholders.
The Companys payment policy is to agree terms of payment before business is transacted, to ensure suppliers are aware The Company is not aware of any significant agreements to of these terms and to settle bills in accordance with them.
which it is a party that take effect, alter or terminate upon a The Company did not have any trade creditors at the year change of control of the Company following a takeover.
Other than the management and administration contracts with the Manager, further details of which are set out on page 25 and this page, the Company is not aware of any Annual General Meeting contractual or other agreements essential to its business The Annual General Meeting will be held on 26 October which ought to be disclosed in the Directors Report.
The Notice of Meeting is at pages 56 to 59.
Company Registration Number Auditors Registered in Scotland Company Number SC12725 The Auditors, Ernst & Young LLP, have expressed their willingness to continue in office.
Resolution 6, to re-appoint By order of the Board Ernst & Young LLP as the Companys Auditors, will be put to Aberdeen Asset Management PLC the forthcoming Annual General Meeting along with Secretary Resolution 7, to authorise the Directors to fix their Bow Bells House remuneration.
It should be noted that the only fees paid to 1 Bread Street the Auditors over the past nine years have been in respect of London, EC4M 9HH audit services.
The Directors who held office at the date of 15 September 2010 approval of this Directors' Report confirm that, so far as they are each aware, there is no relevant audit information of which the Company's Auditors are unaware, and each Director has taken all the steps that he or she ought to have taken as a Director to make him or herself aware of any relevant audit information, and to establish that the Company's Auditors are aware of that information.
