Marketing Strategy direction of AAMs Group Head of Marketing who has Murray International Trust PLC contributes to the Marketing extensive experience in the marketing and communications Programme run by Aberdeen Asset Managers Limited of investment products.
He is supported by a team of AAM, on behalf of a number of investment trusts under marketing professionals.
This agreement sees the Companys contribution matched by AAM and is now 579,000 plus VAT for the year ending 31 August 2011.
The marketing Internet arrangements are reviewed on an annual basis by the Board.
Murray International Trust PLC has its own dedicated website: www.
This allows web users to The purpose of the Programme is to communicate effectively access information on the Companys share price with existing shareholders and gain more new shareholders, performance, capital structure, stock exchange thus improving liquidity and thereby enhancing the value and announcements and monthly reports.
The site is rating of the Companys shares.
AAMs experience has also continuously being evaluated for improvement.
shown that well-targeted marketing of the Companys investment merits through packaged products, whether Investors in the Share Plan and ISA can now use AAMs singly, or in conjunction with other trusts run by AAM, can secure system to view their valuations and transact on their be a cost-effective way of gaining new investors.
These aims can be met in several ways: The Board is committed to a close monitoring of the Marketing Programme.
The Aberdeen Group Head of Investor Relations Programme Marketing provides a written summary quarterly to the Board.
AAM runs an investor relations programme to existing and prospective institutional investors in investment trusts.
Each If you have any questions about your Company, the Manager month, institutional investors and prospects receive a or performance, please telephone our Investor Services Managers report on your Company that includes detailed Department on 0500 00 00 40.
Alternatively, internet users performance analysis.
com or write to us at 10 Queens Terrace, Aberdeen AB10 1YG.
Direct Response Advertising The Manager advertises the packaged product availability of The information on pages 63 and 64 has been approved for the the Trust in selected national press as well as the specialist purposes of Section 21 of the Financial Services and Markets financial titles Act 2000 by Aberdeen Asset Managers Limited which is authorised and regulated by the Financial Services Authority.
Direct Mail Periodic mail shots of information packs inviting named addressees to respond is a low-cost method of building awareness and investor databases.
Target groups include existing holders of other AAM investment trusts as well as known buyers of investment trusts.
Newsletter The Bulletin newsletter, an informed commentary on markets and investment trusts managed by AAM is distributed free of charge.
Public Relations The Manager undertakes to brief journalists, write regularly through placed articles and ensure Company results and any corporate activity are brought to public attention.
Shareholder Services AAM runs an investment help desk for retail enquirers and investors.
Enquirers or investors will be sent any relevant literature on request and have queries answered immediately.
The Marketing Programme is under the Murray International Trust PLC 63 How to Invest in Murray International Trust PLC current legislation, investments in ISAs can grow free of Direct capital gains tax.
Investors can buy and sell shares in Murray International Trust PLC directly through a stockbroker or indirectly through ISA Transfer a lawyer, accountant or other professional adviser.
You can choose to transfer previous tax year investments to Alternatively shares can be bought directly through us which can be invested in Murray International Trust PLC Aberdeens Investment Plan for Children, Aberdeens while retaining your ISA wrapper.
The minimum lump sum Investment Trust Share Plan and Investment Trust ISA.
for an ISA transfer is 1,000 and is subject to a minimum per trust of 250.
Aberdeens Investment Plan for Children Aberdeen Asset Managers Limited AAM runs an Investment Note Plan for Children the Childrens Plan which covers a Please remember that past performance is not a guide to the number of investment companies under its management future.
Stock market and currency movements may cause including Murray International Trust PLC.
Anyone can invest the value of shares and the income from them to fall as well in the Childrens Plan, including parents, grandparents and as rise and investors may not get back the amount they family friends.
All investments are free of dealing charges on originally invested.
the initial purchase of shares, although investors will suffer the bid-offer spread, which can, on some occasions, be a As with all equity investments, the value of investment trusts significant amount.
Lump sum investments start at 150 per purchased will immediately be reduced by the difference trust, while regular savers may invest from 30 per month.
between the buying and selling prices of the shares, the Investors simply pay Government Stamp Duty currently market makers spread.
There is no restriction on how long an investor need invest in the Investors should further bear in mind that the value of any Childrens Plan, and regular savers can stop or suspend tax relief will depend on the individual circumstances of the participation by instructing AAM in writing at any time.
In investor and that tax rates and reliefs, as well as the tax common with other schemes of this type, all investments are treatment of ISAs may be changed by future legislation.
Keeping You Informed Aberdeens Investment Trust Share Plan For internet users, detailed data on Murray International AAM runs a Share Plan the Plan through which shares in Trust PLC, including price, performance information and a Murray International Trust PLC can be purchased.
There are monthly fact sheet is available from the Trusts website no dealing charges on the initial purchase of shares, although www.
co. uk and the TrustNet website investors will suffer the bid-offer spread, which can, on some www.
Alternatively you can call 0500 00 00 occasions, be a significant amount.
Lump sum investments 40 for trust information.
start at 250, while regular savers may invest from 100 per month.
Investors simply pay Government Stamp Duty currently 0.5% on entry.
There Literature Request Service is no restriction on how long an investor need invest in a For literature and application forms for the Managers Plan, and regular savers can stop or suspend participation by investment trust products, please contact: instructing AAM in writing at any time.
In common with other schemes of this type, all investments are held in Telephone: 0500 00 40 00 nominee accounts.
Investors have full voting and other rights Email: aam@lit-request.
For information on the Investment Plan for Children, Share Stocks and Shares ISA Plan, ISA or ISA Transfer please contact: An investment of up to 10,200 can be made in the tax year Aberdeen Investment Trust Administration 2010 2011 and 10,680 in the tax year 2011 2012.
Block C, Western House Lynchwood Business Park There are no brokerage or initial charges for the ISA, although Peterborough, PE2 6BP investors will suffer the bid-offer spread, which can be a Telephone: 0500 00 00 40 significant amount.
Investors only pay Government Stamp Duty currently 0.5% on purchases.
The annual ISA administration charge is 24 VAT, calculated six monthly and deducted from income.
Under 64 Murray International Trust PLC
