Information about the Manager tightly constructed to provide the greatest scope for Aberdeen Asset Managers Limited outperformance within the agreed risk parameters.
The Companys Manager is Aberdeen Asset Managers Limited, a subsidiary of Aberdeen Asset Management PLC, For Murray International Trust PLC, regional allocation of whose group companies as at 31 December 2010 have funds in line with guidelines set by the AAM Investment approximately 183.3bn of assets under management.
It Strategy Committee is the first stage of the portfolio manages assets on behalf of a wide range of clients including construction process.
At this stage, house views on specific 53 investment companies and other closed-ended funds, global sectors are also taken into account.
which have combined total assets of over 8.2bn.
Established themes and trends are considered within the The Manager has its headquarters in Aberdeen and invests process of country allocation, which is also influenced by globally, operating from 31 offices in 26 countries.
Its analysis of key data covering macroeconomic and monetary investment teams are generally based in the markets or factors, value and performance.
regions in which they invest: in the UK its main investment centres are in London and Edinburgh.
Country selection is driven overall by short and medium term estimates of macroeconomics, politics and liquidity, and the Bruce Stout, Senior Investment Manager market implications of those.
Bruce Stout is a senior investment manager on the Global equities team.
Bruce joined Aberdeen or acquired Stock Selection companies in 1987 and has held a number of roles including The investment manager, Bruce Stout, has responsibility for investment manager on the emerging markets team.
portfolio construction across all regional segments.
Working closely with the relevant underlying desks in each case, The Investment Process, Philosophy and Style portfolio construction is an interactive process.
The Manager Long term investment success demands a clear focus and a utilises a Global Equity Buy List which is constructed by sound structure.
The Aberdeen Asset Management Group each of the specialist country desks.
This list contains all buy AAM has as its primary objective in managing Murray and hold recommendations for each desk, which are then International Trust PLC the delivery of consistent used as the investment universe.
If a stock no longer meets outperformance against the benchmark based on the the criteria to be included on the Buy List, it is sold within 30 concept of seeking growth at a reasonable price.
This process enables the investment manager to better reflect top down themes that emerge from the global equity To achieve this, a disciplined investment process has been strategy and investment themes meetings that take place developed.
However, to meet the different performance monthly.
objectives mandated for specific funds, there is built in flexibility.
Risk Controls Integral to the investment process is regular provision, by a Key decisions are implemented consistently across all funds specialised team, of performance and risk analysis data to and portfolio risk limits are set and closely monitored.
A ensure that funds are operated within the terms of their continuous watch is kept over critical factors that influence mandate.
investment decisions, so that when views change, action is taken swiftly and decisively to reposition portfolios.
As well as market price risk inherent in all portfolio investment, Murray International Trust is also exposed to risk Asset Allocation from movements in foreign exchange rates and changes in Based on the guidelines set by the AAM Investment Strategy interest rates.
Market price risk is managed by strict Committee, and after consultation with relevant AAM area adherence to parameters set for portfolio construction.
The specialists, the investment manager of Murray International foreign exchange risk involved may be hedged by the use of Trust PLC, Bruce Stout, recommends asset allocation to the forward currency contracts.
Interest rate risk lies with the Board.
There is a strong top down influence to establish the portfolio holdings of fixed income securities and on-call economic overview and to identify potential investment deposits.
A detailed risk profile of the Company is given in themes.
The approach is highly focused and portfolios are note 19 to the financial statements.
