Directors Report The Directors submit their Annual Report together with the dividends of 6.8p each were paid on 16 August 2010, 15 financial statements of the Company for the year ended 31 November 2010 and 17 February 2011 making a total December 2010. distribution to Ordinary shareholders of 30.8 million.
The Directors have declared a special interim dividend of 2.5p and are recommending a final dividend for the year ended 31 Business Review December 2010 of 11.6p per Ordinary share both payable on A review of the Companys operations is given in the 16 May 2011 to holders of Ordinary shares on the register at Corporate Summary on pages 2 to 6, the Chairmans close of business on 8 April 2011.
Statement on pages 7 and 8 and the Managers Report on pages 9 to 12.
This includes a review of the business of the Whenever a cash dividend is paid on the Ordinary shares, a Company and its principal activities, likely future bonus issue of B Ordinary shares is made to the holders of B developments of the business, recommended final dividend Ordinary shares.
In connection with the final and special and details of the issue of new shares during the year by the dividends the Directors will make a corresponding Company.
The major risks associated with the Company are capitalisation issue of B Ordinary shares credited as fully detailed in the Corporate Summary on pages 3 to 6 and in paid.
This capitalisation issue will be equivalent in asset value note 19 to the financial statements.
Details of the risk to the final and special dividends now recommended on the management objectives and policies are provided in the Ordinary shares but excluding any tax credit thereon.
Subject Corporate Governance Statement internal controls report on to the approval of shareholders of the final and special pages 34 and 35.
Further details on how the portfolio is dividends, definitive certificates in respect of the managed to achieve the risk management policies and capitalisation issue will be posted on 16 May 2011. objectives are disclosed in The Investment Process, Fractional entitlements will be sold for the benefit of Philosophy and Style on page 23.
The new B Ordinary shares will rank equally Indicators for the Company including NAV and share price with the existing B Ordinary shares.
information are detailed on page 13.
7 to approve the final dividend will be The current Directors are Messrs J F H Trott, J D Best, K J proposed at the Annual General Meeting.
Carter, A C Shedden and Lady Balfour of Burleigh and these were the only Directors who served during the year.
The Net Asset Value per Ordinary and B Ordinary share at 31 December 2010 was 930.5p 2009 772.9p.
The Company does not make political donations or expenditures and has not made any donations for charitable Annual General Meeting purposes during the year and, in common with most investment trusts, the Company has no employees.
The Notice of Annual General Meeting is contained on page 66 of the Annual Report.
Principal Activity and Status Discount Management Policy and Special Business at The Company is an investment company in accordance with Annual General Meeting Section 833 of the Companies Act 2006 and carries on business as an investment trust.
The Company is registered in Share Buybacks Scotland with number SC6705.
In the opinion of the At the Annual General Meeting held on 30 April 2010, Directors of the Company, its affairs have been conducted in shareholders approved the renewal of the authority a manner to satisfy the conditions to enable it to continue to permitting the Company to repurchase its Ordinary shares.
obtain approval as an investment trust under s1158 of the Corporation Tax Act 2010 formerly s842 ICTA.
HM The Directors wish to renew the authority given by Revenue & Customs will grant s842 or s1158 status, if shareholders at the previous Annual General Meeting.
The requested, provided that the Companys affairs have been principal aim of a share buyback facility is to enhance conducted in such a manner as to satisfy the conditions of shareholder value by acquiring shares at a discount to Net that section.
Approval for such status has been given by HM Asset Value, as and when the Directors consider this to be Revenue & Customs for the year ended 31 December 2009. appropriate.
The purchase of shares, when they are trading at a discount to Net Asset Value per share, should result in an Results and Dividends increase in the Net Asset Value per share for the remaining shareholders.
This authority, if conferred, will only be The total gain attributable to equity shareholders for the exercised if to do so would result in an increase in the Net year amounted to 188.2 million.
Asset Value per share for the remaining shareholders and if it is in the best interests of shareholders generally.
Any A final dividend for the year ended 31 December 2009 of purchase of shares will be made within guidelines established 10.2p per Ordinary share was paid on 14 May 2010.
Interim 26 Murray International Trust PLC from time to time by the Board.
It is proposed to seek to an aggregate nominal amount of 2,625,560 equivalent shareholder authority to renew this facility for another year to 10,418,182 Ordinary shares and 84,058 B Ordinary shares at the Annual General Meeting.
or 10 per cent of the Companys existing issued share capital at 22 February 2011, the latest practicable date prior to the Under the Listing Rules, the maximum price that may be paid publication of this Annual Report.
Such authority will expire on the exercise of this authority must not be more than the on the date of the next Annual General Meeting or on 30 higher of i an amount equal to 105 per cent.
of the average June 2012, whichever is earlier.
This means that the authority of the middle market quotations for a share taken from the will have to be renewed at the next Annual General Meeting.
London Stock Exchange Daily Official List for the 5 business days immediately preceding the day on which the share is When shares are to be allotted for cash, Section 561 of the purchased: and ii the higher of the last independent trade Companies Act 2006 provides that existing shareholders and the current highest independent bid on the trading have pre-emption rights and that the new shares must be venue where the purchase is carried out.
The minimum price offered first to such shareholders in proportion to their which may be paid is 25p per share.
However, shareholders can, by special resolution, authorise the Directors to allot shares It is currently proposed that the purchase of shares by the otherwise than by a pro rata issue to existing shareholders.
Company will be made from the realised capital reserve of Special Resolution No.
9 will, if passed, also give the the Company.
The purchase price will normally be paid out Directors power to allot for cash equity securities up to an of the cash balances held by the Company from time to aggregate nominal amount of 2,625,560 equivalent to time.
10,418,182 Ordinary shares and 84,058 B Ordinary shares or 10 per cent of the Companys existing issued share capital at Special Resolution No.
10 will permit the Company to buy 22 February 2011, the latest practicable date prior to the back shares and to hold the shares bought back as treasury publication of this Annual Report, as if Section 561 of the shares rather than cancel them immediately.
The benefit of Companies Act 2006 does not apply.
This is the same the ability to hold treasury shares is that such shares may be nominal amount of share capital which the Directors are resold.
This should give the Company greater flexibility in seeking the authority to allot pursuant to Resolution No.
8. managing its share capital and improve liquidity in its shares.
This authority will also expire on the date of the 2012 Annual The Company would only sell on treasury shares at a General Meeting or on 30 June 2012, whichever is earlier.
premium to net asset value.
When shares are held in This authority will not be used in connection with a rights treasury, all voting rights are suspended and no distribution issue by the Company.
either by way of dividend or by way of a winding up is permitted in respect of treasury shares.
If the Directors The Directors intend to use the authority given by believe that there is no likelihood of re-selling shares bought Resolutions No.
8 and 9 to allot shares and disapply preback, such shares would be cancelled.
emption rights only in circumstances where this will be clearly beneficial to shareholders as a whole.
As such, issues Special Resolution No.
10 in the Notice of Annual General will only be made where shares can be issued at a premium Meeting will renew the authority to purchase in the market a of 0.5 per cent or more to Net Asset Value.
At present, maximum of 14.99% of shares in issue at the date of the shares are available under the savings plans operated by the Annual General Meeting amounting to 15,616,856 Ordinary Manager.
In circumstances where the share price of the shares and 126,003 B Ordinary shares as at 22 February Company stands at a premium of 0.5 per cent or more to 2011.
Such authority will expire on the date of the 2012 Net Asset Value, it may be advantageous for the Company Annual General Meeting or on 30 June 2012, whichever is to allot new shares directly to participants in the savings earlier.
This means in effect that the authority will have to be plans or to other prospective purchasers.
Such issues would renewed at the next Annual General Meeting or earlier if the only be made at prices greater than Net Asset Value, and authority has been exhausted.
would involve no dilution for existing shareholders.
The issue proceeds would be available for investment in line with the During the year ended 31 December 2010 and up to the date Companys investment policy.
No issue of shares will be of this Report no share repurchases have taken place.
made which would effectively alter the control of the Company without the prior approval of shareholders in Issue of Shares general meeting.
Resolution 9 will also disapply pre-emption In terms of the Companies Act 2006 the Act the rights on the sale of treasury shares as envisaged above.
Directors may not allot unissued shares unless so authorised Once again, the pre-emption rights would only be disapplied by the shareholders.
8 in the Notice of Annual where the treasury shares were sold at a premium to Net General Meeting, if passed, will therefore give the Directors Asset Value of not less than 0.5 per cent.
the necessary authority to allot the unissued share capital up Murray International Trust PLC 27 Directors Report continued The Directors consider that these authorities are in the best Percentage of Ordinary Ordinary interests of the Company and shareholders taken as a whole shares of 25p capital and recommend that all shareholders vote in favour of the resolutions, as the Directors intend to in respect of their own Brewin Dolphin 9,985,626 9.6 beneficial holdings of Ordinary shares amounting in Speirs & Jeffrey 7,735,437 7.4 aggregate to 94,920 shares, representing approximately Aberdeen Asset Managers 6,875,809 6.6 0.09% of the Companys issued share capital as at 22 Savings Plans non February 2010. discretionary Rathbones 6,627,515 6.4 Share Capital Legal & General Investment 3,715,191 3.6 Management The issued Ordinary share capital at 31 December 2010 D C Thomson & Company 3,699,600 3.6 amounted to 103,162,856 Ordinary and 833,912 B Ordinary Limited shares.
Details of the changes in share capital during the year Rensburg Sheppards 3,303,668 3.2 are provided in note 14 to the financial statements.
On 17 February 2011 the issued B Ordinary share capital increased Percentage of to 840,584 B Ordinary shares following the capitalisation B Ordinary B Ordinary issue of 6,672 B Ordinary shares in lieu of the third interim shares of 25p capital dividend.
Between 31 December 2010 and the date of this T C Nominees Ltd 188,887 22.5 report, a further 1,018,973 new Ordinary shares were issued for cash at a premium to the prevailing net asset value.
Directors Prospectus The Directors, who held office during the year under review together with their interests are shown below.
All the On 21 December 2010 the Company published a Prospectus Directors held office throughout the year under review.
containing information in relation to the prior issue of 7,854,500 Ordinary shares in the period up to the publication Mr J D Best retires in accordance with the Articles of of the Prospectus.
The Prospectus Rules provide that where a Association of the Company at the Annual General Meeting company issues in a twelve month period new shares and, being eligible, offers himself for re-election.
Mr A C representing 10 per cent or more of the Companys issued Shedden has served on the Board for more than nine years share capital which are already admitted to trading on a and in accordance with corporate governance best practice regulated market, then the company concerned is required to will retire at the Annual General Meeting and, being eligible, issue a prospectus.
In the period from 22 December 2009 to offers himself for re-election.
Resolutions 3 and 4 to this 16 December 2010 the latest practicable date prior to the effect will be proposed at the Annual General Meeting.
Mr J date of the Prospectus, the Company had issued 7,854,500 F H Trott will retire from the Board at the conclusion of the new Ordinary shares in operating the Boards premium AGM on 28 April 2011. control policy, raising net proceeds of 65,670,405.
These shares represented 7.56 per cent of the Companys issued In accordance with the Articles of Association, Directors share capital as at 16 December 2010 the latest practicable must offer themselves for re-election at least once every date prior to the date of this document.
To ensure that the three years.
For those Directors who are not seeking reCompany retains the maximum flexibility to operate the election at this time, it has been less than three years since premium control policy and to meet demand for the their previous re-election.
Ordinary shares, the Board decided to publish the Prospectus.
Following publication of the Prospectus, the Company is able No contract or arrangement significant to the Companys to disregard the 7,854,500 new Ordinary shares issued in the business and in which any of the Directors is interested has period from 22 December 2009 to 16 December 2010, which subsisted during the year.
the Board believes will provide the ability to issue new shares going forward within the Prospectus Rules.
The interests of the Directors in the share capital of the Company were as follows: Share Interests At 22 February 2011 the following share interests in the Company above 3% had been notified: 28 Murray International Trust PLC 31 December 2010 1 January 2010 performance fee is capped at 0.8% of the average value of Beneficial Beneficial the Companys total assets less current liabilities.
Any J F H Trott 35,000 35,000 performance fee is paid in equal instalments over a four year period with any future underperformance offset against the Lady Balfour of 1,300 1,300 Burleigh fee payable.
J D Best 47,500 47,500 No fees are charged in the case of investments managed or K J Carter 3,000 3,000 advised by Aberdeen Asset Management Group.
The A C Shedden 8,052 7,567 management agreement may be terminated by either party on the expiry of one years written notice.
On termination Mr A C Sheddens beneficial holding increased to 8,120 the Manager would be entitled to receive fees which would Ordinary shares by the acquisition of 22 Ordinary shares and otherwise have been due up to that date.
46 Ordinary shares on 24 January 2011 and 17 February 2011 respectively.
With the exception of these further The Board considers the continued appointment of the disclosures, the above holdings were unchanged at 22 Manager on the terms agreed to be in the interests of the February 2011, being the nearest practicable date prior to shareholders as a whole because the Aberdeen Asset the signing of this Annual Report.
Management Group has the investment management, secretarial, marketing and administrative skills required for Directors Fees the effective operation of the Company.
A report on the Directors Remuneration is set out on pages 38 and 39.
Corporate Governance The Statement of Corporate Governance forms part of this Manager and Company Secretary Directors Report and covers the Companys compliance with Investment management services are provided to the Combined Code and is shown on pages 31 to 36.
Company by Aberdeen Asset Managers Limited.
Company secretarial, accounting and administrative services are Audit Committee provided by Aberdeen Asset Management PLC.
Details of the Audit Committee are contained in the Statement of Corporate Governance under the heading Audit For the year ended 31 December 2010, the management and Committee on page 33. secretarial fees payable to the Manager were calculated and charged on the following basis: Directors and Officers Insurance an investment management fee payable to the Manager, The Company purchases and maintains liability insurance Aberdeen Asset Managers Limited, of 0.5% per annum of covering the Directors and officers of the Company.
The the value of total assets, less unlisted investments and all Companys Articles of Association provide an indemnity to current liabilities excluding monies borrowed to finance the the Directors out of the assets of the Company against any investment objectives of the Company, averaged over the liability incurred in defending proceedings or in connection six previous quarters.
A fee of 1.5% per annum is charged with any application to the Court in which relief is granted.
on the value of unlisted investments.
The investment management fee is chargeable 30% against revenue and ISA Status 70% against realised capital reserves: and The Company intends to manage its affairs so as to be a fully included in the charge of 0.5% above is a secretarial fee of qualifying investment for the stocks and shares component 100,000 per annum which is chargeable 100% to revenue.
In addition, the Manager was entitled to a performance fee Going Concern on the following basis: In accordance with the Financial Reporting Councils guidance on Going Concern and Liquidity Risk issued in a fee of 5% of the first 2% of any outperformance of the October 2009 the Directors have undertaken a rigorous Companys net asset total return over that of its review of the Companys ability to continue as a going benchmark: concern.
The Companys assets consist of a diverse portfolio a fee of 10% of any additional outperformance against the of listed equity shares and bonds which in most benchmark.
circumstances are realisable within a very short timescale.
The Directors are mindful of the principal risks and The total amount of the fee earned by the Manager in any uncertainties disclosed on pages 3 to 6 and have reviewed one year comprising the basic management fee and the Murray International Trust PLC 29 Directors Report continued forecasts detailing revenue and liabilities and the Directors There are no agreements between the Company and its believe that the Company has adequate financial resources Directors concerning compensation for loss of office.
to continue its operational existence for the foreseeable future and at least 12 months from the date of this Annual Directors Conflicts of Interests Report.
Accordingly, the Directors continue to adopt the The Board confirms that, as at the date of this Report, the going concern basis in preparing these financial statements.
Directors do not have any conflicts of interest which might require to be approved by the Board or otherwise recorded in Creditor Payment Policy the Companys Register of Conflicts.
The Companys payment policy is to agree terms of payment before business is transacted, to ensure suppliers are aware Independent Auditors of these terms and to settle bills in accordance with them.
The auditors, Ernst & Young LLP, have expressed their The Company did not have any trade creditors at the year willingness to continue in office.
Ernst & Young LLP as the Companys auditor will be put to the forthcoming Annual General Meeting, along with Financial Instruments Resolution No.
6 to authorise the Directors to fix their The Companys financial instruments comprise its remuneration.
During the year the auditors received 91,000 investment portfolio, cash balances, loans and debtors and VAT in relation to non-audit services, being the review of creditors that arise directly from its operations such as sales the B Ordinary share capitalisation issue calculations, agreed and purchases awaiting settlement and accrued income.
The upon procedures in respect of the Half Yearly Report and main risks that the Company faces arising from its financial advice in connection with overseas tax reclaims.
instruments are disclosed in note 19 to the financial statements.
By order of the Board of Murray International Trust PLC Accountability and Audit Each Director confirms that, so far as he or she is aware, Aberdeen Asset Management PLC there is no relevant audit information of which the Secretary Companys auditors are unaware, and he or she has taken all 40 Princes Street, the steps that they ought to have taken as a Director in order Edinburgh EH2 2BY to make themselves aware of any relevant audit information 22 February 2011 and to establish that the Companys auditors are aware of that information.
Additionally there are no important events since the year end.
Disclosure & Transparency Rules DTRs The following further information is disclosed in accordance with DTR 7.2.
6: The Companys capital structure and voting rights are summarised on page 3 and note 14: Details of the substantial shareholders in the Company are listed on page 28: The rules concerning the appointment and replacement of Directors are contained in the Companys Articles of Association and are summarised on page 28: Amendment of the Companys Articles of Association and powers to issue or buy back the Companys shares requires a special resolution to be passed by shareholders: There are: no restrictions concerning the transfer of securities in the Company: no special rights with regard to control attached to securities: no agreements between holders of securities regarding their transfer known to the Company: no agreements which the Company is party to that might affect its control following a takeover bid: 30 Murray International Trust PLC
