Managers Review How the West envied such normal business cycle growing pains and the simplicity of solutions to address them.
As befits the diversity of macro-economic conditions, returns from stockmarkets were extremely varied.
Most European markets struggled to make much progress as sovereign debt concerns deflated investor sentiment.
North America and the UK ignored prevailing negative fundamentals, focusing instead on positive corporate profit momentum.
Bruce Stout Consequently solid returns of 19.1% and 12.2% were Senior Investment Manager recorded respectively.
Although the Japanese market declined in local terms, strength of the Yen resulted in a very Background respectable 19.0% return in Sterling terms.
Indeed the Another year of above average returns from global equity overall influence of Sterling positively enhanced returns, the markets over the past twelve months might imply all was only exception being its 4% rise against the Euro.
The pound well with the world in 2010.
If depreciated against all other exposure currencies in the anything, the global economic system faced much tougher portfolio over the period.
Not for the first time in recent challenges than any experienced since the credit crisis of years it was left to the Emerging world to provide notable 2007-09.
The enormous cost of avoiding systemic collapse contributions.
Asia and Latin America returned 24.4% and during that period could no longer be ignored.
20.6% respectively, with extremely strong 40% plus returns Unfortunately, when it came to payback time, many in Sterling terms from markets such as Thailand, Indonesia creditors were found to be seriously short of funds.
worlds largest debtor nation, the United States, blatantly ignored calls for fiscal restraint.
Faced with stubbornly high Performance unemployment, declining house prices, falling credit demand The Net Asset Value Total Return for the year to 31 and contracting real incomes, policymakers opted for December 2010 with net dividends reinvested was 24.7% popularism over prudence.
Billions of additional US dollars compared with a return on the benchmark of 14.9%.
A full were printed, causing further deterioration to an already attribution analysis is given on page 20 which details the chronic fiscal deficit.
Recognising frighteningly similar various influences on portfolio performance.
In summary, of circumstances in the UK, the newly elected coalition the 1030 basis points before expenses of performance government talked tough on the need for frugality.
In the above the index, asset allocation contributed 300 basis event no progress was made on reducing the mountainous points and stock selection 540 basis points.
Structural effects public and private sector debt burden built up through years relating to the fixed income portfolio, net of borrowing and of unconstrained excess.
Europe was not as fortunate in its hedging costs, added a further 190 basis points of positive attempts at procrastination.
Global fixed income investors relative performance.
Within the equity asset allocation, ran out of patience with highly indebted peripheral European positive contributions came from underweighting the UK and nations such as Greece, Spain, Portugal and Ireland.
Rising overweighting towards Asia and Latin America.
Superior risk aversion and escalating uncertainty caused widespread stock selection in five of the six regional areas also enhanced financial panic throughout associated sovereign debt performance.
It took a sizeable European Union support package and public intervention from Germany to restore some USA fragile semblance of order towards year end.
Meanwhile, Macro-economic trends in the United States showed Japan, the worlds second largest debtor, watched quietly virtually no improvement throughout 2010.
Devoid of policy from the sidelines.
Mired in deflation for the past twenty options and pragmatic solutions, US policymakers and years, the Wests woes were all too familiar for policymakers politicians intensified their preaching of securing growth with in Tokyo.
Against such a backdrop of economic negativity fiscal restraint.
Unfortunately, as always with such unbridled the only bright spots were Asia and Latin America.
optimism, it was simple to say but difficult to deliver.
Demonstrating further economic decoupling from the Unperturbed by evolving reality, the hope was for a normal developed world, domestic economic growth in nations such recovery, where bank lending, consumption, employment as Brazil, India, China and Taiwan, surpassed expectations.
and income all recover in a healthy fashion.
Unfortunately, Ironically, at times, emerging market growth threatened to with the starting point characterised by grossly overbe too strong.
In response, prompted by capacity constraints indebted public and private sectors, deflationary forces were and rising inflationary pressures, monetary authorities acted more likely to prevail.
In the event, this is indeed what prudently to tighten policy to alleviate any overheating.
Bank lending and credit growth remained Murray International Trust PLC 9 Managers Review continued negative throughout the period.
Contracting real incomes the Sword of Damocles hung menacingly over the public kept consumption constrained and there was virtually no sector.
The national reality of living within its means was new generation of private sector jobs.
Probably the most never going to be pleasant after twenty years of credit accurate description of the US economy in 2010 was one of induced intemperance.
Just how unpleasant the UK populace stagnation.
In an attempt to plug the public financing gap, has still to find out.
Given such prevailing economic taxes were reluctantly raised, but it became evident very uncertainty, very few attractive domestic investment quickly that US policymakers had no stomach for the opportunities were identified in the UK market last year.
The protracted pain of public sector spending cuts.
Deficit portfolio continued to add to existing positions in overseas reduction plans were quietly shelved.
Unconcerned by earners such as Royal Dutch Shell and British American accusations of gambling with free market capitalism and the Tobacco, but overall asset exposure remained essentially credibility of the US dollar, the Authorities resorted to unchanged.
another extensive stimulus programme by printing more money.
Despite all evidence to the contrary, policymakers Europe clung to a misguided belief that by reflating capital markets Extremely high levels of sovereign indebtedness plagued the and asset prices, inflation could be generated, thereby economic landscape in Europe and threatened the very reducing overall debt burdens.
Rational analysis tended to existence of the European Union.
Caught in a liquidity trap, where neither low future fiscal financing requirements in Greece, Portugal, interest rates nor printing money can stimulate borrowing Ireland and Spain escalated as it became clear that public because consumer demand is non-existent, such irresponsible sector budget deficits were spiralling out of control.
As rising policy actions reflected escalating desperation.
For a country bond yields threatened default for those worse affected, increasingly dependent on foreign capital to finance its severe austerity measures were demanded by financial bloated budget, such an act of economic vandalism may markets.
The draconian nature of proposed initiatives ultimately burden future generations with a very high price temporarily placated fixed income investors, but were clearly to pay.
From an investment perspective, the rising US impossible to achieve and incompatible with the reality of stockmarket was used as an opportunity to reduce net long term social democracy.
In response, more pragmatic exposure.
Positions in Intel and Procter & Gamble were sold proposals were introduced.
Backed by strong intent from outright, leaving the residual portfolio defensively positioned.
Germany to maintain the euro currency and address structural issues, a 750m bailout fund was established.
This UK immediately relieved liquidity problems in effect, buying The disconnect between economic rhetoric and economic time.
Realistic deficit reduction plans were put in place reality in the UK remained as prominent as ever during the across the board, providing specific targets and time scales period.
With the ink barely dry on the marriage certificate of for those involved.
The deleveraging of debt-infested Europe the new Coalition government, politicians and policymakers moved from talk of fiscal rectitude to the pain of fiscal immediately came face to face with the extremely limited rectitude.
Sentiment remained depressed throughout as policy options available when elected on an austerity unemployment moved relentlessly higher.
On paper, policy objectives seemed looked for leadership, with repeated calls for a reluctant straightforward.
Balance the books of the public and private Germany to impose discipline on Eurolands fiscal targets and sector through fiscal rectitude and a return to thrift and give the euro more credibility.
In practice, policy objectives proved punitive to resistance and political posturing, Germany politely declined, implement due to prevailing economic fragilities.
As usual, but there can be no doubt that in the ever-evolving European the UK housing market was at the core of economic landscape, the pendulum of economic power is swinging dislocations.
Having failed dismally to address massive back.
Compromises made today come with tougher mortgage lending excesses witnessed in Britain during the conditions attached for tomorrow.
For those highly indebted credit boom, newly introduced national regulatory initiatives countries in peripheral Europe the next few years will witness arguably picked the worst possible time to restrict the supply just how tough those conditions are likely to be.
With average UK to persistent macro-economic challenges, European house prices still over six times the average salary, the companies demonstrated superior capital discipline in the affordability of property did not improve.
Widespread market weakness was used as historical experience tells us that boom-bust property cycles an opportunity to add to existing holdings and establish new take a long time to redress imbalances.
This journey in the positions in Nestle, a multinational packaged food company, UK has only just begun.
Consequently, confidence stayed and Novartis, a diversified manufacturer of pharmaceuticals subdued, with consumers reluctant to spend.
Credit growth and healthcare products.
Both companies are based in remained virtually non-existent, real incomes declined as Switzerland.
inflation spiked higher, savings reached the highest level for over fifteen years and job insecurity reached record levels as 10 Murray International Trust PLC Elsewhere in Asia, policymakers were confronted with more Latin America orthodox economic issues.
Well above average growth rates Undaunted and unconstrained by deflationary forces raised concerns over capacity constraints.
Top of the agenda resonating throughout the developed world, Latin America was staying ahead of inflationary pressures, prompting continued to prosper in 2010.
Currency stability, Central monetary authorities in Australia, Malaysia, India and China Bank independence and vibrant export sectors in Brazil and to further increase interest rates.
Persistently rising imported Mexico, provided a stable backdrop for growth.
Indeed food and commodity prices proved difficult to suppress, Brazils exports to China have risen ten fold over the past ten especially in countries where demand remained staunchly years, emphasising the growth in intra-emerging market inelastic.
Historical evidence suggests that Central Banks trade and the decline in developed market dependency.
throughout the region will succeed in stemming excesses, Strong investment in natural resources, manufacturing and but the current restrictive environment may prevail for some oil production continued to broaden the income base time.
Not surprisingly, as policy tightened, growth concerns throughout the region.
Signs of emerging economic maturity intensified, unfortunately losing some perspective along the were also evident as inflationary pressures, which often way.
Fears over declining growth rates in Asia appear accompany rapid growth, threatened to escalate.
Long term structural positives of rising real emptive interest rate hikes in Brazil reduced consumption to incomes, surplus savings, low consumption and more sustainable levels by reducing credit demand.
Such manufacturing competitiveness remain unchanged.
restraining measures were welcomed by most long-term Squeezing some temporary inflation problems out of the investors.
Ongoing strength of Latin American currencies system is not likely to derail the freight train.
Periods of against the US Dollar and Sterling proved less welcome for stockmarket weakness throughout the year were used to domestic exporters but enhanced investment returns from increase exposure.
Existing holdings in companies such as the portfolio.
Supported by strong balance sheets and China Mobile, Taiwan Semiconductor, QBE Insurance, Taiwan substantial free cash flows, earnings and dividend growth Mobile, Hindustan Unilever and Singapore Telecom were all from holdings such as Souza Cruz, Kimberly Clark fide Mexico increased.
At current valuations relative to realistic earnings and Vale again surpassed expectations.
Two new holdings and dividend prospects, many Asian companies remain were initiated during the period, both of which are domiciled attractive investments for the long term.
in Brazil: Wilson & Sons, a domestic operator of port terminals, towage and maritime logistics for international Outlook trade transportation: and Banco Bradesco, one of the countries leading financial services providers.
Following a If only politicians could manage countries as well as people long period of strong outperformance, the large position in can manage companies.
A slightly facetious observation, it Petrobras was significantly reduced, thereby providing might be said, given the differing social profit objectives additional funds for new opportunities.
Given the solid between the macro economic and micro-economic macro-economic backdrop and attractiveness of selective economy, but one which dominated investment reality in investments in the Region, current levels of exposure are 2010 never-the-less.
Failure on the part of politicians to likely to be maintained.
deliver on previous promises of fiscal rectitude, policy reforms and credible legislation in the heavily indebted developed world fuelled the ongoing erosion of confidence in Japan and Asia sovereign leadership.
Amongst the most memorable If definitive evidence was required as to why greater fiscal toothless responses to previous declarations of defiance were stimulus is no answer to the developed worlds debt the return to printing money in the United States, the problems, then economists should look no further than reluctance to legislate in the UK Banking sector and Japan.
Persistent fiscal deficits for the past twenty years widespread denial by peripheral Europe to acknowledge and constantly diverted financial resources away from the private address the enormous structural debt liabilities that exist.
It sector, thereby constraining domestic GDP growth.
Now one may have been politically fashionable for politicians and of the most highly indebted countries in the world, Japans policymakers to talk about putting the house in order but in plight became a global concern in 2010.
With domestic practice there were few signs of its actually happening.
Given savings dwindling and a rapidly aging population, future the denial and short-termism that prevails, we expect macrodebt-financing fears intensified.
Such a demographic timeeconomic uncertainty to feature prominently throughout bomb suggests a lifetime of repayments for the next 2011. generation, which from an investment perspective, could significantly constrain economic activity for many years to More encouragingly, it was reassuring to witness another come.
Selective exposure in the Trust will continue to focus good year for corporate profitability and dividend growth last on successful companies that prosper despite the prevailing year, at least for those well managed companies with solid deflationary environment.
Strong capital management and extensive cost reduction in 2009 provided the platform for expanding Murray International Trust PLC 11 Managers Review continued margins throughout 2010, but for many companies revenue growth also surprised on the upside.
Irrespective of where companies were domiciled, the trend toward globalisation of the past five years undoubtedly enhanced results.
The key questions are how sustainable these trends are and what price is currently being asked for such exposure.
We acknowledge that in terms of momentum, overall corporate profit comparisons year-on-year are going to be tough in 2011.
Companies exposed to truly growth markets should fair better than average but undoubtedly the positive surprise factor is largely in the past.
On price, valuations have crept higher, but for Murray Internationals portfolio they are not excessive relative to growth prospects.
We remain comfortable favouring equities over bonds and maintaining strategic exposure in quality companies exposed to growth markets.
Tactically the trend towards reducing cyclicality and increasing defensive exposure will continue when relative pricing is deemed appropriate.
Bruce Stout Aberdeen Asset Managers Limited Investment Manager 22 February 2011 12 Murray International Trust PLC
