Corporate Summary The Company investment purposes or to fund the purchase of the Company's own shares.
Total gearing is not in normal Murray International Trust PLC the Company or the Trust is an investment trust traded on the London Stock circumstances to exceed 30 per cent of Net Assets with cash Exchange and is a constituent of the FTSE Actuaries All-Share deposits netted against the level of borrowings.
Some 25,000 of its shareholders are private investors.
end there was net gearing of 15.6% and particular care is Murray International Trust PLC offers the advantages of taken to ensure that any bank covenants permit maximum exposure to world markets.
The Company is invested in a flexibility of investment policy.
diversified portfolio of international equities and fixed income securities.
Changes to Investment Policy Any material change to the investment policy will require the Benchmark approval of the shareholders by way of an ordinary resolution The Companys benchmark is a composite index made up as at a general meeting.
The Company will promptly issue an to 40% of the FTSE World-UK Index and 60% of the FTSE announcement to inform the shareholders and the public of World ex-UK Index.
any change of its investment policy.
Investment Objective Delivering the Investment Policy The primary aim of the Company is to achieve a total return The Directors are responsible for determining the investment greater than its benchmark by investing predominantly in equities worldwide.
Within this objective the Manager will policy and the investment objective of the Company.
Day to seek to increase the Companys revenues in order to day management of the Companys assets has been maintain an above average dividend yield.
"delegated to Aberdeen Asset Managers Limited ""AAM"" or the ""Manager""."
The Manager invests in a diversified range of Investment Policy international companies in accordance with the investment Asset Allocation objective.
The Companys assets are invested in a diversified portfolio of international equities and fixed income securities spread The investment manager, Bruce Stout, has responsibility for across a range of industries and economies.
The Company's portfolio construction across all regional segments.
Working investment policy is flexible and it may, from time to time, closely with the relevant underlying fund management hold other securities including but not limited to indexteams in each case, portfolio construction is an interactive linked securities, convertible securities, preference shares, process.
The Manager utilises a Global Equity Buy List unlisted securities, depositary receipts and other equitywhich is constructed by each of the specialist country related securities.
The Company may invest in derivatives for management teams.
This list contains all buy and hold the purposes of efficient portfolio management.
The recommendations for each management team, which are Companys investment policy does not impose any then used as the investment universe.
Stock selection is the geographical, sectoral or industrial constraints upon the major source of added value.
Top-down investment factors are secondary in the Managers It is the investment policy of the Company to invest no more portfolio construction, with diversification rather than formal than 15 per cent of its gross assets in other listed investment controls guiding stock and sector weights.
companies including listed investment trusts.
The Company currently does not have any investments in other investment Market capitalisation is not a primary concern.
is permitted to invest up to 15% of its investments by value in any single stock at the time of purchase.
Risk Diversification The Manager actively monitors the Companys portfolio and A detailed description of the investment process and risk attempts to mitigate risk primarily through diversification.
controls employed by the Manager is disclosed on page 23.
A The Company is permitted to invest up to 15 per cent of its comprehensive analysis of the Companys portfolio is investments by value in any single stock at the time of disclosed on pages 15 to 22 including a description of the purchase.
twenty largest investments, the Portfolio of Investments by value, attribution analysis, distribution of investments and Gearing distribution of equity investments.
The Board considers that returns to shareholders can be enhanced by the judicious use of borrowing.
The Board is At the year end the Companys portfolio consisted of 59 responsible for the level of gearing in the Company and equity and 13 bond holdings.
The Manager is authorised by reviews the position on a regular basis.
Any borrowing, the Board to hold between 50 and 150 stocks in the except for short-term liquidity purposes, is used for portfolio.
2 Murray International Trust PLC History million or 15.6% of Net Assets with cash deposits netted against the borrowings.
The Company currently hedges Murray International Trust PLC started its life in 1907 as The most of the foreign currency exposure in respect of the Scottish Western Investment Company Limited.
The Scottish liabilities attached to its borrowings.
The Companys Western of the early days was very highly geared but it was borrowing facilities are further detailed in note 13.
Financial mainly invested in bonds, though the international spread covenants contained within the relevant loan agreements was just as great with countries such as Argentina, China, provide, inter alia, that borrowings shall at no time exceed Japan, Canada and many others appearing in the portfolio.
40% of Net Assets and that the Net Assets must exceed Although the range of currencies was much smaller, multi 400 million.
The Net Assets were 967.7 million at 31 currency or even gold-backed bonds were common place, as December 2010. many of the eras bond certificates show.
If any of the financial covenants were to be breached, the The big move into equities came after the 1930s slump, lenders would be entitled, following the serving of notice to when bond defaults forced the purchase of higher yielding the Company, to declare the loans and all accrued interest, equities to fund the costs of the Trusts gearing.
The fees and other sums owed under the agreement to be Managers were not slow to spot an opportunity, but it immediately due and repayable.
started as Hobsons choice, and was only later hailed as brilliant foresight.
Duration In 1929 just under 20% of the assets were in equities, in The Company does not have a fixed life.
1940 38%, in 1948 51% of the assets, which were still only 2.65 million.
After deducting the preference shares which Principal Risks and Uncertainties were repaid in 1999 and debentures, the Company was General effectively over 100% geared into equities by the start of the An investment in the shares is only suitable for investors who great post war boom.
are capable of evaluating the merits and risks of such an investment and who have sufficient resources to be able to After a number of amalgamations, the Company emerged as bear any losses which may arise therefrom which may be a generalist investment trust.
However, there was an excess equal to the whole amount invested.
Such an investment of trusts with a similar broad remit, so towards the end of should be seen as long term in nature and complementary to the 1970s the Board defined the investment brief more narrowly as the achievement of growth in income and capital existing investments in a range of other financial assets.
Changes in economic conditions including, for example, Symbolised by the name change from Murray Western to interest rates and rates of inflation, industry conditions, Murray International Trust PLC in 1984, the focus has since competition, changes in the law, political and diplomatic been on a relatively high yielding portfolio of equities in a events and trends, tax laws and other factors can well diversified mix of world markets.
substantially and adversely affect the value of investments and therefore the Company's performance and prospects.
In 2008 the Board circulated to all shareholders a short booklet to commemorate the centenary of the incorporation Past performance of the Company, and of investments of the Company on 18 December 1907.
Further copies are managed by the Manager, are not necessarily indicative of available on the website or from the Company Secretary.
Capital Structure The Shares The Companys issued share capital as at 22 February 2011 consisted of 104,181,829 Ordinary shares of 25p 99.2% of The market value of, and the income derived from, the shares the total share capital and 840,584 B Ordinary shares of 25p can fluctuate and, notwithstanding the Board's discount and 0.8% of the total share capital.
The difference between the premium control policy, may not always reflect the Net rights of the B Ordinary shareholders and those of the Asset Value per share.
There can be no guarantee that any Ordinary shareholders is contained in the glossary on page appreciation in the value of the Company's investments will 65. occur and investors may not get back the full value of their investment.
No assurance can be given that any sale of the Total Assets and Net Asset Value Company's investments would realise proceeds which would At 31 December 2010, the Company had Total Assets of be sufficient to repay any borrowings or provide funds for 1,134.3 million and a Net Asset Value per Ordinary and B any capital repayment to shareholders.
Shareholders will bear Ordinary share of 930.5p.
See definition on page 65 the rewards and risks of the success or otherwise of the Borrowings Company's investments.
The borrowings are all drawn down in Japanese Yen and at 31 December 2010 represented the equivalent of 161.8 Murray International Trust PLC 3 Corporate Summary continued The market value of the shares, as well as being affected by impair the ability of the issuer to make payments of principal their Net Asset Value, also takes into account their dividend and interest or may cause the liquidation or insolvency of an yield and prevailing interest rates, supply and demand for the issuer.
There can be no assurance as to the levels of default shares, market conditions and general investor sentiment.
and or recoveries that may be experienced with respect to bonds.
Debt instruments held by the Company may be Borrowings affected by changes in market sentiment or changes in The Company may incur borrowings for investment interest rates that will, in turn, result in increases and purposes.
Whilst the use of borrowings should enhance the decreases in the market value of those instruments.
When total return on the shares where the return on the interest rates decline, the value of the Company's Company's underlying assets is rising and exceeds the cost of investments in fixed rate debt obligations can be expected to borrowing, it will have the opposite effect where the rise and, when interest rates rise or are expected to rise, the underlying return is falling, further reducing the total return value of those investments can be expected to decline.
As a result, the use of borrowings by the Company may increase the volatility of the Net Asset Value To the extent that the Company invests in sub-investment and market price per share.
grade securities, the Company may realise a higher yield than the yield offered by investment grade securities, but There is no guarantee that any borrowings of the Company investment in such securities involves a greater volatility of would be refinanced on their maturity either at all or on price and a greater risk of default by the issuers of such terms that are acceptable to the Company.
securities, with potential loss of interest payment and principal.
Sub-investment grade securities will be subject, in Dividends the judgment of a ratings agency, to uncertainties in terms of The Company will only pay dividends on the Ordinary shares their performance in adverse conditions and will be and a capitalisation issue for B Ordinary shares to the speculative with respect to an issuer's capacity to meet extent that it has profits including available reserves interest payments and repay principal in accordance with its available for that purpose, which will largely depend on the obligations.
There can be no assurance that an issuer will not amount of income which the Company receives on its default or that the Company will be able to recover its investments and the timing of such receipt.
The amount of investments in defaulted fixed interest debt instruments.
dividends payable by the Company may fluctuate.
As bond investments of the Company mature, it may be If under UK law or accounting rules and standards applicable difficult for the Company to obtain replacement investments to the Company, there were to be a change to the basis on having similar financial characteristics.
which dividends could be paid by companies, this could have a negative effect on the Company's ability to pay dividends.
Market Price Risk The fair value of equity and other financial securities held in Investment Objective and Strategy the Company's portfolio fluctuates with changes in market There is no guarantee that the Company's investment prices.
Prices are themselves affected by movements in objective will be achieved.
currencies and interest rates and by other financial issues including the market perception of future risks.
The Company may from time to time invest in other listed investment companies.
As a consequence of these Foreign Currency Risks investments, the Company may itself be indirectly exposed The Company's investments are principally in overseas to gearing through the borrowings from time to time of securities.
The Company accounts for its activities and these other investment companies.
The Company has a reports its results in pounds sterling.
The Company currently policy of not investing more than 15 per cent of its gross hedges most of the foreign currency exposure in respect of assets in other listed investment companies.
The Net Asset the liabilities attached to its borrowings.
Where the Value, which is a factor in determining the market value of Company does not hedge its currency exposure, which is the shares, will be linked to the underlying share price currently the case with the investment portfolio, the performance of any such other investment companies.
movement of exchange rates may have a favourable or Debt Instruments unfavourable effect on the gains and losses experienced on The Company invests in fixed interest investments issued by investments which are made or realised in currencies other corporate bodies and sovereign issuers.
Bonds are subject to than pounds sterling.
credit, liquidity and interest rate risks and in the event of a default there is a risk that the Net Asset Value may be Charges to Capital adversely affected.
Adverse changes in the financial position The Company currently deducts part of the management of an issuer of bonds or in general economic conditions may charge from capital.
This increases distributable income at 4 Murray International Trust PLC the expense of capital growth, which will either be eroded or trust company could lead to the Company being subject to constrained.
The maintenance of a high level of dividend may tax on capital gains.
Tax and Accounting Discount and Premium Control Policy Any change in the Company's tax status or in taxation The Company operates a discount and premium control legislation or accounting practice could affect the value of policy.
The operation of the discount control element of this the investments held by the Company, affect the Company's policy could lead to a significant reduction in the size of the ability to provide returns to shareholders or alter the post-tax Company over time, which would increase the Company's returns to shareholders.
Representations in this document total expense ratio and prejudice the ability of the Company concerning the taxation of investors are based upon current to pay satisfactory levels of dividend to shareholders.
While tax law and practice which are subject to change.
the Company intends to issue new shares and to resell shares held in treasury at a small premium to the Net Asset Value Any change in accounting standards may adversely affect the per share where demand exceeds supply, this will be value of the Company's assets in its books of account or dependent upon the Company being able to issue new shares restrict the ability of the Company to pay dividends.
and to resell shares held in treasury at a premium, on market conditions generally at the relevant time, upon shareholders Regulatory in general meeting conferring appropriate authorities on the It is expected that the recently agreed Alternative Board to issue further shares and, where required under the Investment Fund Managers Directive will enter into force in Prospectus Rules, upon a prospectus having been approved 2013.
The Directive may have significant consequences for by the Financial Services Authority and published.
The ability the Company and all similar investment companies which of the Company to operate the discount control policy will might materially increase compliance and regulatory costs.
depend on the Company being able to purchase its own The Directive is subject to further implementation measures, shares, which will be dependent upon shareholders in general and the Board will continue to monitor the progress and meeting conferring authority on the Board to purchase its likely implications of the Directive.
The Directors will seek renewal of this authority from shareholders annually and at other times should this The performance of the Company is dependent upon the prove necessary.
However, there can be no guarantee that Manager's expertise in pursuing the investment policy and requisite shareholder approvals will be obtained.
upon the Manager's key personnel The ability of the Company to successfully pursue its In accordance with the Listing Rules, the extent of each buyinvestment policy is significantly dependent upon the back authority which will be sought by the Company from expertise of the Manager and the principal members of its shareholders in general meeting will be limited to 14.99 per management team.
The Company does not currently have cent, of the Company's issued share capital as at the date on employees or own any facilities and depends on the Manager which such authority is granted.
In order to continue for the day to day management and operation of its purchasing its own shares once any such authority has been business.
The loss of any of the Manager's management exhausted, the Company would be required to seek a team could reduce the Company's ability to pursue renewal of such authority from shareholders in general successfully its planned investment policy.
The Company has no employees and is reliant on the The ability of the Company to purchase its own shares will performance of third party service providers be subject to the Act and all other applicable legislation, rules The Company has no employees and the Directors have all and regulations of any government, regulatory body or been appointed on a non executive basis.
The Company is market applicable to the Directors or the Company and, in therefore reliant upon the performance of third party service particular, will be dependent on the availability of providers for its executive function.
In particular, the distributable reserves.
Manager and the Secretary will be performing services which are integral to the operation of the Company.
The failure by Cessation of Investment Trust Status any service provider to carry out its obligations to the The Company attempts to conduct its business so as to Company in accordance with the terms of its appointment satisfy the conditions for approval as an investment trust could have a materially detrimental impact on the operation under Part 24 Chapter 4 of the Corporation Tax Act 2010.
In of the Company and could affect the ability of the Company respect of each accounting period for which approval is to pursue successfully its investment policy.
granted, the Company will be exempt from United Kingdom taxation on its capital gains.
Any breach of the tests that a company must meet to obtain approval as an investment Murray International Trust PLC 5 Corporate Summary continued The Company may experience fluctuations in its operating results The Company may experience fluctuations in its operating results from period to period due to a number of factors, including changes in the values of investments made by the Company, changes in the amount of distributions, dividends or interest paid in respect of investments in the portfolio, changes in the Company's operating expenses, and general economic and market conditions.
Such variability may lead to volatility in the market price of the shares and cause the Company's results for a particular period not to be indicative of its performance in a future period.
Share Dealing and ISA Status Shares in Murray International Trust can be bought in the open market through a stockbroker.
They can also be purchased through Aberdeen savings schemes and fully qualify for inclusion within tax-efficient ISA wrappers see page 66.
Management Agreement Summary The Company has an agreement with Aberdeen Asset Managers Limited, a wholly owned subsidiary of Aberdeen Asset Management PLC, for the provision of management services for a fee, as detailed in the Directors Report on page 29 and in note 3 on page 47.
AIC Murray International Trust is a member of the Association of Investment Companies.
com The maintenance and integrity of the Murray International Trust PLC website is the responsibility of the Directors: the work carried out by the auditors does not involve consideration of these matters and, accordingly, the auditors accept no responsibility for any changes that may have occurred to the financial statements since they were initially presented on the web site.
Furthermore, legislation in the United Kingdom governing the preparation and dissemination of financial statements may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions Company Secretary Aberdeen Asset Management PLC Email: company.
co. uk Customer Services Freephone: 0500 00 00 40 open Monday - Friday 9am - 5pm Email: inv.
com 6 Murray International Trust PLC
