12 Cairn Energy PLC Annual Report 2010 Industry RETURN TO GROWTH In 2010, the world economy started OVERVIEW on the road to recovery from the worst recession since the Second World War, registering 5% GDP growth after a 1 Dr Julian Fennema of Heriot-Watt Universitys Energy contraction in 2009.
Ongoing fragility in private demand constrained advanced Academy provides his view on the industry.
economies to 3% growth, but the emerging and developing economies expanded by 7.1%.
This strong performance led DR JULIAN FENNEMA to concerns of overheating in many ENERGY ACADEMY, economies, with competition for HERIOT-WATT UNIVERSITY scarce resources driving up global commodities prices.
Brent crude also trended upwards, averaging $79.5 per barrel bbl in 2010, up from $61.7 bbl in 2009.
This has continued in early 2011, breaking through the $100 bbl per barrel mark at the end of January for the first time in three years, predominantly as a result of increased geo-political risk.
Global demand for oil products rose by 2 3.2% to 87.8 mmbopd in 2010.
This increase was partially due to the economic recovery in advanced economies but 3 mainly driven by non-OECD economies such as China and India, where energyintensive industrial development and expanding transport services increased 4 demand by in excess of 1 mb d. Expansions in supply did not keep pace with this demand growth through 2010, hence the tightening in price.
Supply 5 grew by 2.5% to 87.3 mb d, this response 6 being evenly shared between OPEC and non-OPEC sources, where the second was higher than expected given declining production in mature areas such as the North Sea and Mexico.
Historically, the gas price was linked to Given the long-term forecasts for continued demand that of oil due to the lack of an open growth, particularly from non-OECD economies, the oil market and the need for long-term and gas sector has seen the improved market outlook contracts to pay for expensive transport systems.
The recent development of a reflected in its stock prices.
global LNG infrastructure has brought about a disconnection between the Despite mixed experiences, the sector valuation two commodities which was reinforced rose 32% over 2010, almost twice the increase of in 2010.
The upturn in economic growth, the wider market.
and linked demand for natural gas, did result in a modest increase of the 1 gas price within the European market, IMF World Economic Outlook Update, January 2011.
2 IEA Oil Market Report, February 2011. but expansions in domestic supply 3 Organisation for Economic Cooperation and Development.
led to continued falls in price in the 4 EIA Short-Term Energy Outlook, February 2011.
5 IEA Oil Market Report, February 2011.
6 Organisation of Petroleum Exporting Countries.
7 EXPLORATION IN 2010 The increase in domestic supply in the US from the unconventional gas revolution, gas extracted from shale, tight sands or coalbeds, has driven prices down from Exploration activity is vital to ensure a c. $7 per thousand cubic feet in 2008 to c. $4 in 2010. continued resource stock for exploitation, 8 As resource nationalism increasingly restricts the access of independent oil companies but exploration expenditure was squeezed non-government companies, from the IOCs to large and mid-cap they need reserves in the aftermath of the financial crisis due in other areas.
These are likely to be in remote, and often extreme, geographical locations or in deepwater, or from unconventional sources such as tar sands or shale to a high-cost environment and restricted deposits.
Although technically more risky these projects offer more advantageous cash flows.
Despite the amelioration of fiscal terms and hence maintain a risk-return relationship.
The frontier is continually these constraints through 2010, the total expanding due to technical innovation within the industry.
exploration expenditure, and number 9 A barrel of oil equivalent boe is the quantity of gas with the same energy content of completed wells, continued to fall.
as one barrel of oil, allowing direct comparison of the size of oil and gas fields.
Business Review Cairn Energy PLC Annual Report 2010 13 Overview Business Review Directors and Governance Financial Statements Additional Information Mangala Processing Terminal, Rajasthan SHAREHOLDER VALUE The suspension of drilling activity in the The supply of rigs is catching up with Given the long-term forecasts for Gulf of Mexico in the aftermath of the demand, easing conditions slightly in 2011, continued demand growth, particularly Macondo incident was a key reason for but demand is expected to remain buoyant from non-OECD economies, the oil and this, as a major proportion of exploration and rental and utilisation rates high.
gas sector has seen the improved market activity by international oil companies outlook reflected in its stock prices.
IOCs was planned in this area last year.
M&A MARKET REIGNITED The imposed drilling moratorium also Exploration activity is not the only way, Despite mixed experiences, the sector reinforced the strategic move by the large however, for companies to gain access valuation rose 32% over 2010, almost companies to diversify their resource base, to reserves, and 2010 saw an increase twice the increase of the wider market.
with a reallocation of planned capital spend of 33% in the value of upstream M&A 8 towards frontier exploration activity.
activity over the previous year, to $183 Producing oil from a successful exploration billion.
This reflected the easing of effort is not the only way to generate Despite the fall in expenditure, additions financial conditions but also the increased shareholder value, however, as the previous to reserves were at their highest since bullishness over long-term prices section demonstrates.
By identifying 2000, estimated to have grown by over and the value of acquired reserves.
9 commercially viable reserves, exploration 40 billion boe.
A small number of companies create a new asset with a market very significant finds in Brazil and Iran The firms undertaking the acquisitions value derived from its future production accounted for approximately 50% of this were mainly NOCs from countries with potential.
The company might choose to volume, but these reserves are owned by insufficient domestic resource bases.
produce the reserves themselves, but may national oil companies NOCs.
There was These included the cash-rich Chinese also generate returns by selling the asset.
only one recorded discovery in excess NOCs Sinopec and CNOOC investing This avoids the complexity of bringing of 1 billion boe by an independent oil heavily in North American projects, and large finds into production, requiring company, the Leviathan gas field in the the hostile takeover of the UK-based significant upfront investment and, usually, Mediterranean off the coast of Israel.
independent oil company, Dana Petroleum, joint ventures as a means of financing by the South Korean NOC in September.
In 2010, smaller, but still economically attractive, finds have been associated The IOCs were net sellers as they This business model therefore represents with exploration efforts in Australia, sought to readjust their portfolio a different value proposition from that of onshore former Soviet Union and in and to raise capital for new frontier the larger integrated oil and gas company deepwater West Africa.
The public developments, but some were also generating a stable stream of available cash profile of exploration in frontier areas such acquiring projects in order to acquire to return to shareholders.
Given that the as East Africa, the Falkland Islands and reserves to compensate for the success size of the project relative to the size of Greenland was also significantly boosted.
rates of their own exploration.
For the firm will tend to be high, it creates example, when ExxonMobil acquired a sawtooth pattern of company value Despite the decline in overall activity, the XTO Energy in December 2009, this through the cycle of the project emerging, availability of drilling rigs for exploration deal accounted for 80% of the increase maturing and being sold to finance the next remained tight.
While rigs could not be in their reserves over the year.
The model is therefore focused on used in the Gulf of Mexico, they remained the potential for significant capital growth under contract and therefore were an increase in the share value as the repositioned in other areas of the world.
project matures rather than a less volatile stream of dividend payments: higher risk, but with the potential for higher returns.
