14 Cairn Energy PLC Annual Report 2010 How we WORK As an entrepreneurial company, Cairn has demonstrated many times how quick decision making and the ability to form strong and lasting relationships has benefitted all stakeholders.
com CRR2010 Cairn can only ever operate at the terrain offers little opportunity to sell invitation of others.
Its licence to do surplus milk, and a lack of technology so depends on the Companys ability for measuring and analysing the milk to respect local cultures, respect the has meant that communities have environment and bring lasting social been unable to command a fair price and economic benefits to those Cairn for what they could sell.
Development Programme was established to form a central body to collect milk From Cairns employees, contractors and provide an assured buyer, while and suppliers to the local communities investment in technology now means and environment where it operates, that local people can achieve prices safety remains Cairns first priority.
The Company takes great care to ensure In Greenland, Cairn worked with that its operations have the minimal local training institutes and language impact possible on the environment, centres in 2010, to train Greenlanders in carrying out assessments throughout any English language skills to equip them to programme to measure what impact its participate in future oil and gas activities activities might have.
Wherever Cairn or other international industries.
Cairn operates, its plans are reviewed by the also conducted an enterprise workshop, regulatory bodies of the host nations.
employs Greenlandic service providers wherever possible, and supported Cairn runs programmes for local approximately $3 million of environmental communities that aim to provide positive research in Greenland.
social and sustainable economic benefits.
Cairns approach in Greenland will follow A good example is the Dairy Development that which it has pursued in Rajasthan and Programme set up by Cairn India in the Bangladesh.
Should Cairn successfully find Barmer district, also home to Cairns significant quantities of hydrocarbons, the Rajasthan oil development.
Company will support local people through a number of relevant, targeted and Livestock breeding has long been sustainable initiatives.
the traditional subsistence method in western Rajasthan, yet the hostile Business Review Cairn Energy PLC Annual Report 2010 15 Overview Business Review Directors and Governance Financial Statements Additional Information Cairn-supported dairy milk development project in Barmer, Rajasthan Mangala Processing Terminal, Rajasthan The MPT is designed to process crude from the Rajasthan fields and will have a capacity to handle 205,000 bopd of crude with scope for further expansion.
The plant uptime stood at over 98% in 2010.
