50 Cairn Energy PLC Annual Report 2010 Directors The directors of Cairn Energy PLC registered in Scotland with REPORT Company No.
SC226712 present their annual report for the year ended 31 December 2010 together with the financial statements of the Group and Company for the year.
These will be laid before the shareholders at the AGM to be held on Thursday, 19 May 2011.
RESULTS AND DIVIDEND Report on pages 68 to 83.
Generally, The Group made a profit after tax and outstanding options and awards will vest exceptional items of $1.1 billion 2009 and become exercisable on a change restated: $53.4 million.
of control, subject to the satisfaction of performance conditions, if applicable, The directors do not recommend the at that time.
payment of a dividend for the year ended 31 December 2010.
On a change of control of the Company resulting in the termination of a directors PRINCIPAL ACTIVITIES AND employment, each of the executive BUSINESS REVIEW directors is also entitled, pursuant to their The principal activity of the Company service contracts, to compensation of a and its subsidiary undertakings is the sum equal to their annual basic salary as exploration for and development and at the date of termination of employment.
production of oil and gas.
Details of the There are no agreements providing for development of the Groups business compensation to employees on a change during the year and the information that of control.
fulfils the requirements of the Business Review can be found in the Overview and There are no significant agreements to Business Review sections on pages 1 to which the Company is a party that take 47 of this document, which are deemed effect, alter or terminate in the event of a to form part of this report by reference.
change of control of the Company except the $900 million syndicated revolving credit Details of Cairns offices are given on the facility agreement dated 15 December back cover of this report and details of 2010 entered into by the Company and Cairns advisers are given on page 148. certain of its subsidiaries, together with Bank of Scotland plc, Credit Agricole CHANGE OF CONTROL Corporate and Investment Bank, HSBC All of the Companys share incentive plans Bank plc, Societe Generale and Standard contain provisions relating to a change of Chartered Bank the Facility.
Under the control and full details of these plans are Facility, lenders may, upon 10 days notice, provided in the Directors Remuneration cancel all of their commitments and declare As at 31 December As at As at 2009 31 December 21 March Directors shareholdings or at date of appointment 2010 2011 Sir Bill Gammell 3,521,370 2,766,935 2,877,018 Dr Mike Watts 1,878,960 2,444,424 2,444,424 Malcolm Thoms 488,690 502,185 502,185 Phil Tracy 469,938 469,938 Jann Brown 381,110 398,030 455,365 Simon Thomson 13,000 599,963 599,963 Norman Murray 400,000 200,000 200,000 Todd Hunt 182,800 182,800 182,800 Iain McLaren 20,000 20,000 20,000 Dr James Buckee 33,620 43,306 44,897 M. Jacqueline Sheppard QC Alexander Berger Former directors Hamish Grossart 50,000 Mark Tyndall 40,620 Hamish Grossart and Mark Tyndall both retired as non-executive directors at the AGM held on 20 May 2010.
Directors and Governance Directors and Governance Cairn Energy PLC Annual Report 2010 51 Overview Business Review Directors and Governance Financial Statements Additional Information all outstanding loans made by them, every member present in person or by together with accrued interest, immediately proxy and entitled to vote shall have one due and payable if any person or group of vote for every share held by him.
In the persons acting in concert gains control of case of joint holders of a share, the vote the Company.
of the senior member who tenders a vote, whether in person or by proxy, shall be CORPORATE GOVERNANCE accepted to the exclusion of the votes of The Companys Corporate Governance the other joint holders and for this purpose, Statement is set out on pages 57 to 67 seniority shall be determined by the order and is deemed to form part of this report in which the names stand in the register of by reference.
members in respect of the joint holding.
Under the Companies Act, members are DIRECTORS entitled to appoint a proxy, who need not The names and biographical details of be a member of the Company, to exercise the current directors of the Company are all or any of their rights to attend and to given in the Board of Directors section on speak and vote on their behalf at a general pages 48 and 49.
The beneficial interests meeting or class meeting.
A member may of the directors in the ordinary shares appoint more than one proxy in relation of the Company are shown on the to a general meeting or class meeting, page opposite.
provided that each proxy is appointed to exercise the rights attached to a different Details of outstanding awards over share or shares held by that member.
ordinary shares in the Company held by A corporation which is a member of the the directors or any members of their Company may authorise one or more Nuuk, Greenland families are set out in the Directors individuals to act as its representative Mangala Processing Terminal, Rajasthan Remuneration Report on pages 68 to 83. or representatives at any meeting of the Company, or at any separate meeting of None of the directors has a material the holders of any class of shares.
A person interest in any contract, other than a so authorised shall be entitled to exercise service contract, with the Company or any the same powers on behalf of such of its subsidiary undertakings.
Details of corporation as the corporation could the directors service contracts are set exercise if it were an individual member out on pages 73 and 74 of the Directors of the Company.
RESTRICTIONS ON VOTING SHARE CAPITAL No member shall, unless the directors of The issued share capital of the Company the Company otherwise determine, be is shown in Note 26 of the Notes to entitled in respect of any share held by him the Accounts.
As at 21 March 2011 her to attend or vote at a general meeting 8 1,400,442,320 ordinary shares of 13 pence of the Company, either in person or by each have been issued and are fully paid proxy, if any call or other sum presently up and are quoted on the London Stock payable by him her to the Company in Exchange.
The rights attaching to the respect of shares in the Company remains ordinary shares are set out in the Companys unpaid.
Furthermore, if a member has been Articles of Association.
There are no special served with a notice by the Company under control rights in relation to the Companys the Companies Act requesting information shares, and the Company is not aware of concerning interests in shares and has any agreements between holders of failed in relation to any shares to provide securities that may result in restrictions on the Company, within 14 days of the notice, the transfer of securities or on voting rights.
with such information, the directors of the Company may determine that such VOTING RIGHTS member shall not be entitled in respect Subject to any special rights or restrictions of such shares to attend or vote either in attaching to any class of shares, at a general person or by proxy at any general meeting meeting or class meeting, on a show of or at any separate general or class meeting hands, every member present in person of the holders of that class of shares.
and every duly appointed proxy entitled to vote shall have one vote and on a poll 52 Cairn Energy PLC Annual Report 2010 DIRECTORS REPORT CONTINUED Proxy forms must be submitted not less the transferor and except in the case than 48 hours or such shorter time as the of fully paid shares by, or on behalf of, Board may determine excluding, at the the transferee.
The transferor shall be Boards discretion, any part of any day deemed to remain the holder of the shares that is not a working day before the time concerned until the name of the transferee appointed for the holding of the meeting is entered in the register of members of or adjourned meeting or, in the case of a the Company.
poll taken more than 48 hours after it was demanded, not less than 24 hours or such The directors may, in their absolute shorter time as the Board may determine discretion and without assigning any reason before the time appointed for the taking therefor, refuse to register a transfer of any of the poll at which it is to be used.
share which is not a fully paid share unless such share is listed on the Official List of VARIATION OF RIGHTS the UK Listing Authority and traded on the Whenever the share capital of the London Stock Exchanges main market for Company is divided into different classes listed securities.
The directors may also of shares, all or any of the special rights refuse to register a transfer of a share in attached to any class may, subject to uncertificated form where the Company statute and unless otherwise expressly is entitled to refuse or is excepted from provided by the rights attached to the the requirement under the Uncertificated shares of that class, be varied or abrogated Securities Regulations 2001 to register either with the consent in writing of the the transfer and they may refuse any holders of not less than three-fourths such transfer in favour of more than four in nominal value of the issued shares of transferees.
The directors may also refuse that class or with the sanction of a special to register any transfer of a share on which resolution passed at a separate general the Company has a lien.
meeting of the holders of the shares of that class.
At every such separate general The directors may, in their absolute meeting, the quorum shall be two persons discretion and without assigning any holding or representing by proxy at least reason therefor, refuse to register a one-third in nominal value of the issued transfer of any share in certificated form shares of the class.
These provisions also unless the relevant instrument of transfer is apply to the variation or abrogation of in respect of only one class of share, is duly the special rights attached to some only stamped or adjudged or certified as not of the shares of any class as if the shares chargeable to stamp duty, is lodged at the concerned and the remaining shares of transfer office or at such other place as the such class formed separate classes.
The directors may determine, is accompanied rights attached to any class of shares shall, by the relevant share certificate s and unless otherwise expressly provided by the such other evidence as the directors may terms of issue of such shares or the terms reasonably require to show the right of the upon which such shares are for the time transferor to make the transfer and is in being held, be deemed not to be varied favour of not more than four transferees or abrogated by the creation or issue of jointly.
If the directors refuse to register a further shares ranking pari passu with, or transfer, they shall, as soon as practicable subsequent to, the first mentioned shares and in any event within two months after or by the purchase by the Company of its the date on which the transfer was lodged own shares.
with the Company in the case of a share in certificated form or the date on which TRANSFER OF SHARES the operator-instruction as defined in the Subject to any procedures set out by the Uncertificated Securities Regulations 2001 directors in accordance with the Articles was received by the Company in the case of Association, all transfers of shares shall of a share in uncertificated form or in be effected by instrument in writing in either case such longer or shorter period any usual or common form or in any other if any as the Listing Rules may from time form acceptable to the directors of the to time permit or require, send to the Company.
The instrument of transfer transferee notice of the refusal.
shall be executed by, or on behalf of, Directors and Governance Directors and Governance Cairn Energy PLC Annual Report 2010 53 Overview Business Review Directors and Governance Financial Statements Additional Information MAJOR INTERESTS IN SHARE Trade creditors of the Company at CAPITAL 31 December 2010 were equivalent to As at 31 December 2010 and 21 March 2.3 days purchases, based on the average 2011, the Company had received daily amount invoiced by suppliers to the notification that shareholdings of 3% Company during the year.
and over were as per the table below.
FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS CHARITABLE AND POLITICAL The financial risk management objectives DONATIONS and policies of the Company are detailed The Company has a Charities Committee in Note 28 of the Notes to the Accounts.
which is responsible for distributing the Companys charitable donations to POWERS OF THE DIRECTORS selected charities within an overall annual Subject to the Companys Articles of budget.
There are currently ten members Association, UK legislation and any of the Charities Committee with alternates, directions given by special resolution, the comprising a broad range of employees business of the Company is managed by from across the organisation.
The directors currently have Executive is not a member of the Charities powers both in relation to the issuing and Committee.
buying back of the Companys shares and are seeking renewal of these powers at During the year, the Company made the forthcoming AGM.
various charitable contributions in the UK totalling $698,864 2009: $704,039.
ARTICLES OF ASSOCIATION Contributions in the UK are made to a Unless expressly specified to the Support vessel off Aasiaat, Greenland variety of charitable organisations whose contrary therein, the Companys Articles areas of operation and activities are Support vessels off Greenland of Association may be amended by aligned with Cairns.
In addition, the Group a special resolution of the Companys provides funding to various charitable shareholders.
The Company adopted initiatives outwith the UK.
Further details new Articles of Association following of these can be found in our Corporate their approval by shareholders at the Responsibility Report, which is available AGM held on 20 May 2010. on the Companys website.
DISCLOSURE OF INFORMATION No political donations were made and no TO AUDITORS political expenditure was incurred during The directors of the Company who held the year.
office at 31 December 2010 confirm that, as far as they are aware, there is no CREDITOR PAYMENT POLICY relevant audit information of which the AND PRACTICE Companys auditors are unaware.
In It is Cairns payment policy to ensure making this confirmation, the directors settlement of suppliers services in have taken appropriate steps to make accordance with the terms of the themselves aware of the relevant audit applicable contracts.
In most information and that the Companys circumstances, settlement terms are auditors are aware of this information.
agreed prior to business taking place.
As at As at 31 December % share 21 March % share Major shareholders 2010 capital 2011 capital BlackRock Investment Management 144,896,764 10.35 139,904,172 9.99 HSBC Global Asset Management 125,153,674 8.94 125,153,674 8.94 Baillie Gifford 77,358,445 5.53 64,718,527 4.62 Legal & General Investment Management 69,881,808 4.99 68,551,266 4.90 Capital Group International 61,616,751 4.40 88,818,897 6.34 Walter Scott & Partners 60,253,778 4.30 62,997,412 4.50 Oppenheimer Funds 44,635,191 3.19 46,961,641 3.35 54 Cairn Energy PLC Annual Report 2010 DIRECTORS REPORT CONTINUED The AGM of the Company will be held in the Castle Suite of the Caledonian Hilton Hotel, Princes Street, Edinburgh EH1 2AB at 12 noon UK time on Thursday, 19 May 2011.
AGM 2011 Resolutions 5 to 7 Election Re-Election The Notice of AGM is set out on pages of Directors 144 to 147 of this document.
A form of Alexander Berger and M. Jacqueline proxy and attendance card for use at the Sheppard QC were appointed as AGM are enclosed.
independent non-executive directors of the Company with effect from the close of The following provides an explanation of the annual general meeting held on 20 May the proposed resolutions.
Both are therefore due to retire at the 8 are proposed as ordinary resolutions.
This 2011 AGM being the first annual general means that for each of those resolutions meeting of the Company following their to be passed, more than half of the votes appointment and, being eligible, offer cast must be in favour of the resolution.
themselves for election as directors.
Sir Bill Resolutions 9 to 11 are proposed as special Gammell will retire by rotation at the AGM resolutions.
This means that for each of in accordance with the Companys Articles those resolutions to be passed, at least of Association and, being eligible, offers three-quarters of the votes cast must be himself for re-election as a director.
in favour of the resolution.
The directors biographies are set out on Resolution 1 Annual Report pages 48 and 49 of this document.
The and Accounts Companys Articles of Association provide The directors must lay the Companys that directors can be appointed by the accounts, the directors report and the Company, by ordinary resolution or by the auditors report before the shareholders Board.
The nomination committee makes in a general meeting.
recommendations to the Board on the appointment and replacement of directors.
Resolution 2 Remuneration Report Further details of the rules governing the Listed companies are required to prepare appointment and replacement of directors a directors remuneration report and put are set out in the Corporate Governance a resolution to approve the report to the Statement on pages 57 to 67 and in the shareholders at the AGM.
A copy of the Companys Articles of Association.
An Directors Remuneration Report is set explanation of the performance evaluation out on pages 68 to 83 of this document.
procedure carried out by the Company is also contained in the Corporate Resolution 3 and 4 Governance Statement, on page 57.
Re-appointment and Remuneration of Auditors Resolution 8 Authority The Company is required to appoint to Allot Shares auditors at each general meeting at which Resolution 8 seeks to renew the directors accounts are laid before shareholders, power to allot shares.
This resolution to hold office until the end of the next proposes that authority be granted in such meeting.
Ernst & Young LLP have substitution of the existing authority expressed their willingness to continue to allot securities up to a maximum as auditors and resolution 3 proposes amount of 2,872,414.93, representing their re-appointment as the Companys approximately 33.33% of the Companys auditors.
Resolution 4 seeks authority total issued ordinary share capital for the directors to decide the auditors excluding treasury shares as at 21 March remuneration.
2011, being the latest practicable date prior to publication of this document.
Directors and Governance Directors and Governance Cairn Energy PLC Annual Report 2010 55 Overview Business Review Directors and Governance Financial Statements Additional Information Following guidance issued by the The power conferred by Resolution 9 will Association of British Insurers ABI expire at the same time as the authority in December 2008 and updated in conferred by Resolution 8, unless November 2009, the Company is seeking previously revoked, varied or extended by an additional authority to allot securities in the Company in general meeting.
connection with a pre-emptive rights issue up to a maximum amount of 2,872,414.93, Resolution 10 Market Purchase of Own representing approximately 33.33% of Shares by the Company the Companys total issued ordinary share If passed, Resolution 10 will authorise capital excluding treasury shares as at the Company to make market purchases 21 March 2011, being the latest practicable of its own ordinary shares.
Ordinary shares date prior to publication of this document.
repurchased by the Company pursuant to The benefit to the Company of obtaining such authority may be cancelled or held such authority on an annual basis is that it in treasury and then either sold in whole would allow the Company to implement or in part for cash or cancelled in whole a rights issue of up to approximately or in part.
The directors do not intend 66.66% of the issued ordinary share at present to use this power but wish to capital without needing to call an retain the flexibility to do so in the future.
This would No dividends will be paid on treasury shorten the implementation timetable shares and no voting rights attach to them.
The maximum aggregate number of The directors consider that the authorities ordinary shares that may be purchased sought pursuant to Resolution 8 are pursuant to the authority shall be Mangala Processing Terminal, Rajasthan desirable to allow the Company to retain approximately 14.99% of the issued Support vessels off Aasiaat, Greenland flexibility, although they have no present ordinary share capital of the Company intention of exercising these authorities.
as at 21 March 2011, being 209,926,303 The authorities will expire on 30 June 2012 ordinary shares.
The maximum price which or, if earlier, at the end of the next AGM may be paid for an ordinary share pursuant of the Company to be held in 2012. to this resolution exclusive of expenses shall be the higher of i an amount equal As at 21 March 2011, being the latest to 105% of the average of the middle practicable date prior to publication of this market quotations for the Companys document, the Company did not hold any ordinary shares for the five business shares in treasury.
days immediately preceding the date of purchase, and ii the higher of the price of Resolution 9 Disapplication the last independent trade of an ordinary of Pre-emption Rights share and the highest current independent Section 561 1 of the Companies Act 2006 bid for an ordinary share as derived from provides that if the directors wish to allot the London Stock Exchange Trading any equity securities, or sell any treasury System SETs.
The minimum price that shares if it holds any, for cash, it must first may be paid for an ordinary share pursuant offer them to existing shareholders in to this resolution exclusive of expenses 8 proportion to their existing shareholdings.
shall be 13 pence, being the nominal value Section 561 does not apply to allotments of an ordinary share.
of equity securities made in connection with an employee share scheme.
In accordance with the Listing Rules, the Company will not repurchase shares in the Resolution 9 seeks to give the directors period of 60 days immediately preceding power to allot equity securities or sell the announcement of its interim results or treasury shares for cash as if section 561 the preliminary announcement of its annual of the Companies Act 2006 did not apply, results or, if shorter, the period from the in connection with rights issues, open end of the financial period concerned up offers and other pre-emption offers to and including the time of a relevant pursuant to the authority granted by announcement or, except in accordance Resolution 8, and otherwise up to a total with the Listing Rules, at any other time amount of 430,905.33, representing when, in terms of the Companys dealing approximately 5% of the Companys total rules, the directors would be prohibited issued ordinary share capital as at 21 from dealing in shares.
March 2011, being the latest practicable date prior to publication of this document.
56 Cairn Energy PLC Annual Report 2010 DIRECTORS REPORT CONTINUED The Board considers that all the resolutions to be considered at the AGM are in the best interests of the Company and its shareholders as a whole, and unanimously recommends that you vote in favour of all of the proposed resolutions, as they intend to do in respect of their own beneficial shareholdings.
This authority, if conferred, will only be Before the coming into force of the exercised if the directors consider that any Shareholders Rights Regulations on purchase will result in an increase in 3 August 2009, the Company was able to earnings per share of the ordinary share call general meetings other than an AGM capital in issue after the purchase and, on 14 clear days notice without obtaining accordingly, would be in the best interests such shareholder approval.
The directors of shareholders generally.
believe that it is appropriate for the Company to retain the flexibility of being This authority will expire on the earlier able to call a general meeting on 14 days of 30 June 2012 or the conclusion of the notice and in order to preserve this ability, AGM of the Company to be held in 2012, Resolution 11 seeks such approval.
The unless previously revoked, varied or flexibility offered by this resolution will be renewed by the Company in general used where, taking into account all the meeting.
The directors intend to seek circumstances, the directors consider this renewal of this authority at subsequent appropriate in relation to the business to be annual general meetings.
The approval will be effective until the Companys next The Company did not purchase any of its AGM in 2012, when it is intended that a own shares during 2010.
As at 21 March similar resolution will be proposed.
2011, options to subscribe for shares were outstanding over an aggregate of RECOMMENDATION 4,297,502 ordinary shares representing The Board considers that all the approximately 0.31% of the issued share resolutions to be considered at the AGM capital of the Company as at 21 March are in the best interests of the Company 2011.
If the outstanding amount of the and its shareholders as a whole, and existing buy-back authority granted at unanimously recommends that you vote the 2010 AGM was utilised in full prior in favour of all of the proposed resolutions, to the 2011 AGM and the new authority as they intend to do in respect of their was granted at the 2011 AGM and then own beneficial shareholdings.
utilised in full, the options outstanding at 21 March 2011 would represent By order of the Board approximately 0.44% of the issued share capital of the Company.
Duncan Wood Company Secretary Resolution 11 Notice 21 March 2011 of General Meetings Changes made to the Companies Act 2006 by the Shareholders Rights Regulations increase the notice period required for general meetings of the Company to 21 days unless shareholders approve a shorter notice period, which cannot however be less than 14 clear days.
Annual general meetings will continue to be held on at least 21 clear days notice.
