BUSINESS REVIEW LONG-TERM SAVINGS KEY FINANCIAL HIGHLIGHTS Adjusted operating profit pre-tax Number of employees 897m 24,044 2009: 636m 2009: 22,269 Funds under management Some of our brands 131.8bn 2009: 105.5bn Return on equity RoE % APE sales m 2010 18.5 2010 487 Emerging 2009 393 2009 14.8 Markets 2010 201 Net Client Cash Flow NCCF Funds Under 2009 235 Nordic Management FUM % 2010 2010 69 2010 4.7 2009 67 Retail Europe 2009 2009 2.6 2010 734 Wealth 2009 617 Management Unit trust sales m 2010 3,668 MCEV m Emerging 2009 2,765 Markets 2010 3,953 2010 581 Emerging 2009 2,971 Markets 2009 393 Nordic 2010 1,836 2010 23 2009 1,548 Nordic 2009 24 Retail Europe 2010 637 2010 4,507 2009 543 Retail Europe Wealth 2009 3,210 2010 2,148 Management 4,507 Wealth 734 2009 1,996 Management 617 Value added VNB Experience Variance MCEV % 2010 4.1 1.3 2009 4.1 1 LTS EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE Kuseni Dlamini CEO Mrten Andersson CEO Jonas Jonsson CEO Bob Head CEO OMSA & Emerging Markets Nordic Retail Europe Wealth Management Richard Boynett Steven Levin Rose Keanly Mike Harper CIO Long-Term Savings Director Group Product Managing Director OMSTA Managing Director Customer and Head of LEAN, LTS Solutions 1 Andrew Birrell, Don Hope and Don Schneider, members of the Group Executive Committee, are also on the LTS Executive Committee.
44 Old Mutual plc Annual Report and Accounts 2010 Management statements Business review Risk and Responsibility Governance Financials Shareholder information The Long-Term Savings LTS division offers life assurance, pensions and investment products and operates through four main business units: Emerging Markets, Nordic, Retail Europe and Wealth Management.
Overview Strategy In each of these markets our vision is to be our Within LTS we have three different types of customers most trusted partner, passionate about businesses which together provide high returns helping them achieve their lifetime financial goals.
combined with high growth: Our strategy to achieve this vision is to build a Q High returns on equity RoE and high cash cohesive long-term savings, protection and generation businesses investment division through leveraging the strength Q High revenue growth potential businesses of our people and capabilities both in South Africa but which are not operationally efficient at this and around the world.
Because of their product design and structure these businesses are very capitalBusiness units: efficient and new business is self-nancing Emerging Markets: Old Mutual South Africa Q Businesses in emerging markets, which we OMSA is one of the largest and longesthave the opportunity to grow.
These will established financial services provider in South require funding for a number of years but in Africa, providing individuals, businesses, corporates the long run will produce growth and value and institutions with long-term savings, protection for shareholders.
Because we are now leveraging the business into other high growth The funding needs of the latter two business types economies, we have combined it with our Latin are modest in relation to the rest of the portfolio, American, Asian and African businesses.
so in combination the three different categories provide an excellent mixture of high RoE and Nordic: Operating in Sweden, Norway and good growth potential, in both the medium and Denmark under the Skandia brand, we offer longer term.
banking and insurance services for individuals and corporates.
Our strategy aims to: Retail Europe: Operating in Austria, Germany, Q complement our strong, highly profitable and Poland and Switzerland under the Skandia brand, we mature OMSA business by leveraging our South are one of the leading unit-linked providers offering African capabilities to grow and develop our innovative and exible products and strong businesses in selected African, Latin American investment knowledge.
and Asian markets Wealth Management: Operating mainly under the Q operate capital-efficient, fast-growth businesses Skandia brand with businesses in the UK, Italy, France in selected UK and and in our offshore International bases.
Our offer is based European markets on open and guided architecture accessed through Q exploite capital, cost and revenue synergies unit-linked life insurance, pensions and mutual funds.
The strategy is underpinned by building a culture of customer focus and value creation internationally.
Our key strengths are our knowledge of managing distribution, product design and controls and efficient administration.
Our challenge is to develop this across Paul Hanratty all of our LTS businesses.
CEO Long-Term Savings and Chaiman, Old Mutual South Africa Old Mutual plc 45 Annual Report and Accounts 2010 BUSINESS REVIEW LONG-TERM SAVINGS CONTINUED The LTS portfolio provides high returns combined with high growth High RoE High cash generation High revenue growth potential Opportunity to grow Q Low profit generation relative Q Require funding of business Q Slow growth to enterprise value at least until breakeven Q Large market share Q High cost bases Q Rapid growth of sales Q Generate high cash returns that Q Potential for rapid profit growth Q New business tends to be fund new business, allow for acquion restructuring efficiency gains capital intensive sitions and Group dividend Q Largely self funding in terms of new Q Potential to grow embedded business and growth enterprise value rapidly Q New business tends to be cash Q Cash generation is far out demanding Q Q Q OMSA Wealth Management Retail Europe Q Q Q Namibia Nordic Africa Q Q Colom bia Asia Q Me xico By identifying where customer needs are not being While we are primarily focused on leveraging our met, we are able to exploit synergies across LTS, capabilities in South Africa into emerging markets for example by taking proven retail products from and improving the operational performance of our OMSAs mass foundation cluster to other markets European businesses, there are also opportunities where product penetration levels are low and to achieve synergies between them.
Our where economic growth will happen over time.
We businesses connect at a capital level and are well are applying strong risk capital management and resourced for future growth.
At the same time, performance management frameworks with strong there are opportunities for cost and revenue local management teams.
In addition we have synergies.
The cost synergies lie primarily in the IT developed LTS-wide roles to ensure we exploit area and in outsourcing some work to South synergies and establish centres of excellence.
The revenue opportunities lie in sharing These roles covering IT, product, LEAN product knowledge and ideas as well as what we methodology and distribution will help us to gain know about building distribution channels.
competitive advantage by delivering appropriate The recent financial crisis highlighted the need for products and services efficiently.
the financial industry to operate more efficient In South Africa we already have scale and businesses in order to compete for market share exceptional levels of quality, straight-through among more nancially-conscious customers.
We processing and low unit costs.
We are experienced have introduced a number of efficiency in developing products for sophisticated markets programmes in four basic categories: as well as in developing simple products for 1.
Transforming Wealth Management: middle-income markets and we have experience in implementing shared services models to pricing diverse risks.
We run multiple distribution reduce costs by taking out expensive layers channels and have a comprehensive of overhead and management and producing understanding of different types of distribution.
already have experience in leveraging these capabilities into high-growth markets such as 2.
Transferring Retail Europe back-ofce to South Africa: outsourcing to lower-cost India.
Our approach to leveraging our skillset in South Africa to the rest of Emerging Markets is geographies, where we can achieve process efficiencies and scale.
based on sharing product experience, people and professional skills, systems and processes, and 3 Reviewing Wealth Management and distribution knowledge.
Nordics: driving LEAN methodology thinking across the businesses.
Through our Skandia businesses we have built 4.
Transforming IT: we are optimising excellent market positions as capital-efficient outsourcing, shared computing and IT sharing businesses in Europe and in the UK.
We are enabling business history of innovation and are very well positioned efficiency and innovation for both local and because of the customer value that they deliver, international competitive advantage through exploiting opportunities to take market share from one IT partnership.
more traditional, less customer-orientated competitors.
We aim to grow their revenues while constraining costs and ultimately driving up operating performance by adopting LEAN methodology.
46 Old Mutual plc Annual Report and Accounts 2010 Management statements Business review Risk and Responsibility Governance Financials Shareholder information Achieving our LTS targets Implementation Measures Driving revenue growth Q Exploit growth opportunities in Q VNB Exp Var MCEV emerging markets Q NCCF FUM Q Position for sweet spot in Europe Reducing cost Q Specic efficiency programmes in Q Administration expenses each business Synergies Q Q Adopt LEAN methodology across Expenses Q all businesses APE Q Potential IT synergies, particularly in outsourcing Q Product lines extended to other markets Capital efficiency Q Focus on capital light products Q Equity E Q Diversication benets Achieving our LTS targets Current products and product development We are focusing on four main areas to create We are creating long-term, sustainable competitive shareholder value.
Each has associated measures advantage by putting the customer at the centre of to track the result.
These are set out in the everything we do.
As shown in the table below, we table above.
work in two different kinds of markets: developed countries and emerging markets.
Emerging market We are gradually rolling out a common approach countries generally enjoy fast GDP growth but have to creating shareholder value across all our low average GDP per capita, whereas more mature business units.
This focuses on the creation of markets such as Sweden, Germany, the UK and economic profit generating profits that exceed France offer opportunities to penetrate into wealthier the risk-adjusted cost of the capital that these customer segments.
The improving demographics businesses absorb.
The economic profit framework of the emerging market economies are likely to is beginning to shape all our capital allocation support economic growth through for example, decisions and we are extending it to assess business larger pools of labour.
As emerging economies performance and determine management reward.
manufacturing exports grow, we expect corresponding growth in their labour markets and We recognise that many of our investors favour evolution of their consumer segments.
By contrast, embedded value as a measure of enterprise value.
So we do not anticipate such shifts in the existing we monitor very closely the value added by wealth of the UK and European economies.
Our management, through the sale of profitable new offerings in the South African market span across business and the control of experience relative to the wealth divide.
assumptions, in adding to embedded value returns ie VNB experience variance MCEV.
We have a large In Emerging Markets we have developed a wider and growing part of our non-life or non-covered product set.
This applies also to our business in business and we apply these measures equally to both.
We focus on regular premiums and delivering product value to customers making sure that our products are transparent, that fees are clear and that customers receive the solution that best meets their needs.
Putting the customer at the centre Q Single premium SA Q Guided investment platform Q IFA Q Self service Q Regular premium Q Risk products Q Agency distribution SA Personal financial services Wealth management Customer proposition Old Mutual plc 47 Annual Report and Accounts 2010 Medium High Wealth GDP capita BUSINESS REVIEW LONG-TERM SAVINGS CONTINUED Product development structure decisions OM: Current OM: Aspiration Risk Managed Model Leveraged Model Tactical Federal Model OM: Past Global Capability Leverage Source: NMG Consulting, Old Mutual.
Our LTS product offering aims to meet customers financial needs of our customers.
By contrast, in needs for savings, investments, pensions and some of our other markets our current product annuities as well as protection.
In some of our offering addresses a relatively narrow spectrum of businesses we also address their healthcare and customer needs: our Wealth Management transactional needs.
While local market differences business, for example, has market-leading platform exist, the solutions our customers require in offerings but a very limited offering in the different regions are, in our experience, very decumulation annuity and protection markets.
Essentially, customers everywhere have the Similarly, in our Retail Europe business we have same basic financial needs.
What is more, good regular savings products but no meaningful products are distributed via the same distribution decumulation, protection or lump-sum offerings.
channels and regulatory regimes are increasingly We therefore see great opportunities to expand our convergent.
As a result we believe we have an product offering in these and other markets by increasing opportunity to leverage our product leveraging our product expertise, designs and knowledge and expertise across the different structures and our IT platforms from markets such markets in which we operate.
as South Africa and Sweden.
We have already begun executing projects to do this.
Before the creation of LTS, Old Mutual and Skandia businesses around the world operated In the developed countries served by our UK, independently in a federal model within the Group.
French, Italian, Nordic and International Group control was insufficient and few synergies businesses, we are focused mainly on the mass were realised between regions.
After the global afuent segment.
Our proposition, including financial crisis and the operational losses we products, distribution and processes, is built incurred in Old Mutual Bermuda, we implemented around that segment and is orientated to customer stronger Group controls and risk management.
The exibility and transparency of our As can be seen in the chart above, we are now products, and the value that we deliver, place us in driving an LTS product view across all our markets a good position in those markets.
South Africa also and we are actively leveraging capabilities from has a vibrant wealth management industry, so we one market to another to exploit synergies.
present a very similar offering there to the mass afuent market.
Notwithstanding the platform Old Mutual and Skandias products and business in the UK operates a version of the propositions are generally regarded by customers, technology we developed in South Africa for the intermediaries and competitors as market-leading.
Our businesses have recognised track records of innovation and we have won numerous awards in Above and beyond the continuous enhancements several markets for the quality of our product we make to our product ranges every year, we will offering, the fund ranges we offer on our platforms, pay particular attention over the next few years to: our tools for advisers and our interactive websites.
Q Expanding our protection offering into emerging markets outside South Africa, and into our We are determined to maintain leadership in European businesses product innovation and we are implementing new Q Enhancing the range of downside-protected, techniques and processes that have successfully structured products or guaranteed investment stimulated innovation in other industries.
offerings available on our investment platforms across most of our markets In OMSA and Nordic, our product ranges are Q Developing appropriate decumulation offerings extremely comprehensive, covering almost all the to capture the investment proceeds of customers reaching retirement age.
48 Old Mutual plc Annual Report and Accounts 2010 Global Control Management statements Business review Risk and Responsibility Governance Financials Shareholder information YYLU[WYVK J[WVY[MVSPV Customer Savings and Investments Pensions Protection Healthcare Transactional needs: and Lending Products: Life Wrapped Non-Life Accumulation Decumulation Wrapped South Africa 1 Nordic Emerging Markets Wealth Management UK Wealth Management Non-UK Retail Europe :WLJ[Y T VM 3:: WYVK J[ JHWHIPSP[`!
Q3PTP[LK VY UV WYVK J[ JHWHIPSP[` Q VTWYLOLUZP]L WYVK J[ JHWHIPSP[` 1 Certain products are packaged jointly with Skandia Liv, who provide the guarantees.
In bringing together the LTS division, Old Mutual is Development of distribution strategy managing distribution channels across its life Distribution in Emerging Markets is affected by markets more strategically.
We are intent on both financial and non-financial drivers.
Financial understanding how and what organic growth drivers such as relative wealth, money transmission opportunities can be better leveraged to achieve mechanisms and the availability of state social growth in our various markets and in particular support influence the types and distribution of on leveraging our achievements in South Africa, products.
Non-financial drivers such as literacy, life Namibia, Sweden, the UK and Colombia.
We expectancy and respect for legal title affect pricing, manage distribution country by country, using local product complexity, and communication market experts resident in those countries.
Countries with lower average customer income need simple, costLTS will invest in the channels that are most likely effective products.
Here, the educational aspect of to increase effective distribution.
Channels are selling the product is critical.
most effective where they are directed to the appropriate consumer segment and offer us the The mature markets allow for more effective greatest control.
The principal detractors from leveraging of existing relationships and capabilities, channel performance are poor persistency and and development of new distribution channels such poor agent productivity.
Using our own agents as the internet.
Skandiabanken is an example of employed advisers can be more expensive, but innovative distribution using the internet as a gateway.
there are long-term benets: their closeness to the customer enhances loyalty and customer retention.
The factors outlined above influence the way we think about the retail consumer in our various The current size and projected growth of the markets.
We are carrying out detailed work to emerging market countries where LTS operates understand the evolution of customer segmentation suggest that more investment is needed in in the new retail markets that we are targeting.
And distribution to capture the growth opportunities.
we maintain ongoing research on the framework within which customers buy or get access to financial services in their particular markets.
Old Mutual plc 49 Annual Report and Accounts 2010 BUSINESS REVIEW LONG-TERM SAVINGS CONTINUED Our current approach to enhancing distribution new means of accessing consumers.
While we has four broad aspects: acknowledge its potential, we believe the internets role as an effective distribution channel within a 1.
Tied agency country is largely dependent on the development forces are critical particularly in Emerging and widespread roll-out of broadband technology Markets, where they remain the dominant form as, for example, in the Nordics.
An inefficient Old Mutual has a long history in southern Africa sales force incurs large overhead costs of establishing and growing new distribution which may lead to acquiring poor-quality channels.
OMSA established independent customers and delivering poor-quality insurance brokers or IFAs in the late 1970s advice to customers.
and established mass market worksites shortly 3.
Skandia has been effective at of our retail markets have large, dominant establishing IFA networks and channels.
agency and worksite marketing is very effective in reaching the mass market and middle market 4.
Adding new channels selectively in relevant consumers, while IFAs are very effective at markets such as Retail Europe, Latin America penetrating and developing the wealth markets and Asia.
of UK, Europe, China and southern Africa.
Total contribution to APE by business, Regulatory Developments split by distribution channel % The range of regulatory issues affecting distribution Emerging 66 19 10 1 4 Markets design and control is fairly consistent across our LTS division countries.
Regulators in all our LTS markets Nordic 23 70 15 1 have become more effective and consistent in Retail 3 96 1 dealing with market abuse and tightening up the Europe approach to regulation.
Regulatory enhancements Wealth 93 7 Management are good for consumers and new regulation creates opportunities for life companies to build better, more Q Own advisers Q IFAs Q Bank Q Direct Q Other mature, high quality sales forces and face-to-face advisory businesses.
Our distribution channels and their mix differ by market maturity and by country.
The chart above shows the mix by business across all LTS markets.
Tied or employed agency forces own advisers are dominant in Emerging Markets while independent financial advisers IFAs are the main distribution channel for us in Europe and the UK.
The differences in distribution mix between Emerging EMPLOYEE WELLNESS WEEK AT Markets, Europe and the UK are mainly due to OUR PROPERTY BUSINESS factors such as financial services sector development and maturity, and the relative expense of having own sales force versus the use It was a great success.
Very well attended of independent financial advisers.
and well received, especially by the younger members of staff who were not aware that There are some differences in the terminology they faced certain health risks.
It also used internationally to describe distribution demonstrated our concern for the wellbeing channels.
We use the term tied agency for of our staff, and we received very distribution channels contractually tied to the appreciative feedback.
product provider or employed agents, or worksite marketing.
The term IFA is used more broadly Adelah Malick, Human Resources Manager OMIGPI here to include independent brokers and independent insurance advisers.
Tied agency distribution gives us more control and can be This year, to coincide with Aids their blood pressure, cholesterol, targeted more accurately at the relevant consumer Awareness Day on 1 December, we glucose levels and body mass index segments.
In mature markets life companies have held a hugely successful Employee checked.
Over 250 employees took access to and can use independent advisers or Wellness Week to get us all thinking part.
The nurses also answered about our health.
Professional employees health questions and brokers as well as retail bank or bancassurance nurses visited our head office and raised awareness of the support advisers.
In some mature markets, and in Asia, the our main regional offices in South that the company offers to people fast-developing internet model offers a completely Africa to invite employees to have with disabilities.
50 Old Mutual plc Annual Report and Accounts 2010 Management statements Business review Risk and Responsibility Governance Financials Shareholder information LEAN administration and IT Q Applying LEAN principles beyond the servicing Each LTS regional organisation currently has its and operations area to reduce businesses own administration and IT structure, but these overheads, streamline IT and even improve share many common products, processes, IT sales processes.
platforms and customer intermediary interfaces.
Our strategy is to actively seek cost synergies, As the chart shows, we have an established drive LEAN methodology and achieve a quality history of driving down unit costs and improving service culture across all our IT provision.
service in OMSA with LEAN.
We are now sharing this expertise across the LTS division.
LEAN administration Our OMSA business has run its LEAN programme for four years.
LEAN is about building an 4HPU[LUHUJL JVZ[ PUKL WLY WVSPJ` TLTILY organisation culture that starts with the customer, Index Forecast identies duplication or over-engineering of 100 procedures across processes and then 90 streamlines those processes using extensive 80 standardisation and simplication.
By doing this 70 sustainably and continually, we reduce unit costs 60 and improve customer service quality.
In OMSA 50 we have driven down unit costs year-on-year 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 across our retail and corporate products and will 9L[HPS 4HZZ VYWVYH[L continue to do so.
MMS LU[ -V UKH[PVU OMSAs unit costs compare favourably with those IT of our South African competitors, due mainly to Our IT mission is to enable business efficiency our scale in South Africa and the extent to which and innovation for both local and international we have used LEAN.
OMSAs unit costs are also competitive advantage, through one world-class signicantly lower than those of other businesses IT partnership.
These potentially contradictory in LTS because of scale, LEAN and labour aims form the core strategy for running IT across arbitrage within the business which offers LTS.
IT needs to be an efficient, well-governed, some opportunities for LTS.
common function without sacrificing the speed-tomarket and innovation needed in our local markets.
LEAN methodology is allowing us to combine lower unit costs with improved service.
Research LTS IT will now provide all IT services, to LTS shows that we have improved our customer and and to the local businesses.
The IT front-ofce intermediary service year-on-year: and we have the LTS-run local IT departments will continue to won our industrys national Best Provider of manage projects and generate requirements for Customer Service award in South Africa three the local business.
Free of managing IT commodity years running.
work, the local IT department will improve their focus delivering the technology that underpins We see a number of opportunities to enhance the local business needs and strategy.
These administration across LTS: teams have the greatest opportunity to drive Q Potential to move administration from other business results through harnessing the innovative parts of LTS to South Africa, using the capability use of technology.
and scale we have there to improve capabilities and unit costs.
We are currently moving processes The LTS IT back-ofce is focused on two goals: the and IT from Retail Europe Germany, Poland Global Delivery Centres for Infrastructure and and Austria to South Africa, which will give us Applications will leverage the economies of scale a capability that we can exploit further in LTS across LTS to deliver IT more cost-effectively Q In businesses where it does not make sense and more consistently across the division.
to move administration to South Africa, The Governance and Architecture functions we will apply LEAN principles to streamline within the LTS IT back-ofce are then responsible processes, reduce unit costs, improve our for ensuring that LTS is well governed from an service and provide a very strong foundation architectural, financial, risk and control perspective.
for future growth This hybrid operating model for LTS IT will comply with regulatory requirements, ensuring local accountability and control, but leveraging common governance, efficiencies and economies of scale from a modern IT function in a global business.
Old Mutual plc 51 Annual Report and Accounts 2010 BUSINESS REVIEW LONG-TERM SAVINGS CONTINUED Front-ofce of LTS IT focuses on local business to improve competitive advantage Emerging Wealth Retail Europe Markets Management Locally-based IT Departments IT Innovation Improve competitive advantage Back-ofce of LTS IT focuses on improving IT efficiencies and effectiveness Application Development Infrastructure Architecture Governance & Maintenance efficiency through Global Delivery Centres Improved effectiveness from global governance In transforming LTS IT, we see a number of synergy Review of Results 2010 opportunities across LTS to help reduce cost, LTS AOP earnings benefited from higher fees support the business strategy and drive innovation.
generated from positive net client cash ows These fall into three categories: particularly in Wealth Management, rising funds under management and the strengthening of the Q Reviewing the existing LTS IT environment rand and Swedish krona against sterling.
On a Each business or geography currently has its constant currency basis, earnings were up 26%.
own set of data centres, networks and bespoke systems.
To a large degree, we can consolidate The Emerging Markets business accounts for 60% these so that we can reduce costs while also of the LTS IFRS AOP earnings, 43% of LTS FUM, improving disaster recovery and business and 33% of LTS APE sales.
This compares to 70% continuity, and enabling significant business of restated AOP, 41% of FUM, and 30% of APE change.
We have world-class platforms in some sales in 2009. areas of LTS.
Working closely with our local businesses we are aiming to share and extend APE sales increased by 14% for the LTS division the capability across the division.
We are as a whole, with the growth coming largely from leveraging our scale and our willingness to the regular premium products in the Retail partner with the best companies in the industry businesses of Emerging Markets, and Wealth to create a lower, total cost of IT.
Management single premium products, notably in Q Internal partnerships with our back-ofce the UK and Italy.
A managed shift in business mix business functions.
This involves working in Nordic was executed with sales decreasing from together to get value from LEAN processes to prior year levels.
There was encouraging growth in reduce errors as well as complexity and IT both single and recurring premiums in Retail support costs.
Sales for the second half of 2010 were Q Working cohesively across LTS as well as ahead of the first half for Emerging Markets and working in close partnership with our local Retail Europe, and evenly spread across the year businesses.
This means creating economies of in Nordic.
Wealth Management sales were slightly scale and improved delivery of IT solutions higher in the first half of the year than the second through a common IT back-ofce function and given the usual seasonal weighting to the first mutually beneficial external partnerships.
This quarter of the year, and the benefit of the shortincludes a consistent governance framework term Italian tax shield.
that will ensure correct management of IT nances, project control and improved control Mutual fund sales were up by 2,387 million, with of IT-related risk, security and audit items.
If it is strong performance in Wealth Management and possible to do that in one place, we will be more Emerging Markets particularly in the second half effective and efficient.
More importantly, our of the year.
partnerships with the local businesses improves our ability to use technology to create solutions and capability that enable new and innovative business strategies.
52 Old Mutual plc Annual Report and Accounts 2010 Nordic Global Local Management statements Business review Risk and Responsibility Governance Financials Shareholder information Long-Term Savings Key performance statistics for the LTS division are as follows: m Emerging Retail Wealth 2010 Markets Nordic EuropeManagement Total Life assurance sales APE 487 201 69 734 1,491 PVNBP 3,269 1,104 513 6,380 11,266 Value of new business 86 41 7 66 200 Unit trust mutual fund sales 3,668 581 23 4,507 8,779 NCCF bn 0.7 0.4 3.9 5.0 FUM bn 57 14 5 56 132 Adjusted operating profit IFRS basis, pre-tax 539 110 51 197 897 Operating MCEV earnings covered business, post-tax 344 45 66 112 567 VNB Exp Var MCEV covered business 4.7% 4.7% 2.2% 3.1% 4.1% m Emerging Wealth 1 2009 as reported Markets Nordic Retail Europe Management Total Life assurance sales APE 393 235 67 617 1,312 PVNBP 2,834 1,150 537 5,042 9,563 Value of new business 65 44 5 49 153 Unit trust mutual fund sales 2,765 393 24 3,210 6,392 NCCF bn 1.6 1.0 0.5 2.5 2.4 FUM bn 44 11 4 47 106 Adjusted operating profit IFRS basis, pre-tax 446 62 22 106 636 Operating MCEV earnings covered business, post-tax 212 81 44 4 245 VNB Exp Var MCEV covered business 0.5% 7.5% 5.1% 0.6% 1.3% 1 The year ended 31 December 2009 has been restated to reect US Life as discontinued Across LTS as a whole, new business APE margins the underlying margins of the business improved, improved to 13% for 2010 2009: 12%.
This reects the absolute value of new business fell as a result the focus on selling more profitable products with of the decline in new business volumes due to better margins, notably in Nordic, and increased the cessation of sales of an unprofitable recurring sales of a higher margin product in the first half premium product and changes in assumptions.
of the year in Emerging Markets.
The APE margin in Emerging Markets increased from 16% to 18%.
The LTS net client cash ows more than doubled as improvements in Wealth Management and In Nordic, the APE margin has increased from 19% to 21%, benefiting from the managed reduction Emerging Markets more than outweighed the lower net ows in Nordic given lower sales of low margin product sales such as Link regular.
In Retail Europe, the APE margin has improved volumes.
Funds under management for LTS at 31 December 2010 increased by 25% to 131.8 billion considerably to 11% from a negative position in the comparative period.
Across Wealth Management, 31 December 2009: 105.5 billion although there were periods of substantial market movements the APE margin increased from 8% to 9%, with the UK increasing from 2% to 3%, and International during the year, with notable falls in the second quarter and increases towards the end of the year.
The most significant increase in APE margin was in respect of the Continental The rand started the year at 11.92 against sterling, European markets, which increased from 3% to strengthening to 11.45 at 30 June 2010, and 8% as result of the increase in volumes in Italy.
The US dollar Sales of mutual funds, which make up the bulk and Swedish krona also strengthened, although of Wealth Managements sales, are not included to a lesser degree, appreciating 4% and 10% in the APE margin.
The IFRS operating margin rose respectively in the year.
The average exchange to 38bps from 25bps for Wealth Management as rates to sterling over the year were 11.31 2009: a whole.
for the rand, US dollar and Swedish krona respectively.
The cumulative effect of foreign The market-consistent value of new business VNB improved for all of our LTS businesses, exchange movements for LTS was an increase of 77 million on IFRS profitability.
with the exception of Nordic, where although Old Mutual plc 53 Annual Report and Accounts 2010 BUSINESS REVIEW LONG-TERM SAVINGS CONTINUED EMERGING MARKETS Emerging Markets Emerging Markets Kuseni Dlamini Old Mutual South Africa Old Mutual New Markets Rest of Africa Namibia, OMSA Investment Group Kenya, Malawi, OMIGSA Swaziland, Zimbabwe Latin America Corporate Colombia, Mexico Mass Foundation Joint Ventures in China and India Old Mutual-Guodian Retail Afuent and Kotak Mahindra Good results combined with strong growth in regular premium sales Highlights Rm, unless otherwise stated 2010 2009 % Change Adjusted operating profit IFRS basis, pre-tax 5,879 4% 6,099 Return on local equity 25% 25% Return on allocated capital OMSA only 26% 25% Life assurance sales APE 5,178 6% 5,505 Unit trust mutual fund sales 36,421 14% 41,488 PVNBP 37,339 1% 36,975 Value of new business 853 14% 972 APE margin 16% 18% PVNBP margin 2.3% 2.6% Operating MCEV earnings covered business, post-tax 2,794 39% 3,877 Return on embedded value covered business, post-tax 9.8% 13.2% Net client cash ows Rbn 20.5 101% 0.2 Funds under management Rbn 585.7 518.4 13% 2010, focusing on responsible equity investments Overview in agricultural land, agri-businesses and farming Equity markets in the Emerging Markets have infrastructure.
As a Socially Responsible enjoyed a strong year, with the JSE increasing Investment fund, it seeks long-term returns by 16%.
The South African rand appreciated and tangible social and developmental impacts.
13% against the US dollar and 14% against sterling.
Low ination contributed to interest We are integrating social, environmental and rate cuts in South Africa from 10.5% to 9%.
economic principles into our core business.
OMSA achieved Level 2 Broad-Based Black We continue to focus on innovation and product Economic Empowerment BBBEE status in improvements which will benefit our customers.
Furthermore, OMIGSA attracted In South Africa we developed and launched a more than R8 billion from institutional investors new direct short-term insurance product, iWYZE, into social infrastructure investment.
in conjunction with Mutual & Federal and its success has exceeded expectations.
Old Mutual Our sales improved in the year, notably in the second Corporate launched Old Mutual SuperFund, the half.
This resulted in a 6% increase in APE sales largest multi-employer or umbrella fund in South compared to 2009, and we benefited from improved Africa with over 300,000 members, to provide a persistency.
Our NCCF improved signicantly, and simple, affordable and strictly-governed platform we saw increasing contributions from new markets, enabling employees to save for their retirement.
with non-South African NCCF higher than South We launched the Futuregrowth Agri-Fund in March African NCCF excluding ows relating to the Public Investment Corporation of South Africa.
54 Old Mutual plc Annual Report and Accounts 2010 Management statements Business review Risk and Responsibility Governance Financials Shareholder information Asset management profits grew signicantly IFRS AOP results as a result of higher fees being earned from IFRS AOP pre-tax increased by 4% from R5,879 higher FUM, stronger performance fees in million to R6,099 million, with strong asset OMIGSA, a first full-year contribution from ACSIS management profits up 62% to R1,550 million, acquired in the second half of 2009, a higher partially offset by lower long-term investment return contribution from OMF due to growth in the R1,221 million compared to R1,658 million in 2009. business, and mark-to-market profits in Old Mutual Rm 2010 2009 % Change Specialised Finance OMSFIN.
These were partially offset by lower transactional income.
Long-term business AOP 3,263 2% 3,328 The LTIR decreased by 26% to R1,221 million Asset in 2010 reecting the reduced rate applied to management AOP 958 62% OMLAC SA assets due to the implementation 1,550 Long-term of a higher ratio of cash to equity in the asset investment portfolio backing the Capital Adequacy Requirement.
return LTIR 1,221 1,658 26% Life APE sales summary AOP IFRS basis, APE sales increased by 6% from R5,178 million to pre-tax 6,099 5,879 4% R5,505 million, driven largely by strong growth in regular premium sales across the majority of our The growth in long-term business profits is mainly Emerging Markets businesses.
due to the significant improvement in Retail persistency in 2010 following the significant strengthening of the basis in 2009 as well as continued business effort to improve retention experience.
Good investment performance in the annuity and permanent health insurance PHI portfolios and increased asset-based fees due to higher equity market levels also contributed to profit growth.
The comparable 2009 life profits benefited from a number of large non-recurring items, including the impact of assumption changes and profits from the Nedbank joint ventures in the first five months of 2009.
Excluding these items, underlying life profits increased by 37% over the comparative period.
PROTECTING CONSUMERS IN SOUTH AFRICA AGAINST FRAUD It was a groundbreaking campaign and an extremely important step towards creating a more informed public.
Were very pleased to see this Old Mutual initiative being supported by other major life insurers, which demonstrates the industrys commitment to educating consumers.
Kurt Magnet Senior Forensic Services Manager Old Mutual South Africa This year we initiated an anti-fraud It included adverts in daily campaign that was taken up by the newspapers providing detailed South African life insurance explanations of what a fictitious industry.
The campaign aimed to policy is, where they originate from, educate consumers about how to why customers might be targeted protect themselves against fictitious and practical tips on preventing insurance policies.
Regular premium sales grew by 13% compared Retail Afuent achieved strong Investment to 2009 and by 25% in the second half of 2010 Frontiers Fixed Bond sales in the first half and compared to the first half, with particularly strong an increase in new contracts issued to clients growth in savings sales in the second half in the Mass with unclaimed maturities.
Annuity sales declined Foundation Cluster which benefited from lower overall by 16%, driven by lower CPI-linked annuity sales cancellation rates, higher average premiums, improved in the Corporate segment as very few annuity adviser productivity and significant improvement in the tenders oated in 2010 were concluded.
With-profit direct channel sales performance.
annuity sales did show a marked improvement, increasing by 48% as we continued to lead in Retail Afuent sales growth was driven by Max this market segment.
Retail Afuent annuity Investments savings products, experiencing sales stabilised in the fourth quarter, following 21% and 31% growth for Life and LISP wrappers improvements in annuity rates, to end marginally respectively in 2010, following the stabilisation below the 2009 level.
Greenlight experienced a lower than expected growth of 6% over 2009 Rest of Emerging Markets in some measure due to increased turnover of the Retail Afuent sales force.
Corporate sales Namibian regular premium sales in the Retail Mass increased by 26% in 2010 driven primarily by and Retail Afuent segments increased by 6% and savings sales in the umbrella market, where the 5% respectively, mainly as a result of solid sales Evergreen umbrella fund grew its membership growth from tied agents despite difficult economic by two thirds to just over 56,000.
Corporate segment regular premium sales grew strongly due to our success in selling sales decreased by 14% due to lower Orion sales a number of new policies to large schemes in this volumes.
Single premium sales decreased by 10%, highly competitive market.
Corporate sales have with lower new business inows from both Retail more than doubled since 2008 due to innovative Afuent and Corporate businesses.
56 Old Mutual plc Annual Report and Accounts 2010 Management statements Business review Risk and Responsibility Governance Financials Shareholder information Sales growth of 36% in Mexico was largely driven institutional and corporate clients as a result of by the introduction of a minimum premium for the more competitive investment returns.
Unit trust regular premium savings product in the first half sales in Mexico and Colombia COLMEX were of 2010, implemented as a consequence of 9% ahead of the prior year in rand 25% in US working closely with South Africa.
We introduced dollars, with strong growth in Colombia resulting a Retail Mass distribution team in December.
from a successful marketing campaign and We will continue to grow this team in the coming stronger relationships with corporate and months and its pipeline is very promising.
We increased productivity, in the 2009 comparative is R28 million APE relating with greater sales from fewer advisers.
Mexico to the Chilean business which was sold in 2009. benefited from a large scheme acquired in September 2010 and improved performance APE sales in China increased by 77% from CNY92 in both xed income and equity portfolios.
million in 2009 to CNY163 million in 2010, despite poor sales during the first half.
The significant Value of new business and margins improvement in the second half is mainly due to The value of new business increased by 14% to increased management focus on sales, supported R972 million, with a strengthening performance by execution of our joint ventures product and during the course of the year.
The APE margin channel diversication strategy new bank, broker increased from 16% to 18% due to a higher and telemarketing products were launched during proportion of sales of higher-margin smoothedthe second half.
The reopening of the Bank of bonus and with-profit annuities in OMSAs China distribution channel in Beijing with the Corporate business and Investment Frontier assistance of our JV partner, following a threeFixed Bonds in Retail Afuent.
month suspension of sales during the first half MCEV results of 2010, further contributed to this improvement.
Sales at our Indian joint venture, Kotak Mahindra Operating MCEV earnings post-tax increased by 39% from the 2009 level.
This was mainly due Old Mutual Life Insurance, increased by 6% compared to 2009. to positive experience variances and operating assumption changes in 2010, compared to A more detailed analysis of sales by segment is negative variances in 2009.
The improvement included in the Financial Disclosure Supplement, in experience variances is mainly due to an available at www.
improvement in persistency, partly due to the 2009 assumption changes, and partly because Unit trust mutual fund sales summary management actions improved persistency.
These were partially offset by a significant Rm 2010 2009 -% decrease in the expected existing business OMSA 18,384 17% contribution due to the reduction in one year swap 21,452 Rest of Africa 4,546 18% 5,360 yields during 2009.
New Markets 14,676 13,491 9% In addition to the effects above, other significant Total Emerging movements affecting the closing MCEV include a Markets 41,488 36,421 14% large positive impact from economic variances due to a combination of better than assumed equity In South Africa, unit trust sales recovered in the returns and the effect of the changes in the shape second half of 2010 following a weak first half.
This was partially offset We achieved growth of 17% from the 2009 level, by modelling enhancements to the economic mainly due to significant ows into Old Mutual Unit scenario generator used to calculate the Trust money market funds during the third quarter investment guarantee reserve, which caused and improved ows into OMIGSAs Marriott afliate a decrease in the margin buffer held to protect following revised asset allocations.
against future market volatility, resulting in less value being released as profits in the future.
We have made progress towards our goal of The net impact of these resulted in a growth becoming our customers most trusted partner, in MCEV of 16% over 2010. evidenced by the number of awards received during the year including our third Ask Afrika We made good progress towards implementation Orange Index award for service excellence in the of Solvency II as part of the overall Group long-term insurance business category, and the programme, and also in respect of the South number one position in South Africas 500 best African equivalent framework known as SAM managed companies.
Solvency Assessment and Management, launched in 2010 by the South African regulator.
In the rest of Emerging Markets, unit trust sales also performed well.
Namibian sales increased by 18% to R5.4 billion following strong inows from Old Mutual plc 57 Annual Report and Accounts 2010 BUSINESS REVIEW LONG-TERM SAVINGS CONTINUED Net client cash ow NCCF for the year was R0.2 billion, a significant DREAMFIELDS improvement on 2009 outows of R20.5 billion.
South African NCCF benefited from signicantly lower PIC outows of R5.1 billion R16.2 billion Our partnership with in 2009, improved inows across a number Dreamelds is about of OMIGSA boutiques mainly Electus and making a difference in the Futuregrowth, improved net ows in retail everyday lives of ordinary businesses and lower outows in Corporate.
South Africans Excluding PIC outows, OMSAs NCCF for the second half of 2010 was positive R1.8 billion Kuseni Dlamini, CEO compared to negative R6.3 billion in the second OMSA & Emerging Markets half of 2009.
Further PIC outows are expected in 2011.
The rest of our Emerging Markets business We understand sport has a great our support by funding the delivered R7.6 billion in NCCF.
In Colombia and potential to transform the lives of development of sports fields, Mexico NCCF increased by 12% from R4.3 billion young people.
Thats why were a donating DreamBags of sports kit to in 2009 to R4.8 billion in 2010.
The Colombian Founding Partner of Dreamfields schools, supporting events, and business attracted new customers within targeted a groundbreaking sport for watching the improving confidence, segments, experiencing lower surrenders on core development charity in South life skills and sense of unity among products and improved sales of Retail voluntary Africa.
This year weve continued the young people taking part.
In Namibia, NCCF increased by R1.0 billion to R1.4 billion due to improved unit trust inows and R672 million inows from the rebalancing of the Government Institutions Growing our sales force remains a priority, as does Pension Fund portfolios.
promoting a savings culture in Emerging Markets, designing and adapting products that are relevant Funds under management to a wide range of customers, and providing easier FUM increased by 13% to R586 billion as a result access to financial services for our customers across our businesses.
of higher market levels and overall neutral NCCF for the year.
Of the total, R498 billion 2009: With these strategies in place we are well R449 billion is in South Africa.
positioned to optimise business opportunities in Overall, OMIGSA investment performance 2011 and further strengthen a highly successful Emerging Markets business.
over three years was average, with satisfactory performance in specialist areas contrasted against mixed performance in our balanced capabilities.
Outlook We have confidence in the underlying performance of the business, despite the low investment return assumptions in 2011 and mark-to-market gains recorded in the asset management results in 2010.
We will continue to strive for a balance that combines strong risk management and governance with a culture that encourages innovation, across our four main strategic themes: Q Continuing to invest in our Emerging Market business Q Improving OMIGSAs investment performance and value creation for customers Q Putting the customer at the centre of our business Q Enhancing our high-performance culture and further developing our Emerging Markets management team.
58 Old Mutual plc Annual Report and Accounts 2010 Management statements Business review Risk and Responsibility Governance Financials Shareholder information NORDIC Nordic Nordic Mrten Andersson Sweden Norway Denmark Improved profitability, higher funds under management and strong APE margin Highlights SEKm, unless otherwise stated 2010 2009 % Change Adjusted operating profit IFRS basis, pre-tax 737 66% 1,227 1 Return on local equity 12% 11% Life assurance sales APE 2,819 21% 2,238 Unit trust mutual fund sales 4,708 37% 6,466 PVNBP 13,774 11% 12,292 Value of new business 526 13% 460 APE margin 19% 21% PVNBP margin 3.8% 3.7% Operating MCEV earnings covered business, post-tax 965 48% 503 Return on embedded value covered business, post-tax 8.1% 3.3% Net client cash ows SEKbn 11.6 36% 7.4 Funds under management SEKbn 145.4 127.2 14% 1 Return on local equity is IFRS AOP post-tax divided by average shareholders equity, excluding goodwill, PVIF and other acquired intangibles of change for the business in delivering our 2011 Overview operating sales, efficiency and profitability targets The economies in the Nordic countries in a rapidly changing business environment.
experienced a strong recovery in 2010, with positive GDP growth estimated at 5.6% in Sweden, 2.0% in Denmark and 2.2% in Norway.
Life sales summary The Swedish equity market grew by 23% in 2010.
APE sales at SEK2,238 million were down by 21% The Nordic business delivered a strong IFRS AOP compared to 2009, following management action result in 2010.
With changes in the management in the Swedish Retail segment to close the team, including a new CEO Mrten Andersson, we unprofitable Link Regular product in late 2009. are delivering on our key priorities of strengthening The APE of the Corporate business decreased distribution power and product offerings, by 14%, mainly due to slower sales of the highly stimulating future NCCF growth, increasing competitive TPS Regular product.
Denmark operational efficiency to secure profitable growth, performed strongly, with product success in the and optimising structures and risk frameworks to unit-linked and healthcare markets.
However, we face a challenging year by 22% to SEK514 million.
This was driven by improved retail SEK503 million, due to the negative assumption investment activity spurred by rising global equity changes driving the decline in the value of new markets.
However, fourth quarter sales showed a business.
However, total MCEV increased over the decrease compared to the same period in 2009 year, due mainly to positive client fund performance.
due to changing product demand and customer behaviour in Skandiabanken.
The Nordic business is making good progress towards the implementation of Solvency II, as a SEKm 2010 2009 -% component of the overall Group Solvency II initiative.
Skandiafonder 1,510 61% 2,431 Skandiabanken 4,035 3,198 26% Net client cash ow NCCF for the year was SEK7.4 billion, a decrease Total Nordic 6,466 4,708 37% of 36% compared to 2009.
This was driven by IFRS AOP results a combination of higher surrenders because The IFRS AOP pre-tax increased by 66% to of higher fund value and an increase in partial SEK1,227 million compared to 2009.
The key driver surrenders, lower single premium sales and higher behind the improvement was higher client funds, paid-ups in the occupational pension business.
which increased fund-based fees and rebates in the long-term business.
In particular the unit-linked Funds under management business performed strongly in the second half.
A gain FUM were SEK145.4 billion at 31 December 2010, realised from divestment of a private equity holding in up 14% from the previous year.
The increase is mainly the first half contributed profit of SEK126 million.
due to the positive movement of equity markets.
% The investment performance in the Swedish unitSEKm 2010 2009 Change linked portfolio was good in the fourth quarter, and our Long-term business average client enjoyed investment performance of AOP 502 102% 1,016 6.2% for the quarter and 10.9% for the year.
Clients Banking business AOP 193 6% 181 have generally increased their risk exposure, with the Asset management AOP 30 42 29% majority of all net investments being allocated to AOP IFRS basis, Swedish, Asian and Emerging Markets equity funds.
pre-tax 1,227 737 66% Fund performance has been strong over the 12-month period, with 63% of our funds performing above The Healthcare business showed a strong average compared to their peers.
turnaround in 2010 as pricing and product changes and underwriting discipline helped Outlook stabilise claims costs in the Lifeline business which delivered AOP of SEK26 million compared The economic outlook for 2011 is positive, with to a negative SEK42 million in 2009.
The 2010 forecast GDP growth of over 3% in Sweden and gure includes divestment costs of SEK20 million Norway and around 2% in Denmark, and public for the Lifeline branch in Norway.
We believe household incomes will increase, that the debate over credit Skandiabankens results were below 2009 levels, expansion is turning the emphasis towards due mainly to lower net interest income and savings, and increased activity in the equity market increased development costs.
As a result of this, the Nordic Sweden suffered from the exceptionally low base savings market is expected to grow despite some interest rate during the first half, although this ongoing concerns around the continued high level increased towards the end of the year.
The competitive environment remained very low 0.09% in 2010 compared to will continue to be challenging, with competition 0.14% in 2009, reecting the traditionally low-risk pushing down fee levels.
The market is heading nature of our lending business.
Skandiabanken towards further fragmentation into two main Norway grew its profits, due mainly to higher net segments: the advised market, with high levels of interest income.
added value from financial advisers, and the self-service market.
Value of new business and margins The value of new business decreased compared to Management action continues to focus on 2009, driven by lower new sales, negative operating improved sales, healthy margins over the longassumption changes for anticipated price pressure term, reductions in the cost base, and in the Corporate segment, and expectations of improvement of the distribution and product more adverse persistency in the future.
The APE offerings to enhance NCCF.
We delivered cost margin increased from 19% to 21% due to a more savings of 2.5 million in 2010.
In 2011, cost profitable business mix resulting from a higher reduction activity will increase and we estimate proportion of TPS business sales in Sweden and restructuring costs of 30 million in the year.
Match product sales in Denmark.
60 Old Mutual plc Annual Report and Accounts 2010 Management statements Business review Risk and Responsibility Governance Financials Shareholder information RETAIL EUROPE Retail Europe Retail Europe Jonas Jonsson Austria Germany Poland Switzerland Foundations laid for further development of the business Highlights m, unless otherwise stated 2010 2009 % Change Adjusted operating profit IFRS basis pre-tax 60 25 140% 1 Return on local equity 20% 9% Life assurance sales APE 80 75 7% Unit trust mutual fund sales 27 27 PVNBP 597 603 1% Value of new business 9 6 150% APE margin 11% 8% PVNBP margin 1.4% 1.0% Operating MCEV earnings covered business, post-tax 77 49 157% Return on embedded value covered business, post-tax 12.8% 7.9% Net client cash ows bn 0.5 0.6 17% Funds under management bn 5.8 4.7 23% 1 Return on local equity is IFRS AOP post-tax divided by average shareholders equity, excluding goodwill, PVIF and other acquired intangibles containment, ensured significant improvement in Overview our IFRS, MCEV and value of new business, with GDP growth improved in all our markets IFRS profits more than doubling.
The transfer of throughout 2010 following government stimulus our IT and client administration functions to South packages and better conditions in export markets.
Africa continues, and our ofce in South Africa was Although labour markets improved in Germany and ofcially opened in December 2010.
Switzerland, unemployment in Austria and Poland increased slightly.
Equity markets rebounded Life sales summary from their 2009 lows, with the German DAX index APE sales reached 80 million, an increase of posting a 2010 gain of 16%.
Our customers continued to demand primarily guaranteed 7% compared to 2009.
Sales in Poland increased markedly, while Austria and Switzerland showed products and IFAs still view unit-linked policies with caution, preferring traditional life policies.
Although the unit-linked market in Germany has declined slightly, we increased our In the light of these challenges, Retail Europes share of this market from 1.9% in the fourth quarter performance in 2010 has been very positive.
of 2009 to 2.2% in the fourth quarter of 2010.
Our sales improved on 2009 levels, primarily driven by Germany and Poland, we continued the formation of the Retail Europe organisation, and we reduced operating costs.
In addition to our sales and marketing activities, which were focused on the end customer, we also developed initiatives to maintain and grow relationships with our existing distribution partners.
In Germany we launched The operating MCEV earnings after tax increased the new single premium Investmentpolice product by over 100 million to 77 million compared towards the end of the year, combining the to 2009, driven by positive experience variances tax benets of a unit-linked contract with the and positive assumption changes for rebates transparency of a pure investment contract.
In Poland we launched a new regular premium product, and in Switzerland we launched Easy Although the Retail Europe business expects to Combi.
All these launches were successful and be a Standard Formula entity under Solvency II, we expect their impact to continue in 2011. we have made excellent progress as part of the We also made concerted efforts to improve Group iCRaFT programme in ensuring that all our distributor relationships through marketing of our processes and governance structures will campaigns designed to support our partners be Solvency II compliant.
Outlook IFRS AOP results We anticipate that macro-economic factors IFRS AOP has increased signicantly to 60 will continue to have a significant impact on million, due to improved results in all countries.
The development of equity The main factors were lower administration and bond markets will continue to be the key to expenses and higher fees driven by higher restoring consumer confidence after the financial fund-based fees resulting from improved crisis.
Our customers will also be impacted by equity markets.
unemployment levels and their own sense of job security.
Ongoing Solvency II developments and Net client cash ow the low interest rate environment will also provide NCCF was 465 million for the year.
The decline challenges for traditional insurers.
While this should of 86 million on 2009 reected the increase in be positive for the unit-linked market, it may fund values of surrenders due to positive equity intensify competition.
markets, although persistency levels were broadly Our focus in 2011 is to extend our product range stable year-on-year.
and distribution through growth initiatives in Germany and Poland.
At the same time we will Funds under management maintain our focus on capital efficiency and cost FUM of 5.8 billion at 31 December 2010 reected containment through our consolidated base in a rise of 23% compared to 2009, largely driven by Berlin and our operations in South Africa.
We will positive stock market performance.
incur further implementation costs for outsourcing the administration and IT support teams to South Value of new business and margins Africa but will gain scope for operational leverage The value of new business increased by 15 million in due course.
to 9 million, with a PVNBP margin for the year of 1.4% and an APE margin of 11%.
The main reasons for the improvement were higher new sales and successful expense management.
62 Old Mutual plc Annual Report and Accounts 2010 Management statements Business review Risk and Responsibility Governance Financials Shareholder information WEALTH MANAGEMENT Wealth Management Wealth Management Bob Head Skandia UK Skandia International France, Italy Skandia Investment Group A very positive year for Wealth Management Highlights m, unless otherwise stated 2010 2009 % Change Adjusted operating profit IFRS basis, pre-tax 106 86% 197 1 Return on local equity 8% 14% Life assurance sales APE 617 19% 734 Unit trust mutual fund sales 3,210 40% 4,507 PVNBP 5,042 27% 6,380 Value of new business post-tax 49 35% 66 APE margin 8% 9% PVNBP margin 1.0% 1.0% Operating MCEV earnings covered business, post-tax 4 112 Return on embedded value covered business, post-tax 0.3% 6.1% Net client cash ows bn 2.5 56% 3.9 Funds under management bn 55.9 46.9 19% 1 Return on local equity is IFRS AOP post-tax divided by average shareholders equity, excluding goodwill, PVIF and other acquired intangibles position us ideally to lead and benefit from this Overview industry shift: we are actively looking at how Wealth Management enjoyed a very positive year to further enhance our platform offering and in 2010.
We achieved significant year-on-year rationalise our suite of products over the coming sales growth, margins improved and the cost year.
We are making good progress in building reduction programme delivered 35 million of the Wealth Management operations and systems run-rate savings which contributed to improved on a single operating model.
The FTSE100 grew by 9% during the year, contributing to continued positive investor Throughout 2010, Skandia Investment Groups sentiment which in turn led to strong growth SIGs highly successful Spectrum range of in FUM across our markets.
risk-targeted funds has been launched on all the UKs major financial adviser platforms.
Sales grew across the business, particularly in The FUM of Spectrum exceeded the 750 million the UK and Continental Europe.
We continue to mark, and this range has now been successfully see a rapid shift in the UK towards both platform exported to Sweden as the Skala range.
business with an insurance wrapper and mutual fund products.
Although we do not target growth Life covered sales summary in market share as a KPI, Skandia UKs market APE sales were 734 million, a 19% increase on share continued to grow in the third quarter of 2010, to 7.4% across all industry channels 2009.
This is mainly attributable to sales in the UK and in Continental Europe, which improved by 28% compared to 6.4% in the fourth quarter of 2009, suggesting the increased importance of the 76 million and 50% 52 million respectively compared to 2009. platform model.
This is a record for Skandia in the UK and compares to a range of 3.5% to 5.5% over 2001-2007.
Following a review of the legacy International 1,100 12% 1,228 products, we decided to close some legacy Continental Europe 23 20 15% products to new business.
Total Wealth Management 4,507 3,210 40% IFRS AOP results IFRS AOP pre-tax increased by 86% to 197 The strong UK platform performance reects million, primarily due to higher FUM, which the continued conversion of IFAs to platform provided a healthy boost to returns on equity business and particularly strong sales during the because of the operating leverage in the business.
first half in the lead-up to the end of the tax year.
FUM growth remains strongly positive, driven APE sales of 239 million were up 100 million on by NCCF and market growth.
Second half volume growth decreased, with re-registering activity slowing and a greater impact As previously reported, the prior year AOP results from the UK holiday season.
The majority of the benefited from the structural tax efficiency mutual fund sales growth was from the platform, applicable to UK companies writing unit-linked where buoyant markets and increased ISA business in the UK, together with the smoothing allowances made positive contributions in 2010 of previous years deferred tax assets.
Gross inows onto the platform assets arose during the significant market volatility were 5.2 billion in 2010 2009:3.3 billion of the preceding two years where falls in the value an indicator of our propositions success.
of policyholder assets resulted in the recognition of significant deferred tax assets in the IFRS Continental Europe APE sales volumes of 157 income statement, which were spread forward million were strongly ahead of 2009s 105 million.
The pre-tax smoothing for 2010 gave Italy has been the main contributor to increased rise to a profit of 71 million, a similar amount to Europe sales, with very high sales earlier in the 2009.
For 2011, the pre-tax impact will be a profit year partially driven by changes in tax legislation.
of 27 million, falling to nil thereafter.
Within the The period covered by these tax changes has MCEV earnings, these profits are recognised as now expired, and volume growth has returned to they arise as investment variances.
normal levels as we continue to make progress through good distributor relationships.
With continued equity and bond market growth, the UK Life Companies have moved into a full APE sales volumes of 225 million in the offshore XSI tax position.
This raises the effective tax International market were 5% lower than the 236 rate because it means that only a relatively small million achieved in 2009, impacted by a managed proportion of the Life dividend income is treated decline in regular premium sales in Finland as as belonging to the shareholder.
This has a result of legislation changes in 2009. increased the overall effective tax rate for Wealth Management to 22% in 2010 2009: 19%.
64 Old Mutual plc Annual Report and Accounts 2010 Management statements Business review Risk and Responsibility Governance Financials Shareholder information We have made excellent progress in implementing SKANDIA UK: GETTING THE FACTS our Solvency II readiness programme, in conjunction with the Group-led iCRaFT initiative.
TO OUR CUSTOMERS Net client cash ow Increasingly the web is becoming the critical NCCF for the year was 3.9 billion, up 56% medium for any business and its essential we on 2009, driven by strong contributions from embrace it.
The new Skandia website provides the UK platform and Italy, which outweighed a vital channel for communication with our surrenders in the UK Legacy book.
end customers and financial advisers.
Funds under management Jeremy Mugridge, Platform Specialist, Skandia UK FUM grew 19% to 55.9 billion, driven by strong NCCF and the positive market movements.
As research shows the growing functionality of the new website Outlook importance of the internet to would be as user-friendly and Our outlook for 2011 is optimistic, based on customers for accessing financial engaging as possible, and we have continuing positive investor sentiment.
So far 2011 information, Skandia UK has linked the site to our existing sales are in line with our expectations but below launched a brand new website as a systems to enable rapid updates to those of the prior year which included the one-off hub for all online activity.
We carried news and data getting the facts to positive impact of the Italian tax shield and out customer research to ensure our customers faster.
particularly significant UK platform sales in the that the structure, navigation and build up to the 2010 tax year-end.
These were helped by April 2010 changes in pension rules coupled with rising investor confidence at the time of the 2010 ISA season.
Value of new business and margins We anticipate continued strong support for the The value of new business increased by 17 million platform model in all our markets and the shift in to 66 million due to strong sales in UK platform the UK market towards a simplied investment and Continental Europe combined with operating and pension product suite.
Following the closure assumption changes at year-end 2010 across all of a number of our UK Legacy products during markets in Wealth Management.
This was partially 2010, we have put retention strategies in place for offset by economic assumption changes in UK this part of the business anticipating that we will and Continental Europe as a result of decreased continue to see net client outows from this book assumed growth rates and increased future of business in the build-up to implementation in ination and the shift from UK Legacy to UK 2013 of the changes resulting from the Retail Platform offerings.
We expect final clarification of the review in a Policy Statement 2010 PVNBP margin was level with 2009 at 1.0%, during the first half of 2011.
We believe that we are as growth in volumes and cost reductions were well-placed for the RDR changes since a large fully offset by the shift to the UK platform offering, proportion of our new business is already written the decline in regular premium business sales and on the basis of client-agreed adviser remuneration.
higher acquisition expenses in International.
In addition, we are considering plans to introduce a fully unbundled charging structure, under which MCEV results we will pass on rebates to the customer in advance Covered business adjusted operating MCEV of December 2012. post-tax earnings increased by 116 million to Our focus on cost reduction will continue and we 112 million.
2009 was signicantly impacted by operating assumption changes reecting surrender remain confident that we will meet our 2012 expense and RoE targets.
experience in International and UK Legacy.
In 2010 VNB was higher and overall we saw a significant improvement in experience effects, especially persistency and rebates.
However, persistency has worsened on the UK Legacy pension business as the market anticipates the implementation of the Retail Distribution Review.
6 billion This has resulted in some product closures and Skandia UKs gross sales consequently the MCEV assumptions have been strengthened.
Planned return on MCEV was lower reached 6 billion in 2010 than in 2009 as a result of the reduction in the one-year yield on risk-free investments.
Old Mutual plc 65 Annual Report and Accounts 2010
