FAST READ DELIVERING ON OUR STRATEGY CASE STUDIES 1.
DEVELOP THE CUSTOMER PROPOSITION AND EXPERIENCE 8 Old Mutual plc Annual Report and Accounts 2010 INNOVATIONS THAT GIVE CUSTOMERS MORE WAYS TO INTERACT WITH US Time invested in the customer Accessing insurance through different channels In South Africa, Old Mutual Finance has broadened its customer value proposition, expanded service Customers can now buy short-term insurance from reach and engaged face to face with target us directly through iWYZE, a collaboration customers through a retail branch network.
between Mutual & Federal and Old Mutual.
It enables Old Mutual to offer a new product to its In November 2008 it introduced a debt customer base while allowing M&F to expand its consolidation lending product called My Money customer channel capability and reach.
Plan which is now a market leader.
What makes it special is that it educates customers and helps We launched iWYZE in just eight months with them to look at their nances holistically during a relatively low capital spend.
In the eight months 45 minute consultation.
As a result they are asking since the public launch the business has grown to us how Old Mutual can help them achieve their over 150 staff members with close to 5,000 active other financial goals.
policies and R36 million of annualised premium income.
Besides using Old Mutuals distribution Positive customer feedback channels, iWYZE taps into all our traditional and In the two years since the launch the business has emerging digital marketing channels to drive built 117 new branches offering Old Mutual life business.
Thanks to the Old Mutual brand, market assurance products, loans and customer service.
insight and distribution capabilities, and state-of-theIt has hired and trained 960 staff: and grown a art systems and processes, iWYZE is already lending book of R2.7 billion.
It is now serving over competing effectively with longer-established direct 30,000 customers a month through its branches.
players in South Africa and is very well positioned to capture a significant part of this emerging market.
Customers are clearly feeling the benefit: their feedback indicates that the business has been very well received in the marketplace.
Annual insurance sales from the branches reached R100 million: and Old Mutual Finance achieved a profit of R80 million in 2010.
Notes As at December 2010 Main photograph: Sydney Mathebula Old Mutual Finance Top left: Busi Ntsokota Branch Manager, Old Mutual Finance and Lwana David Monareng Customer Top right: Adam Sekgabi and Sadiki Thingahangwi iWYSE Call Centre Old Mutual plc 9 Annual Report and Accounts 2010 FAST READ DELIVERING ON OUR STRATEGY CASE STUDIES 2.
DELIVER HIGH PERFORMANCE IN ALL BUSINESS UNITS 10 Old Mutual plc Annual Report and Accounts 2010 ATTENTION TO DETAIL IS THE KEY TO DRIVING HIGH PERFORMANCE Transforming Wealth Management Measuring risk with precision We are intent on creating a single Wealth In 2009 Nedbank Business Banking launched a Management business that is lean, cost capital optimisation initiative focused on cleaningcompetitive, growing profitably, and operating up risk data.
To help track and monitor progress on its 12-15% RoE target.
we developed our own Risk Data Accuracy Measure RDAM.
This aims to quantify risk so that Our initial goal is to reduce Wealth Managements it can be monitored and managed right down to overall cost base by 45 million, from 2012. the lowest level.
By summarising all the elements of This will enable it to meet its part of Old Mutuals risk data, it allows us to track progress on our commitment to shareholders while allowing it to various capital optimisation initiatives.
Including RDAM on credit performance scorecards In 2010 the business made great progress, drove the desired behaviour around the input delivering run rate savings worth 35 million.
All credit staff could see exactly which 35% of the Old Mutual target and over 75% of the inputs were included in their final score.
By demanding Wealth Management target.
A number changing the inputs and the weight they carried in of initiatives that will deliver the remaining the final score, we could focus employees on the c. 10million are in place.
Most of these are already areas that required closest attention.
well advanced and we hope to hit the run rate savings target earlier than our 2012 deadline.
Using performance ladders to include the RDAM in the monthly internal business communication Audits of the programme by KPMG and Group raised awareness of the importance of risk data Internal Audit in 2010 have given it a green light.
This instilled a healthy competitive Even better, they have recommended rolling out spirit among credit employees to achieve the its approach and processes as best practice for number one ranking.
other Old Mutual cost efficiency programmes.
Since we launched the RDAM, the quality of Meanwhile, the Wealth Management business has Nedbanks Business Bankings risk data has not been neglecting growth.
In 2010, Skandia UKs improved signicantly.
We see it as one of the key sales reached 6 billion taking its share of the life, contributors to our success in cutting our capital 1 pension and investment market to a record 7% for requirements by more than 20% over the last the first three quarters of the year.
1 Source: Skandia sales divided by combined total of ABI traditional and Lipper platform.
Main photograph: Sarah Andrews and Liz Hamilton part of the Wealth Management Transformation team Top left: Siobhan Lee, Liz Hamilton, Sarah Andrews and Sally Stephens part of the Wealth Management transformation team Top right: Marko Campher and Phemelo Mekoma Nedbank Business Banking Old Mutual plc 11 Annual Report and Accounts 2010 FAST READ DELIVERING ON OUR STRATEGY CASE STUDIES 3.
SHARE SKILLS AND EXPERIENCE ACROSS THE GROUP 12 Old Mutual plc Annual Report and Accounts 2010 MAKING BEST USE OF OUR WORLD OF EXPERTISE Serving Austria, Germany and Poland Sharing knowledge and ideas from Cape Town One of the best ways to share knowledge and experience is to move people around the Group.
The IT and business know-how of our South African employees is enabling us to achieve Key transfers in the past year included Katie Murrays move from Group Head Ofce to economies of scale by establishing common workow systems across the business.
At the end become Finance Director of Old Mutual South Africa and Emerging Markets.
of last year Old Mutual South Africa OMSA began handling policy administration and IT Steven Levin transferred in the opposite direction: processes for the Retail Europe markets from his experience of launching successful products Cape Town.
OMSAs consistently award-winning in South Africa will help us expand our product customer service makes it a leader in its eld, this range across the Long-Term Savings businesses.
along with its experience, lower cost base and scale will help Retail Europe prepare for future During 2010, the CEO of Skandia Investment market growth.
Group, Nils Bolmstrand moved to rejoin the Nordic business as Head We needed harmonised processes for both of Product.
customer service and IT, says Johannes Friedrich, deputy CEO of Skandia Retail Europe, The Nordic business is also benefiting from the so we decided to use our South African extensive experience of Mrten Andersson, who businesses capacities and infrastructure.
Mrten brings valuable have trained Polish and German speakers in expertise, gained in the successful turnaround of South Africa, to establish a Cape Town based Skandia Mexico and later Skandia Italy part of customer service and IT team to deliver the worldWealth Management, to the Nordic business.
class service our customers are used to.
The transition to Cape Town will be complete in Autumn 2011.
Main photograph: Beata Woolfrey Team leader, Polish Team Top left: Sarah Guering German Team and Marian Dudler-Petoors Austrian Team Top right: Katie Murray OMSA and Emerging Markets Finance Director Old Mutual plc 13 Annual Report and Accounts 2010 FAST READ DELIVERING ON OUR STRATEGY CASE STUDIES 4.
BUILD A CULTURE OF EXCELLENCE 14 Old Mutual plc Annual Report and Accounts 2010 EXCELLENCE COMES FROM GREAT PEOPLE, GREAT LEADERSHIP AND HIGH STANDARDS A team approach to better service Top investment team picks Old Mutual The LEAN approach, is a way of thinking at every Our US Asset Management business formed level about what adds value to the customer, and Echo Point Investment Management in 2010 eliminating what doesnt.
Its about empowering with a newly-acquired team led by veteran employees to own and continuously improve portfolio manager Hans van den Berg.
The entire their processes and that can only be good team joined us after building a strong 15-year for our customers.
track record at 1838 Investment Advisors and Morgan Stanley Investment Management.
Rose Keanly and her team at Old Mutual Service, Echo Point launched with $1.6 billion in assets Technology and Administration OMSTA in South under management.
Africa have made this kind of LEAN thinking part of their culture.
Since 2007 they have reduced Van den Bergs team sought clients views before costs by around R660 million, with another R231 nding a new home.
Their clear preference was million to come over the next three years.
Yet to see the team operate in a stable environment customer and intermediary service levels have supported by world-class infrastructure and gone from strength to strength Old Mutual strong capital backing.
And we must have cultural recently won its third successive Orange Ask alignment, which includes investment autonomy.
Afrika award for best customer service in the From over a dozen rms they picked Old Mutual South African long-term savings industry.
So LEAN is helping us keep both customers and Asset Management OMAM for the quality of its people, investment autonomy for afliates, shareholders happy.
And this success is satisfying for our people, too: since OMSTAs marketing support, and opportunity for joint ownership.
OMAM provides the infrastructure LEAN initiative began, staff morale has improved signicantly.
and non-investment support we need to focus on continuing to meet or exceed long-term This LEAN approach to thinking about delivery performance and risk targets for our clients, and to customers, and running a business to achieve develop relevant product extensions to meet excellence, is now being explored across the demands in the market place, says Van den Berg.
whole Long-Term Savings business with support from Rose and her team in South Africa.
Main photograph: Rose Keanly MD OMSTA and Head of LEAN, Long-Term Savings Top left: Rose Keanly Top right: David Sugimoto, Brian Arcese, Hans van den Berg, Ben Falcone, Erin Perkins Echo Point Investment team Old Mutual plc 15 Annual Report and Accounts 2010 FAST READ DELIVERING ON OUR STRATEGY CASE STUDIES 5.
SIMPLIFY OUR STRUCTURE TO UNLOCK VALUE 16 Old Mutual plc Annual Report and Accounts 2010 THE BEST IDEAS ARE SIMPLE, CLEAR AND INSPIRING Simplifying ownership Integrating operations In 2010 we bought out the minority shareholders We simplied operations in Nedbank by buying in Mutual & Federal M&F and delisted it from the out Imperial Holdings share of Imperial Bank Johannesburg Stock Exchange.
and integrating it fully into Nedbank.
This terminated an onerous funding arrangement Full ownership has removed the potential conicts and enabled us to rationalise two vehicle asset associated with minority interests and was the finance infrastructures into one stronger catalyst for M&Fs Step Change programme business.
This gave us full control of Imperial which is already delivering improved performance.
Banks vehicle finance brand Motor Finance Corporation which is well known in the car M&Fs new vision and strategic objectives are dealer market and allowed Nedbank to aligned with the Groups customer-centred cross-sell to Imperials customer base.
Peter Todd was appointed Managing Director in December 2010.
As well as delivering We avoided redundancies by redeploying some good results for 2010, it has partnered with OMSA 460 people within Nedbanks 27,500-strong Retail Mass Foundation cluster, to launch its workforce: this was not only good for morale new iWYZE direct short-term insurance channel, but also enabled us to focus on maintaining and with underwriting management agencies to business momentum, so there has been no widen its product offering.
Main photograph: Barry Groenewald and Chris Kuhn OMSA Corporate Finance Top left: Chris Kuhn GM Corporate Finance Top right: Candice-Lee Perry Business Banking and Gail Sharp Nedbank Retail Old Mutual plc 17 Annual Report and Accounts 2010
