BUSINESS REVIEW NON-CORE AND DISCONTINUED BUSINESS OPERATIONS 2009.
Fixed Indexed Annuity FIA contributed most US Life to the favourable result in 2010.
The positive variance Life sales summary of FIA was primarily due to higher than expected APE sales at $143 million increased by 34% relative surrenders of FIA contracts that are unprofitable on to the comparative period.
Fixed indexed annuities, an MCEV basis, while in 2009, the positive impact which represent more than half of the total APE, from higher than expected surrenders were more increased 30% in 2010 compared to 2009.
The than offset by the negative impact from lower than increase was driven by product revisions and expected interest margins.
The sales levels are within the range set for the business and reect the MCEV increased by $220 million over the year.
In approach to managing capital within the business.
addition to the effects above, other significant Our top 10 annuity distribution partners who have movements affecting the closing MCEV were the represented an average of 60% of our total sales variances related to the change in economic volume over the past five years grew sales conditions, largely due to reduced risk-free rates collectively by 62% in 2010. and lower credit spreads, partially offset by the liquidity premium reducing from 100 bps to 75 bps.
IFRS results The IFRS pre-tax profit for the year for the US Life Funds under management business was $50 million 2009: loss of $195 Funds under management ended the year at million, with financial performance benefiting from $17.2 billion, up $0.5 billion from the opening lower impairment losses and the reversal of prior position, primarily due to a $0.8 billion increase in impairments, partially offset by higher deferred the market value of the investment portfolio for the policy acquisition costs amortisation as a result of year and increased net investment income.
client cash ows improved by 47% in 2010 compared to 2009 primarily due to lower surrender Value of new business activity and higher sales in 2010.
Net cash and The value of new business decreased by $66 short term holdings at 31 December 2010 were million relative to the comparative period.
decrease in VNB was mainly due to the extended low yield environment and a lower assumed Investment portfolio liquidity premium.
The negative VNB position is The net unrealised position on the xed income largely the result of the MCEV basis used, where security portfolio improved to a net gain of $309 credit spreads in addition to the liquidity premium million at 31 December 2010 $497 million net are not valued in the determination of MCEV, but unrealised loss at 31 December 2009 and $138 shown as earnings when earned.
Although we million net unrealised gain at 30 June 2010. believe that the VNB is positive on an EEV basis, Although the increase in Treasury yields during the the negative gure on the MCEV basis quanties fourth quarter of 2010 negatively affected the net the extent to which the business would rely on unrealised position, as credit spreads were tighter earning credit spreads in order to provide the overall on a year-on-year basis, the unrealised guarantees underwritten.
Management actions position improved compared to the prior year.
In taken during the period included lowering addition, management undertook selective commission rates and increasing bonus on certain fide-risking of the investment portfolio.
As at 31 products, which improved consumer value.
December 2010, $546 million of the total $551 million of the specified securities in the stock MCEV results purchase agreement with Harbinger Capital The 2010 operating MCEV earnings after tax of $72 Partners had been sold at terms better than those million decreased signicantly relative to the expected on signing of the sale agreement.
This was mainly due to the remaining $5 million of specified securities have 2009 expected returns being based off higher asset been sold since the year end.
yields, higher credit spreads and a very depressed starting position.
The persistency assumption The quality of the investment portfolio improved changes of Universal Life insurance plans UL and throughout the year and 92% of the total portfolio Return of Premium term insurance plans ROP also had a market-to-book value ratio greater than contributed to the lower MCEV operating earnings.
The market to book value Operating experience variances were higher than ratio of the xed income portfolio improved from 97% at the beginning of the year to 102% at 31 December 2010.
84 Old Mutual plc Annual Report and Accounts 2010 Management statements Business review Risk and Responsibility Governance Financials Shareholder information There were no defaults in 2010.
Net realised gains Surrender activity in 2010 occurred largely in in 2010 of $19 million include $22 million of trading respect of variable annuity contracts without gains on previously impaired securities that had GMABs, with the business instituting a focused recovered in fair value and $70 million of losses conservation strategy supported by high customer realised on the sale of securities in anticipation of interaction in order to retain as much of this the sale of the company.
US Life also generated profitable business as possible.
Surrender $64 million of net gains on fide-risking trades during behaviour with respect to variable annuity favourable market conditions.
Expected cash ows contracts with GMABs is directly influenced by the on certain previously impaired structured securities differential between the value of the underlying improved signicantly in 2010, resulting in $54 funds and the nominal level of the guarantee, as million of revaluation gains.
These revaluation gains well as the financial circumstances of the were partially offset by impairments.
The recovery across global equity markets, particularly in the fourth-quarter in 2010, During 2010, IFRS impairments were $50 million, resulted in an increase in the number of contracts generally in line with our long-term assumption of where the underlying fund values were greater than $48 million, and compared to $389 million in 2009. the level of the guarantee.
This resulted in a sharp The 2010 impairments on 42 securities related increase in the levels of contracts with GMABs primarily to structured securities, with the losses surrendering in the fourth quarter of 2010, with due to adverse changes in expected cash ows, or overall surrender activity across GMAB contracts the likelihood of diminished loss coverage from for the year at close to double 2009 levels 2010: distressed monoline insurers that guaranteed the 1,211 policies: 2009: 638 policies.
Further gains performance of the security.
The impairment across global equity markets in 2011 would be losses were primarily in RMBS $30 million, ABS expected to result in increased levels of surrenders $8 million, and CMBS $6 million.
across variable annuity contracts with GMABs, accelerating the run-off of these contracts.
Capital Ultimately, surrender activity will determine the OM Financial Lifes risk-based capital ratio speed of the run-off and the extent and timing of increased from 312% as at 31 December 2009 to any associated capital, or cash release for this 350% as at 31 December 2010.
In February 2011, the business launched grew $83 million during 2010 driven by strong an offer to account holders with non-Hong Kong statutory operating earnings.
OM Financial Lifes UGO contracts permitting them to surrender their required capital decreased at the targeted 300% contracts without incurring penalties.
The special level primarily due to a lower risk investment offer increased the rate and number of surrenders portfolio offset by capital required for new business across this book, further fide-risking the business.
The US Life Group distributed a total of The take-up rate was 6.2% at 4 March 2011.
$109 million to Old Mutual plc in 2010 comprising Management will continue to assess demand for of $59 million from OM Financial Life Insurance similar such offers in the future.
Company and $50 million from OM Re.
IFRS Results Bermuda The IFRS pre-tax profit for the year for the As disclosed in our Preliminary Results in March Bermuda business was $34 million 2009: $34 million, with financial performance benefiting from 2010, Bermuda remains a non-core business, and as such its profits are therefore excluded from the lower guarantee losses as a result of the improved effectiveness of the hedging programme, improved Groups IFRS adjusted operating profit.
A review of the operating performance of Bermuda is set basis risk management, favourable equity markets and currency movements.
The impact of the out below: dynamic hedging programme over the course of Overview 2010 was also beneficial in reducing losses in The business continued to perform well against its respect of GMABs and favourable equity markets strategy with significant enhancements delivered in over the course of the year further resulted in lower 2010 including business service improvements, GMAB reserve requirements at the end of the year.
further enhancements to liability management and to management information to improve the dynamic management of exposures and further fide-risk the Guaranteed Minimum Accumulation Benets GMABs attached to certain of the in-force variable annuities.
Old Mutual plc 85 Annual Report and Accounts 2010 BUSINESS REVIEW NON-CORE AND DISCONTINUED BUSINESS OPERATIONS CONTINUED MCEV results statutory capital surplus against its minimum The 2010 operating MCEV earnings resulted in a required capital of $250,000, ending the year loss after tax of $36 million, a marginal decrease with statutory surplus capital of $625 million relative to the comparative period.
earnings include negative corrections and Investment portfolio modelling changes in 2010 compared to significant positive corrections and modelling changes in No defaults or impairments were recorded during 2010 2009: $20 million.
This is however partially offset by much improved persistency experience variances in 2010 position improved to a gain of $31 million as at 31 December 2010 $29 million loss as at 31 and large negative persistency assumption changes in 2009 that were not repeated.
December 2009 as a result of fide-risking efforts within the portfolio through the sale of a number of In addition to the effects above, other significant holdings offsetting gains and losses and the movements affecting the closing MCEV related to narrowing of corporate spreads.
The book value of the movement in GMAB reserve requirements due the portfolio reduced from $1.0 billion at the end of to market performance and changes in economic 2009 to $0.8 billion as at 31 December 2010, conditions, net of the effects of hedging largely as investments were sold to meet surrender guarantees.
Performance benefited from activity and withdrawals.
The xed income portfolio favourable equity and currency markets, with remained at an average credit quality of A2 improved basis risk management and Moodys rating scale, with investment grade effectiveness of the hedging programme.
This was quality holdings continuing to represent more than dampened by reductions in interest rates as 90% of the portfolio.
As at 31 December 2010, the hedges were lifted early on in the year.
book value of the investment portfolio with a market value to book value ratio of 80% or less Reserves was $3 million compared to $71 million at 31 Of total insurance liabilities of $6,106 million 2009: December 2009.
$6,741 million, $4,495 million 2009: $4,688 million is held in the separate account, relating to variable Management of hedging annuity investments where all risk is borne by Over the course of 2010, the business continued to policyholders.
The remaining reserves amount to dynamically manage the underlying economics of $1,611 million 2009: $2,053 million, which is split the hedging programme in order to strike a into $672 million 2009: $766 million in respect of balance between the potential changes in the GMAB GMDB liabilities on the variable annuity income statement, available cash, liquidity and business, and $939 million 2009: $1,290 million in transactional costs arising from movements in respect of policyholder liabilities which are market levels.
A number of adjustments to the supported by the xed income portfolio these hedging programme were made over the course of liabilities include deferred and xed indexed 2010 as a result of turbulent market conditions, annuity business as well as variable annuity xed with the business ending the year approximately interest investments.
Non-separate account 57% hedged against adverse equity and foreign reserves are calculated on a policy-by-policy basis, exchange market movements.
The accumulated updated frequently and veried independently.
unrealised profit or loss, as measured by the stop-loss metric from the time the current hedge GMAB GMDB reserve calculations rely on the framework was implemented on 17 September mapping of policyholder investment funds to 2009 was a gain of $145 million by 31 December hedgeable indices to determine market-consistent 2010 2009: $104 million.
Fund mapping updates are evaluates the hedging strategy, including the most performed at least quarterly, the results of which appropriate level of hedges on a continuing basis, better allocate exposures to Asian and other with any proposed changes to the strategy subject emerging markets which require higher levels of to strict oversight.
The stop-loss protocol reserving given their higher inherent volatility established in September 2009 remains in place, thereby improving the accuracy of the reserve and continues to be monitored daily by Group to calculations.
Overall, this market-consistent ensure that a common understanding of the valuation methodology is guided by the fund resultant impact on capital, cash and profit and mapping process.
Throughout the year, the loss on a timely basis.
business continued to maintain a very significant 86 Old Mutual plc Annual Report and Accounts 2010 Management statements Business review Risk and Responsibility Governance Financials Shareholder information Outlook Whilst turbulent market conditions could have a material impact, the business has performed credibly over the past year, with the key priorities for 2011 focused on continuing this momentum through continued efforts to fide-risk the GMAB exposure in the variable annuity book, through a range of measures.
These include execution against the stated dynamic hedging strategy to contain key risk exposures: continued implementation of the conservation strategy to better retain profitable non-guaranteed business, supported by enhanced customer and service offerings: ongoing prudent management of capital and liquidity: ongoing evaluation of risk management and key business decision-making processes across the business to align with Groups Enterprise Risk Management framework: and maintenance of cost discipline, with a focus on delivering further planned expense reductions.
Old Mutual plc 87 Annual Report and Accounts 2010
