MANAGEMENT STATEMENTS GROUP EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE 42 Old Mutual plc Annual Report and Accounts 2010 Management statements Business review Risk and Responsibility Governance Financials Shareholder information Julian Roberts 53, B.
A. F. C. A. M. C. T. Mike Brown 44, BCom, Dip Acc, CA SA, AMP Group Chief Executive Chief Executive, Nedbank Group Julian has been Group Chief Executive of Old Mutual Mike Brown has been Chief Executive of Nedbank plc since September 2008.
He is also a nonGroup Limited since March 2010.
He was executive Director of Nedbank Group Limited, previously the Chief Financial officer of Nedbank Nedbank Limited and Old Mutual Life Assurance Group and Nedbank Limited from November 2004.
He joined Prior to that, he headed Property Finance at Old Mutual in August 2000 as Group Finance Director, Nedbank and before that he was an executive moving on to become CEO of Skandia following its director of BoE Limited.
purchase by Old Mutual in February 2006.
Prior to joining Old Mutual, he was Group Finance Director of Paul Hanratty 49, B.
Hons, FIA Chief Executive officer, Long-Term Savings and Sun Life & Provincial Holdings plc and, before that, Chief Financial officer of Aon UK Holdings Limited.
Chairman, Old Mutual South Africa Paul was appointed Head of Long-Term Savings Philip Broadley 50, M. A. F. C. A. in March 2009 and Chairman of Old Mutual South Group Finance Director Africa in September 2009.
He has been with Philip has been Group Finance Director since Old Mutual South Africa OMSA since 1984.
He was previously Group Finance He is a fellow of the Institute of Actuaries and Director of Prudential plc from May 2000 until has held a number of roles at Old Mutual.
Prior to joining Prudential, he was These included Head of Product Development, a partner in Arthur Andersen from 1993 to 2000.
General Manager, Finance and Actuarial and Head He has been Chairman of the 100 Group of of the Retail business of OMSA.
He joined the Finance Directors, a founding member and trustee Board of the OMSA life business in 2003 and of the CFO Forum of European Insurance became Managing Director of OMSA in 2006.
Company Finance Directors, and a member of the IASBs Insurance Working Group.
He is a member Don Hope 54 Head of Strategy Development of the Code Committee of the Takeover Panel.
Don was appointed Head of Strategy Development Peter Bain 52, B.
A. J. D. at Old Mutual in March 2009.
He joined Old Mutual President and Chief Executive officer, Old Mutual as Group Treasurer in May 1999, with responsibility Asset Management US for developing the Groups international treasury Peter is President and Chief Executive officer of function.
He is Chairman of Old Mutual Bermuda Old Mutual Asset Management, the US based Limited and a non-executive director of Nedbank global asset management business of Old Mutual Group Limited and Nedbank Limited.
He has more than two decades of experience Don Schneider 53, B.
A. M. A. leading and advising rms in the investment management industry.
Previously he was a Senior Group Human Resources Director Don joined Old Mutual in May 2009 from Merrill Executive Vice President at Legg Mason, Inc, where he held leadership positions from 2000 to Lynch, where he was Senior Vice President and Head of Human Resources for their Global Wealth 2009.
Most recently he served as Head of Afliate Management and Corporate Strategy, with Management Division.
Prior to that, he headed HR for their Global Markets and Investment Banking responsibility for overseeing the rms investment managers.
Prior to that, he was Chief Division.
Don originally joined Merrill Lynch in 1997 as Head of International Human Resources, based Administrative officer, responsible for the rms overall administration and operations.
in London, where he was responsible for all HR activities outside the US.
Prior to that, Don worked Andrew Birrell 41, B.
Sc Hons, for Morgan Stanley for 13 years and he held a FASSA, FFA, ASA, CERA variety of senior HR roles in both New York and Group Risk and Actuarial Director London.
Don started his career as a consultant Andrew has been Group Risk and Actuarial in human resources.
He joined Old Mutual South Africa in August 2007 as Chief Risk officer From the left: and was appointed Group Chief Actuary at Peter Bain, Don Hope, Mike Brown, Old Mutual plc in July 2008.
Previously he was Julian Roberts, Andrew Birrell, Chief Operating officer and Chief Financial officer Don Schneider, Philip Broadley, at Investec Securities.
Prior to that, he was Chief Paul Hanratty.
Financial officer at Capital Alliance Holdings.
His early career was at Metropolitan Life.
Old Mutual plc 43 Annual Report and Accounts 2010
