BUSINESS REVIEW BANKING KEY FACTS Nedbank Group is South Africas fourth largest banking group measured by assets, with a strong deposit franchise and the second largest retail deposit base.
Old Mutual owned on average 54% of Nedbank Group during 2010.
Nedbank is listed on the Johannesburg and Namibian Stock Exchanges.
As at 31 December 2010, its market capitalisation was 6.2bn.
Adjusted operating profit pre-tax and minorities Number of employees 601m 27,525 2009: 470m 2009: 27,047 Total Assets Some of our brands 58.9bn 2009: 47.7bn 9L[ YU VU LX P[` 96, VYL :PLY YH[PV 2010 11.8 2010 2010 10.1 2010 9.9 2009 11.8 2009 2009 2009 5L[ PU[LYLZ[ PUJVTL T 5L[ PU[LYLZ[ THYNPU 2010 1,468 2010 2010 3.35 2010 2009 1,238 2009 2009 3.39 2009 66 Old Mutual plc Annual Report and Accounts 2010 Management statements Business review Risk and Responsibility Governance Financials Shareholder information Overview Focused on southern Africa, but with an aspiration Nedbank Group provides a wide range of to grow its business reach across the whole of the wholesale and retail banking services and a African continent, Nedbank Group is positioned as growing insurance, asset management and wealth a bank for all from both a retail and a wholesale management offering through five main business banking perspective.
clusters, namely Nedbank Capital, Nedbank Corporate, Nedbank Business Banking, Nedbank Acknowledged for its sustainability leadership, Retail and Nedbank Wealth.
Nedbank Group is the first and only carbon-neutral financial services organisation in Africa.
Business prole Nedbank Capital Provides comprehensive investment The cluster comprises: Q banking solutions to institutional Investment Banking Q and corporate clients.
Has ofces in Global Markets Q South Africa and London and a Treasury.
Provides full-service corporate banking The cluster comprises: Nedbank to large corporates with an annual turnover in Q Corporate Banking Corporate excess of R400 million, including commercial, Q Property Finance industrial, retail and residential property Q Nedbank Africa finance solutions, and Nedbank Africa, Q Transactional Banking comprising operations servicing both retail Q Corporate Shared Services.
and corporate market segments in Lesotho, Malawi, Namibia, Swaziland and Zimbabwe.
Nedbank Provides commercial banking The cluster comprises: Business Banking Q solutions to smallto medium-sized Four geographically decentralised businesses with an annual turnover client-facing business units Q of between R7.5 million and R400 A strategic business unit, including million.
Specialised Finance, Debtor Management and Client Value Propositions Q Specialist services, including Investment Management, Transactional Banking Sales, Finance and Business Intelligence Client Value Management.
Nedbank Retail Serves the financial needs of The cluster comprises: Q individuals and small businesses with Secured Lending, including mortgages up to R7.5 million in annual turnover.
and motor finance Q Provides transactional, card, lending Retail Relationship Banking, which and investment products and combines Private Banking and Smallservices.
The Nedbank Retail Cluster Business Services and offers products also services merchants and large in a client-centric value proposition Q corporates in respect of Consumer Banking, which consists card-acquiring services.
of channels, personal loans, deposits, transactional banking, client value management and mass tailored offerings based on client insights Q Card Issuing and Acquiring.
Nedbank Wealth Comprises three divisions, namely The cluster comprises: Insurance, Asset Management and Q Insurance includes short-term Wealth Management, with ofces in insurance, life insurance and insurance South Africa and London and on the broking Isle of Man, Jersey and Guernsey.
Q Asset Management offers a range of local and international best of breed unit trusts, private client asset management and multimanagement solutions Q Wealth Management includes private banking and duciary services locally and internationally as well as stockbroking Mike Brown and financial planning.
Chief Executive, Nedbank Old Mutual plc 67 Annual Report and Accounts 2010 BUSINESS REVIEW BANKING CONTINUED Nedbank Groups headquarters are in Sandton, Strategy Johannesburg, while it has large operational During 2010 Nedbank Groups vision was rened centres in Durban and Cape Town, complemented to: Building Africas most admired bank by by a regional branch network throughout South our staff, clients, shareholders, regulators Africa and facilities in other southern African and communities.
These facilities are operated through Nedbank Groups eight afliated banks and This represents a significant enhancement to subsidiaries, as well as through branches and Nedbank Groups vision and highlights the representative ofces in certain key global financial increasing focus by Nedbank Group on growing its centres that serve to meet international banking business reach across the African continent not requirements of Nedbank Groups South Africajust in South Africa.
However, the Nedbank Group based multinational clients.
recognises that, to become the most admired bank in Africa, it must achieve this in South Africa first, which is why its primary focus during 2010 was on developing more competitive domestic strategies for each of its front-line businesses.
Nedbank Group assessment of strategic operating environment Identied trend Nedbank Group will Bank returns are structurally declining.... respond through active portfolio management and tilting of its portfolio of businesses to optimise sustainable profitability, utilise capital and liquidity judiciously, invest to exploit new growth opportunities, and build a lean operating model.
The SA financial services economic profit pool is... focus domestically, but continue to explore large, but higher growth is expected in the rest of expansion opportunities in Africa.
Africa in the longer term.
SA prospects continue to be driven by infrastructural... ensure that it benets from the opportunities created investment mostly government and a wealthier through infrastructure development, increase its focus consumer.
on wholesale banking, and improve its retail proposition to capture disposable income shifts.
Nedbank Group will also continue to bring more people into the formal banking system through innovative and affordable products such as M-PESA.
There is high growth from bandwidth, electronic,... leverage new technologies and then lead in these internet, mobile and new technology developments.
high-growth markets and banking markets linked to these, such as mobile banking.
SA demographic shifts are enabling consumer... target large and growing segment opportunities such opportunities.
as the underbanked, youth, small and medium enterprise and senior citizen markets.
A differentiated approach is essential to service such new markets in a cost-efficient manner.
The voice of and focus on the client are increasing.... meet the need for simplicity, convenience, choice, affordability, advice, and trust from clients.
Client centricity will remain a core focus, with the aim to increase direct engagement with clients.
Non-banking solutions are growing faster than... seek out add-on growth solutions while improving banking, but deposits have become a key priority.
transactional banking capabilities, such as cross-sell, primary clients, and functionality.
Demand for talent is greater than growth of... develop unique ways to retain, develop and grow the the talent pool.
staff talent pool, especially in businesses that will be targeting higher growth.
Pressure on natural resources is increasing.... continue to reduce and neutralise its own operational impact, consider environmental impacts in its lending activities and actively support its clients in their endeavours to reposition their businesses accordingly.
68 Old Mutual plc Annual Report and Accounts 2010 Management statements Business review Risk and Responsibility Governance Financials Shareholder information Nedbank Groups vision continues to be supported Against this strategic backdrop the business plan by its long-term objectives, which are referred for 2011 to 2013 will see Nedbank Group focus on: to internally as Deep Green aspirations.
Q building enduring primary banking relationships with more retail and wholesale clients in These are: South Africa Q to become a great place to work, a great place Q improving its primary banking positioning to bank and a great place to invest across all businesses Q to be world class at managing risk Q becoming the leader in business banking for Q to create a community of leaders South Africa Q to have the most respected and aspirational Q becoming the public sector bank of choice financial services brand Q continuing as one of the top two wholesale Q to be recognised for being highly involved in the banks community and environment Q ramping up the wealth and asset management, Q to lead in transformation and insurance businesses Q to be great at collaboration Q leveraging the Imperial Bank integration Q to live its values.
Q becoming the leader in client service delivery Q building on its position as a leader in, and Portfolio approach to capital allocation inuencer of, integrated sustainability.
A portfolio approach has been adopted for sustainably optimising returns in an environment The Nedbank Group will also continue to evolve its where resources, capital and liquidity are scarce strategy of building Africas most admired bank by: commodities.
The Nedbank Group must be Q implementing its three-tier strategy to grow its more judicious in selecting strategic business physical network in the southern African opportunities that will allow better alignment of risk Development Community and returns, taking into account liquidity, capital and credit risks.
Doing so will allow a transition Q leveraging boutique investment banking from some of the existing portfolios, such as retail opportunities home loans where the economic returns continue Q leveraging the Ecobank Nedbank Alliance to to be poor, while growing  provide clients with access to a Pan-African businesses.
The Nedbank Group will, however, network continue to take a long-term sustainable view of its Q evaluating selective investment opportunities.
products, client needs and its societal impact.
Old Mutual plc 69 Annual Report and Accounts 2010 BUSINESS REVIEW BANKING CONTINUED Solid earnings growth Highlights Rm 2010 2009 % Change Adjusted operating profit IFRS basis, pre-tax 6,192 10% 6,799 1 Headline earnings 4,277 15% 4,900 1 Net interest income 16,306 2% 16,608 1 Non-interest revenue 11,906 11% 13,215 1 Net interest margin 3.39% 3.35% 1 Credit loss ratio 1.52% 1.36% 1 Cost to income ratio 53.5% 55.7% 1 RoE 11.8% 11.8% 1 RoE excluding goodwill 13.4% 13.4% Core Tier 1 ratio 10.1% 9.9% Adjusted operating profit IFRS basis, pre-tax m 601 470 28% 1 As reported by Nedbank Group in its report to shareholders as at 31 December 2010 Certain of the Nedbank Groups reporting ratio calculations have been adjusted.
The ratios for RoE have been restated with the denominator changing from simple average to daily average for equity and total asset values, respectively.
The calculation of the credit loss ratio has been changed from simple-average advances to daily-average banking advances thereby excluding trading advances from the calculation.
Comparatives have been restated accordingly.
The current strong capital position of the Nedbank Household nances improved in South Africa as debt started to decrease and interest rates Group, combined with these strategic focus areas, places it in a position for sustainable growth.
eased to the lowest levels in 36 years.
The recovery in the credit cycle has proved to be The full text of Nedbank Groups results for more modest compared with previous cycles.
the year ended 31 December 2010, released Household demand for credit was contained by on 28 February 2011, can be accessed the consumer debt burden remaining relatively on Nedbank Groups website high, increased regulatory requirements, policy http: www.
co. za uncertainty and employment growth only resuming financial 2010AnnualResults downloads late in the year.
Against this background the ratio NedbankGroup.
of household debt to disposable income declined marginally to 78.2% from just over 80% at the Banking environment end of 2009.
At the same time debt service costs decreased to 7.5%, the lowest level since Real gross domestic product GDP in South June 2006, and are now at a level that is more Africa grew by 2.8% in 2010 compared with a conducive to improving economic growth in the decline of 1.7% in 2009.
The local economy consumer sector.
had a strong start to the year, primarily driven by improved global demand for commodities and In the corporate sector excess capacity and a rebound in manufacturing production off the uncertainty over the sustainability of the local depressed levels of 2009. and global recovery limited spending.
Government xed-investment spending, although continuing Economic activity was also boosted by strong to contract, emerged as the main foundation infrastructural spending ahead of the FIFA 2010 for growth.
World Cup and by the event itself, with consumer spending rising steadily for most of the year.
Review of results However, xed investment by the private sector contracted for the second year off the elevated Nedbank showed solid earnings growth in a levels seen in 2008. challenging economic environment.
After a strong fourth quarter Nedbank nished the year with Growth in both the emerging and some parts of earnings marginally ahead of managements the developed world surprised on the upside, expectations set out in the third-quarter trading underpinned by Chinas economic strength and update.
Headline earnings increased by 14.6% continued demand for commodities and capital from R4,277 million to R4,900 million.
Massive liquidity injections by major central headline earnings per share increased by 8.7% banks and historically low interest rates helped to from 983 cents to 1,069 cents, slightly above stimulate economic growth further, particularly in the forecast range of 0% to 8% provided in the emerging economies.
In contrast, the underlying third-quarter trading update.
Diluted earnings economic and financial environment remained per share DEPS decreased by 5.3% from 1,109 fragile in the developed world, with scal difficulties cents to 1,050 cents.
As previously reported, 2009 in parts of Europe and America, continued DEPS included a once-off International Financial weakness in credit markets, limited employment Reporting Standards IFRS revaluation gain of growth and inationary concerns returning in R547 million after taxation from the acquisition and emerging economies.
consolidation of the Nedbank Wealth joint ventures.
70 Old Mutual plc Annual Report and Accounts 2010 Management statements Business review Risk and Responsibility Governance Financials Shareholder information Nedbank recorded a return on average ordinary the-cycle levels.
Nedbank Capital impairments shareholders equity RoE, excluding goodwill, increased in the higher-risk private equity portfolio.
Defaulted advances declined by 1.04% to R26,765 Nedbank maintained its well-capitalised balance million 2009: R27,045 million.
Defaulted advances sheet with core Tier 1 capital at 10.1% 2009: to total advances decreased from its peak of 9.9%, while advances grew by 5.5%, with market 6.01% in June 2010 to 5.63%.
Total impairment share gains in most lending classes aside from provisions increased by 14.6% to R11,226 million home loans.
2009: R9,798 million resulting in strengthened coverage ratios.
The net asset value per share grew by 8.0% from 9,100 cents in December 2009 to 9,831 cents in Non-interest revenue NIR December 2010.
This is a pleasing result given the Nedbanks focus on NIR generated growth across increase in the average number of shares in issue all the clusters.
NIR increased 11.0% to R13,215 following the acquisition of the joint ventures from million 2009: R11,906 million.
On a comparable Old Mutual and scrip dividend distributions last year.
basis NIR growth was 10.5% after adjusting for the acquisitions in 2009 of the Nedbank Wealth Financial performance joint ventures and before fair-value adjustments.
The ratio of NIR to expenses improved to 79.6% Net interest income NII 2009: 78.8%.
NII increased by 1.9% to R16,608 million 2009: R16,306 million and Nedbanks net interest margin Core fee and commission income grew strongly held up well at 3.35% 2009: 3.39%, despite the by 13.7% like-for-like growth of 11.2%, adjusting impact of lower interest rates.
Average interestfor the Nedbank Wealth joint ventures through earning banking assets increased by 3.0% 2009 volume growth, new products and new client growth: 9.0%.
Nedbank reduced its retail transactional banking charges in 2006 and 2007.
Margin compression was less than expected.
Since then price increases have been modest, Margin pressure primarily resulted from a smaller with 2010 increases in line with ination, resulting endowment from lower average interest rates and in current banking charges being similar to the cost of lengthening the funding prole.
was partially offset by the widening of margins from asset pricing and a change in asset mix, Insurance income grew 39.8% 18.4% on a including strong growth in Nedbanks retail motor like-for-like basis, adjusting for the Nedbank Wealth finance and personal loans businesses, a relative joint ventures primarily as a result of the provision prime Johannesburg Interbank Agreed Rate of insurance on a fast-growing personal loans JIBAR reset benefit as a result of less aggressive book as well as the introduction of new products interest rate cuts during 2010 compared with and improved levels of cross-selling.
2009, and a decline in the market cost of term liquidity during the last quarter of the year.
Trading income increased by 13.9% to R2,096 million 2009: R1,841 million.
In 2009 interest rates Impairments charge on loans and advances decreased at a rapid pace and created favourable The credit loss ratio on the banking book improved trading conditions.
Low volatility in the first half of to 1.36% for the period 2009: 1.52% restated.
2010 resulted in difficult conditions for global markets and continued pressure on foreign exchange The reduction in the impairments charge was volumes and margins.
This was offset by improved driven mostly by Nedbank Retail, particularly in the equity trading in the second half of the year.
secured portfolios that had lagged the recovery in the unsecured portfolios.
Lower interest rates and Private equity markets remained constrained the stabilising of job losses contributed to the retail throughout the year.
Listed-property private equity credit loss ratio improving signicantly from 3.17% investments showed some modest gains.
Nedbank further strengthened from the private equity portfolios decreased by 25.0%.
its provisioning by reducing certain security assumptions in specic impairments, increasing NIR was negatively impacted by R213 million levels of portfolio provisioning on debt restructures 2009: R6 million profit over the period as a result of R97 million and lengthening the bad debt of the adverse fair-value adjustments of Nedbanks emergence period assumptions within Nedbank subordinated debt resulting from the narrowing of Retail home loans at an additional cost of R114 credit spreads.
Nedbank Corporate also reected million within portfolio impairments.
a negative fair-value adjustment of R55 million 2009: R72 million profit due to a downward The credit portfolios in Nedbank Corporate, movement in the yield curve and related convexity Nedbank Business Banking and Nedbank Wealth in the xed-rate advances book and associated are of high quality and credit loss ratios remained interest rate swaps.
within or below the respective clusters throughOld Mutual plc 71 Annual Report and Accounts 2010 BUSINESS REVIEW BANKING CONTINUED Expenses 49.9% of Imperial Bank and the treatment of Nedbank has maintained a strong cost discipline capitalised software as an intangible asset rather over an extended period, resulting in the increase in than as a xed asset for capital adequacy purposes.
expenses remaining below the market guidance given at the beginning of 2010.
Expenses grew by Liquidity Nedbanks liquidity position remains sound.
The increase was partly due to the acquisition of the Nedbank continues to focus on diversifying its funding base, lengthening its funding prole Nedbank Wealth joint ventures and the consolidation of Merchant Bank of Central Africa.
Expenses and maintaining appropriate liquidity buffers.
Nedbank increased its long-term funding ratio increased by 8.5% on a comparable basis.
from increased capital market issuances under Taxation the domestic medium-term note programme The taxation charge excluding taxation on R6.23 billion and also increased the duration non-trading and capital items increased by 10.9% in the money market book.
Nedbanks liquidity to R1,366 million 2009: R1,232 million arising from position is further supported by a strong loan-toprofit growth adjusted for dividend income as a deposit ratio of 97% and a low reliance on proportion of total income being lower than in interbank and foreign currency funding.
Nedbank 2009, the lower provision for secondary tax on is able to leverage off its favourable retail, companies, owing to an increase of shareholders commercial and wholesale deposit mix, which 81.5% who elected to take scrip for the 2009 final compares well with domestic industry averages.
dividend distribution 2008 final dividend distribution: 32.0%, and the reduced accounting Loans and advances Nedbank continued to make good progress in effect from structured finance transactions that continued to unwind.
improving asset quality, and active management of the banks portfolios towards  The effective tax rate increased marginally from businesses resulted in slower asset growth in selected 20.2% to 20.7%.
Nedbank grew advances ahead of the industry at 5.5% to R475 billion 2009: R450 billion.
Non-trading income Income after taxation from non-trading and capital Deposits items decreased to a R89 million loss from a Deposits increased by 4.5% to R490 billion 2009: R549 million profit in 2009.
Optimising the mix of the deposit of this was an anticipated R34 million writedown book remains a key focus in reducing the high cost on Imperial Bank computer software following of longer-term and professional funding.
The 2009 profit arose from the critical as banks compete more aggressively for accounting-related revaluation of BoE Pty Limited lower-cost deposit pools with longer behavioural and Nedgroup Life Assurance Company Limited duration and as they start to take cognisance of on the acquisition of the remaining shares in the the possible Basel III liquidity ratios.
rates, coupled with low domestic savings levels and the deleveraging of consumers, led to modest Capital growth in retail deposits during 2010.
Relatively Nedbanks capital adequacy ratios remain well higher deposit growth in the wholesale sector above its internal targets and marginally ahead of indicated increasing working capital and available December 2009.
This resulted from ongoing capital capacity among corporates.
Throughout the year and risk-weighted asset optimisation, a strategic demand for higher-yielding negotiable certicates focus on managing for value and a 0.6% increase of deposit remained strong within the professional in capital from higher levels of scrip takeup and funds and corporate markets.
other share issues for staff incentives and black economic empowerment BEE structures.
This growth was offset by the approximately 1.3% negative impact on Nedbanks capital adequacy ratios from the cash acquisition of 2010 2009 Regulatory Capital adequacy ratio ratio Target range minimum Core Tier 1 ratio 9.9% 7.5% to 9.0% 5.25% 10.1% Tier 1 ratio 11.5% 8.5% to 10.0% 7.00% 11.7% Total capital ratio 15.0% 14.9% 11.5% to 13.0% 9.75% Capital adequacy ratios include unappropriated profit 72 Old Mutual plc Annual Report and Accounts 2010 Management statements Business review Risk and Responsibility Governance Financials Shareholder information continue to invest to generate sustainable revenue Outlook growth, underpinned by ongoing cost optimisation Lower domestic interest rates and rising levels of and efficiency improvements.
Growing the banks income should boost consumer spending.
overall franchise and maintaining momentum on Together with improving global demand, this is the turnaround in the Retail Cluster, supported by a expected to increase confidence levels and lead to liquid and well-capitalised balance sheet, are key better consumer demand and capital formation in to delivering sustainable growth.
Margins should widen slightly, given that interest Retail banking credit growth should fare better as rates are expected to remain unchanged, and household credit demand improves, house prices hence the negative effect of assets repricing edge higher and impairments moderate.
Corporate quicker than liabilities out to three months will markets are expected to show modest decrease.
In addition, the cost of term liquidity is improvement, while the small and medium expected to decline as more expensive deposits enterprise SME market is likely to remain under mature and as below-trend economic growth pressure until xed-investment activity improves.
continues, albeit at higher levels than last year.
Overall advances growth is expected to be in the Government spending should continue to underpin mid to upper single digits.
growth, although this is expected to be limited by the reduction in scal deficits over the medium Impairments are expected to continue reducing in term.
Governments stronger focus on job creation line with the improved quality of assets supported is also positive and much will depend on the ability by asset pricing on new advances that appropriately to create a more enabling environment for reects risk and the related cost of funds.
Key to this will be improvements loss ratio is currently expected to decrease but to in the building of infrastructure and a more remain above Nedbanks target range in 2011. conducive and certain regulatory and policy environment to reduce the medium-term Transactional volumes are expected to increase as constraints on economic growth.
the economy improves and Nedbanks focus on growing primary clients is maintained.
Nedbank is well placed for earnings growth in 2011 and remains on track to meet its mediumto Nedbanks medium-term targets remain unchanged.
Nedbank will Nedbank Groups mediumto long-term targets Metric 2010 Performance Mediumto long-term target 2011 Outlook ROE excl goodwill 13.4% 5% above monthly Improving, remaining improving, impairments weighted average cost of below target charge ordinary shareholders equity Growth in diluted headline 8.7% At least consumer price Forecast to exceed target earnings per share EPS index GDP growth 5% Impairments charge 1.36% Between 0.6% and 1.0% Improving, remaining credit loss ratio of average banking above target advances NIR:expenses ratio 79.6% 85% Improving, remaining below target 1 efficiency ratio 55.7% 50.0% Improving, remaining above target Basel II core Tier 1 capital 10.1% 7.5% to 9.0% Improving, remaining adequacy ratio above top end of target range Basel II Tier 1 capital 11.7% 8.5% to 10.0% Improving, remaining adequacy ratio above top end of targetrange Basel II total capital 15.0% 11.5% to 13.0% Improving, remaining adequacy ratio above top end of targetrange Economic capital Capitalised to 99.93% confidence interval on economic capital basis target debt rating A including 10% buffer Dividend cover policy 2.30% 2.25 to 2.75 times 2.25 to 2.75 times 1 Actual efficiency ratio is 55.7% including BEE costs Old Mutual plc 73 Annual Report and Accounts 2010
