FAST READ DELIVERING ON OUR STRATEGY Our strategy is to build a long-term savings, protection and investment group by leveraging the strength of ourpeople and capabilities in South Africa and around the world.
Develop the customer proposition and experience Q Conducted strategic reviews to identify core competencies and best market opportunities for growth We are passionate about developing the best proposition for Q Board agreed a set of customer metrics across the business our customers, by building on our history of innovation and Q Started to close product gaps and developed a clear path for resolute customer focus.
This includes expanding our product more product sharing range, developing our advice capability which is a fundamental Q Begun to close distribution gaps launched iWYZE: a direct part of the value we provide to our customers and endeavour short-term insurance offer between Mutual & Federal M&F and to treat customers fairly everywhere.
Old Mutual SA, and opened 117 Old Mutual Finance branches in South Africa over the last 2 years 2.
Deliver high performance in all business units Q All BUs achieved and exceeded their profitability targets with the exception of US Asset Management To ensure that we provide value to shareholders and Q On target to achieve cost reduction & RoE targets customers, we need to drive high performance in our Q Business units continue to deliver their improvement programmes businesses by delivering profitable growth, operational e. g. M&F step-change, Wealth Management transformation efficiency, and by optimising risk and return.
Q Improved relationships with key stake holders Financial Service Authority FSA, Reserve Bank, South African Government & Reserve Bank and governing bodies in Sweden Q Old Mutual SA achieved and Nedbank maintained Broad-Based Black Economic Empowerment level 2 status: M&F achieved level 3 status and Nedbank recognised as the most sustainable bank in Africa 3.
Share skills and experience across the Group Q Key appointments made to drive sharing of skills Heads of IT, Product & Distribution in Long-Term Savings LTS We will use our capabilities in South Africa and around the Q Clear implementation plan developed for sharing product world to drive revenue and cost improvements across the across LTS Group, by leveraging policy administration capabilities in South Q LTS IT synergy plan ready for implementation Africa, driving global IT and procurement synergies and sharing Q Created IT and administration jobs in South Africa to product development ideas.
support the Retail Europe business unit 4.
Build a culture of excellence Q Launched the Group Vision and Strategy Q Implemented the Group Operating Model GOMsee page 135 A key to our success is that we demand and reward excellence Q Launched our ACT NOW!
Leadership actions-see page 125 in leadership, teamwork and delivery of results for all our Q Agreed consistent performance management across the people.
Thisincludes dening and embedding a highGroup and implemented consistent incentivisation across LTS performance leadershipmodel, against which we can assess, develop and remunerateour leaders.
Simplify our structure to unlock value Q Substantially improved FGD Financial Group Directive surplus Q US Life sale close to completion To deliver the full value of the Group to shareholders we need Q Stabilised the Bermuda business to optimise our structure.
This means that we will exit non-core Q Commenced exploring an IPO Initial Public Offering for and sub-scale businesses, reduce exposure to businesses that USAsset Management fall outside our Group risk appetite, run-off non-disposable assets for value and optimise our structure for strategic, regulatory, capital and governance purposes.
6 Old Mutual plc Annual Report and Accounts 2010 Wewill focus, drive and optimise our businesses to enhance value for customers and shareholders.
2010 Trend 2011 Priorities NCCF % NCCF Opening FUM Q Improve the customer experience across all markets Q Expand and improve the product proposition Q Expand and improve our distribution capability 4 Q Develop and use meaningful customer information to better serve 2 our customers 0 Q Continue to build and strengthen the Old Mutual brands -2 -4 2009 2010 The LTS businesses achieved positive NCCF of 5bn in 2010.
The USAM business had outows of 11.7bn.
For more discussion please see the Finance Directors Report on page 32.
AOP EPS and RoE performance Q Deliver 2011 business plan Q Secure plans to pay off 1.5bn of net debt p % Q Continue to drive strategic transformation in our 20 20 16.0p business units 15 15 11.6p Q Continue to drive profitable growth 10 10 12.2% Q Build an Investment Management business leveraging our 9.1% 5 5 existing capabilities 0 0 2009 2010 Q AOP EPS pence Q RoE% Cost savings m run-rate achieved in 2010 and 2012 target Q Deliver the Long-Term Savings IT plan and continue to improve operational efficiency across the Group Q Build strong functional communities across the Group 100 100 Q Deliver the Group Intranet 80 60 Q Implement a framework to increase international mobility 59 40 for employees 42 20 0 H1 2010 FY 2010 2012 Target LTS employees with a common performance measure Q Continue to build strong executive teams in all our business units and develop the next generation of young leadership potential 100 Q Align executive performance management and remuneration 75 across the Group 50 Q Measure the shift towards our ACT NOW!
Leadership actions by 25 implementing the Old Mutual Group Culture Survey 0 Q Embed risk management as a value driver across the Group 2010 2011 FGD bn Q Complete the sale of US Life Q Explore the partial IPO for the US Asset Management business unit 4 Q Continue to manage the run-off of the Bermuda business to 3 reduce risk to the Group 2 Q Hold business units accountable against operational targets 1 and risk appetite 0 2009 2010 Old Mutual plc 7 Annual Report and Accounts 2010
