FAST READ KEY PERFORMANCE INDICATORS KPIs Set out below are the KPIs that we used to monitor theperformance of the business.
Financial KPI Denition Relevance 1 Return on Equity RoE % RoE% A relative measure expressed as a Return on Equity is an indicator of percentage, calculated by dividing our profitability and efficiency, 3 IFRS Adjusted Operating profit demonstrating how much profit has AOP post-tax and minority been generated given the resources interests by the average capital tied provided by our shareholders.
up in the business, where capital is dened as shareholder equity excluding hybrid capital.
1 Net Client Cash Flow NCCF NCCF Opening Funds under Management % Opening Funds under Management % This measure indicates the extent to NCCF Opening Funds Under Management FUM measures our which client funds are either retained or lost during the year.
Inows are success in attracting new business and retaining existing customers, driven by premiums, deposits and investments, whereas outows are and provides a good indication of investor confidence in our ability to driven by claims, surrenders, withdrawals, benets and maturities.
The LTS businesses achieved positive NCCF of 5bn in 2010.
The USAM business had outows of 11.7bn.
For more discussion please see the Finance Directors Report on page 32.
1 Group Value Creation % Group Value Creation % Long-Term Savings only Calculated as the Market Consistent Group Value Creation for the Embedded Value MCEV value of Long-Term Savings covered new business plus the MCEV business measures the contribution experience variances divided by the to Return on Embedded Value from opening MCEV balance, expressed management actions of writing as a percentage.
profitable new business, and managing expense, persistency, risk and other experience compared with that which was assumed.
Notes 1 Numbers are as reported and historical gures have not been restated to make consistent with 2010 2009.
2 EEV basis 3 IFRSInternational Financial Reporting Standards 4 Old Mutual plc Annual Report and Accounts 2010 2 4.3 12.3 12.0 4.0 9.9 13.2 2.6 -0.4 11.3 1.3 -0.7 9.1 4.1 -2.1 12.2 Financial Relevance 1 IFRS Operating profit margin IFRS Operating profit margin basis points basis points IFRS Operating profit margin Calculated as pre-tax adjusted measures the profit margin we have operating profit divided by the earned on the funds we manage.
average funds under management An improved basis point margin is an for the period, expressed in indicator of the success a company basis points.
is having in growing its revenue at a greater rate than its expenses.
1 Adjusted Operating Earnings Adjusted Operating Earnings per Share pence per Share pence Calculated as post-tax adjusted Adjusted Operating Earnings per operating profit divided by the Share EPS is an indicator of our adjusted weighted average profitability that measures how number of shares WANS, much we earn for each share held.
The trend in the movement of EPS demonstrates our rate of growth.
Non-Financial Relevance Engagement Survey Employee Intent to Stay and Discretionary Effort % Measured by the average Intent to Stay is a lead indicator percentage of positive responses of retention and Discretionary Effort gathered via employee survey to two is a lead indicator of performance.
questions measuring Intent to Stay, These two factors correlate with and three questions measuring business performance and total Discretionary Effort.
In 2011 we will replace the Engagement Survey with a Culture Survey which will facilitate Q 0U[LU[ [V :[H` the tracking of the overall health Q PZJYL[PVUHY`, MMVY[ of our culture.
