Chairman Independent non-executive director Patrick OSullivan joined the Board as Chairman on 1 January 2010.
He also Mike Arnold has been an independent non-executive director of the chairs the Nomination Committee.
From 2007 until 2009, he was Vice Company since September 2009 and chairs the Board Risk Committee.
He Chairman of Zurich Financial Services, where he had specic responsibility for is a qualied actuary and was formerly Principal Consulting Actuary and its international businesses including those in South Africa.
He had previously Head of Life practice at the consulting actuarial rm Milliman from 2002 to held roles at Zurich as Group Finance Director and CEO, General Insurance 2009.
Prior to that, he had been the senior partner at the practice from and Banking, of its UKISA division.
Qualied as a chartered accountant, his 1995, having joined one of its predecessor organisations as a recently prior experience includes positions at Bank of America, Goldman Sachs, qualied actuary in 1971.
He is a past Member of Council and Vice Financial Guaranty Insurance Company a subsidiary of GE Capital, Barclays Chairman of the Institute of Actuaries, past Chairman of the International BZW and Eagle Star Insurance Company.
He is also a non-executive director Association of Consulting Actuaries and past member of the Board of of COFRA Group in Switzerland, Man Group plc and Bank of Ireland.
He is also a non-executive director of Marine and General Mutual Life Assurance Society, Financial Information Technology 3 2.
A. F. C. A. M. C. T. Limited and the Scottish Equitable Policyholders Trust.
Group Chief Executive 1,3, 4 Julian Roberts has been Group Chief Executive of Old Mutual plc since 6.
He is also a non-executive Director of Nedbank Group Senior independent non-executive director Limited, Nedbank Limited and Old Mutual Life Assurance Company South Rudi Bogni has been the senior independent non-executive director of the Africa Limited.
He joined Old Mutual in August 2000 as Group Finance Company since May 2008, having served on the Board since February Director, moving on to become CEO of Skandia following its purchase by 2002.
He chairs the Remuneration Committee.
He is also Chairman of Old Mutual in February 2006.
Prior to joining Old Mutual, he was Group Medinvest International SCA, Luxembourg, a director of the LGT Finance Director of Sun Life & Provincial Holdings plc and, before that, Chief Foundation, Moodys UK, French and German businesses, Common Financial officer of Aon UK Holdings Limited.
Purpose CT, Steadfast Advisory Services Limited and Kedge Capital HJ, and a member of The Governing Council of the Centre for the Study of 2 3.
Financial Innovation, of The International Council for Capital Formation and Group Finance Director of the Advisory Board of Oxford Analytica.
He served previously as a Philip Broadley has been Group Finance Director since November 2008.
He member of the Executive Board and Chief Executive, Private Banking, of was previously Group Finance Director of Prudential plc from May 2000 until UBS AG and, before that, he was Group Treasurer and a member of the March 2008.
Prior to joining Prudential, he was a partner in Arthur Andersen Executive Committee of Midland Bank plc.
He has been Chairman of the 100 Group of Finance 2,3, 4 Directors, a founding member and trustee of the CFO Forum of European 7.
A. s in Business and Law Insurance Company Finance Directors, and a member of the IASBs Independent non-executive director Insurance Working Group.
He is a member of the Code Committee of the Eva Castillo was appointed as an independent non-executive director of the Takeover Panel.
She led the Global Wealth Management business of Bank of America Merrill Lynch in Europe, Middle East and Africa 2, 3, 4 4.
A. EMEA from 2006 to 2009, having held a number of other senior positions Independent non-executive director in Merrill Lynch from 1997, including as head of Global Markets and Nigel Andrews has been an independent non-executive director of the Investment Banking in Iberia and President of Merrill Lynch Spain and, Company since June 2002.
He is also non-executive Chairman of the before that, as Chief Operating officer for Merrill Lynch EMEA Equity Companys principal US holding company, Old Mutual US Holdings, Inc. Markets.
Previously she had worked for the International Equities division of He is a governor of the London Business School and a trustee of the Victory Goldman Sachs in London between 1992 and 1997.
Previously he was an Executive Vice President and member of the non-executive director of Telefonica SA since the beginning of 2008. ofce of the CEO of GE Capital, having spent 13 years with The General Electric Company, Inc. 6 145 7 3 2 130 Old Mutual plc Annual Report and Accounts 2010 Management statements Business review Risk and Responsibility Governance Financials Shareholder information 1, 3, 4 1,2, 3 8.
Independent non-executive director Independent non-executive director Russell Edey has been an independent non-executive director of the Roger Marshall was appointed as an independent non-executive director of Company since June 2004.
He is Chairman of Avocet Mining Plc, a member the Company on 5 August 2010 and became Chairman of the Group Audit of the Conseil fide Surveillance of Paris-Orlans, SA and a non-executive Committee at the end of that month.
He was formerly an audit partner in director of a number of companies in the Rothschild Group.
He retired from , where he led the audit of a number of major the chair of Anglogold Ashanti Limited in May 2010, having served on its groups, including Zurich Financial Services and Lloyds TSB.
Previously he had also served on the boards of English appointments included six years as a member of the Accounting Standards China Clays plc, Wassall plc, Northern Foods plc, Associated British Ports Board.
He is currently Interim Chairman of the Accounting Standards Board, plc and Express Dairies plc.
His career began in the Finance Division of the a Director of the Financial Reporting Council and a non-executive director of Anglo American Corporation of South Africa Limited in Johannesburg.
In the Genworth Financials European insurance companies.
1970s he was General Manager - Corporate Finance of Capel Court 1,3, 4 12.
He joined Rothschild in 1977 and was Head of Independent non-executive director Corporate Finance from 1991 to 1996.
Bongani Nqwababa has been an independent non-executive director of the 1,3, 4 9.
D. CBE Company since April 2007.
He has been Chief Financial officer of the South Independent non-executive director African mining group, Anglo Platinum Limited, since 2009, having previously Alan Gillespie was appointed as an independent non-executive director of been Finance Director of the South African electricity utility group, Eskom the Company on 3 November 2010.
His background is in investment banking Holdings Limited, from 2004.
Prior to joining Eskom, he had been Treasurer and financial services.
His banking career began at Citibank, where he spent 10 and CFO of Shell Southern Africa.
He is currently Chairman of the South years from 1976 to 1986.
He joined Goldman Sachs in New York in 1986 and African Revenue Services Receiver of Revenue Audit Committee.
was made a partner of the rm in 1990, with responsibility for corporate finance 2,3, 4 13.
and mergers and acquisitions in the UK and Ireland.
He jointly led the rms Independent non-executive director financial services practice in Europe and in 1996 established Goldman Sachs Lars Otterbeck has been an independent non-executive director of the presence in South Africa.
After retiring from Goldman Sachs in 1999, he Company since November 2006.
Prior to joining the Board he had held became Chief Executive of the Commonwealth Development Corporation in the various senior business positions in Sweden, including as President and CEO UK.
In 2001 he became Chairman of Ulster Bank, a subsidiary of Royal Bank of of the Swedish mutual pension insurance company, Alecta, from 2000 to Scotland plc.
He is also currently Senior Independent Director of United 2004.
He is also Deputy Chairman of Skandia Insurance Company Limited Business Media Limited and Chairman of the Economic & Social Research and a non-executive director of Skandia Liv.
His outside positions include Council and of the International Finance Facility for Immunization IFFIm.
being Chairman of Hakon Invest AB and Nringslivets Brskommitt 2,3 10.
Industry and Commerce Stock Exchange Committee and Deputy Chairman Non-executive director of the Swedish Corporate Governance Board.
Reuel Khoza has been a non-executive director of the Company since January 2006 and Chairman of Nedbank Group since May 2006.
He is Key Chairman of Aka Capital, which is 25% owned by Old Mutual South Africa 1.
Member of the Group Audit Committee and the single largest participant in Nedbanks Corporate Client Scheme 2.
Member of the Board Risk Committee established as part of its BEE ownership arrangements.
Member of the Nomination Committee non-executive director of Nampak Limited, Protea Hospitality Holdings Limited 4.
Member of the Remuneration Committee and Corobrik Pty Limited.
His previous appointments include Chairmanship of Eskom Holdings Limited and non-executive directorships of Glaxo Wellcome SA, IBM SA, Vodacom, the JSE, JCI, Standard Bank Group and Liberty Life.
He is currently a Fellow and President of the Institute of Directors of South Africa.
10 12 13 8 9 Old Mutual plc 131 Annual Report and Accounts 2010
