In accordance with the Articles of Association Mr R G Dench, The Company presently has the authority to issue ordinary shares Mr N Keen and Mr C D Newell will retire from the Board at the up to a value of 99,400,000 and to make market purchases of up end of the forthcoming Annual General Meeting, and, being to 29,900,000 1 ordinary shares, granted at the Annual General eligible, will offer themselves for re election.
These authorities expire at the conclusion of the forthcoming Annual General Meeting on In addition, the UK Corporate Governance Code, which replaced 10 February 2011. the Combined Code with effect from the Groups financial year ending 30 September 2011 recommends that all directors should be subject to re-appointment annually and therefore the Purchase of own shares remaining directors, Mr N S Terrington, Mr J A Heron, Mr T C Eccles, Mr E A Tilly and Mr A K Fletcher, have agreed to At 30 September 2007 the Company had, as part of a voluntarily retire from the Board at the end of the forthcoming 40.0 million repurchase programme, repurchased 6,689,000 Annual General Meeting, and, being eligible, will offer 10p ordinary shares having an aggregate nominal value of themselves for re election.
The reasons for the repurchase programme were set out in an announcement made by the Company through RNS on None of the directors has a service contract with the Company 25 May 2005.
On 29 January 2008 these shares were requiring more than 12 months notice of termination to be given.
All of these shares were held as at 30 September 2010 and 30 September 2009 as From 1 October 2008, a director has had a statutory duty to avoid treasury shares, representing 0.2% of the issued share capital a situation in which he has, or can have, an interest that conflicts excluding treasury shares, and this holding represents the or possibly may conflict with the interests of the Company.
A maximum number of its own 1 ordinary shares held by the director will not be in breach of that duty if the relevant matter has Company at any time during the past year.
been authorised in accordance with the Articles of Association by the other directors.
The Articles of Association include the relevant authorisation for directors to approve such conflicts.
Substantial shareholdings None of the directors had, either during or at the end of the year, As at 31 October 2010, being a date not more than one month any material interest in any contract of significance with the before the date of the notice convening the forthcoming Annual Company or its subsidiaries.
General Meeting, the Company had been notified of the following interests of more than 3% in the nominal value of the ordinary share capital of the Company: Capital structure Ordinary shares % held Details of the issued share capital of the Company, together with details of movements in its issued share capital in the year, are Standard Life Investments 28,524,201 9.55% given in note 42 to the accounts.
The Company has one class of BlackRock Investment ordinary share which carries no right to fixed income.
Each Management UK 25,679,636 8.59% ordinary share carries the right to one vote at general meetings of Legal & General Investment the Company.
The rights and obligations attaching to ordinary Management 20,934,678 7.01% shares are set out in the Articles of Association of the Company.
Schroder Investment There are no specific restrictions on the size of a members Management 19,463,1716.51% holding or on the transfer of shares.
Both of these matters are M & G Investment Management 18,333,707 6.14% governed by the general provisions of the Companys Articles of Association and prevailing legislation.
The Articles of Association Old Mutual Investment may be amended by special resolution of the shareholders.
The Management 14,708,387 4.92% directors are not aware of any agreements between holders of the VPV Bankers NV 12,958,825 4.34% Companys shares in respect of voting rights or which might result in restrictions on the transfer of securities.
Aviva Investors 11,351,309 3.80% Details of employee share schemes are set out in note 15 to the accounts.
Votes attaching to shares held by employee benefit trusts are not exercised at general meetings of the Company.
The Paragon Group of Companies PLC 15 The Board of Directors considers that all the resolutions to be put Donations to the meeting are in the best interests of the Company and its shareholders as a whole and unanimously recommends that Company law requires the disclosure of political donations and shareholders vote in favour of them.
expenditure by any Group company.
During the year ended 30 September 2010 no such payments were made 2009: nil.
Resolution 13 Contributions to charitable institutions in the United Kingdom amounted to 60,963 2009: 50,895.
Section 549 of the Companies Act 2006 states that the directors may not exercise a companys power to allot shares or grant rights to subscribe for or convert any security into shares unless given Close company status authority to do so by resolution of the shareholders in general meeting.
So far as the directors are aware, the Company is not a close company for taxation purposes.
The present authority of the directors to allot the unissued ordinary share capital of the Company was granted at an Annual General Meeting on 11 February 2010 and will expire at the end Creditor payment policy of the forthcoming Annual General Meeting.
Resolution 13 seeks to give the directors authority to allot shares or grant rights to The Group agrees terms and conditions with each of its suppliers subscribe for or convert any security into shares up to an and ensures that its suppliers are aware of these terms.
Payment aggregate nominal value of 99,500,000 representing is then made on the terms agreed, subject to the appropriate approximately one third of the Companys issued share terms and conditions being met by the supplier.
It is not capital, excluding treasury shares, at 31 October 2010.
At the Groups policy to follow any code or standard on 31 October 2010 the Group held 668,900 treasury shares, payment practice.
representing 0.2% of the Companys issued capital, excluding treasury shares, at that date.
The directors have no present The trade creditor days figure has not been stated as the measure intention of exercising this authority, which will expire at the is not appropriate to the business.
conclusion of the following Annual General Meeting or, if earlier, on 9 May 2012.
Auditors Resolution 14 The directors have taken all reasonable steps to make themselves and the Companys auditors aware of any information needed in Under Section 561 of the Companies Act 2006, any shares preparing the audit of the Annual Report and Financial allotted or, in the case of any shares held in treasury, sold wholly Statements for the year, and, as far as each of the directors is for cash must be offered to existing shareholders in proportion to aware, there is no relevant audit information of which the auditors their holdings, but this requirement may be modified by are unaware.
the authority of a special resolution of the shareholders in general meeting.
A resolution for the re-appointment of Deloitte LLP as the auditors of the Company is to be proposed at the forthcoming Annual The authority given at the Annual General Meeting held on General Meeting.
11 February 2010 will expire at the end of the forthcoming Annual General Meeting and Resolution 14 seeks to renew it.
The resolution authorises the directors to allot or sell shares for cash, Details of resolutions to be proposed as special other than to existing shareholders or holders of other equity business at the Annual General Meeting securities in proportion to their holdings, up to an aggregate nominal value of 14,900,000, representing approximately 5% of Resolution 13 is proposed as an ordinary resolution.
This means the Companys issued share capital, excluding treasury shares, at that for this resolution to be passed, more than half of the votes 31 October 2010.
In respect of this aggregate nominal amount, cast must be in favour of the resolution.
Resolutions 14, 15 and 16 the directors confirm their intention to follow the provisions of the are proposed as special resolutions.
This means that for each of Pre-Emption Groups Statement of Principles regarding these resolutions to be passed, at least three quarters of the votes cumulative usage of authorities within a rolling three year period cast must be in favour of the resolution.
16 The Paragon Group of Companies PLC where the Principles provide that usage in excess of 7.5% should Resolution 16 not take place without prior consultation with shareholders.
This authority will expire at the conclusion of the following Annual Shareholders may give approval to shorten the notice period General Meeting or, if earlier, on 9 May 2012. required for general meetings other than Annual General Meetings from 21 clear days to 14 clear days.
At an Annual General Meeting on 11 February 2010 shareholders approved the Resolution 15 reduction of the notice period for general meetings other than Annual General Meetings to 14 clear days notice.
In order to This resolution, which is being proposed as a Special Resolution, preserve this reduction, Resolution 16 seeks to renew this will enable the Company to purchase, in the market, up to a approval.
The approval will be effective until the Companys next maximum of 29.8 million of the Companys ordinary shares Annual General Meeting, when it is intended that a similar approximately 10% of the issued share capital, excluding resolution will be proposed.
The shorter notice period would not treasury shares, at 31 October 2010 for cancellation, or to be be used as a matter of routine for such meetings, but only where held in treasury, at a minimum price of 10p per share and a flexibility is merited by the business of the meeting and is thought maximum price of not more than 105% of the average middle to be to the advantage of the shareholders as a whole.
market quotation for an ordinary share as derived from the London Stock Exchange Daily Official List for the five business days immediately prior to purchase.
Approved by the Board of Directors and signed on behalf of the Board.
The directors would not expect to purchase ordinary shares in the market unless, in the light of market conditions prevailing at the time, they considered that to do so would enhance earnings per share and would be in the best interests of shareholders JOHN G GEMMELL generally.
Any purchases made by the Company will be Company Secretary announced no later than 7.30 a. m. on the business day following 24 November 2010 the transaction.
The Paragon Group of Companies PLC 17 Corporate social responsibility The Group believes that the long-term interests of shareholders, and that they should not be disadvantaged by unjust or unfair employees and customers are best served by acting in a socially conditions or requirements.
As such, the Group ensures that a high standard of corporate governance is maintained.
When responding to changes in its business, the Group seeks to minimise the requirement for compulsory redundancy, retraining and redeploying staff wherever possible.
Commitment to our customers Composition of the workforce is reviewed on an annual basis and The Group places the needs of customers at the heart of its employee satisfaction with equality of opportunity is monitored as day-to-day operations.
With a commitment from the Board, part of the regular employee feedback surveys.
Human fairness to customers is a key consideration and objective at all Resources policies are reviewed regularly to ensure that they are stages of the lifetime of a loan.
non-discriminatory and promote equality of opportunity.
In particular, recruitment, selection, promotion, training and development policies and practices are monitored to ensure that Training and development all employees have the opportunity to train and develop according to their abilities.
The Group has been accredited under the Investors in People scheme since 1997.
This demonstrates the Groups commitment Information on the composition of the workforce at the year end to the training and development of employees.
The staff appraisal is summarised below: system is designed to assist employees in developing their careers and to identify and provide appropriate training 2010 2009 opportunities, with all employees receiving a review at least annually.
Female employees 59.0% 59.5% Female management The corporate training and development strategy focuses on grade employees 41.5% 40.7% providing opportunities to develop all staff and is central to the achievement of the Groups business objectives.
On average Ethnic minority employees 10.3% 8.7% employees received 8.5 days training in the year 2009: 8.1 days.
Ethnic minority management grade employees 2.5% 1.9% Equality and diversity The Group is committed to providing a working environment in Employees involvement which employees feel valued and respected and are able to contribute to the success of the business, and to employing a The directors recognise the benefit of keeping employees workforce that recognises the diversity of customers.
Employees informed of the progress of the business.
The Group sponsors a are requested to co-operate with the Groups efforts to ensure Staff Forum, attended by elected staff representatives from each the policy is fully implemented.
area of the business, which exists primarily to facilitate communication and dissemination of information throughout the The Groups aim is that its employees should be able to work in an Group and provides a means by which employees can be environment free from discrimination, harassment and bullying, consulted on matters affecting them.
and that employees, job applicants, customers, retailers, business introducers and suppliers should be treated fairly regardless of: Employees are provided with regular information on the performance and plans of the Group, and the financial and race, colour, nationality including citizenship, ethnic or economic factors affecting it, through information circulars national origins and presentations.
gender, sexual orientation, marital or family status religious or political beliefs or affiliations The Company operates a Sharesave share option scheme and a disability, impairment or age profit sharing scheme, both of which enable eligible employees to real or suspected infection with HIV AIDS benefit from the performance of the business.
membership of a trade union 18 The Paragon Group of Companies PLC
