22 REPORT OF THE DIRECTORS continued Gearing Policy Gearing policy is under the control of the Board.
The maximum limit for gearing is 25% of total net assets measured at the time new borrowings are incurred for investment in companies where there are stock-specific opportunities.
The gearing is not an expression of confidence in the performance of the overall UK stock market, but rather an endorsement of the potential for selected securities.
In this respect both the Board and the Manager are content that the flexibility which the overdraft facility provides offers the most appropriate means of gearing, supplementing the longer-term gearing of the debenture stock.
30,000,000 6.125% Debenture 2014 The debenture was issued in July 1999, is secured by a floating charge over all the Companys assets and has a fixed rate of 6.125%.
Interest is payable on 31 January and 31 July.
Environmental Matters, Employees and Social and Community Issues As an investment trust company with no employees, property or activities outside investment management, the disclosure of information about environmental matters, the Companys employees and social and community issues is not given.
The Manager considers various factors when evaluating potential investments.
Some are financial ratios and measures, such as free cash flow, earnings per share and price to book value.
Others are more subjective indicators which rely on first hand research: for example, quality of management, innovation and product strength.
While a companys policy towards the environment and social responsibility is considered as part of the overall assessment of risk and the suitability of the company for the portfolio, the Manager does not necessarily preclude an investment being made on environmental and social grounds alone.
At the AGM in 2007, the Directors received approval from shareholders to send or supply documents or information to shareholders in electronic form e. g. by e-mail or by means of a website.
This delivers environmental benefits through the reduced use of paper and of the energy required for its production and distribution.
Investment Management Agreement Invesco Asset Management Limited IAML is appointed Manager, Administrator and Company Secretary under an agreement dated 20 February 1996 and subsequently amended on 27 December 2001.
This agreement is terminable by either party giving not less than one years notice.
Under the agreement, the Manager receives a management fee of 0.1875% per quarter of the Companys funds under management.
A performance-related fee is payable to the Manager annually in arrears, if the Companys performance exceeds the FTSE All-Share Index.
The performance-related fee is equal to 10% of the value of any outperformance, but may not exceed 0.75% of the value of the Companys net assets at the relevant performance fee calculation date which is usually the Companys balance sheet date.
Any such performance-related fee is based on the outperformance over the benchmark index after taking into account any previous underperformance.
VAT on Management Fees As reported in the half-yearly financial report, the Company recovered an additional 291,000 of VAT.
This has been credited 101,000 to revenue and 191,000 to capital, in the same proportion as originally charged to the income statement.
No further amounts of VAT are recoverable from the Manager.
The Company is, however, engaged with other investment trusts in a collective legal action to seek to recover further amounts of VAT directly from HM Revenue & Customs.
To this end an amount of 109,250 has been paid in the current year.
No further amounts are expected to become payable.
Statement of Managers Responsibilities The Manager is generally responsible for the day-to-day investment management activities of the Company, seeking and evaluating investment opportunities and analysing the results of investee companies.
The Manager has full discretion to manage the assets of the Company in accordance with
