PERPETUAL INCOME AND GROWTH INVESTMENT TRUST PLC 17 subscription shares held by them respectively.
The holders of the subscription shares are not entitled to any further right of participation in the assets of the Company.
Subscription shareholders have the right to receive notices of general meetings and to attend, speak and vote at a general meeting only if a resolution is to be proposed abrogating, varying or modifying any of the rights or privileges of the subscription shares and then only on such resolution.
Wherever the holders of the subscription shares are entitled to vote at a general meeting, every subscription shareholder has one vote on a show of hands and on a poll one vote for each subscription share held.
The notice of general meeting specifies deadlines for exercising voting rights either by proxy or present in person in relation to resolutions to be passed at a general meeting.
B Shares An Extraordinary General Meeting of shareholders was held on 9 June 2010 at which new Articles of Association for the Company were adopted.
These Articles of Association allow an issue of B shares to take place should conditions permit.
The rights attaching to the B shares are therefore listed below.
There were no B shares in issue as at 11 June 2010.
Rights Attaching to the B Shares The B Shares are identical in all material respects to the Companys ordinary shares, save for the fact that holders of B Shares will not receive distributions from the Company by way of dividend: they will instead receive capital returns.
A capital return will be made to the holder of a B Share at the same time as any dividend is paid to the holder of an ordinary share, and will be in an amount equal to any such dividend.
To the extent that any amount in the Capital Repayment Reserve is insufficient to match any dividend paid to ordinary shareholders, a dividend will be paid to B shareholders in an amount equal to any such shortfall following which the B shares will convert into ordinary shares.
For certain shareholders, there will be tax and other advantages in receiving a capital return rather than a dividend.
Capital returns will be paid to holders of B shares from the Capital Repayment Reserve which will be created from the proposed cancellation of the amount standing to the credit of the Companys share premium account which is referable to the issue.
The B shares will convert into ordinary shares once the Capital Repayment Reserve has been fully paid out.
Restrictions on the Transfers of Ordinary, B and Subscription Shares The Directors may refuse to register any transfer of any ordinary, B or subscription share which is not fully-paid, although such discretion may not be exercised in a way which prevents dealings in the ordinary, B or subscription classes of shares from taking place on an open or proper basis.
As at 31 March 2010, the Companys issued share capital did not include any ordinary, B or subscription shares that were not fully paid.
There are restrictions on the transfer of B shares by shareholders located in the US, which make it more difficult for a US person to resell B shares in many instances.
The Directors may refuse to register any transfer of an ordinary, B or subscription share in favour of more than four persons jointly.
The Company is not aware of any other restrictions on the transfer of ordinary, B or subscription shares in the Company other than certain restrictions that may from time to time be imposed by laws and regulations for example, insider trading laws.
In certain circumstances, the Directors can require certain US holders of shares to transfer their shares compulsorily.
Share Valuations On 31 March 2010, the mid-market price and the diluted net asset value NAV per ordinary share were 217.9p 2009: 171.0p and 231.2p 2009: 182.0p respectively.
Key Performance Indicators The Board reviews performance by reference to a number of Key Performance Indicators which include the following: l Relative Asset Performance l Dividend Policy PERPETUAL INCOME AND GROWTH INVESTMENT TRUST PLC 18 REPORT OF THE DIRECTORS continued l Peer Group Performance l Premium Discount l Total Expense Ratio Relative Asset Performance In reviewing the performance of the assets of the Company, the Board monitors the diluted NAV in relation to the FTSE All-Share Index.
However, the Managers aim is to achieve absolute return through a genuinely active investment management approach.
It is not the investment management teams philosophy to regard the FTSE All-Share Index as a benchmark for portfolio construction for the Company.
This approach can therefore result in a portfolio that is from time to time substantially different from the FTSE All-Share Index but has historically achieved significant outperformance of that index.
During the course of the year the diluted capital NAV of the Company rose by 31.4% compared with a rise of 46.7% by the FTSE All-Share Index capital.
Dividend Policy It remains the Directors intention to distribute by way of dividend substantially all of the Companys net income after expenses and taxation.
The Manager aims to maximise total return from the portfolio.
The Manager believes in strong earnings growth and in the importance of dividends to total return.
The portfolio will typically command a yield premium to the market.
However, the pursuit of income is not a prime objective and dividend yields are not permitted to constrain investment decisions.
For the year ended 31 March 2010, the first interim dividend of 3.4p 2009: 3.3p per ordinary share was paid on 29 December 2009 and the second interim dividend of 5.4p 2009: 5.2p was paid on 31 March 2010.
This gave a total dividend for the year of 8.8p 2009: 8.5p excluding a special dividend of 0.84p paid in respect of the recovery of VAT on management fees, an increase of 3.4%.
The Directors intend to maintain their existing policy of providing ordinary shareholders with real growth in dividends over the medium term and, it is anticipated that the historic rate of dividend growth will continue to be targeted.
With effect from the financial year commencing 1 April 2010, the Company will increase the frequency at which it pays dividends from twice-yearly to quarterly.
It is therefore the aim of the Directors to pay dividends in September, December, March and June of each calendar year, with the first quarterly dividend to be paid in September 2010 in respect of the period 1 April to 30 June 2010.
Peer Group Performance There are currently over 300 investment trusts in the UK of which 22 form the UK Income and Growth sector.
This group, however, is quite diverse in its investment policies and structures.
The Board monitors the performance of the Company in relation to both the sector as a whole and to those companies within it which the Board consider to be the peer group that most closely match its investment policy and structure.
As at 31 March 2010, out of the 22 investment trusts within the UK Income and Growth sector the Company was ranked number 21 over one year and number 3 and 2 over three and five years respectively by NAV performance source: J. P. Morgan Cazenove Premium Discount The Board monitors the premium discount at which the Companys ordinary shares trade in relation to the assets and how this compares to other investment trusts in the peer group.
During the year the Companys ordinary shares traded to diluted NAV in the range of a discount of 9.6% to a premium of 7.4% and at the year end the discount was 5.8% 2009: 6.0%.
As at 31 March 2010, the average discount of the 22 investment trusts in the UK Growth and Income Sector was 6.9% 2009: 6.6% source: J. P. Morgan Cazenove.
The Board and Manager closely monitor movements in the Companys ordinary share price and dealings in the Companys ordinary shares.
In order to avoid significant overhang or shortage of ordinary shares in the market the Board asks shareholders to approve resolutions every year which allow for the repurchase of ordinary shares for cancellation or to be held as treasury shares and also their issuance.
This authority was provided at the Companys EGM, which took place on 9 June 2010.
This may assist in the management of the diluted discount.
