08 INVESTMENT MANAGERS REPORT Set against a backdrop of unprecedented government stimulus measures, record low interest rates and improving economic data, the UK stockmarket staged a remarkable recovery in the 12 months to 31 March 2010.
The FTSE All-Share Index rose by 52.3% total returns over the period having hit a 10 year low in March 2009.
The favourable conditions generated optimism among investors that the economy had started to recover.
This sentiment was reflected in the renewed appetite for riskier assets, which saw market performance dominated by share price appreciation of companies in industrial, financial and commodity sectors of the market at the expense of sectors with stable, predictable earnings.
It is worth remembering that we started the year in the midst of a deep recession with a bleak and troubling near term outlook for the UK economy.
This rather depressing prospect improved as the year progressed, with considerable help from government stimulus.
The Bank of Englands Monetary Policy Committee MPC kept interest rates on hold at 0.5% throughout the review period and introduced a quantitative easing programme of 200 billion, which serves to illustrate the fact that the authorities see the recovery remaining fragile and, for now, dependent on help from monetary and fiscal stimulus.
Despite the positive sentiment created by the encouraging economic data and the rebound in company profits, the Manager continues to pursue a cautious stance on the outlook for the UK economy, believing that a number of headwinds persist: not least the new coalition government and its ability to address the UK public debt problem within a sensible time frame.
Portfolio Strategy & Review The Companys net asset value NAV, including reinvested dividends, rose by 31.0% during the 12 months to the end of March 2010, compared to a rise of 52.3% from the FTSE All-Share Index total returns.
The Company generated healthy absolute returns over the review period but on a relative basis was not able to keep pace with the performance of the FTSE All-Share Index.
This was largely on account of the bias towards defensive sectors of the market, such as utilities, tobacco and pharmaceuticals, which fell out of favour in an environment where investors continued to sell defensives to buy cyclical companies.
The Companys lack of exposure to the mining sector was a costly mistake over this period as the state sponsored resilience of the Chinese economy prompted a surprisingly rapid recovery in commodity prices.
In terms of portfolio activity some diversification was added to take advantage of opportunities to invest in good quality businesses at cheap valuations.
There were several new holdings within the Company, including Babcock International, Wm Morrison, Compass Group and VT Group.
Babcock International was purchased following a period of share price weakness and in order to increase the Companys exposure to growth in government outsourcing following the General Election.
After the end of the period Babcock succeeded in acquiring VT Group.
The portfolio had holdings in both companies and has retained a position in the enlarged group, which has become a business with increased exposure to outsourcing in central government expenditure.
A new holding in Wm Morrison was initiated following the announcement of the change of management.
Following the departure of the previous CEO, the shares performed poorly and a decision was made to build a holding as the company continues to succeed in executing its strategy of margin recovery and geographic expansion.
A dip in Compass Groups share price during the review period presented an attractive entry point to purchase the shares at a favourable valuation.
In terms of disposals from the portfolio, life insurer Just Retirement was sold after being acquired by private equity.
Oil majors BP and Royal Dutch Shell were sold to seek better growth opportunities elsewhere in the market.
Following periods of strong performance, Arm Holdings and British Airways were also removed from the portfolio.
PERPETUAL INCOME AND GROWTH INVESTMENT TRUST PLC 09 Outlook The enormous levels of fiscal and monetary stimulus pursued by the government and the Bank of England over 2009 have provided much support for the UK economy.
As a consequence, many investors are of the opinion that the economy is on a steady path to recovery, similar to the experience of the early 1990s, and, in response, the UK equity market has moved higher to reflect this positive view.
Despite the signs that the economy is stabilising, the Manager continues to believe that the UK economy is less strong than many others believe.
The Manager has identified a number of problems which still face the economy, and which cloud the more optimistic view.
Specifically, high levels of consumer and government debt, high and rising petrol prices, a dysfunctional banking system, political uncertainty following the General Election as changes to public sector spending are announced and start to feed through to general economic behaviour and uncertainty over the state of Sovereign finances around the developed world.
The Manager believes that the recently announced Eurozone rescue package will serve merely to alleviate the sense of panic in global equity and bond markets.
Ultimately, the package does not address the broader economic problems within the highly indebted countries of the Eurozone.
The Manager believes that these issues pose major risks to the longer term health of the UK economy as well as to the strength of the recovery from the recession.
Unless and until these headwinds subside, an uncertain and protracted recovery is foreseen.
The current composition of the Company reflects the Managers cautious view, with sectors such as utilities, tobacco and pharmaceuticals featuring prominently in the portfolio.
The significant disparity in the performance of the UK equity market over the past year has created a large opportunity to buy these kinds of companies at very low valuations compared to their historic average.
The Manager believes that, notwithstanding the difficulty in UK macro economic forecasting, the biggest valuation anomaly remains in these areas of the stock market.
In terms of the outlook for the UK equity market, the Manager believes that UK equities are now fairly valued and that the stockmarket could rise modestly in 2010, even though there are pockets of over valuation.
The most plausible outcome is that market leadership will rotate from cyclicals to defensives, which will benefit the positioning of the portfolio.
From the perspective of UK dividends, the Manager is confident that the UK market will continue to be among the better income generating markets globally.
Given the favourable valuation starting point for many of the shares held and the high level of confidence which the Manager holds for the future level of growth in dividends, he believes the outlook for the portfolio looks very promising.
Mark Barnett Investment Manager 11 June 2010
