PERPETUAL INCOME AND GROWTH INVESTMENT TRUST PLC 15 REPORT OF THE DIRECTORS FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 MARCH 2010 Introduction and Content The Directors have pleasure in presenting their Report for the year ended 31 March 2010, which incorporates the Business Review and includes the Corporate Governance Statement.
Nature of the Company The Company was incorporated and registered in England and Wales on 2 February 1996 as a public limited company under the Companies Act 2006 the Act registered number 3156676.
The Company is an investment company as defined by Section 833 of the Act and operates as an investment trust within Section 842 of the Income and Corporation Taxes Act 1988 s842 ICTA.
HM Revenue and Customs have approved the Companys status as an investment trust, subject to there being no subsequent enquiry under Corporation Tax Self Assessment, in respect of the year ended 31 March 2009.
In the opinion of the Directors, the Company has subsequently conducted its affairs so as to enable it to maintain such approval, whether under s842 ICTA or under subsequent legislation under s1158 of the Corporation Tax Act 2010.
Investment Policy The Companys investment objective, investment policy and risk and investment limits combine to form the Investment Policy of the Company.
Investment Objective The Companys investment objective is to generate capital growth with a higher than average income from investment mainly in the UK equity market.
It is intended that the Company will provide real dividend growth over the medium term.
Investment Policy and Risk The Company will invest mainly in above average yielding UK equities and equity-related securities of UK companies.
However, a portion of the portfolio may be invested in equities with a lower initial yield which are considered to have good potential for income growth.
At certain times, up to 10% of the gross assets may be invested in fixed interest securities, where the main criteria for inclusion will be capital certainty, good liquidity and high credit quality.
In addition, up to 10% of gross assets may be invested in non-UK equities.
The Manager will construct a portfolio which reflects his convictions and best ideas.
The Manager does not set out to manage the risk characteristics of the portfolio relative to the FTSE All-Share Index benchmark index and the investment process may result in potentially very significant over or underweight positions in individual sectors versus the benchmark index.
The size of weightings will reflect the Managers view of the attractiveness of a security and the degree of conviction.
If a security is not considered to be a good investment, then the Company will not own it, irrespective of its weight in the benchmark index.
The Manager controls the stock-specific risk of individual securities by ensuring that the portfolio is always appropriately diversified across all market sectors.
In-depth and continual analysis of the fundamentals of investee companies allows the Manager to assess the financial risks associated with any particular security.
The Directors believe that the use of borrowings gearing can enhance returns to shareholders and the Company will use borrowings in pursuing its investment objective.
Investment Limits The Board has prescribed limits on the Investment Policy, the most significant of which are the following: the Company will not invest more than 12% of its gross assets in any single investment: the Company will not invest more than 15% of its gross assets in other listed investment companies: the Company will not invest more than 10% of its gross assets in non-UK equities: the Company will not invest more than 10% of its gross assets in fixed interest securities: the Company will not invest more than 5% of its gross assets in unquoted investments: and
