12 DIRECTORS Bill Alexander CBE Chairman of the Main Antony Hardy Chairman of the Audit Committee and Senior Independent Director Board and of the Management Engagement Antony Hardy was appointed to the Board on Committee 2 February 1996.
He is Investment Adviser to Bill Alexander was appointed to the Board on Essex County Council Pension Fund and South 28 March 2006 and as Chairman on 19 July Yorkshire Pension Fund.
He is currently Non-Executive Chairman of number of endowed charities and trusts, Wigborough Ltd and The Henley Festival Limited.
a Director of Sableknight Limited and was He was previously Chairman of Xansa plc and previously Investment Manager of the Church Chief Executive of RWE Thames Water plc, and Commissioners for England.
also held non-executive appointments at RMC plc, GB Airways Ltd and Laporte plc.
Bob Yerbury Bob Yerbury was appointed to the Board on Vivian Bazalgette 4 December 2008.
He is a Senior Managing Vivian Bazalgette was appointed to the Board on Director of Invesco Ltd. and Chief Investment 21 May 2007.
He is a Non-Executive Director of Officer of Invesco Perpetual.
His investment Henderson High Income Investment Trust plc and career now spans over 40 years, having led the Brunner Investment Trust plc.
He is a member of North American team at Invesco Perpetual for the Investment Committee of St. James Place plc 14 years, becoming Chief Investment Officer in and an adviser to BAE Systems Pension Fund and 1997 and Chief Executive Officer in 2004.
He to the Nuffield Foundation.
He is also a Trustee handed over his CEO responsibilities in of both Kings College Hospital Charitable Trust September 2008, continuing as CIO of the and The Dulwich Estate.
He is currently a investment team in Henley and with his wider Governor of Dulwich College.
He previously held group responsibilities.
He holds an MA in the position of Chief Investment Officer of M&G Mathematics from Cambridge University and between 1996 and 2000 and, following the qualified as an Actuary at Equity & Law Life takeover of M&G by Prudential, was appointed Assurance Society.
He is a Fellow of the Institute Chief Investment Officer of Prudential from 2000 of Actuaries FIA.
Sir Martyn Arbib All Directors are non-executive.
Sir Martyn was appointed to the Board on 6 February 1996.
He was the founder and Chairman of Perpetual plc, which became part of The Invesco Group on 7 December 2000, and left the company in 2002.
Member of the Audit Committee.
Member of the Management Engagement Committee.
