Portfolio Analysis Investment Managers Report 09 With a new cycle beginning to gather pace, made pertinent by substantially depreciated capital stock and companies once again focused on delivering productivity, we are confident that this is the beginning of a sector renaissance Against the back drop of depressed been accelerating is that inventory short-end rates, investors may continue replenishment has played a significant part 18.2% to seek riskier assets in order to generate in the recovery to date.
Amid evidence of Technology sector real returns.
Strong corporate free cash restocking and lengthening lead times, share of forward flow should act to sustain a recent had this been an ordinary cycle it would earnings in the acceleration in M&A activity that could be difficult not to conclude that the best S&P 500 help underpin current valuations.
of the cyclical uplift had already occurred.
However, there appears little that is normal Technology outlook about this cycle.
There has also only been Whilst stock prices have risen substantially 1.0x a very limited supply response to the during the past twelve months, our core destocking which preceded the recovery Relative forward thesis remains essentially unchanged as and we are relatively sanguine about the P E ratio of the we continue to believe that the technology inventory rebuild as, at least in part, it technology sector sectors non participation during the reects a recovery in end-demand, and the previous bull market, the unfolding of a freeing up of IT budgets as record corporate new cycle and attractive current valuations profits begin to ow into improved capital should continue to drive medium-term spending.
With much of the technology outperformance.
With a new cycle capital stock operating beyond its useful beginning to gather pace, made pertinent life it is little wonder that a new cycle by substantially obsolescent capital stock has commenced.
and companies once again focused on delivering productivity, we are confident Even in areas such as PCs that look that this is the beginning, rather than challenged as computing becomes more the end of a sector renaissance following heterogeneous there is real potential for years of purgatory.
an upgrade cycle due to the old age of the there is also strong installed hardware base and the release evidence to suggest In April 2010 the technology sector of a new operating system from Microsoft that a new technology accounted for a record 18.2% of the S&P 500 Windows 7.
In addition to this hardware cycle has commenced as forward earnings, surpassing the previous refresh cycle in the developed world, the the recovery has begun high of 17.6% achieved almost ten years ago.
technology sector is also beginning to to benefit companies At that time the sector traded at almost 3x benefit meaningfully from emerging market unevenly the market multiple whereas today the growth with China already being the largest sector continues to trade at just 1.0x the driver of incremental growth for handsets, markets forward P E. Not only is this still PCs and LCD televisions this year.
non participation signicantly below the ten year ex-bubble during the previous bull average of 1.3x but once excess cash is There is also strong evidence to market, the unfolding of considered we believe the sector may suggest that a new technology cycle a new cycle and current even trade at a discount to the general has commenced as the recovery has valuations that remain market, hardly suggestive of a story that begun to benefit companies unevenly.
This undemanding should has fully played out.
should not come as a surprise since new continue to drive mediumcycles often commence post recessions One reason why valuations may not term technology sector as IT buyers facing budget pressure are have expanded whilst earnings have outperformance forced to consider less well proven but Polar Capital Technology Trust plc Annual Report & Financial Statements for the year ended 30 April 2010 20826 ARC Polar Front.
indd 9 17 06 2010 06:45 PORTFOLIO ANALYSIS 10 Portfolio Analysis Investment Managers Report INVESTMENT MANAGERS REPORT continued New cycles often commence post recessions as IT buyers, facing budget pressure, are forced to consider less well proven but cheaper, disruptive technologies cheaper, disruptive technologies.
Having cutting largely complete evidenced by espoused a view about a new cycle based sector operating margins at or near all US$130bn on recentralised computing since late 2006, time highs it has become difficult for even Total net cash on Google, we are pleased to see that the market nally the best managed legacy companies to Microsoft, Qualcomm appears to be concurring, the recession nancially engineer earnings growth well and Cisco collective probably acting as the long overdue catalyst.
in excess of organic revenue growth.
With balance sheets Further evidence is seen from a CIO survey the recovery gaining strength, growth Gartner carried out in January 2010, which companies are able to increase operational revealed that a very significant shift in IT expenditure behind revenue growth and still priorities was underway, virtualisation, deliver margin expansion, whilst the slower cloud computing and mobile computing growth incumbants cannot.
Recent US occupying three of the top four IT priorities.
Dollar strength will do little to alleviate The nature of this new cycle is discussed in this growing gulf.
greater detail on pages 13 to 19.
Faced with structural challenges posed by a Until recently the impact of the new cycle disruptive new cycle, incumbent companies has been obfuscated by the cyclical recovery are likely to embark on an M&A spree as they until recently the impact and aggressive cost cutting by some of the invest for growth which we believe is better of the new cycle has been slower growth incumbents.
For much of last understood as needing to replace business signicantly obfuscated by year investors apparently had remarkably lost forever to new technologies and or new the cyclical recovery and little interest in distinguishing between entrants.
Large companies are awash with aggressive cost cutting by the sources of earnings growth and by cash Google, Apple, Microsoft, Qualcomm some of the slower growth extension their durability.
With costand Cisco have more than US$130bn of net incumbents GARTNER SURVEY CIO TOP PRIORITIES legacy companies will nd Ranking of technologies CIOs selected as one of their top five priorities it difficult to nancially engineer earnings growth Ranking 2010 2009 2008 2007 now that cost cutting is Virtualisation 1 335 complete Cloud Computing 2 16 Web 2.0 3 15 15 Networking, voice and data communications 4 67 4 the recent Gartner Business intelligence BI 5 111 Survey revealed that a Mobile Technologies 6 12 12 11 very significant shift in IT priorities was underway Data & Document Management and Storage 7 10 9 9 with virtualisation, cloud Service-orientated applications and architecture 8 910 7 computing and mobile Security technologies 9 85 6 computing occupying IT Management 10 three of the top four IT Enterprise Applications 11 222 priorities Polar Capital Technology Trust plc Annual Report & Financial Statements for the year ended 30 April 2010 20826 ARC Polar Front.
