Portfolio Analysis Investment Managers Report 07 Strong performances from a number of our Chinese stocks reected a resurgent domestic economy or the Japanese deationary experience.
energy stocks to perform better given 143% As a result of this top-down stance we their full participation during the were able to increase our exposure during downturn, the sector continued to F5 Networks share the lows, briey deploying net gearing founder as the industry struggled with performance as stocks bottomed.
Our sanguine view oversupply conditions, lower subsidies in Sterling terms also helped ensure that the portfolio and unfavourable nancing conditions.
had disproportionate exposure to Fortunately we signicantly pared our subsectors that usually perform well solar weighting during the first half of the post recessionary troughs small caps, scal year which spared us from the worst semiconductors and telecom equipment of the sub-sectors underperformance.
We also benefited from a number As long-term believers in solar, we will Apple share of our holdings being acquired, several continue to monitor the progress of the performance for large premia such as Data Domain sector from the sidelines until investment in Sterling terms and Starent Networks.
number of our core themes datacentre Economic outlook consolidation, broadband applications Having already staged a solid recovery and ubiquitous computing continued during the last twelve months, the global to deliver growth through the downturn, economy is expected to grow by a further leading to some stunning individual stock 4.2% in 2010 although advanced economies performance including F5 Networks are expected to fare more poorly 2.3% 143%, Apple 101% and Salesforce.
reecting the challenges represented by com 93%.
The Company also benefited high unemployment, scal tightening and from its exposure to the LED market which ongoing deleveraging.
However, even in showed exponential growth as it began to the developed world there is likely to be penetrate the backlighting market for LCD a two-track recovery with the Eurozone televisions, and strong performances from expected to grow real GDP% just 1% in a number of our Chinese stocks reected a 2010 and Japan expected to grow nominal resurgent domestic economy.
In contrast, the On the negative side, relative performance US economy is projected to grow by c. 3% was impacted by our retention of a in 2010 as unemployment begins to recede, modest amount of liquidity for much of and lending conditions improve.
These the year and exposure to areas at the positives should help offset lower growth periphery of the portfolio such as medical contributions from inventory restocking technology and alternative energy that and the reduction of policy stimulus.
failed to fully participate in the rally.
on the negative side, The key assumption for an upbeat In the case of healthcare, President relative performance prognosis on US growth rests heavily on Obamas pursuit of legislative reform held was impacted by our the assumption that todays exceptionally back the sector whilst poor individual retention of liquidity, accommodative monetary conditions stock performances compounded the exposure to peripheral persist for an extended period of time.
Whilst areas that failed to fully We are hopeful that the Federal Reserve one might have expected alternative participate in the rally will refrain from raising rates this year Polar Capital Technology Trust plc Annual Report & Financial Statements for the year ended 30 April 2010 20826 ARC Polar Front.
