Directors Report Directors 29 DIRECTORS Chairman R K A Wakeling MA Cantab, Barrister, FCT aged 63 Appointed to the Board as Chairman in 1996.
Formerly chief executive of Johnson Matthey plc 1991-1994 and a non-executive director of Logica plc from 1995-2002.
Mr Wakeling retired as a non-executive director of The Brunner Investment Trust plc in 2010.
Mr Wakeling has served on the Board for over 9 years and stands for annual re-election.
Directors B J D Ashford-Russell BA Oxon aged 51 Appointed to the Board in 1996.
Mr Ashford-Russell International plc and Dunedin Enterprise Investment Trust plc.
Mr Gamble was Chief Executive of British is a director and founder of Polar Capital Partners.
He was previously head of the technology team at Airways Pension Investment Management Ltd. until his retirement in 2004.
He managed the Company from launch until 30April 2006.
# R A S Montagu aged 44 Mr Ashford-Russell has served on the Board for over Appointed to the Board in 2007.
Mr Montagu co-founded 9 years and is connected to the investment manager.
Montagu Newhall Associates in 2000, a specialist He stands for annual re-election.
investor in technology and healthcare venture capital # P F Dicks industries where he was a partner until 2010. aged 67 # M B Moule Appointed to the Board in 1996 and elected Senior Independent Director in 2004.
Mr Dicks is Chairman of aged 64 Appointed to the Board in 2007 and elected Chairman of the Remuneration Committee.
He is the Chairman of Private Equity Investor plc and Sportingbet plc as well as the Audit Committee in 2010.
Mr Moule was a director of investment trusts at Henderson Global Investors, where a director of several other companies including Standard Microsystems Corporation and Graphite Enterprise Trust plc.
he had been the investment manager for The Bankers Investment Trust plc and Law Debenture Corporation Mr Dicks has served on the Board for over 9 years and plc until his retirement in 2003.
He is a director of The stands for annual re-election.
European Investment Trust plc and Montanaro UK D J Gamble Smaller Companies Investment Trust plc.
aged 66 Member of Audit Committee Appointed to the Board in 2002.
He is Chairman of Member of Management Engagement Committee Member of Nomination Committee Hermes Property Unit Trust and Montanaro UK Smaller # Member of Remuneration Committee Companies Investment Trust plc.
Mr Gamble is a director of IBM Pension Trustees Ltd. Barrie & Hibbert plc, Vencap The Board considers that the majority of the Directors including Mr Wakeling and Mr Dicks, who have both served more than nine years and stand for annual reappointment, are independent in character and there were no relationships or circumstances which were likely to affect or could appear to affect their judgement.
In the case of Mr Ashford-Russell the Board has concluded that he should not be considered as independent due to his relationship with the investment manager.
Polar Capital Technology Trust PLC Annual Report & Financial Statements for the year ended 30 April 2010 20826 ARC Polar Back.
