Portfolio Analysis Investment Managers Report 05 INVESTMENT MANAGERS REPORT Ben Rogoff The past year was a good one for equity investors Sharply improved investor sentiment bottoming at 6% nearly two hundred basis 34.9% led to a revaluation of risk assets that, points above that achieved on average together with a remarkable earnings during previous recessions.
As revenue Rise in FTSE World Index recovery, resulted in global equities moving began to recover, the magnitude of costduring the scal year sharply higher during the scal year, the cutting resulted in a remarkable bottom FTSE World index rising 34.9% in Sterling line recovery, US corporate earnings terms.
Whilst the year began with a torrent growing about twenty times as fast as the 20x of bad news, credit markets were already US economy during the past few quarters, beginning to normalise and by the summer as compared to a 4-5x ratio normally Corporate earnings much of the developed world was coming experienced early in a recovery.
growth outpaced US out of recession.
The recovery process economic growth The strongest regional returns taking was greatly aided by the decision made into account the impact of foreign by China to boost domestic consumption exchange movements were generated in and investment in order to ll the vacuum the US and Asia where stocks benefited left by waning export demand.
Whilst the from the combination of a re-rating and world economy declined by 0.6% in 2009 strong upward revisions to corporate the overall contraction was ameliorated earnings.
In contrast, returns in Europe by emerging market growth led by China and Japan trailed, reecting unexceptional and India whose economies grew by 8.7% earnings recoveries and structural and 6.1% respectively.
Not only did this overhangs magnied by the impact of bifurcation in economic fortunes ensure this was a downturn currency appreciation.
Likewise, largethat this was a downturn where the US where the US consumer cap companies trailed as improved risk consumer did not lead the way out, but did not lead the global appetite, earnings recovery, M&A activity Asian surpluses nanced the transfer of economy out of and a stronger US Dollar all favoured private debt to the public sector in the recession smaller-cap alternatives.
West that largely eliminated the risk of deation.
Technology review The technology sector delivered In addition to the mollifying impact the technology sector another year of positive relative returns, of emerging market growth, massive delivered another year the Dow Jones World Technology Index corporate cost cutting offset the inherent of positive relative rising 39.6% in Sterling terms over the year.
Faced with the returns, the Dow Jones Whilst the sectors outstanding relative prospect of systemic failure, management World Technology returns in the previous scal year were teams responded by slashing costs well Index rising 39.6% in driven largely by a re-rating, this years beyond historic norms.
Whilst this had Sterling terms outperformance was entirely based on a severe impact on unemployment, the superior earnings growth.
The technology cost cutting was so substantial that the sector appears to have benefited ratio of costs and capital expenditure to this years disproportionately, reecting a muted revenues in a number of sectors remained outperformance prior capital spending cycle and renewed unchanged and in some instances fell was entirely based corporate focus on productivity.
This on superior earnings resulted in US corporate net margins growth Polar Capital Technology Trust plc Annual Report & Financial Statements for the year ended 30 April 2010 20826 ARC Polar Front.
