Portfolio Analysis The new cycle gathers pace 13 THE NEW CYCLE GATHERS PACE The new cycle that we see unfolding is likely to have a substantial and lasting impact on the way that IT is provided going forwards Since the days of the mainframe, which were unable to change voltage computing has become increasingly levels so generators needed to be located 1bn decentralised as it has become cheaper close to their loads in order to limit Estimated per and more standardised resulting in its transmission losses.
In 1882 when Thomas annum saving by proliferation.
Data growth and increased Edisons Pearl Street generating station Hewlett Packard complexity post the commercialisation in lower Manhattan became the first US due to datacentre of the Internet is beginning to strain commercial power plant, there was little consolidation existing architectures.
There is now to suggest that the days of DC systems an alternative, popularly described as were already numbered.
This is a term that later once George Westinghouse had does remarkably little to convey the used alternating current AC to harness almost industrial transformation that the power of the Niagara Falls, Edisons is underway.
The highly distributed technology was essentially obsolete.
The form of computing that exists today issue that DC faced then is strikingly similar is almost certainly going to give way to that faced by the distributed form of to a centralised alternative enabled by computing that exists today, namely that the Internet but made pertinent by the its inherent weaknesses were manageable diseconomies of scale being felt today in small-scale deployments but were all by traditional IT architectures.
The too apparent in larger congurations.
the highly distributed recentralisation of computing is already These weaknesses were considerable as form of computing that making it easier to deliver software as DC lines operated at different voltages exists today is almost a service: the datacentres of tomorrow to match different loads which made certainly going to give will likely resemble the power stations of the interconnection of the distributed way to a centralised today, making it possible to deliver IT in a networks a practical impossibility.
Whilst alternative enabled utility form, priced per unit of computing good enough to compete with incumbent by the Internet power.
Disruption is inevitable as the IT gas lighting, DC based electricity was never industry adjusts to delivering computing going to be able to drive the widespread in a continuous rather than discrete form, electrication of America.
the datacentres of and at sharply lower prices.
However, Edisons inferior technology had the upper tomorrow will likely the addressable market should increase hand over AC for almost a decade until resemble the power substantially as utility computing Nikola Tesla introduced the transformer stations of today making removes many of the barriers to adoption in 1891 which made it possible to produce it possible to deliver IT that have precluded many companies high voltage alternating current AC in a utility form and individuals from fully embracing electricity.
This meant that electrical technology to date.
generation read: computing no longer If this roadmap sounds vaguely familiar it needed to take place near to where it was disruption is inevitable is because it was already played out at the needed as the transmission losses could as the IT industry adjusts end of the 19th century with the dawning be reduced to a minimum by stepping up to delivering computing of the age of electricity.
Like computing the voltage for long distance transmission in a continuous rather today, early commercial electricity was read: Internet delivery mechanism.
than discrete form, and distributed as direct current DC systems at sharply lower prices Polar Capital Technology Trust plc Annual Report & Financial Statements for the year ended 30 April 2010 20826 ARC Polar Front.
indd 13 17 06 2010 06:45 PORTFOLIO ANALYSIS 14 Portfolio Analysis The new cycle gathers pace THE NEW CYCLE GATHERS PACE continued As IT buyers get more comfortable with the new architecture cloud computing will likely begin to replace, rather than augment existing systems Now it was possible to exploit cheap beginning to consolidate disparate IT 5-15% sources of power such as hydroelectric, assets into larger datacentres, eliminating whilst the ability to adjust the voltage unnecessary overhead and duplication.
This Estimated average meant that all customers could be trend towards datacentre consolidation current server served with the same electricity.
Once has been enabled by the ability to partition utilisation the voltages had become standardised, physical servers into multiple isolated AC networks could be interconnected virtual environments virtualisation resulting in the distribution grids of today, resulting in dramatically higher c. 80% 8x allowing loads to be balanced which in turn server utilisation rates.
This has prompted allowed the cost of redundant capacity to the likes of Hewlett Packard to reduce Potential improvement be shared across the entire network.
the number of its datacentres from 85 in server utilisation as a to 6 purportedly saving the company result of virtualisation Just as many legacy technology companies US$1bnpa, whilst Intel expects to save have spent the last few years trying to US$1.8bn by consolidating its datacentres.
disparage cloud computing, so Edison tried These consolidations essentially replicate his hardest to scare people away from the architectures already being deployed AC even funding the first electric chair by companies such as Google, Amazon to demonstrate its danger.
Unencumbered by for Edison was that the transformer had the need to support legacy systems these enabled an architectural shift that led to standard bearers are making plain the dramatically cheaper electricity.
Whereas superiority of this new approach, just as Edisons Pearl Street generating station had Westinghouse did at Niagara Falls.
produced electricity at 24 cents per kilowatt it is the spiralling cost hour in 1882, by 1897 the average cost of a As computing continues to recentralise, of power that has kilowatt hour had fallen to 10 cents and just the provisioning of IT is likely to shift prompted a rethink of 2.5 cents by 1909 price points sufciently towards a service provider model.
After todays IT architecture low to drive widespread adoption.
the construction company Bechtel made the decision to replace their traditional Whilst it was its ability to deliver electricity IT structure in favour of a private cloud at signicantly lower prices that presaged it discovered that its IT department had this has prompted a shift towards the newer AC architecture, begun to operate as a service provider to the likes of Hewlett it is the spiralling cost of power that a set of internal customers.
This is a giant Packard to reduce has prompted a rethink of todays IT step towards delivering a standardised the number of its architecture.
This has been made possible IT capability over the Internet in a paydatacentres from by the development of packet switched per-use manner.
The next stage is likely 85 to 6 networks and the advent of Internet to be characterised by the use of external Protocol IP that dramatically reduced the clouds datacentres for variable compute cost of bandwidth.
With the average server capacity which add exibility by shifting as computing continues only operating at 5-15% of its total capacity, expense from capital to operating, to recentralise, the IT sprawl is an accurate description of the eliminating the need for capacity planning.
provisioning of IT is state of computing today.
Processing that As IT buyers get more comfortable with likely to shift towards a can be done remotely and then accessed the new architecture it is likely that it will service provider model via the Internet has led to large enterprises Polar Capital Technology Trust plc Annual Report & Financial Statements for the year ended 30 April 2010 20826 ARC Polar Front.
indd 14 17 06 2010 06:45 Portfolio Analysis The new cycle gathers pace 15 The most exciting application made possible by the Internet is the delivery of software as a service SAAS begin to replace, rather than augment the The most exciting application made US$20bn existing ones.
Just as AC and DC systems possible by the Internet is the delivery co-existed for some time, so we expect of software as a service SAAS which Software maintenance a hybrid IT approach to persist until the we consider a forerunner to full-blown revenues potentially cost curves of the different architectures utility computing.
The ability to rent at risk diverge more substantially.
However the rather than buy software addresses the transition will likely prove very disruptive main weakness in the perpetual software as computing becomes delivered in a model the upfront licence fee which 9.0% cheaper, continuous form even as it often precludes smaller companies from signicantly expands the overall market.
As such we expect Online advertising Our preferred way of gaining exposure the existing on-premise model to give as a percentage of to this theme is via companies with way to the on-demand alternative where total US advertising best of breed products that will gain a standardised software resides on a thirdmarket disproportionate share of spending on party datacentre, delivered via the Internet.
new datacentres, such as F5 Networks, Accounting for just 6% of the software Riverbed Technology and VMware.
We market today, the medium term outlook also favour companies that help carry the for SAAS is thus extremely positive, and increased IP trafc that occurs as a result as such we hold a number of on-demand of recentralisation including Cisco, Juniper software vendors in the portfolio including and Netlogic.
com sales force automation, Concur Technology expense reports and Just as broadband ubiquity will make it RightNow contact centre.
possible to supply computing in a utility form, so it is already being used to deliver Whilst SAAS is augmenting the overall applications today that are expanding software market today, it is inevitable the reach of the technology sector.
that it will begin to impair incumbents at Today the most obvious of the Internetsome point as SAAS vendors increasingly enabled broadband applications is retail target large enterprises.
The other risk the Internet is already e-commerce which in the US is a US$135bn that incumbents face is to their ongoing being used to deliver market that has continued to take share maintenance and support businesses applications today from traditional retailing since inception, a US$20bn per annum business at 80% that are expanding the and yet still only accounts for 3.7% of total gross margins which is threatened by a reach of the technology retail sales.
Likewise, online advertising proliferation of vendors, disruptive new sector is another application made possible by models such as open source and the the Internet which continues to garner ongoing transition away from distributed share from traditional sources such as architectures.
Anecdotally many of the the ability to rent newspaper and TV.
Whilst Google has SAAS companies claim that their new rather than buy already built itself a formidable business, products are cheaper to rent than the software addresses online advertising accounts for just 9% of old ones are to maintain which does not the main weakness in total US advertising today, suggesting there bode well for the incumbents.
the perpetual software is plenty of scope for further growth.
model the upfront licence fee Polar Capital Technology Trust plc Annual Report & Financial Statements for the year ended 30 April 2010 20826 ARC Polar Front.
