08 Portfolio Analysis Investment Managers Report INVESTMENT MANAGERS REPORT continued Near-term volatility may remain above average but we are hopeful that the market can make further gains over the coming scal year even as they withdraw liquidity via other delivered as intended, we cannot escape 93% means given the risks associated with the fact that once we have enjoyed the a so-called double-dip, and the absence best of the current recovery we will be Salesforce.
Whilst ination faced with what is often described as the share performance remains a non-issue in the developed new normal balance sheet repair in the in Sterling terms world, the same cannot be said of the developed world resulting in multi-year advancing economies where strong growth sub-trend growth.
is beginning to have an inationary Whilst we acknowledge that the tradeimpact, resulting in recent interest rate off between risk and reward is almost hikes in India and Brazil.
Even as rising by denition less compelling a year into ination increases the risk of policy error, a recovery, we remain broadly constructive the tightening thus far looks prudent and about the prospects for the global economy consistent with policy normalisation.
As over the coming twelve months.
This a result we expect emerging economies may seem somewhat at odds with recent will continue to drive overall global headlines and market action but we are growth.
Whilst we are mindful that current inclined to believe that policymakers tightening action in China may negatively will muddle through, able to avoid the impact risk appetite, we remain sanguine most egregious policy errors due to the that strong growth can be maintained, not absence of ination in the developed least because ination remains benign.
Likewise strong growth in advancing Although we remain relatively constructive economies should continue to ensure that on global growth in 2010, we acknowledge the underwhelming recoveries in Europe we remain broadly that scal tightening will certainly take and Japan do not drag the global economy constructive about the some wind out of the recoverys sails this back into the morass.
prospects for the global year and that if mishandled the risk Market outlook economy over the coming to our thesis is significant.
This time last Near-term volatility may remain above twelve months... year, reference to scal tightening was the average but we are hopeful that the largely cursory given the nascence of market can make further gains over the the recovery.
A year on amid chaos in coming scal year.
On the positive side we Greece as the country comes to grips with... we acknowledge that continue to expect the key determinants what post-bailout austerity means scal scal tightening will of valuations interest rates, ination and tightening represents the most significant certainly take some wind earnings revisions to remain supportive risk to global growth as indebted out of the recoverys sails over the next twelve months.
With governments nations juggle the need to headline price-earnings ratios fide-rating support growth today whilst retaining the modestly, equity valuations continue to backing of the financial markets.
Whilst the we are hopeful that look undemanding especially on earnings public reaction in Greece reects an extreme the market can make based metrics, US equities trading on a case of national indebtedness there can further gains over the forward P E of 13 as at the end of May.
be no certainty that scal tightening can year as equity valuations On a relative basis, equities look more be delivered in an orderly manner.
Even continue to look attractive than many other asset classes.
assuming that scal tightening is undemanding Polar Capital Technology Trust plc Annual Report & Financial Statements for the year ended 30 April 2010 20826 ARC Polar Front.
