Directors Report Business Review and the Report on Corporate Governance 31 Investment Objective, Policy and Strategy Objective and policy The Companys investment objective has since formation been, and will continue to be, to maximise long-term capital growth through investing in a diversied portfolio of technology companies around the world.
Technology may be dened as the application of scientific knowledge for practical purposes and technology companies are dened accordingly.
While this offers a very broad and dynamic investing universe and covers many different companies, the portfolio will be focused on technology companies which use technology or which develop and supply technological solutions as a core part of their business models.
This includes areas as diverse as information, media, communications, environmental, healthcare and renewable energy, as well as the more obvious applications such as computing and associated industries.
Rationale The Directors believe that the rationale for this objective continues to be valid.
Over the last two decades the technology industry has been one of the most vibrant, dynamic and rapidly growing segments of the global economy.
Technology companies offer the potential for substantially faster earnings growth than the broad market, reecting the long-term secular uptrend in technology spending.
Strategy The Company invests its technology assets in a portfolio comprised primarily of international quoted equities which is diversied across both regions and sectors within the overall investment objective to manage investment risk.
Investment approach Equities are selected on the basis of their potential for shareholder returns, not on the basis of technology for its own sake.
Rigorous fundamental analysis is applied with a focus on: management quality: the identication of new growth markets: the globalisation of major technology trends: and exploiting international valuation anomalies and sector volatility.
Asset allocation The portfolio is constructed without specic reference to any individual market, index or benchmark and the Board regularly discusses asset allocation.
The maximum exposure to any one market may be 100% but the Board has agreed a set of parameters which are based upon current market conditions and provides a range which guides the Investment Manager depending on market conditions and future expectations.
The Board believes this provides the necessary exibility for the Investment Manager to pursue the investment objective, given the dynamic and rapid changes in the eld of technology, while maintaining a spread of investments.
As well as the market parameters shown below, the Board also monitors the portfolios exposure to different subsectors within technology and the spread of investments across different market capitalisations.
Cyclical changes in markets and new technologies will bring certain sub-sectors or companies of a particular size or market capitalisation into or out of favour.
However, the Board expects the Investment Manager to consider the composition of the benchmark and use this to measure performance and analyse under and out performance.
Polar Capital Technology Trust PLC Annual Report & Financial Statements for the year ended 30 April 2010 20826 ARC Polar Back.
