32 Directors Report Business Review and the Report on Corporate Governance DIRECTORS REPORT INCLUDING THE BUSINESS REVIEW AND THE REPORT ON CORPORATE GOVERNANCE continued Market parameters Not withstanding the ability to invest up to 100% of the portfolio in any one market, with current and foreseeable investment conditions the portfolio will be invested in accordance with the objective across worldwide markets within the following geographical and market parameters: North America up to 85% of the portfolio: Europe up to 40% of the portfolio: Japan and Asia up to 55% of the portfolio: Rest of the world up to 10% of the portfolio.
The Board has set an aggregate limit of 25% of the portfolio that may be exposed to emerging markets as dened by the MSCI Emerging Markets Index with specic upper limits for certain countries.
Largest investment The largest single investment that may be held in the portfolio is limited to 5% of the portfolio at the time of acquisition, except for US and UK government bonds, which might be used as part of the cash management process.
Unquoted investments Investment in unquoted companies may be made from time to time where there has been prior Board approval.
These investments in aggregate will not exceed 10% of the portfolio, in each case measured at the time of investment.
Derivatives The Investment Manager may also use from time to time derivative instruments as approved by the Board such as financial futures, options, contracts for difference and currency hedges.
Cash and borrowings From time to time the Company may hold cash or near cash equivalents if the Investment Manager feels that these will at a particular time or over a period enhance the performance of the portfolio.
The management of cash is through the purchase of appropriate government bonds, money market funds or bank deposits depending on the Investment Managers view of the investment opportunities.
The Company may also borrow money to invest in the portfolio over both the long and short-term.
Any commitment to borrow funds is agreed by the Board.
Borrowings may be in currencies which best match the currency in which the investments are denominated.
The constitution of the Company permits borrowings of up to 100% of net assets but the limits agreed by the Board set a range of up to 20% at the time of drawing the relevant borrowings.
Performance At the year end the portfolio comprised of 113 investments with the single largest investment being Apple representing 3.2% by book cost or 7.6% when investment value is used.
The portfolio analysis on pages 22 to 28 provides details on the distribution of investments by market capitalisation, the different sectors in the different principal geographies and all the investments which individually represented more than 0.75% of net assets.
The changes in the share price, net asset value and benchmark over the financial year are shown on page 20.
A review and commentary on the investment activities this year and the Investment Managers comments and the outlook for technology shares are given in the Chairmans Statement on pages 2 and 3 and the Investment Managers Report on pages 5 to 11.
Polar Capital Technology Trust PLC Annual Report & Financial Statements for the year ended 30 April 2010 20826 ARC Polar Back.
