Directors Report Business Review and the Report on Corporate Governance 35 A small element of the investment portfolio is invested into unlisted securities.
These investments are made where they offer specialist management or investment opportunities which would otherwise not be available.
At the yearend this amounted to less than 0.3% of NAV.
The Board has regard to the degree of risk which the Investment Manager incurs in order to generate the investment returns and the effect of gearing on the portfolio by borrowed funds which can magnify the portfolio returns pershare positively or negatively.
There is a second group of business risks in the form of financial, legal, accounting and regulatory requirements.
The financial risks which arise from the investment activities expose the Company to risks such as market price, credit, liquidity, foreign currency and interest rates.
The legal and accounting risks include qualication on an annual basis as an investment trust, compliance with the FSAs Listing Rules and Transparency and Disclosure Rules, the provisions of the Companies Act requirements and other legislation affecting UK companies and compliance with accounting standards.
The policies for managing the risks posed by exposure to market prices, interest rates, foreign currency exchange rates and liquidity are set out in note 29 to the accounts.
The other business risks are managed through regular reporting to the Board on the diversication of the portfolio, market and sector views, analytical performance data and attribution presented by the Investment Manager.
The Board also receives financial information on the Company and discusses the share register and share price performance at each meeting.
The Board in consultation with the Investment Manager considers all these reports and reviews the strategy.
Any investment in unquoted companies or funds is approved by the Directors before the investment is made.
Information and guidance on the second group of risks is managed by the use of professional advisers, the taking of advice when necessary and reports submitted to the Board.
Management Company and Management of the Portfolio As the Company is an investment vehicle for shareholders the Directors have sought to ensure that the business of the Company is managed by a leading specialist investment management team and that the investment strategy remains attractive to shareholders.
The Directors believe that a strong working relationship with the investment management team will achieve the optimum return for shareholders and to this end value the inclusion on the Board of Mr AshfordRussell.
Investment team The Investment Manager is Polar Capital Limited Liability Partnership, which is authorised and regulated by the Financial Services Authority Polar Capital.
Under the terms of the investment management agreement Polar Capital provides investment management, accounting, company secretarial and administrative services.
It has also procured the provision of a share savings plan and ISA accounts for the Companys shares from BNP Paribas Securities Services.
Polar Capital provides a team of technology specialists led by Ben Rogoff, who is supported by Craig Mercer and Nick Evans.
Each member focuses on specic areas and the team is supported by a research analyst.
Ben has overall responsibility for the portfolio and looks after the US investments.
Polar Capital also has other specialist and geographically focused investment teams which contribute to ideas generation.
Termination arrangements The investment management agreement may be terminated by either party by giving 12 months notice, but under certain circumstances the Company may be required to pay up to one years management charges if immediate notice is given and compensation will be on a sliding scale if less than 12 months notice is given.
Polar Capital Technology Trust PLC Annual Report & Financial Statements for the year ended 30 April 2010 20826 ARC Polar Back.
