16 16 P Por ort tf fol olio io A An na al ly ys si is s I T n h v e e new stme cn ycle t M g an aa ther gers s R pa e ce port Broadband applications Its happening again.
Just as electrification made new applications, such as lighting possible, the Internet is expanding the reach of the technology sector today.
Before electricity became widespread, gas was the most popular One of the preferred ways of capturing way of lighting cities.
Conceived by Sir Humphry Davy, perfected the value associated with the new cycle by Charles Brush and made commercially viable by central power is via broadband applications.
plant dynamos, electric arc lamps were introduced in the late 1870s.
Brighter, cheaper and safer than their gas predecessors, electric arc lighting presaged a municipal lighting boom as US$135bn cities such as Paris, London and New York rushed to illuminate US retail e-commerce market their streets, squares and public buildings.
However, poor life expectancy and high maintenance costs helped accelerate its replacement by the incandescent light bulb pioneered by Thomas Edison and Joseph Swan.
Whilst the prohibitive cost of 3.7% early electricity meant that the incandescent lighting was slow e-commerce as a percentage to penetrate the home, once metal lament lamps had been of total retail sales perfected in the early 20th century, domestic electric lighting became more widely available.
Above: Early domestic electric lighting Polar Capital Technology Trust plc Annual Report & Financial Statements for the year ended 30 April 2010 20826 ARC Polar Front.
indd 16 17 06 2010 06:45 Portfolio Analysis The new cycle gathers pace 17 THE NEW CYCLE GATHERS PACE continued The widespread deployment of 3G and WiFi networks is allowing computing to become more ubiquitous The more widespread electrication Although these new devices are of the home in the early 20th century complementary to the PC today, they 6% made possible the introduction of new are likely to become substitutes over Estimated share of applications such as incandescent lighting, time.
According to research from Gartner, software market electric doorbells and domestic appliances the smartphone may overtake the PC accounted for by whilst in 1896 the first mass produced as the most common web access device SAAS dry cell battery set the stage for portable worldwide by 2013, a realisation that may electrical devices such as the ashlight.
have prompted the recent acquisition of Today, the widespread deployment of 3G Palm by Hewlett Packard.
Unfortunately and WiFi networks is making computing this may accelerate the downtrend in the more ubiquitous.
The desire for mobility and clearing price of computing as there is less Internet access is driving the proliferation technology content in a smartphone than a of new devices such as smartphones, mainstream PC.
Certainly the smartphone e-readers and tablets.
The recentralisation of has proved nothing like the panacea that computing has also signicantly supported incumbent vendors anticipated as it led this trend as the transition of applications to contraction in the traditional handset into the cloud has made possible cheaper market.
Having redened the category with and lighter devices that have served its iPhone, Apple has established a very to undermine the former computing considerable first-mover advantage due to monopoly enjoyed by the PC.
its eco-system which has thus far served more than 10bn songs and in excess of 3bn Whilst devices such as Amazons Kindle and applications.
As a result of higher average the Apple iPad have garnered a lot of recent selling prices and the value captured by their attention, the most spectacular success eco-systems share of data revenues, Apple to date has been achieved by smartphones and Research in Motion manufacturer of proliferation of which should account for 21% of the handset the Blackberry are said to capture c. 47% of broadband applications market this year from just 13% in 2008.
This handset profits with just c. 5% unit share.
have led to new devices is benefitting the industry as smartphones such as smartphones, contain signicantly more semiconductor The contrasting fortunes of Apple e-readers and tablets... content than a traditional phone, whilst and Nokia provide a textbook example the average smartphone user generates of uneven value creation and new cycle ten times as much trafc as the average impairment.
Today the traditional spheres non-smartphone user.
As a result of ongoing of influence enjoyed by large incumbents... undermine the former smartphone penetration mobile data are being blurred by the shift towards computing monopoly growth is set to double every year through the datacentre, Cisco entering the enjoyed by the PC 2014 driven by video which is expected server space and HP challenging Ciscos to account for 66% of the worlds data hegemony in networking.
Aided by the deployment vendors increasingly doing battle margins... the smartphone is set of 4G LTE from 2011 the growth in mobile may be at risk with the transition towards to overtake the PC data trafc should spur an infrastructure a utility model providing additional as the most common upgrade cycle, especially of backhaul downward pressure.
web access device equipment and the optical core.
worldwide by 2013 Polar Capital Technology Trust plc Annual Report & Financial Statements for the year ended 30 April 2010 20826 ARC Polar Front.
