Directors report: overview 5 Policy and regulation The group is subject to various regulatory and supervisory regimes, including the Office of Fair Trading in respect of its credit-granting businesses and the Financial Services Authority on account of the banking licence held by Vanquis Bank.
Our business in the Republic of Ireland is subject to the authority of the Central Bank in the Republic of Ireland.
Financial services authority Fsa Current reGulatorY Framework Vanquis Bank holds a banking licence and is therefore regulated by the FSA.
The FSAs regulation takes two main forms: Consumer Credit act The provision of credit is regulated by the rules set out in the regulatory capital requirements for both Vanquis Bank and Consumer Credit Act 1974 as amended CCA.
The main provision the wider Provident Financial group: and of this legislation ensures that the UK consumer credit market liquidity requirements for Vanquis Bank.
operates in the interests of consumers in a fair, clear and competitive way.
Both Home Credit and Vanquis Bank are subject During 2010, Vanquis Bank implemented the requirements to CCA regulation.
of the FSAs new liquidity regime, including the need to hold a liquid assets buffer.
The CCA and its supporting regulations cover: a dvertising, canvassing and the provision of pre-contract Future reGulatorY lanDsCaPe information to customers: the form and content of credit agreements: Hm treasury Hmt Department for Business, cancellation rights and early settlement rebates: Innovation and skills BIs review of Consumer debt collection procedures: and Credit and Personal Insolvency the granting of consumer credit licences.
In October 2010, HMT BIS issued a call for evidence in support of its Review of Credit and Insolvency Law.
The Review is wideChanges were made to the CCA and EU regulations in March ranging and the call for evidence sought comments on issues 2010 to implement the 2008 Consumer Credit Directive, with arising at each stage of the life of a credit agreement, from a transitional period for businesses to comply with the new rules advertising to debt recovery.
The call for evidence closed on by 31 January 2011.
The group implemented the required 10 December 2010 and responses are now being considered changes to its procedures in line with the prescribed timetable.
There is, as yet, no formal indication of when the results will be published.
The group welcomes the Governments Similar legislation applies to Home Credits operations in the evidence-based approach to the review.
Hmt BIs Consultation on transfer Credit and store card regulation of responsibility for Consumer Credit In March 2010, the Government and credit and store card In December 2010, a joint HMT BIS Consultation was launched companies entered into a Joint Commitment agreeing to setting out the Governments proposal to transfer responsibility implement five new rights for credit and store card users by for Consumer Credit from the Office of Fair Trading OFT to a the end of 2010.
These included a right to repay against the new Financial Conduct Authority formerly called the Consumer highest-rate debt first, a right to control the level of credit limits, Protection and Market Authority.
Although the paper sets out more time to reject interest rate increases, rights to clearer two options for regulation, it is made clear that the Governments information to enable users to make comparisons and to deal preferred option would be to bring the regulation of all retail more effectively with payment difficulties and a ban on increases financial products under one regulatory regime.
The Consultation in credit limits and interest rates for those who are at risk of closes on 22 March 2011 and the groups businesses have financial difficulties.
Along with other credit and store card contributed to the submissions by their respective trade bodies.
providers, Vanquis Bank made the necessary systems and other procedural changes during 2010 and early 2011 to ensure compliance with the Joint Commitment.
Company number 668987 Provident Financial plc annual report & Financial statements 2010
