8 overview: vanquis Bank credit card explained Vanquis Bank credit card explained What they say wHat makes tHe vanquIs Bank CreDIt CarD DIFFerent?
Id tried to get a credit card from other From day one we have much more I use my Vanquis card mainly engaging with our customers vanquis Bank brings the advantages of lenders, but my financial history let me regular contact than the average to smooth out peaks and troughs credit cards to non-standard customers, down.
We aim to get in my finances.
And with the many of whom are excluded by mainstream card issuers.
we are specialists in the looked at my situation and gave me a to know our customers so we can internet so important nowadays, non-standard market.
we lend responsibly to new and existing customers and provide card with a low starting limit.
Now my understand their priorities and its great to be able to use it to information and support to help them manage their finances.
credit ratings improved, others want to assist them if they have problems shop online too.
Provident Financial has a long experience sign me up.
But Im sticking where I am.
Shaneel, Vanquis Bank customer of the non-standard market.
we are therefore comfortable extending credit to people Aidan, Vanquis Bank customer Natalie, Vanquis Bank on modest incomes.
contact centre operative lending decisions for mainstream credit cards are based on credit scoring and credit How it works bureau data.
we take account of credit scores and external bureau data, but we have also developed our own bespoke scoring and underwriting assessments.
In contrast to other credit card companies, we speak to almost every new customer before issuing a card.
the vanquis Bank card is highly prized.
It is widely used for shopping online and on the high street, and provides access to the best deals.
It offers useful consumer protection and helps customers establish better credit ratings.
In 2010, 84% of customers rated their vanquis Bank experience as good or excellent.
First contact applying for a card transparent terms Payment channels Building trust In 2010, 50% of new customers Online applicants get a provisional Every new customer receives a We have made repayments easier by With our low and grow lending policy, came from online channels, 33% response within minutes.
We aim welcome pack outlining their rights accepting payment online.
We are also new customers typically receive a 250 from direct mail and 17% from to interview candidates by phone and responsibilities and offering tips trialling PayPoint channels.
We send SMS initial credit limit.
After the first six months, partner recommendations.
on managing finances and improving text message reminders when payments their limits are reviewed every four months.
Our website are due to customers who have signed Where appropriate, we offer to increase provides detailed advice.
them in small, manageable steps.
How its underpinned uk call centre account monitoring analytical expertise operational efficiency Vanquis Bank is The 450 staff at our call centre at We monitor accounts continuously.
The senior management team has The Vanquis Bank trading model is highly maintaining customer Chatham in Kent stay in close contact Our collections team analyses payment significant experience in financial services scalable.
As the business grows, profitability with our 544,000 customers.
We aim and spending patterns to understand the and the credit card industry.
Recent investments in and profit growth.
to speak by phone to every new particular circumstances of each individual its key personnel have strong analytical infrastructure are promoting growth and As the business expands, customer prior to activating an borrower.
We periodically suggest changes capabilities.
The business has invested productivity.
We created a new call centre account.
Our staff are in phone in credit limits and interest rates in line heavily in scorecard development and facility in 2008 and in 2009 we upgraded we are improving its underwriting systems.
It supplements our underwriting engine and improved contact with each customer on a with usage and risk levels.
regular basis, approximately four who service their debt effectively can standard industry techniques with a our IT systems.
Further enhancements times as often as most mainstream get reduced interest rates.
continue to invest in developing our people.
Provident Financial plc annual report & Financial statements 2010 Company number 668987 Directors report: overview 9 What they say Id tried to get a credit card from other From day one we have much more I use my Vanquis card mainly lenders, but my financial history let me regular contact than the average to smooth out peaks and troughs down.
And with the looked at my situation and gave me a to know our customers so we can internet so important nowadays, card with a low starting limit.
Now my understand their priorities and its great to be able to use it to credit ratings improved, others want to assist them if they have problems shop online too.
Shaneel, Vanquis Bank customer Aidan, Vanquis Bank customer Natalie, Vanquis Bank contact centre operative How it works First contact applying for a card transparent terms Payment channels Building trust In 2010, 50% of new customers Online applicants get a provisional Every new customer receives a We have made repayments easier by With our low and grow lending policy, came from online channels, 33% response within minutes.
Company number 668987 Provident Financial plc annual report & Financial statements 2010
