Directors Remuneration report 63 The committee keeps itself fully informed of Remuneration explained developments and best practice in the field of remuneration and it seeks advice from external Introduction advisers when it considers it appropriate.
The This directors remuneration report complies with committee has appointed Hewitt New Bridge the Companies Act 2006 the Companies Act, Street a trading name of Aon Corporation as its Schedule 8 of the Large and Medium-sized remuneration consultant to advise on aspects of Companies and Groups Accounts and Reports executive director and senior management pay, Regulations 2008 and the Listing Rules of the including advice in relation to the 2010 and the Financial Services Authority.
The company also 2011 remuneration policy which include, inter followed the requirements of the new UK Corporate alia, various benchmark pay reports.
Aon Hewitt Governance Code the Code.
Limited provides investment advice in respect of the companys UK pension scheme and actuarial This report will be subject to an advisory vote at services in respect of its Irish pension schemes.
the AGM of the company to be held on 4 May 2011 The committee has, in addition, been advised and sets out the policy for the financial year just by PwC, the companys auditors, in relation ended, the forthcoming year and, subject to ongoing to the establishment of an Employer Funded review, for subsequent years.
The General Counsel and Company Secretary is secretary to the The remuneration committee committee and instructed the advisers The committee consists of three non-executive on behalf of the committee.
directors, each of whom is, in the opinion of the board, independent when assessed against the The Chairman and Chief Executive of the company criteria set out in the Code.
The attendance of normally attend and speak at meetings of the each member at meetings of the committee is committee other than when their own remuneration shown in the table below and full details of the or any matter relating to them is being considered.
terms of reference of the committee are available The secretary attended all the meetings of the on the companys website.
committee in 2010 and provided legal and technical Remuneration support to the committee.
committee meetings Total number of meetings in 2010 7 The committee has reviewed and considered the Robert Hough Chair 7 impact of the FSA Remuneration Code the FSA Code on the group.
Whilst the FSA Code does Rob Anderson 7 not apply to the group, it will apply to Vanquis Bank Manjit Wolstenholme 7 Limited, and a process is under way to establish a Vanquis Bank remuneration committee, identify Pursuant to its terms of reference, the committee the relevant FSA Code employees and restructure considers and determines, within the framework remuneration where required to comply with the agreed with the board, the specific remuneration FSA Code by July 2011.
It is not, however, anticipated packages and conditions of service of the Chairman, that major changes to the companys remuneration the executive directors and the Company Secretary, policy will be required to achieve compliance.
It also monitors the level and structure of the remuneration of the most senior management below board level.
No director is involved in determining his her own remuneration.
Company number 668987 Provident Financial plc Annual Report & Financial Statements 2010 64 Directors remuneration report continued Executive remuneration Details of the work undertaken by the committee on performance targets which have been risk excluding share during the year are shown below: assessed and adjusted as necessary.
The committee incentive schemes will regularly review the remuneration framework Q1 in the context of the groups risk management 2009 remuneration report structure to ensure it does not inadvertently Peter Crook 2010 remuneration policy promote irresponsible behaviour.
Review of company-wide remuneration and The executive directors remuneration consists incentive policy and senior management of a basic salary, an annual cash bonus subject remuneration to performance conditions and other benefits Review of prior-year performance against including participation in the companys pension financial and non-financial objectives in scheme.
Additionally, they may participate relation to the annual cash bonus scheme in the companys various share incentive Review of directors expenses schemes, including: Q2 a performance share plan which necessitates Base salary 579,000 40% Annual bonus 595,000 42% Grant of awards under the the waiver of a minimum of 25% of the annual Benefits 38,000 3% Long Term Incentive Scheme cash bonus award up to a maximum of 50%, Pension 214,000 15% which is subject to performance conditions: Q3 a long term incentive scheme, which is subject Establishment of an Employer Funded to performance conditions: and Retirement Benefit Scheme Andrew Fisher Grant of awards under the Employee an employee savings-related share option scheme Savings-Related Share Option Scheme which is not subject to performance conditions Vesting of awards under the LTIS executive directors participate on the same Review of the FSA Code terms as other eligible employees of the group.
Q4 The remuneration policy is designed to ensure that a significant proportion of the executive directors Remuneration framework risk assessment remuneration is linked to performance, through the 2011 proposed remuneration policy operation of the annual cash bonus scheme and Review of executive directors shareholdings Base salary 413,000 43% the share incentive schemes.
For 2010, variable Annual bonus 345,000 36% Review of performance and effectiveness remuneration accounted for approximately Benefits 49,000 5% two-thirds of the fair value of executive Pension 153,000 16% of the committee remuneration excluding pension, a policy which the committee considers appropriate.
The committee formally considered its effectiveness in 2010.
On the basis of the board and committee The committee takes due account of remuneration Chris Gillespie evaluation undertaken by Capita Registrars Limited, structures elsewhere in the company when which did not identify any issues for consideration setting pay for the executive directors, including by the committee, the overall view was that it was consideration of the overall salary increase working effectively.
budget and the incentive structures that operate across the company.
Remuneration policy The committee considers it very important that The committee normally reviews the executive there should be an appropriate proportion of fixed directors salary levels annually.
This review takes and variable pay.
The remuneration policy operated into account individual performance, experience by the committee during the year and, subject to and market competitiveness.
In 2010, reflecting Base salary 399,000 46% ongoing review by the committee, to be applied for the wider economic environment, the executive Annual bonus 281,000 33% the following financial year and for future financial directors did not receive an increase.
Benefits 36,000 4% Pension 147,000 17% years, is based on the need to attract, reward, motivate and retain executive directors in a manner The fees for the non-executive directors, other consistent with the long-term accumulation of value than the Chairman, are fixed by the board and are for shareholders and achievement of the companys designed both to recognise the responsibilities strategic objectives.
The committee is also conscious of non-executive directors and to attract individuals of the need to avoid paying more than is reasonable with the necessary skills and experience to for this purpose.
Therefore the policy of the contribute to the future growth of the company.
committee is to pay remuneration which is Full details of the non-executive directors fees competitive, with a significant proportion dependent in 2010 and details of their business expenses, Provident Financial plc Annual Report & Financial Statements 2010 Company number 668987 Directors Remuneration report 65 which are reimbursed by the company, with Upon the occurrence of any event or events as EPS is the key 2009 comparative figures, are set out in the a result of which the committee, in its absolute internal measure table of directors remuneration on page 70. discretion, considers it fair and reasonable to do The non-executive directors remuneration does so such as material changes in accounting standards of financial not include share options or other performance or material changes in the group structure, the performance as related elements.
Reflecting the wider economic committee may change the earnings per share it is the broadest environment and on the basis of a benchmarking target provided that any such change does not exercise, the fees were not increased in 2010. make the earnings per share target more or less measure of onerous than it was before the event in question.
the companys The fees for the Chairman are fixed by the The committee carries out a detailed review of committee.
Full details of the Chairmans fees in the computations undertaken in determining the financial groups earnings per share and ensures that the 2010, with 2009 comparative figures, are set out performance and rules are applied consistently.
The companys in the table of directors remuneration on page is aligned to the auditors are asked to perform agreed-upon 70.
Reflecting the wider economic environment procedures on behalf of the committee on and on the basis of a benchmarking exercise, the shareholder base the earnings per share calculations.
Chairmans fees were not increased in 2010. which is weighted The maximum bonus opportunity in respect of Senior management remuneration towards longer- 2010 was restricted to 120% of salary for the The committee also considers the remuneration term income Chief Executive and 100% of salary for the other structure and level of pay for the most senior level investors.
executive directors and was split as follows: of management within the group, including annual cash bonus and participation in the companys Maximum executive share incentive schemes.
At its meeting Measure bonus opportunity in December 2010, the committee also reviewed 1 Budgeted group EPS 80% the remuneration and incentive policies proposed Personal objectives 20% for employees in CCD and Vanquis Bank.
1 40% of the maximum bonus opportunity for Chris Gillespie Cash bonuses related to the profit before tax of the Consumer Credit Division and 40% to budgeted group EPS.
An annual cash bonus is payable, subject to the satisfaction of performance conditions.
The bonus EPS is the key internal measure of financial is calculated as a percentage of salary.
The purpose performance as it is the broadest measure of the of the bonus scheme is to provide a meaningful companys financial performance and is aligned cash incentive for executive directors which is clearly to the shareholder base which is weighted towards focused on improving the companys performance longer-term income investors.
and aligns, so far as is practicable, shareholder and executive director interests.
The committee The actual proportions of the 2010 budgeted considers corporate performance on environmental, group EPS that needed to be delivered, which the social and governance ESG issues when setting committee considered to be challenging, were the performance conditions for the annual cash as follows: bonus and will use its discretion to ensure that, where appropriate, the management of ESG risks Threshold Budget Maximum are reflected in the rewards granted to directors Budgeted group EPS target 95% 100% 105% and senior management.
% of EPS element 0% 60% 100% Executive directors are eligible for an annual cash of annual bonus paid bonus by reference to the companys audited earnings per share as defined in the bonus scheme Straight-line vesting operated between budgeted and divisional profits in the case of Chris Gillespie group EPS and the maximum of 105% of budgeted maximum 40% which cannot exceed 80% of the group EPS.
A similar principle applied to the divisional maximum bonus opportunity, and achievement financial target set for Chris Gillespie.
of specific personal objectives, which cannot exceed 20% of the maximum bonus opportunity.
For 2010, the personal objectives percentage of Typical personal objectives in 2010 included: the annual cash bonus entitlement only became payable if 95% of the 2010 budgeted group EPS was s trategic development achieved.
Personal objectives are set to reflect the f unding roles and responsibility of each executive director.
e xternal and investor relations p roduct range Company number 668987 Provident Financial plc Annual Report & Financial Statements 2010 66 Directors remuneration report continued At its meeting in February 2011, the committee The actual range of the EPS targets is as follows: assessed the groups performance against the Percentage vesting Annualised growth in EPS of EPS part of award budgeted group EPS target.
Budgeted group EPS of 76.9p was exceeded and the committee therefore Below RPI 3% 0% determined that 77.8% of the EPS element of RPI 3% 25% the 2010 annual cash bonus would be paid.
RPI 8% 100% The committee also considered the divisional profit before tax target set for Chris Gillespie, and determined that 54.4% of this element of his The actual range of the TSR targets is as follows: bonus would be paid.
The balance of the annual Percentage vesting cash bonus, as detailed in the table of directors Annualised TSR of TSR part of award remuneration on page 70, was paid on the basis Below 10% 0% of the committees assessment of the extent to which the personal objectives for each director 10% 25% had been achieved.
The range of bonus payable 15% 100% as a percentage of salary in relation to 2010 was therefore 67% to 97%.
A sliding scale of vesting on a straight-line basis will apply between these lower and upper EPS and Bonuses do not form part of pensionable earnings.
Share incentive schemes EPS and TSR are felt to provide an appropriate The grant of awards under the share incentive balance between internal and external performance schemes to executive directors and senior measures.
EPS is the key internal measure of financial management is normally considered once in each performance as it is the broadest measure of the year after the preliminary announcement of the companys financial performance and is aligned to companys results, in accordance with a formula the shareholder base which is weighted towards determined by reference to salary.
The company has longer-term income investors.
With regard to TSR, three operational schemes: the Provident Financial delivering superior returns to shareholders remains Executive Share Option Scheme 2006 the ESOS, the companys key, overarching, long-term objective.
the Provident Financial Long Term Incentive Scheme 2006 the LTIS and the Provident Financial The committee again reviewed the way in which Performance Share Plan the PSP.
The committee TSR is measured.
While some investors may have regularly reviews the long-term incentives for the a preference for relative TSR, the committee executive directors and senior management, and continues to believe that absolute TSR is a more has decided to continue to make conditional appropriate performance measure as there are share awards to executive directors and senior doubts as to the suitability of the FTSE 250 as an management under the LTIS and awards under appropriate benchmark for the company this being the PSP.
This policy is in line with prevailing market the reason for the change to absolute TSR made in practice and recognises that conditional share 2009 and the general financial sector is a diverse awards and the deferral of annual bonus in the group of companies, none of which is considered case of the PSP, provide greater alignment with to be directly comparable to the company and many shareholders interests.
of which continue to experience above-average historic levels of volatility.
However, the committee LTIS will continue to keep the appropriateness of this Participation is currently limited to executive measure under review.
directors, certain members of senior management and other employees by invitation.
The committee In terms of the degree of stretch in the target ranges can grant conditional share awards pursuant to the for 2010, the committee believes that the EPS range LTIS up to a maximum of 200% of a participants is demanding and the TSR target range of 10% to basic salary.
Executive directors received maximum 15% which is designed to be equivalent to median grants during 2010. to upper quartile relative TSR performance is challenging given the economic uncertainty.
The performance targets for awards under the LTIS in 2010 were based on challenging EPS targets 50% The targets are reviewed annually prior to a grant and on absolute TSR targets 50%.
In addition, no being made to ensure that they remain challenging awards will vest unless the committee is satisfied in the prevailing economic environment.
that the TSR performance is a genuine reflection of the underlying business performance.
There is no re-testing should performance targets not be met at the end of the three-year performance period.
Provident Financial plc Annual Report & Financial Statements 2010 Company number 668987 Directors Remuneration report 67 200 Total shareholder return: Provident Financial vs. FTSE 250 Provident Financial FTSE 250 The graph shows the total 160 shareholder return for 120 Provident Financial plc 80 against the FTSE 250 Index 40 for the past five years.
This Index 0 was chosen for 30 Dec 05 29 Dec 06 31 Dec 07 31 Dec 08 31 Dec 09 31 Dec 10 Source: DataStream as at 31 December 2010 comparison because the Offshore employee benefit trust Following shareholder approval at the 2009 AGM, company has The rules of the LTIS, approved by shareholders the committee amended the rules of the PSP to been a member of previously, allows the LTIS to be operated in allow the grant of matching awards on the basis conjunction with any employee trust established by of up to two shares for each share acquired by a this index for the the company.
Accordingly, the company established participant pursuant to their basic award.
the Provident Financial plc 2007 Employee Benefit the 2009 awards to executive directors which were Trust EBT in Jersey on 11September 2007 with made on the basis of up to two shares for each share Kleinwort Benson Jersey Trustees Limited acting acquired pursuant to their basic award were subject as the trustee of the trust.
The EBT, together with to more stretching performance targets and will any other trust established by the company for only vest in full if the companys average annual the benefit of employees cannot, at any time, percentage growth in earnings per share is equal hold more than 5% of the issued share capital to, or greater than, the average annual percentage of the company.
growth in RPI plus 7% measured over a period of three consecutive financial years, the first of which Details of share subscriptions made by the EBT for is the financial year starting immediately before the the purposes of satisfying awards made under the grant date of the matching award.
A sliding scale of LTIS during the course of the year are shown on vesting on a straight-line basis will apply between page 71. these lower and upper targets.
This upper target was stretched to RPI plus 8% for any awards made from ESOS 2010 onwards.
The ESOS contains both an HMRC approved and unapproved section.
Exercise of options is subject No awards were made pursuant to the PSP in 2010 to a performance target and annual grants are due to no annual bonus awards being earned by ordinarily capped at 100% of salary, and at 200% executive directors in respect of 2009 performance.
No options remain outstanding for the executive directors following In summary, the actual range of targets is as follows: exercise of the options granted in 2006.
The Average annual percentage Matching shares committee does not currently intend to make further growth in EPS vesting grants to executive directors under the ESOS.
Below RPI 3% No vesting PSP RPI 3% One matching share Participation in the PSP includes executive directors RPI 8% Two matching shares who may elect to defer up to 50% with a minimum of 25% of their annual cash bonus, and other eligible Deferred bonus employees who may waive up to 50% or 30%, Separate to the annual cash bonus referred to on depending on their level of seniority, of their annual page 65, Peter Crook, Andrew Fisher and Chris cash bonus for a period of three years.
Participants Gillespie received an additional bonus in respect of then receive a basic award of shares equal to the the companys performance during 2008 valued at value of their waived bonus, together with an 200,000, 150,000 and 140,000 respectively.
equivalent matching award on the basis of one These bonuses are deferred until March 2012 and share for each share acquired by a participant have taken the form of an award of ordinary shares pursuant to their basic award which is subject to in the company which have been acquired by the a performance condition.
Company number 668987 Provident Financial plc Annual Report & Financial Statements 2010 68 Directors remuneration report continued trustee of the EBT, who will hold the legal title to the AGM.
This allows the continued operation of the The remuneration shares until they vest.
These shares are not subject to LTIS and for awards granted to be satisfied using committee any performance conditions and will vest if the newly issued shares, up to the 10% anti-dilution considers director is still employed by the group in March 2012 limit in any 10 years, which applies to all share although the committee will have the discretion to schemes operated by the company.
In due course, the LTIS an allow a departing director to retain some or all of the remuneration committee intends to re-introduce important means these shares.
The dividends payable on the shares the 5% limit when the LTIS can be effectively subject to this deferred bonus award have been operated in accordance with and subject to a of incentivising waived, but an amount equal to the dividends that 5% anti-dilution limit.
and retaining would have been paid on these shares had the right key executives to receive them not been waived will also be payable The table below sets out the headroom available for in cash or in the form of additional ordinary shares in all employee share schemes and shares held in trust.
The committee believed that a deferred 2010 2009 management.
bonus satisfied with shares in the company in the Headroom % % manner set out aligned the interests of the executive All employee share schemes 1.78% 1.71% directors with those of shareholders, recognised the Shares held in trust 3.05% 3.17% companys exceptional performance in 2008 and reflected the need for such performance to be sustained in the medium term.
The committee has Achievement of performance targets agreed, following a series of discussions with Assessment of the achievement of the performance shareholders, that this type of payment will not be targets under the companys executive share made at any time in the future without prior incentive schemes is calculated by the company, and consultation with, and agreement of, the companys confirmed by  LLP for the major shareholders.
PSP or Hewitt New Bridge Street for the LTIS and approved by the committee.
Further details can be Dilution and use of equity found on page 71.
Following the demerger of the international business in 2007 and the subsequent share consolidation, Savings-Related Share Option Scheme the number of shares in issue was halved.
As a The executive directors together with other eligible consequence of this, the 5% anti-dilution limit group employees may participate in the Provident contained within the companys executive share Financial plc Employee Savings-Related Share Option incentive schemes was completely utilised so that Scheme 2003.
Participants save a fixed sum each it was no longer possible for the company to satisfy month for three or five years and may use these any new awards granted under the executive funds to purchase shares after three, five or seven share incentive schemes using newly issued shares years.
The exercise price is fixed at up to 20% below as opposed to satisfying awards by making market the market value of the shares at the date directors purchases of shares.
Had the demerger not and employees are invited to participate in the occurred, the company would have had sufficient scheme.
Up to 250 can be saved each month.
headroom under the then-existing 5% limit to This scheme does not contain performance continue to satisfy awards under the executive conditions as it is an HMRC approved scheme share incentive schemes using newly issued shares.
designed for employees at all levels.
Invitations to join the scheme were issued to eligible employees The remuneration committee considers the LTIS in August 2010. an important means of incentivising and retaining key executives and senior management and Other benefits consequently a resolution seeking shareholder The executive directors are provided with approval for the temporary removal of the 5% anticompany-owned cars and fuel or a cash alternative, dilution limit from the LTIS rules was passed at the long-term disability cover under the companys companys 2008 annual general meeting the 2008 permanent health insurance policy and medical AGM.
Information on the resolution was included in cover for them and their immediate families.
the shareholders circular and notice of the 2008 Benefits in kind are not pensionable.
Provident Financial plc Annual Report & Financial Statements 2010 Company number 668987 Directors Remuneration report 69 Service agreements The current policy is for executive directors service agreements to provide for both the company and the director to give one years notice.
No director has a service agreement containing a liquidated damages clause on termination.
In the event of the termination of an agreement, it is the current policy to seek mitigation of loss by the director concerned and to aim to ensure that any payment made is the minimum which is commensurate with the companys legal obligations.
Any awards under the companys executive share incentive schemes would be treated in accordance with the rules of the relevant scheme.
Details of the service agreement or letter of appointment of each director, each of whom will seek reappointment at the forthcoming AGM, are set out in the table below: Date of contract letter of appointment Notice period Unexpired term Executive directors Peter Crook 27 April 2006 Terminable on 12 months notice by either party One year Andrew Fisher 1 January 2008 Terminable on 12 months notice by either party One year Chris Gillespie 31 May 2007 Terminable on 12 months notice by either party One year Non-executive directors John van Kuffeler 29 January 2002 Terminable on 12 months notice by the company One year and six months notice by John van Kuffeler Rob Anderson 27 February 2009 Not applicable to 30 March 2012 Robert Hough 18 October 2006 Not applicable to 31 January 2013 Manjit Wolstenholme 1 June 2007 Not applicable to 31 July 2013 Share ownership policy All three executive directors complied with this The company has a share ownership policy for policy as at 31 December 2010: executive directors which requires them to acquire Actual share ownership and maintain shares in the company with a value of Director as a percentage of salary one times their annual salary.
Executive directors are Peter Crook 114% required to retain 50% of vested LTIS awards, net of Andrew Fisher 105% tax, until this requirement has been reached.
Chris Gillespie 105% The committee reviews the shareholdings of the executive directors in the light of this policy once a Other directorships year, based on the market value of the companys The company will normally permit an executive shares at the date of assessment.
When performing director to hold one non-executive directorship and the calculation to assess progress against the policy, to retain the fee from that appointment, provided shares held by a spouse, dependant, or in an ISA or that the board considers that this will not adversely pension scheme are included, whilst unvested LTIS affect his executive responsibilities.
In accordance and PSP awards are not.
with the Code, the board would not permit an executive director to take on the chairmanship of a FTSE 100 company.
Company number 668987 Provident Financial plc Annual Report & Financial Statements 2010
