6 overview: Home Credit explained Home Credit explained What they say wHat makes Home CreDIt DIFFerent?
engaging with our customers I t doesnt help anyone if I lend Karens visit has become part It really helps that I understand For families on modest incomes, juggling too much so I always visit new of my weekly routine.
Shes really what lifes like for my customers.
often with limited ability to save, negotiating peaks customers in their homes to assess down to earth and understanding.
I live in this community and was and troughs in spending is challenging.
what they can afford to borrow.
I like being able to deal with a Provident customer myself for Credit can be of enormous help, but it needs to be affordable, manageable and delivered a human being, not a robot.
Karen, Home Credit agent in the right way.
Paula, Home Credit agent Kim, Home Credit customer Provident Financial is the uks leading community-based provider of credit.
we have been providing small-sum loans How it works tailored to this specialist market since 1880. our Home Credit service is straightforward, personal and flexible.
we tailor our products to suit our customers.
Detailed understanding of customers circumstances gained from the face-to-face, personal service delivered through the agents we engage protects our customers from taking on too much credit.
It is in no ones interests for us to lend to people who cannot afford it.
many of our customers have incomes which are less predictable than those of borrowers in the mainstream market.
we allow for that First contact the agents visit transparent terms applying for a loan Building trust in the way we structure our loans.
there may Many customers hear about us through After obtaining a request to There are no hidden charges.
An agent will visit the customer in their We operate a low and grow policy.
Much of our new call at the customers home, The maximum amount to be repaid own home to conduct affordability and First-time borrowers typically get smaller, be weeks when they cannot afford to keep up business comes from word of mouth, the agent will visit to discuss is clear and fixed at the start, even creditworthiness checks, complete the shorter-term loans.
Those able to manage their payments, but they never get charged direct mail or is sourced through the various products the company if the customer misses payments.
paperwork required, and agree a suitable their repayments become eligible for larger extra fees or interest.
We are also offers and make an appointment loan amount, having fully explained the amounts over longer periods.
recruiting increasing numbers through for the agent to call back.
loan terms and determined it to be online advertising.
They will then agree a weekly collection routine to suit the customer and hand over the loan in cash.
How its underpinned the branch network local agents Diverse, secure funding Credit management We manage the Our 440 branches, extending to A network of 11,400 self-employed agents We have medium and long-term funding Our field force is focused on collecting business to strike virtually every postcode in the country, advance credit and collect payments in from banks, other lending institutions and cash which allows us to manage make us one of the very few businesses the communities they serve.
Crucially, the public debt market.
At any given time impairment effectively.
Every week the right balance with truly nationwide coverage in the the agents earn commission on amounts we maintain substantial headroom and we analyse the extensive data coming between growth, UK and Ireland.
We operate through repaid, rather than on loans issued.
It is in have additional committed facilities in in from the field.
We can identify trends two main brands: Provident Personal their interests to lend responsibly.
We borrow for an average of three early on and take the appropriate action credit quality, and Credit and Greenwood Personal Credit.
are former customers themselves and to four years and lend for an average on lending and collections.
Local branch managers liaise with generally live in the communities where of less than 12 months.
It allows us to agents to manage payments they operate.
As a result, they are able to adapt our lending if external funding and arrears.
build up strong, professional relationships circumstances change.
Provident Financial plc annual report & Financial statements 2010 Company number 668987 Directors report: overview 7 What they say It doesnt help anyone if I lend Karens visit has become part I t really helps that I understand too much so I always visit new of my weekly routine.
customers in their homes to assess down to earth and understanding.
I live in this community and was what they can afford to borrow.
I like being able to deal with a Provident customer myself for a human being, not a robot.
Karen, Home Credit agent Paula, Home Credit agent Kim, Home Credit customer How it works First contact the agents visit transparent terms applying for a loan Building trust Many customers hear about us through After obtaining a request to There are no hidden charges.
Much of our new call at the customers home, The maximum amount to be repaid own home to conduct affordability and First-time borrowers typically get smaller, business comes from word of mouth, the agent will visit to discuss is clear and fixed at the start, even creditworthiness checks, complete the shorter-term loans.
Those able to manage direct mail or is sourced through the various products the company if the customer misses payments.
paperwork required, and agree a suitable their repayments become eligible for larger our network of agents.
Company number 668987 Provident Financial plc annual report & Financial statements 2010
