2 overview: a specialist market A specialist market At the end of 2010, total personal debt balances in the UK stood at 1.5 trillion, of which just over 1.2 trillion was secured by mortgages and 214 billion was unsecured consumer credit.
The mainstream market, limited to low-risk borrowers, accounts for over 80% of consumer credit balances.
Provident competes in the non-standard market.
Collectively, the 10 million-plus people in this market borrow around 65 billion annually.
tHe maInstream lenDInG market tHe non-stanDarD lenDInG market Mainstream lending is geared towards people with good credit records.
175bn Borrowers in the mainstream market Credit issued are usually salaried, have few other unsecured unsecured borrowings and no history consumer credit of non-payment.
Most have a mortgage and most have a credit card on which they pay off the full balance every month.
Lenders check potential borrowers credit histories.
1.5trn Value of total personal debt balances in the UK 65bn 10m Credit issued in Number of small amounts non-standard 214bn to low-income borrowers customers with Unsecured consumer limited access credit balances to credit 1.2trn Secured consumer credit balances 1.5bn Group credit issued 55,272 Average household debt including mortgage unsecured non-standard Provident Financial consumer credit lending Provident competes Over 70% of The 10 million-plus in the non-standard unsecured lending people less able to lending market.
is provided through access mainstream In 2010 we made credit cards.
credit borrow in the gross advances The remainder non-standard sector of 1.5 billion to is split between where small-sum our 2.4 million unsecured personal lending is the norm.
loans, overdrafts, This 65 billion retail finance and market accounts motor finance.
for around 40% of all unsecured credit advances.
Provident Financial plc annual report & Financial statements 2010 Company number 668987 Directors report: overview 3 our role In tHe non-stanDarD lenDInG market At Provident we have been lending responsibly in the non-standard market ever since our foundation in 1880.
Our values inform our approach.
We believe personal relationships are vital.
In Home Credit, where we are the UK market leader, agents meet up with our 1.9 million customers weekly.
Vanquis Bank stays in touch with its customers over the phone and through newer innovations such as SMS text messaging.
Home credit Unsecured Credit personal cards loans Non-standard lending explained Most products in the non-standard market are relatively short-term.
They carry higher than average charges to reflect the greater costs and risk of lending to non-standard borrowers.
Payday Secured Overdrafts, unsecured personal loans lending lending and credit cards make up the bulk of the market.
The remaining 5% of non-standard lending is split between home credit, payday loans, pawnbroking, rent-to-own and bills of sale.
Hire purchase Overdrafts retail finance Pawnbroking 1.
9m 867m 0.5m 345m Home Credit Home Credit Vanquis Bank Vanquis Bank customers receivables receivables customers Company number 668987 Provident Financial plc annual report & Financial statements 2010 4 overview: a specialist market continued Our customers Typically, Provident customers are hard-working people living on modest incomes.
They borrow relatively small amounts, but it is a big commitment.
They need it to be easy to make repayments and they like the flexibility to adjust those payments if their circumstances change.
Home CreDIt Customers Home Credit customers are not always the main breadwinners, but they often control the household budget.
The majority 80% of our customers are women.
The breadwinners in these of Home Credit customers households are more likely to be hourly-paid or have part-time think our products offer or casual work than be in salaried employment and less than good value for money half of our customers are in receipt of non-universal benefits.
Home Credit customers value the discipline of the weekly visit and appreciate having flexibility on repayments.
250 Turn to page 6 to see how Home Credit works in detail Average weekly household income I like being able to spread the cost of purchases across the year.
Ive used part of my loan to book us a holiday in the sun.
Weve also got some new things for the house.
Sue, Home Credit customer vanquIs Bank Customers The household income of most Vanquis Bank customers is between 10,000 and 30,000 a year.
They use the card 20% in a similar way to users of mainstream cards at major Percentage of customers supermarkets, on the high street, and for internet shopping.
with mortgages Growth in online shopping and changes in merchants payment policies have made everyday tasks increasingly difficult without a payment card.
The card therefore has 84% a high utility value and offers useful additional consumer protection it is often the only one they have.
Customer satisfaction rating Turn to page 8 to see how Vanquis Bank works in detail I got my Vanquis Bank credit card when I was organising my wedding.
It helped me stick to my budget and keep track of my spending.
Its also really handy for ordering online and over the phone.
Nicola, Vanquis Bank customer Provident Financial plc annual report & Financial statements 2010 Company number 668987
