Directors report: Business review and management report Business review and management report: Consumer Credit Division 19 Meeting the needs of non-standard borrowers: Consumer Credit Division For generations of working-class families Divisional strategy Grow customer the weekly visit from the Provi has been numbers Continually improve part of everyday life.
Today, as much as credit management Broaden the ever, we pride ourselves on the distinctly product mix Fully embrace the personal nature of our service.
The new regulatory environment business continues to fill an important Maintain high levels of customer Chris Gillespie space in the UK non-standard market.
satisfaction Managing Director, Consumer Credit Division Stepping in when the fridge needs replacing... unexPeCteD exPenses Spreading the load Life is rarely predictable and even the best-laid plans sometimes get thrown off course.
For most people replacing a broken fridge or washing machine is an unwelcome expense.
For lower-income families this kind of unanticipated financial hurdle can be devastating.
Our short-term loans can help by spreading the cost over several months.
Company number 668987 Provident Financial plc annual report & Financial statements 2010 20 Business review and management report: Consumer Credit Division Meeting the needs of non-standard borrowers: Consumer Credit Division Since its foundation in 1880, Provident Financial has helped families on below-average incomes negotiate the peaks and troughs in their financial circumstances.
Our Home Credit business is the longest running and the largest in the UK and Ireland.
It is the only high-touch, face-to-face lending business trading right across the UK.
Every week 11,400 local agents visit 1.9 million customers, one in 20 of UK households, to issue loans and collect repayments.
Our network covers almost every postcode in the country.
Our personal approach is very popular.
For households on limited budgets, the agents weekly visit is an essential discipline.
Our business is flourishing because we provide simple, transparent and flexible financial products to our customers.
Our customers appreciate these attributes.
They like the fact that Home Credit loans are structured to allow borrowers to repay when they can.
If customers are unable to meet a weekly payment they know they will get a sympathetic response.
Perhaps more importantly, there are no penalty fees or extra interest whatsoever: the amount to be repaid remains unchanged.
A helping hand when the kids go back to school... exPensIve tImes Back to school The start of the new school year is always a busy time.
Its great to watch the kids growing up but it can also be costly.
Parents have to find funds for new uniforms: then theres new shoes, stationery, books, sports kit it all adds up.
A Home Credit loan can ease the burden.
Provident Financial plc annual report & Financial statements 2010 Company number 668987 Directors report: Business review and management report 21 Customer acquisition The agents play an important role.
Many are former at the beginning of the year.
Field collections and channels customers themselves.
They live in the communities arrears management capacity were unaffected by they serve and naturally empathise with the these changes.
As a result, our cost base remained 1 5 people there.
4 All agents are self-employed and only earn The business is well-balanced entering 2011 and 3 commission as loans get repaid.
They therefore have we are poised to gain from any improvement in no reason to encourage people to borrow more economic conditions.
As the economy improves than they can afford.
This acts as a valuable check we have the capacity to increase our lending.
If the on impairment and it makes sense for the customer economy moves back into recession we have more too.
It is one reason why our customers rate our people in place to manage loans where customers 2 services so highly.
In our latest survey 91% said they are experiencing difficulties.
were satisfied with our service and 80% felt our 1 Agent 58% products offered good value for money.
New headquarters 2 Internet 20% Our move to purpose-built headquarters in 3 Fresh start 7% key activities in 2010 October 2010 marked an important staging The Consumer Credit Division can be proud of its post in our development.
We are staying true 4 Direct mail 5% performance during a difficult year, having traded to our Yorkshire roots by remaining in Bradford.
5 Other 10% successfully through tough market conditions.
It underlines our commitment to the regeneration Home Credit generated profits of 129.1m 2009: of the area.
We are proud to be one of the 128.9m, up 0.2m on last year despite only largest private sector employers in the city.
moderate receivables and customer growth.
The new premises, which obtained a very good In addition, the loss associated with the collect-out rating under the Building Research Establishment 129.1m of the Real Personal Finance receivables book Environmental Assessment Methodology BREEAM, Home Credit profit reduced from 7.7m in 2009 to 1.8m in 2010, will accommodate the future growth of the before tax all of which arose in the first half of the year.
business and help us realise economies of scale more effectively.
Many lenders who had over-extended in previous years have withdrawn from the non-standard credit Fresh Start 867.2m sector.
Mainstream lenders are shying away from Fresh Start gained momentum as a customer Home Credit year end lending to those at the margins of their lending acquisition tool during the year.
We work with third receivables models.
It presents an opportunity to win back parties who are having difficulty collecting payment customers better suited to our high service, flexible, on outstanding debts.
With their permission we small-sum model.
Customers who might have struggled with remote lending 72% With fewer mainstream, non-home credit models can often benefit from the discipline of of agents are female competitors in the market we could have elected weekly home collection.
Those that opt to transfer to grow volume.
We opted instead to strengthen their debt to us have the opportunity to improve underwriting and moderate growth.
By adopting their credit rating by beginning to repay what a cautious approach to lending and staying close they owe.
to our customers, we have been able to avoid the trap of lending too much too quickly.
We maintain Love2Shop vouchers a highly selective approach and currently only The Love2Shop voucher scheme has grown in accept around a quarter of lending opportunities.
We are now the largest reseller in the country.
This is a highly seasonal business with most Our customers appreciate that Home Credit has a vouchers bought in the run-up to Christmas.
It makes useful place in financial planning.
After an extended a significant contribution to the range of products period of gradual decline, we have added to our we can make available to our customers.
customer numbers in each of the last five years.
Provident Money cards Rebalancing the business We currently offer Visa cards as an alternative During 2010, we continued to focus on rebalancing to cash advances which can be loaded with a fixed the workforce to improve our profitability during a amount of 300.
The cards can be used in cash period of lower growth.
We had to take some machines, on the high street and online.
We plan difficult decisions in the long-term interests of the to replace these with a card which can be loaded In order to align the weekly business.
The number of head office and direct and re-loaded with variable amounts.
We anticipate Home Credit business with repayment loan personnel fell by approximately 200 growth in this product offering once the new card the groups financial year, is established.
Home Credits 2010 financial year includes 53 weeks compared with 52 weeks in 2009.
Company number 668987 Provident Financial plc annual report & Financial statements 2010 22 Business review and management report: Consumer Credit Division continued Meeting the needs of non-standard borrowers: Consumer Credit Division Government Spending Review The short-term nature of loans and the visibility of On 20 October 2010, the Chancellor announced the impact of any changes in welfare benefits allow 1.9m details of the Governments Spending Review, agents to adjust lending decisions in the normal Number of Home including cuts to public spending and reforms course of business.
Impairment typically arises Credit customers to welfare benefits.
in Home Credit due to unexpected, rather than expected, changes to customers circumstances.
Based on our deep understanding of our customers, we believe that the proposed changes to benefits The reduction in public sector employment is will not have a significant impact on Home Credit: expected to be centred on those engaged in administration roles, which will not typically be Savings of 18.1bn out of a total welfare budget Home Credit customers, who derive their income of 200bn are phased over four years to 201415 from hourly paid, part-time or casual work and are with almost half relating to the switch of therefore not typically employed in administrative indexation of benefits from RPI to CPI and the roles within Central or Local Government.
removal of child benefit for higher-rate tax payers.
Both these measures do not result in a loss of The Government has stated that it will protect income for our customers.
financially benefit claimants through the planned transition to the Universal Credit by 2017.
The incomes of Home Credit customers come Furthermore, the Government has estimated from a diversified range of sources, typically that its introduction will result in 2.5 million including an income from employment.
households receiving higher entitlements Non-universal benefits form a component which should benefit the Home Credit business of household income for less than half of in due course.
At least a third of Home Credit customers will benefit from planned future increases in the tax free threshold for income to 10,000 during the life of the current parliament.
Making sure the family car stays on the road... runnInG rePaIrs Nipping problems in the bud Many families cant do without a car, but with the price of tax, fuel and insurance all rising, the cost of keeping it on the road is mounting all the time.
So when something goes wrong, the extra expense can be difficult to bear.
But when it comes to repairs it rarely makes sense to put things off.
A short-term loan to cover the cost keeps the car on the road, the family safe and addresses any problems before they get worse.
Provident Financial plc annual report & Financial statements 2010 Company number 668987 Directors report: Business review and management report 23 aGent InsIGHt results Consumer Credit Division Kath, Home The Consumer Credit Division generated a profit before tax of 127.3m in 2010 2009: 121.2m analysed Credit agent as follows: Its important to build Year ended 31 December strong relationships.
2010 2009 Then, if someones 53 weeks 52 weeks Change m m % having trouble making Profit loss before tax: a repayment, we can sit down together to Home Credit 129.1 128.9 0.2 find a solution.
A few Real Personal Finance 1.8 7.7 76.6 weeks ago one of my Consumer Credit Division 127.3 121.2 5.0 customers had to deal with an unexpectedly Home Credit high bill.
We skipped The Home Credit business generated a profit before tax of 129.1m 2009: 128.9m.
a payment and he paid a little bit extra over Year ended 31 December the next few weeks.
2010 2009 53 weeks 52 weeks Change My customers really m m % value that flexibility.
Customer numbers 000 1,861 1,842 1.0 Year end customer receivables 867.2 866.0 0.1 Average customer receivables 753.6 759.2 0.7 Revenue 701.1 673.7 4.1 Impairment 230.6 216.7 6.4 Revenue less impairment 470.5 457.0 3.0 Revenue yield 93.0% 88.7% Impairment % revenue 32.9% 32.2% Costs 292.3 288.4 1.4 Profit before interest and tax 178.2 168.6 5.7 Interest 49.1 39.7 23.7 Profit before tax 129.1 128.9 0.2 Based on an average of month end receivables throughout the year.
Revenue as a percentage of average receivables for the 12 months ended 31 December.
Impairment as a percentage of revenue for the 12 months ended 31 December.
Company number 668987 Provident Financial plc annual report & Financial statements 2010 24 Business review and management report: Consumer Credit Division continued Meeting the needs of non-standard borrowers: Consumer Credit Division results The year-on-year growth in customer numbers was low anD Grow The groups planning assumption at the start of 1.0%.
The growth rate moderated towards the end the year was that Home Credit customers would of the year from the annual growth of approximately Developing continue to experience pressure on their household 6% achieved since the start of 2007 because of relationships incomes and consumers would remain cautious.
managements decision to focus field resources on Accordingly, the business planned for relatively serving credit to the existing pool of good quality We structure our low receivables growth with no relaxation of credit customers.
During the first nine months of the year, loans to be simple to standards and implemented a cost reduction some customers were cautious in requesting new understand and with programme whilst protecting collections and arrears credit.
They were concerned about their future no nasty surprises.
management capacity in the field.
This approach, prospects because of the pressure on household We typically offer our combined with the introduction of a revised core incomes from increasing under-employment, first-time customers product in late 2009 to shorten the book and characterised by reduced working hours and having smaller loans over a increase the revenue yield, has ensured that to accept part-time or temporary work, together short period.
Theres Home Credit has delivered a 5.7% increase in profit with rising food, fuel and utility bills.
The last quarter no penalty if they before interest and tax to 178.2m against a broadly of the year saw a pick-up in demand for credit as miss payments but flat receivables profile.
After absorbing a 9.4m customers visibility on their household incomes increase in interest costs, 8.8m of which reflects an improved in a more stable employment market and if they meet all their uplift in the groups average funding rate from 7.0% details of the Governments Spending Review were payments on time, we in 2009 to 8.5% in 2010, Home Credits profit before announced.
Whilst year-on-year sales growth for can talk about larger tax increased marginally to 129.1m 2009: 128.9m.
2010 as a whole was just 1.2%, growth in the fourth loans.
Our low and quarter was 9% reflecting strong sales to existing grow policy builds customers against unchanged tight credit standards.
trust over time and protects customers from borrowing more than they can afford.
Melvyn, Home Credit customer My mums been a Provident customer for years.
She suggested I try out Home Credit and its worked out really well.
Im paid weekly so the repayment structure ties in nicely with that.
Knowing my agent is coming round each week helps me plan my finances and stick to a budget.
Provident Financial plc annual report & Financial statements 2010 Company number 668987 Directors report: Business review and management report 25 seasonal Peaks Planning for Christmas Our customers are financially astute.
They have to be life on a modest income leaves little room for manoeuvre.
If they know in advance they will have extra expenses they plan accordingly.
Nearly two in five use Home Credit loans for Christmas and birthdays.
Some choose Christmas hampers in January and pay for them through the year.
Love2Shop vouchers are another popular option, allowing customers to buy treats for the family without spending more than planned.
Sylvia, Home Credit customer Ive been with Provident for 36 years now.
My agent, Kath, comes to see me at the same time every week so I always know exactly where I am with my repayments.
Shes really friendly and I feel comfortable talking to her if I have worries or concerns.
Average receivables were 0.7% lower than last year, The collections performance remained sound reflecting relatively low sales growth for the year throughout 2010.
A relatively strong collections together with some shortening of the duration performance in the final quarter resulted in the rate of the loan book to help mitigate risk in a difficult of annualised impairment to revenue reducing from environment.
Year end receivables of 867.2m 33.3% at June 2010 to 32.9% at December 2010.
2009: 866.0m were marginally higher than last This performance reflects the natural resilience of year, benefiting from the strong pick-up in sales the Home Credit business model, continued tight activity in the last quarter of the year, and in line underwriting and the investment in front-line with managements planning assumptions for 2011. collections and arrears management capacity through the difficult trading environment of the The revenue yield increased from 88.7% in 2009 last two years.
In the absence of any significant to 93.0% in 2010.
The core 50-week product change in the external environment, collections introduced in late 2009 to replace the old 57-week performance and the rate of impairment in 2011 product contributed approximately half of the are expected to remain at similar levels to 2010. growth in the revenue yield.
The new product is better suited to customers needs for a loan Anticipating a lower growth environment in 2010, of a year in duration and allows more effective the business implemented a cost reduction management of risk.
The yield on the book will programme at the start of the year which included moderate in 2011 due to the strong fourth quarter removing 90 positions from the Home Credit head growth in credit issued to existing good quality office support functions during February.
Field customers who, compared with new customers, collections and arrears management capacity were tend to be served with slightly longer term unaffected by these changes.
After allowing for the products which carry a lower yield.
additional trading week in 2010, costs during 2010 were broadly flat.
Annual pay awards to staff of Company number 668987 Provident Financial plc annual report & Financial statements 2010 26 Business review and management report: Consumer Credit Division continued Meeting the needs of non-standard borrowers: Consumer Credit Division between 1.0% and 1.5% together with the additional Customer InsIGHt cost of the new head office in Bradford have been largely offset by the savings generated by the cost reduction programme.
Costs through the first half of 2011 will reflect an uplift in agents commission following the strong sales in the final quarter of 2010 together with additional training and administrative costs associated with the implementation of the EU Consumer Credit Directive across the organisation.
In order to align the weekly Home Credit business with the groups financial year, Home Credits 2010 financial year includes 53 weeks compared with 52 weeks in 2009.
Overall, the additional week has added approximately 2% to revenue, costs and profit in 2010.
Real Personal Finance Following the decision to focus direct repayment Gemma and family, Home Credit customer lending on known prospects generated through the Home Credit branch network, the re-focusing of Ethan and Louis-James needed new the business and associated cost reductions made in February resulted in Real Personal Finance uniforms for the start of the new incurring a loss of 1.8m in 2010 2009: loss of school year in September.
I only 7.7m, all of which arose in the first half of the wanted a small loan so I chose Home year.
The collect-out of the receivables book has progressed satisfactorily and receivables stood at Credit.
I like the way its structured, 7.1m at the end of 2010, down from 17.8m at with weekly repayments and the the end of 2009.
Direct repayment loan products branded Provident Direct and Greenwood Direct reassurance of never having to were introduced in August as part of the Home Credit worry about extra charges.
business and initial volumes have been modest.
looking ahead We have 1.9 million customers across the country.
Agents visit each of them every week.
We aim to leverage these strong personal relationships by doing more for our existing customers as well as working with new ones.
We anticipate steady growth in the underlying market for Home Credit in 2011 as the number of part-time, casual and temporary workers increases and mainstream lenders continue to restrict credit.
Based on our detailed understanding of our customer base, we are satisfied that the changes to welfare benefits announced as part of the Governments Spending Review will not have a significant impact on our customers.
With the steps we have taken to strengthen the business we are confident that this will translate into good earnings growth.
Provident Financial plc annual report & Financial statements 2010 Company number 668987
