GOVERNANCE GOVERNANCE ADDITIONAL DISCLOSURES 121 ADDITIONAL DISCLOSURES The following additional disclosures are made in compliance with sensitivities are referred to in the Chief Financial Ofcers the Companies Act 2006, the Disclosure and Transparency Rules Review.
specifically, the Groups borrowings are detailed in and the Corporate Governance Codes.
Note H13 on pages 324 to 326, the market risk and liquidity analysis associated with the Groups assets and liabilities can Financial reporting be found in Note G2 on pages 300 to 304, policyholder liability The directors have a duty to report to shareholders on the maturity prole by business units in Notes D2, D3, D4 on performance and financial position of the Group and are pages 232, 253 and 261 respectively, cash ow details in the responsible for preparing the financial statements on pages 153 consolidated statement of cash ows and provisions and to 352 and pages 375 to 386 and the supplementary information contingencies in Note H14.
The directors therefore have on pages 389 to 433.
It is the responsibility of the auditor to continued to adopt the going concern basis of accounting in form independent opinions, based on its audit of the financial preparing the financial statements.
statements and its audit of the EEV basis supplementary information: and to report its opinions to the Companys Post-balance sheet events shareholders and to the Company.
Its opinions are given on Important events affecting the Company after the end of the pages 388 and 435. financial year are detailed in Note I12 on page 352.
Company law requires the directors to prepare financial Change of control statements for each financial year which give a true and fair Under the agreements governing Prudential Corporation view of the state of affairs of the Company and of the Group.
The Holdings Limiteds life insurance and fund management criteria applied in the preparation of the financial statements are joint ventures with China International Trust & Investment set out in the statement of directors' responsibilities on page 387.
Corporation CITIC, if there is a change of control of the The directors are further required to confirm that the Company, CITIC may terminate the agreements and either directors report includes a fair review of the development and i purchase the Companys entire interest in the joint venture performance of the business, with a description of the principal or require the Company to sell its interest to a third party risks and uncertainties.
Such conrmation is included in the designated by CITIC, or ii require the Company to purchase statement of directors' responsibilities on page 387. all of CITICs interest in the joint venture.
The price of such purchase or sale is to be the fair value of the shares to be The Chief Financial officer's Review includes, on pages 80 to 86, transferred, as determined by the auditor of the joint venture.
a description of the Group's risk and capital management, which includes a description of the Group's liquidity position.
These Essential contracts or arrangements risks are also discussed in Note C to the financial statements on There are a number of significant relationships with third page 203.
The Group has considerable internal and external parties, which have value to the business.
No single relationship, financial resources and the directors believe that the Group is however, is considered to be essential to the Group as a whole.
well placed to manage its business risks successfully.
The directors who held ofce at the date of approval of this Compensation for loss of office directors report confirm that, so far as they are each aware, there None of the terms of employment of the Company's directors is no relevant audit information of which the Companys auditor includes provisions for payment of compensation for loss of is unaware: and each director has taken all the steps that he or ofce or employment that occurs because of a takeover bid.
she ought to have taken as a director to make himself or herself Terms applying on a termination of their ofce are set out in the aware of any relevant audit information and to establish that Directors' Remuneration Report.
In the US, senior executives the Companys auditor is aware of that information.
This participate on a discretionary basis in a plan which entitles them conrmation is given and should be interpreted in accordance to compensation, in the event that their employment is with the provisions of Section 418 of the Companies Act 2006. terminated or adversely affected as a result of a takeover.
Going concern Customers After making enquiries the directors have a reasonable The five largest customers of the Group constituted in aggregate expectation that the Company and the Group have adequate less than 30 per cent of its total sales for each of 2010 and 2009. resources to continue their operations for the foreseeable future.
For the year ended 31 December 2010, none of the directors In support of this expectation, the Companys business activities, of the Company, their associates or any shareholders of the together with the factors likely to affect its future development, Company which have, to the knowledge of the directors of the successful performance and position in the current economic Company, owned more than 5 per cent of the Companys issued climate are set out in the Business Review on pages 17 to 98.
The share capital had any interest in the Group's major customers.
risks facing the Groups capital and liquidity positions and their
