BUSINESS REVIEW BUSINESS REVIEW OTHER CORPORATE INFORMATION 87 OTHER CORPORATE INFORMATION Products and drivers of insurance operations profits Unit-linked products tend to have higher profits on the EEV Overview of the Groups principal activities basis of reporting than traditional non-linked products, as Prudential plc is the holding company of the Prudential Group.
expenses and charges are better matched and solvency capital The principal activity of our subsidiary operations is the provision requirements are lower.
At the end of 2010, we were offering of financial services to individuals and businesses in Asia, the US unit-linked products in 10 of the 11 countries in Asia in which and UK.
We offer a wide range of retail financial products and we operate, with the only exception being Thailand.
services and asset management services throughout these In Malaysia and Indonesia, Prudential also offers life insurance territories.
The retail financial products and services principally policies that are constructed to comply with Islamic principles include life insurance, pensions and annuities as well as otherwise known as Takaful.
The main principles are collective investment schemes.
policyholders co-operate amongst themselves for the common good, uncertainty is eliminated in respect of subscription and Asia compensation and there is no investment in prohibited areas The life insurance products offered by Prudential Corporation such as gambling or alcohol.
Asia include with-profits participating and non-participating term, whole life and endowment and unit-linked policies.
To In addition to the life products described above, we offer mutual supplement our life products we also offer health, disablement, fund investment products in India, Taiwan, Japan, Singapore, critical illness and accident cover.
Malaysia, Hong Kong, Korea, Vietnam and China, thus enabling customers to participate in debt, equity and money market The primary focus in Asia is regular premium products that investments.
We are also licensed in the United Arab Emirates.
provide both savings and protection benets.
Prudential Corporation Asia earns a fee based on assets under In 2010, the new business profit mix in our Asian insurance management.
business was derived 59 per cent 2009: 56 per cent from health and protection products, 32 per cent 2009: 31 per cent from United States unit-linked products and nine per cent 2009: 13 per cent from Jacksons product offerings include variable, xed and xed non-linked products.
index annuities, as well as life insurance and institutional products.
Unit-linked products combine savings with protection, with the cash value of the policy depending on the value of the underlying Annuities unitised funds.
Participating products provide savings with Annuity products are long-term individual retirement products, protection where the basic sum assured can be enhanced by a which offer tax-deferred accumulation on the funds invested until profit share or bonus from the underlying fund as determined proceeds are withdrawn from the policy.
at the discretion of the insurer.
Non-participating products offer Fixed annuities are used for asset accumulation in retirement savings with protection where the benets are guaranteed or determined by a set of dened market-related parameters.
planning and for providing income in retirement and offer exible payout options.
The contract holder pays us a premium, Accident and health products provide mortality or morbidity benets and include health, disablement, critical illness and which is credited to the contract holders account.
Periodically, interest is credited to the contract holders account and accident cover.
These products are commonly offered as supplements to main life policies, but can also be sold separately.
The interest rate may be reset on each contract anniversary, subject to a guaranteed Policyholder and insurer share the profits from participating minimum, in line with state regulations.
When the annuity policies typically in a 90:10 ratio in the same way as with-profits matures, the contract holder is paid either the amount in the business in the UK.
With unit-linked products, shareholders contract holder account or staggered payments in the form receive the profits arising from managing the policy, its of an immediate annuity similar to a UK annuity in payment.
investments and the insurance risk.
Policyholders within the underlying unitised fund receive investment gains.
The profits from accident and health and non-participating products come from any surplus remaining after paying policy benets.
88 BUSINESS REVIEW OTHER CORPORATE INFORMATION CONTINUED OTHER CORPORATE INFORMATION Fixed annuity policies are subject to early surrender charges for include the guaranteed minimum death benefit GMDB, which the first six to nine years of the contract.
In addition, the contract guarantees that, upon death of the annuitant, the contract holder may be subject to a market value adjustment at the time of or beneciary receives a minimum value regardless of past surrender.
During the surrender charge period, the contract market performance.
These guaranteed death benets might holder may cancel the contract for the surrender value.
be expressed as the return of original premium, the highest past Our profits on xed annuities come primarily from the spread anniversary value of the contract, or as the original premium between the return earned on investments and the interest accumulated at a xed rate of interest.
In addition, there are three credited to the contract holders account, less expenses.
other types of guarantees: guaranteed minimum withdrawal Fixed annuities continue to be a profitable book of business, benets GMWB, guaranteed minimum accumulation benets benefiting from favourable spread income in recent years.
GMAB and guaranteed minimum income benets GMIB.
Due to the lack of availability to economically reinsure or hedge Fixed index annuities are similar to xed annuities, in that the new issues of GMIB, Jackson discontinued offering it in 2009. contract holder pays a premium that is credited to the contract holders account, and also in that interest is periodically credited GMWBs provide a guaranteed return of the principal invested by to the contract holders account.
An annual minimum interest allowing for periodic withdrawals that are limited to a maximum rate is guaranteed, although actual interest credited may be percentage of the initial premium.
One version of the GMWBs higher and is linked to an equity index over the products index provides for a minimum annual withdrawal amount that is option period.
profit comes primarily from the spread between guaranteed for the contract holders life without annuitisation.
the return earned on investments and the amounts credited to Variations of the GMWBs are offered whereby the guaranteed the contract holders account, less expenses, which include the base can be increased, either through step-ups to a more recent costs of hedging the equity component of the interest credited market value of the account, or through bonuses offered if to the contract.
As previously described, hedge results are withdrawals are delayed for a particular number of years.
Fixed index annuities are Additional charges are assessed for these features.
GMABs subject to early surrender charges for the first five to twelve years generally provide a guarantee for a return of a certain amount of of the contract.
During the surrender charge period, the contract principal after a specified period.
GMIBs provide for a minimum holder may cancel the contract for the surrender value.
Fixed level of benets upon annuitisation regardless of the value of the index annuities continue to be a profitable product, benefiting investments underlying the contract at the time of annuitisation.
from favourable spread and the effective management of equity The GMIB is reinsured.
The xed index book provides natural offsetting equity As the investment return on the separate account assets is exposure to the guarantees issued in connection with our attributed directly to the contract holders, Jacksons profit variable annuity products, which allows for efficient hedging arises from the fees charged on the contracts, less the expenses of the net equity exposure.
incurred, which include the costs of hedging the guarantees.
Variable annuities are tax-advantaged, deferred annuities As previously described, hedge results are reected in shortwhere the rate of return depends upon the performance of the term uctuations.
In addition to being a profitable book of underlying investment portfolio, similar in principle to UK business in its own right, the variable annuity book also provides unit-linked products.
They are also used for asset accumulation an opportunity to utilise the offsetting equity risk among various in retirement planning and to provide income in retirement.
lines of business to cost effectively manage our equity exposure.
It is believed that the internal management of equity risk, The contract holder can allocate the premiums between a variety coupled with the use of external derivative instruments where of variable sub-accounts, with a choice of fund managers and or necessary, continues to provide a cost-effective method of guaranteed xed-rate options.
As with a unit-linked fund, the managing equity exposure.
profits in the variable annuity book contract holders premiums allocated to the variable accounts of business will continue to be subject to the impact of market are held separately from Jacksons general account assets.
The movements on both sales and allocations to the variable value of the portion of the separate account allocated to variable accounts and the effects of the economic hedging programme.
sub-accounts uctuates with the underlying investments.
While risk is hedged on an economic basis, the nature and Variable annuity policies are subject to early surrender charges duration of the hedging instruments, which are recorded at fair for the first four to seven years of the contract.
During the value through the income statement, will uctuate and produce surrender charge period, the contract holder may cancel the some accounting volatility.
Management continues to believe contract for the surrender value.
Jackson offers one variable that, on a long-term economic basis, the equity exposure remains annuity that has no surrender charges and also offers a choice of well managed.
guaranteed benefit options within their variable annuity product portfolio, which customers can elect and pay for.
These options Prudential plc Annual Report 2010 BUSINESS REVIEW 89 Life insurance usually once a year, and are determined as a prudent proportion Jackson also sells several types of life insurance including term of the long-term expected future investment return on the life, universal life and variable universal life.
Term life provides underlying assets.
Once credited, regular bonuses are protection for a dened period of time and a benefit that is guaranteed in accordance with the terms of the particular payable to a designated beneciary upon the insureds death.
In contrast, final bonuses are only guaranteed until Universal life provides permanent individual life insurance for the next bonus declaration, and are primarily determined on the the life of the insured and includes a savings element.
Variable actual smoothed investment return achieved over the life of the universal life is a life insurance policy that combines death benefit policy.
Prudentials with-profits policyholders currently receive protection and the important tax advantages of life insurance 90 per cent of the distribution from the main with-profits with the long-term growth potential of professionally managed sub-fund as bonus additions to their policies, while shareholders investments.
The Jackson life insurance book has also delivered receive 10 per cent as a statutory transfer.
consistent profitability, driven primarily by favourable mortality The Dened Charge Participating Sub-Fund DCPSF forms part experience.
It is comprised of the accumulated investment content of premiums paid in respect of the dened Institutional products charge participating with-profits business issued in France, the Jacksons institutional products division markets institutional dened charge participating with-profits business reassured into products such as traditional Guaranteed Investment Contracts PAC from Prudential International Assurance plc and Canada Life GICs, Funding Agreements and Medium Term Note MTN Europe Assurance Ltd and includes the portfolio of with-profit funding agreements.
The institutional product offerings also annuity policies acquired from Equitable Life in 2007.
All profits include Jacksons funding agreements issued to the Federal in this fund accrue to policyholders in the DCPSF.
Institutional products are distributed directly to investors, through investment banks, or through funding The profits from almost all of the new non-participating business agreement brokers.
Jackson sold no institutional products accrue solely to shareholders.
Such business is written in the during 2010 or 2009, as available capital was directed to support non-profit sub-fund within PACs long-term fund, or in various higher-margin variable annuity sales.
shareholder-owned direct or indirect subsidiaries.
The most significant of these is Prudential Retirement Income Limited United Kingdom PRIL, which also writes all new immediate annuities arising In common with other UK long-term insurance companies, from vesting deferred annuity policies in the with-profits Prudential UKs products are structured as either with-profits or sub-fund of PAC.
participating products, or non-participating products including There is a substantial volume of in-force non-participating annuities in payment and unit-linked products.
Depending on business in PACs with-profits sub-fund and that funds whollythe structure, the level of shareholders interest in the value of owned subsidiary Prudential Annuities Limited PAL, which is policies and the related profit or loss varies.
profits from this business accrue to the with-profits sub-fund.
With-profits policies are supported by a with-profits sub-fund and can be single premium for example, Onshore Bonds or Description of EEV basis reporting Flexible Investment Bonds or regular premium for example, certain pension products.
Prudentials results are prepared on two accounting bases the supplementary EEV basis, and the IFRS basis for the financial The primary with-profits sub-fund is part of The Prudential statements.
Over the life of any given product, the total profit Assurance Company Limited PAC s long-term fund.
The recognised will be the same under either the IFRS or the EEV return to shareholders on virtually all with-profits products is basis.
However, the two methods recognise the emergence of in the form of a statutory transfer to PAC shareholders funds.
that profit in different ways, with profits emerging earlier under This is analogous to a dividend from PACs long-term fund, and the EEV basis than under IFRS.
This section explains how EEV is dependent upon the bonuses credited or declared on policies differs from IFRS and why it is used.
In this context, there are two types of bonuses regular and final.
Regular bonuses are declared regularly, 90 BUSINESS REVIEW OTHER CORPORATE INFORMATION CONTINUED OTHER CORPORATE INFORMATION In broad terms, IFRS profits for long-term business reect the these expected profits, full allowance is made for the risks aggregate of statutory transfers from UK-style with-profits funds attached to their emergence and the associated cost of capital, and profit on a traditional accounting basis for other long-term and takes into account recent experience in assessing likely business.
By their nature, the products sold by the life insurance future persistency, mortality and expenses.
industry are long-term, as insurance companies commit to The change in value is typically analysed into the following service these products for many years into the future.
The profit components: on these insurance sales is generated over this long-term period.
In our view, the result under IFRS does not properly reect the the value added from new business sold during the year: inherent value of these future profits, as it focuses instead on the the change in value from existing business already in place amounts accruing to shareholders in the current year.
at the start of the year: short-term uctuations in investment returns: In May 2004 the CFO Forum, representing the Chief Financial change in economic assumptions: Ofcers of 19 European insurers, published the European change in the time value of cost of options and guarantees Embedded Value Principles expanded by the Additional and economic assumption changes: Guidance of EEV Disclosures published in October 2005, that other items for example, profit from other Group operations, provide consistent denitions, a framework for setting actuarial tax, foreign exchange, exceptional items : and assumptions, and a more explicit approach to the underlying dividends.
So for example: The value added from new business dened as the present value The allowance for risk is explicit for EEV through: i an of the future profits arising from new business written in the year allowance for the cost of capital at the higher of economic is a key metric used in the management of our business.
capital and the local statutory minimum ii stochastic or other The change in value of business in-force at the start of the year appropriate modelling of financial options and guarantees to demonstrates how the existing book is being managed.
Together, ensure that an allowance for their cost is irrespective of their these metrics provide management and shareholders with valuable value at the balance sheet date, and iii an explicit allowance information about the underlying development of the Groups in the risk discount rate for financial and non-financial risks: business and the success or otherwise of management actions.
EEV specifically allows for the look-through into profits arising in shareholder service companies, most notably the profit EEV basis results are prepared by first of all setting best arising in investment management companies from managing estimate assumptions, by product, for all relevant factors the insurance companies funds for covered business: and including expenses, surrender levels and mortality.
Economic There are extensive disclosures required for EEV on all aspects assumptions as to future investment returns and ination are of the calculations, including the methodology adopted and generally based on a combination of market data and long-term the analysis of return.
These assumptions are used to project future cash ows.
The present value of the future cash ows is then It is thought that the EEV basis not only provides a good indication calculated using a discount rate which reects both the time of the value being added by management in a given accounting value of money and the risks associated with the cash ows.
period, but also helps demonstrate whether shareholder capital The risk discount rate is determined by adding a risk margin to is being deployed to best effect.
Indeed insurance companies in the appropriate risk-free rate of return.
The actual outcome may many countries use comparable bases of accounting for differ from that projected, in which case the effect will be management purposes.
reected in the experience variances for that year.
The EEV basis is a value-based method of reporting in that it The assumptions used for the EEV basis of accounting are set reects the change in value of the business over the accounting out in the notes that accompany the supplementary EEV basis period.
This value is called the shareholders funds on the EEV information.
An indication of the sensitivity of the results to basis which, at a given point in time, is the value of future profits changes in key assumptions is also provided within that expected to arise from the current book of long-term insurance information.
business plus the net worth of the Company.
In determining Prudential plc Annual Report 2010
