4 OVERVIEW AT A GLANCE PRUDENTIAL AT A GLANCE Prudential plc is an international financial services group with significant operations in Asia, the US and the UK.
We serve over 25 million customers and have 340 billion of assets under management.
The Group is structured around four main business units: Prudential Corporation Asia, Jackson National Life Insurance Company, Prudential UK and M&G.
OVERVIEW PRUDENTIAL CORPORATION ASIA JACKSON Prudential is a leading life insurer in Asia operating Jackson is one of the largest life insurance in 12 markets.
We are in the top three for market companies in the US, providing retirement savings share of new business in Hong Kong, India, Indonesia, and income solutions to more than 2.8 million Malaysia, Singapore, the Philippines and Vietnam.
In Asia we provide a comprehensive range of savings, Jackson is also one of the top three providers of variable protection and investment products tailored to meet annuities in the US.
customers needs in each market.
Founded 50 years ago, Jackson has a long and successful Prudentials Asian asset management business manages record of providing advisers with the products, tools investments across a broad range of asset classes for and support to design effective retirement solutions internal, retail and institutional clients.
We are one of the for their clients.
regions leaders of Asian sourced assets under management.
We are also the largest onshore mutual fund manager in Asia.
KEY STATISTICS ASIA UNITED STATES www.
com 2.8m 15m 3,700 320,000 16,400 customers employees customers agents employees including affiliates % OF GROUP OPERATING PROFITS EEV IFRS EEV IFRS 38% 25% 38% 35% Prudential plc Annual Report 2010 OVERVIEW 5 ASSET MANAGEMENT LIFE ASSURANCE % of Group external funds % of Group APE new % of Group new 1 1 under management business premiums business profit 80% M&G 43% Asia 44% Asia 20% Asia 33% US 38% US 24% UK 18% UK www.
co. uk PRUDENTIAL UK M&G Prudential UK is a leading life and pensions M&G is Prudentials UK and European fund provider to approximately 7 million customers management business with total assets under in the United Kingdom.
management of 198 billion at 31 December 2010.
Our expertise in areas such as longevity, risk management M&G has been investing money for individual and and multi-asset investment, together with our financial institutional clients for 80 years.
Today it is one of strength and highly respected brand, means that the Europes largest active investment managers as well business is strongly positioned to continue pursuing a as being a powerhouse in xed income.
value-driven strategy built around our core strengths in with-profits and annuities.
UNITED KINGDOM UNITED KINGDOM & EUROPE www.
co. uk 335,000 customers 7m through M&G 2,700 1,400 customers Investments employees employees EEV IFRS IFRS 24% 29% 11% 1 Excludes Japan, which ceased writing new business in 2010.
% of Group EEV long-term operating profits.
% of Group IFRS operating profits, based on longer-term investment returns before restructuring costs and other income and expenditure.
