Directors Chairman Chief Executive Mark Powell Andy Pomfret Mark Powell, aged 65, is Andy Pomfret, aged 50, the Chairman with principal is the Chief Executive.
He is responsibility for the strategy chairman of the Executive of the Group.
He moved to Committee which manages a non-executive role with the day to day affairs of the effect from 1 January 2008 Group and of the Groups and is not considered to be independent for the Social and Environmental Committee.
He purposes of the Combined Code.
He is retiring qualified as a chartered accountant with Peat, from the Board after the Annual General Meeting Marwick, Mitchell & Co. now KPMG.
Prior to on 11 May 2011. joining Rathbones in July 1999, he spent over 13 years with Kleinwort Benson as a Corporate He has been involved in investment management Financier, Venture Capitalist and latterly Finance for private clients throughout his career.
From Director of the investment management and 1968 to 1989 he worked in what became Credit private banking division.
He was appointed Lyonnais Securities and was Chief Executive of to the Board in August 1999 and became CL-Alexanders Laing & Cruickshank Holdings.
He is In 1989 he joined Laurence Keen as Chief also the Senior Independent Director of Beazley Executive and was appointed to the Rathbones plc and a Director of the Association of Board as Managing Director of the Group Private Client Investment Managers & following its acquisition in March 1995.
appointed as Chairman in May 2003.
He is also Non-executive Chairman of SVM Active Fund Plc and a Non-executive Director of HgCapital Trust plc.
He is a former Chairman of the Association of Private Client Investment Managers & Stockbrokers APCIMS and a former member of the Takeover Panel.
He is chairman of the Nomination Committee.
Board Committees Audit Committee The four principal Board Committees are the Current members of the Audit Committee Executive, Audit, Remuneration and Nomination are Oliver Corbett chairman, Kate Avery, Committees.
The Board has delegated full Caroline Burton, David Harrel and Kathryn authority to the Executive Committee, subject to Matthews.
Details of its work are set out a list of matters which are reserved for decision in the Audit committee report.
The other Board Committees Remuneration Committee have formal terms of reference, which are reviewed and approved by the Board on an Current members of the Remuneration annual basis.
These are available on request Committee are Caroline Burton chairman, from the Companys registered office and Kate Avery, Oliver Corbett, David Harrel, on the Company website.
Kathryn Matthews and Mark Nicholls.
Full details of its role are set out in the Executive Committee Remuneration report.
The Executive Committee is chaired by the Nomination Committee Chief Executive Andy Pomfret, and comprises Ian Buckley, Paul Chavasse, Richard Lanyon and Current members of the Nomination Committee Paul Stockton.
The purpose of the Executive are Mark Powell Chairman, Kate Avery, Committee is to monitor every aspect of the Caroline Burton, Oliver Corbett, David Harrel, Group businesses on a continuing basis and to Kathryn Matthews, Mark Nicholls and analyse and plan all business proposals in detail Andy Pomfret.
Full details of its role are set for submission to and consideration by the Board.
out in the Nomination committee report.
The Executive Committee meets monthly and more frequently when required.
Rathbone Brothers Plc Report and accounts 2010 24 Directors Chairman Chief Executive Board Committees Executive Directors Non-executive Directors Executive Directors Ian Buckley Andrew Morris Ian Buckley, aged 60, is Andrew Morris, aged 46, Chief Executive of the Groups is the Director responsible Trust and Tax business and for Rathbones Investment the Director responsible for Management business in its pensions and advisory Aberdeen, Birmingham, business.
He is the Director Edinburgh, Kendal and responsible for risk management and marketing Liverpool.
He also manages a large number of and is also chairman of the Groups IT Steering client portfolios.
He has spent his entire working Committee.
He qualified as a chartered career at Rathbones in private client investment accountant with Peat, Marwick, Mitchell & Co. management and was appointed to the Board now KPMG in 1975.
He was Chief Executive in November 2000.
He is chairman of the of Smith & Williamson for ten years from 1985 Groups Business Continuity and Training and to 1995, and subsequently Chief Executive Competence Committees.
of EFG Private Bank Limited and Tenon Group Richard Smeeton Plc.
He was appointed to the Board in December 2001.
He is a committee member of Family Richard Smeeton, aged 46, Assurance Friendly Society.
has, as his principal responsibility, the Paul Chavasse management of the Groups Paul Chavasse, aged 46, is Investment Management the Chief Operating Officer business in London and responsible for the Groups Jersey.
He also manages a large number of investment operations, IT client portfolios.
Having trained with County infrastructure and facilities.
Bank, he joined Laurence Keen in 1988 prior He started his career working to its acquisition by Rathbones in 1995. for the institutional fund management arm of He was appointed to the Board in November NatWest, which was later merged with Gartmore.
He chairs the Groups Alternative After a period in the private client businesses of Asset Committee.
NatWest and Coutts, his final role before joining Paul Stockton the Group in 2001 was as Head of NatWest Portfolio Management in Bristol.
He was Paul Stockton, aged 45, appointed to the Board in September 2001. is the Finance Director.
He qualified as a Richard Lanyon chartered accountant with Richard Lanyon, aged 59, is  the Director with overall in 1992.
In 1999 he joined responsibility for Rathbones Old Mutual Plc as Group Financial Controller, Investment Management becoming Director of Finance in 2001 and business.
Initially with Finance Director of Gerrard Limited eight months Laurence Prust, he moved later.
Following the sale of Gerrard to Barclays to Framlington Group Plc in 1986 where in 2003, he left in 2005 and has since worked he was the Board member responsible for for Euroclear in Brussels and as a Division pension funds.
He joined the Group in 1992 Finance Director of the Pearl Group.
He joined to concentrate on private client discretionary Rathbones in August 2008 and was appointed investment management and was appointed to the Board in September 2008. to the Board in March 1996.
Chairman Chief Executive Board Committees Executive Directors Non-executive Directors 25 Directors Rathbone Brothers Plc Report and accounts 2010 Non-executive Directors David Harrel Oliver Corbett David Harrel, aged 62, was Oliver Corbett, aged 46, is one of the founding partners Group Finance Director of of S J Berwin LLP in 1982, Novae Group plc.
He is a and was made Senior Partner chartered accountant and in 1992.
He relinquished this worked for SG Warburg, role in 2006 and is now a Phoenix Securities later consultant to the firm.
David has a variety of other Donaldson Lufkin Jenrette and Dresdner appointments.
He is a Non-executive Director of Kleinwort Wasserstein, where he was Wichford Plc and The Kyte Group Limited, a Managing Director of investment banking, member of the Board of the English National before joining Novae Group in October 2003.
Opera and a trustee of the Clore Duffield He was appointed to the Board in March Foundation.
He was appointed to the Board in 2006 and is considered to be independent.
December 2007 and is considered to be He was appointed as chairman of the Audit independent.
He was appointed as the Senior Committee in December 2008.
Kathryn Matthews Kate Avery Kathryn Matthews, aged 51, has spent her entire career Kate Avery, aged 51, began her career with Barclays Plc, in investment management, most recently as Chief where she worked for some eighteen years, becoming Investment Officer, Asia Pacific ex Japan for Fidelity Managing Director of Barclays Bank Trust Company and International.
Prior to that, she held senior appointments with William M Mercer, AXA Barclays Stockbrokers.
She subsequently joined Legal and General Group Plc and served Investment Managers, Santander Global Advisers and Baring Asset Management.
She is a on its main board for eight years until January 2009, latterly as Group Executive Director for Non-executive Director of a number of companies including Hermes Fund Managers wealth management.
She also served as a Non-executive Director with Kelda Group plc Limited, Fidelity Asian Values Plc, Montanaro UK Smaller Companies Investment Trust Plc until its sale to an infrastructure fund in 2008.
She is currently Chairman of Openwork and J P Morgan Chinese Investment Trust Plc.
She was appointed to the Board on 6 January Holdings Limited and a Non-executive Director of the Newcastle Building Society.
She was 2010 and is considered to be independent.
appointed to the Board on 6 January 2010 Mark Nicholls and is considered to be independent.
Mark Nicholls, aged 61, is a Caroline Burton lawyer and corporate financier.
After studying law at Caroline Burton, aged 61, is a highly experienced figure Cambridge he took articles at Linklaters before joining within the asset management industry.
She spent 26 years S G Warburg in 1976.
He became a Director in 1984 and Head of with Guardian Royal Exchange Plc where she was Executive Investment Banking in 1994.
In 1996 he joined Royal Bank of Scotland and became head of Director in charge of investments from 1990 until 1999.
She was also a Director of The their private equity group, leaving in 2003 to pursue a plural career.
He is currently Chairman Scottish Metropolitan Property Plc until June 2000 and was a member of the service authority of the West Bromwich Building Society and a Non-executive Director of Northern Investors for the National Crime Squad and National Criminal Intelligence Service until March 2006.
He was appointed to the Board on 1 December 2010 and is considered She is a Non-executive Director of TR Property Investment Trust Plc.
She was appointed to to be independent.
the Board in November 2003 and is considered to be independent.
She is chairman of the Remuneration Committee.
Rathbone Brothers Plc Report and accounts 2010 26 Directors Chairman Chief Executive Board Committees Executive Directors Non-executive Directors
