Business review Governance Accounts Corporate governance report The Capita Group Plc 69 Membership of the committees The Committee met 4 times during the year.
Meetings are planned around the financial calendar for the Company and the meeting held in May is Membership of the Companys standing committees at the end of the specifically to focus on the risk, internal control and compliance agendas.
year is shown below: The Chairman of the Committee is directly available to and holds regular Martin Martina Nigel Paul Paddy Bolland King Wilson Bowtell Doyle meetings with the Director, Group Compliance, Deputy Company Secretary and the Director, Group Risk and Business Assurance and Nomination C external Auditors.
Audit C During the year the Committee undertook the following activities: Remuneration C February: At the meeting to review the 2010 Annual Report and C Chairman Accounts, the Committee considered the level of non-audit services Martin Bolland stood down from both the Remuneration Committee and being provided by the Groups Auditors in order to satisfy itself that the Audit Committee once appropriate replacements were recruited to the objectivity and independence of the Auditors were safeguarded the Board.
Paddy Doyle is not independent and therefore is only appointed February: Reviewed and approved the Representation Letter required to the Nomination Committee, but he is available to the Audit and by the Auditors Remuneration Committees as required.
February: Met with the Auditors independently of the Executive Nomination Committee Directors and also separately met with the Director, Group Risk and The Nomination Committee in 2010 comprised Martin Bolland Business Assurance Committee Chairman, Nigel Wilson, Martina King, Paddy Doyle and May and ongoing: Monitored the internal controls that are operated Paul Bowtell.
The Committee reports to the Board and its role is to seek by management to ensure the integrity of information reported to suitably skilled and experienced candidates to be Directors and ensure shareholders plans are in place for orderly succession of appointments to the Board.
May: Agreed to tender the audit services for the Group When considering the constitution of the Board, the Nomination November: In line with its responsibilities, the Committee reviewed the Committee carries out a rigorous review, taking into account the need annual business assurance programme and ensured that the Group Risk for a progressive refresh of the Board.
Core competencies and attributes and Business Assurance function was adequately sponsored and required to ll the roles are set out and independent external search resourced.
The Group Risk and Business Assurance business plan was consultants engaged, where appropriate, to identify potential candidates.
presented to the Committee in November 2010 and approved During the year the Nomination Committee has considered the November: A review of the terms of reference was undertaken and succession planning of the Board, the appointments of new Directors this ensured that these remained in line with the guidance given by the and the retirement of Directors at the Annual General Meeting.
Financial Reporting Council and the Combined Code.
Small changes The Chairman of the Company never takes part in any discussions were proposed to the terms of reference and these were approved by regarding the consideration of the appointment of a new chairman.
The terms of reference include the approval of the appointment of the Director, Group Risk and Business Audit Committee Assurance The Audit Committee comprised of independent Non-Executive Directors Ongoing: Reviewed a wide range of financial reporting and related throughout 2010.
Martin Bolland was independent before and on matters during the year, including the half year and annual accounts appointment as Chairman in January 2010 and continued as Chairman of prior to their submission to the Board.
The Committee focused in the Audit Committee until Paul Bowtells appointment in June 2010.
Both particular on critical accounting policies and practices adopted by the Martin and Paul have significant recent and relevant financial experience, Group and any significant areas of judgement that materially impact including both being qualied Chartered Accountants.
The other members on reported results.
of the Audit Committee are Martina King and Nigel Wilson.
Audit Committee meetings are by invitation and generally attended by: the The Committee is also responsible for the policies on whistleblowing and Non-Executive Chairman: Chief Executive: Executive Directors: Director, the provision of the non-audit services by the external Auditors.
Both Group Compliance: Director, Group Risk and Business Assurance and by policies are published on the Companys intranet.
representatives of the external Auditors.
