Business review Governance Accounts Delivering business responsibly The Capita Group Plc 49 How we manage our suppliers Selecting our suppliers Enhancing our relationships 4.4 with suppliers Our supplier relationships are managed both at All suppliers who wish to work with us are Managing our supply chain a Group level by the Group procurement team, required to undergo our supplier assessment We understand the importance of building and at a local level by procurement specialists in process via our online portal, providing us Aim: Capita has a significant number of supplier mutually beneficial relationships with our the businesses.
We also manage some of our with core information about their business and relationships.
We aim to manage our supply suppliers.
By creating these relationships and clients supplier relationships.
the nature and scope of the services they chain effectively to meet the needs of our using our purchasing power we are able to can offer to Capita.
They must answer clients and ensure responsible business secure best value goods and services, which can We classify our suppliers into categories, questions on their business ethics, health and practices across our supplier base.
This helps us directly improve our business performance and dependent on the value of the contract and safety record, environmental credentials and to mitigate against any risks and protect our that of our clients.
The Group their commitment to CR.
This allows us to reputation for integrity and reliability.
procurement team manage our relationships To support local suppliers and encourage monitor and select suppliers who meet our with our 28 strategic suppliers, who provide supplier diversity, we provide all suppliers business and CR standards.
Where a supplier services to the whole Group.
These contracts with the opportunity to work with us.
does not meet our standards we are committed are negotiated centrally and are worth 150m We acknowledge that smaller suppliers may to assisting them with the objective of in total per annum.
face challenges in the procurement process improving their performance to meet our due to lack of time and resources.
Where this is We have a responsible procurement policy standards.
the case we try and assist them throughout the and an operating framework which details our process to ensure a level playing eld.
commitments to meeting the highest ethical standards, and ensures we comply with relevant legislation and best practice.
2010 2009 CR performance Annually audit all strategic suppliers 100% strategic 100% strategic suppliers audited suppliers audited Increase the number of audits 55% active 50% active for active suppliers suppliers audited suppliers audited Engaging with our suppliers All new suppliers registered Launched online supplier on online portal, registration portal to ensure they meet our CR and business standards
