Business review Governance Accounts The Capita Group Plc 02 A snapshot of our business We deliver services that generate real value for our clients and their customers See our services in action Delivering for the customer Empowering frontline employees Improving local services Accessing education online Driving efficiency and cost improvement whilst Our improvements to Harrow Councils systems We're delivering significant cost savings to Weve helped low-income families across enhancing customer experiences.
have given employees the tools to do their jobs Birmingham City Council while helping to England gain access to a computer and the more effectively.
Explore our partnership with AXA on pages 20 and 21.
Explore our Harrow partnership Explore our Service Birmingham partnership Explore the service we delivered for Becta on pages 30 and 31. on pages 40 and 41. on pages 52 and 53. Business review Governance Accounts A snapshot of our business The Capita Group Plc 03 Our eye for detail, practical innovation and experience enable us to reshape services that both answer the needs of our clients and deliver quality, responsive services to the public.
These same qualities underpin the way we manage and grow our business, allowing us to deliver value to all our stakeholders.
Our clients benefit from Capitas expertise, innovation and extensive resources and infrastructure.
When they transfer their back ofce and frontline customer services to us we sign up to delivering an improved service, at a dened cost, over a long term contract.
We use customer insight and our ability to better manage people, processes and IT to achieve a more efficient alignment of resources and a better customer experience.
Our innovative service solutions and record of consistent operational delivery have helped to fuel our growth and position Capita as the leading provider of outsourced and professional support services, principally in the UK and Ireland.
Business review Governance Accounts A snapshot of our business The Capita Group Plc 04 We operate in with unique scale growth markets and breadth of expertise Capita focuses on and leads the Business Process Outsourcing BPO Capita has grown steadily over the past 25 years, both organically and market in the UK where there are significant opportunities for growth.
through acquisitions, and we now have 37,000 people at over 350 Our bid pipeline of new business opportunities stands at a historic high, business sites across the UK, the Channel Islands, Europe and India.
driven by public and private sector organisations increasingly seeking to We use our expertise, infrastructure and the scale of our operations gain efficiencies, exibility and improved service delivery.
to drive down costs and add value to our clients operations.
Our extensive network of business centres onshore, nearshore and Bid pipeline offshore allows us to offer our clients exible service solutions that meet their customers expectations and help them stay at the forefront of their Feb 2011: 4.7bn, 30 bids markets.
Feb 2010: 3.7bn, 26 bids Our business centre network: Outsourced and potential UK BPO market: 53 Onshore: UK 6 Nearshore: Ireland, Channel Islands, Europe 5 Offshore: India 117bn market 64 7.8bn business centres currently outsourced We work with clients across the public and private sectors in 9 chosen markets.
Our turnover is derived 50 50 from the private and public sectors.
Private Sector: life and pensions, insurance, financial services and other corporates.
Public Sector: local government, central government, education, health and transport.
And we constantly explore new markets where we can add value.
Where we have been shortlisted to the last 4 bidders or fewer.
IDC Business review Governance Accounts A snapshot of our business The Capita Group Plc 05 A consistent and creates value for business model all our stakeholders drives our growth We seek to build long term, mutually beneficial relationships capable We generate profitable growth both organically and through acquisitions.
of creating value for all our stakeholders our shareholders, clients, Organic growth is generated by a centralised major sales team employees, suppliers and the communities in which we work.
alongside sales teams in each of our businesses.
We seek to secure With good financial controls, careful risk management and effective long term business relationships, adding value to our clients operations governance, we work to a clear set of KPI targets to grow the business while generating high quality recurring revenues and delivering a fair at a rate at which we can consistently deliver what we promise and return for Capita.
Acquiring small to medium sized companies allows us to add further Our performance in 2010 illustrates our ability to continue to grow the expertise or scale to our operations or helps us to enter new markets.
business profitably and deliver value to our shareholders.
We smoothly integrate the acquired business into our operations, generating synergies and additional value for the Group.
2010: 18 major contracts and extensions worth a total of: 2010 progress: profits before tax 12% Earnings per share 16% 795m 2009: 15 contracts, total of 1bn Dividends per share 19% 2010: Total spent on 12 acquisitions: Continued growth 301m 2009: 12 acquisitions: 177.5m 18 major contracts and extensions
