Business review Governance Accounts Delivering business responsibly The Capita Group Plc 44 Sharing scale benets India 4.2 By combining onshore, Our substantial scale and broad capability We established our offshore operations in India nearshore and offshore Building scale and capacity and enable us to put forward compelling in 2004.
We now have 3 sites in Mumbai, 1 site resources we can deliver optimising our infrastructure propositions to clients and are integral to us in Pune and 1 site in Bangalore.
At the end winning major integrated service of 2010, our Indian operations represented maximum service exibility, Aim: to have the right resources in place, both transformation contracts.
approximately 10% of our overall headcount.
in terms of infrastructure and people, to satisfy These operations play an important role in The delivery of progressively larger contracts, clients that we have the operational scale and our business and long term growth strategy, Vic Gysin Joint Chief Operating officer with common processes and substantial capability to deliver their requirements.
providing high quality, cost effective English numbers of transferring employees, fuels the Progress: We have built up an extensive language based services.
growth of our operations and resources.
operational infrastructure and depth of As we increase scale, we are able to deliver Capita India is fully integrated into the Group capabilities which enable us to fully support our more services and contracts through shared ICT and operates like any other Capita business with clients, provide exible operating models and platforms and operating structures, providing the same values, technical infrastructure and share economies of scale.
They benefit not only operating model.
The sites share a combined We continuously assess the needs of each from cost efficiencies but also from greater management team to ensure they all benefit business unit to ensure that we have the access to specialist skills and exible service from their collective skills.
We proactively necessary people, infrastructure and resources delivery models.
recruit from the highly skilled graduate for current and future development.
Each workforce that is available in these locations.
Our business centres, where we are able to run month we review comprehensive operational Their skills, knowledge and excellent work ethic a broad range of shared services, form a central management information through the MOB help us meet our objectives of delivering a first part of our service delivery infrastructure.
review process enabling us to manage our class service to our clients.
Capita is widely At the end of 2010, we had 64 business centres resources in a way that meets the needs of our regarded in India as a first class employer who onshore in the UK, nearshore in Ireland, the clients and delivers our key financial targets.
will encourage and help employees grow and Channel Islands and Europe, and offshore See page 33. develop their careers.
We therefore benefit in India.
Wherever possible, we migrate and integrate from being able to attract and retain a highly systems, share resources and rationalise Blended service delivery skilled and professional workforce.
premises to optimise our infrastructure while Our infrastructure allows us to offer clients an In addition to being the largest offshore maintaining and enhancing services.
In 2010, we onshore nearshore offshore blended delivery operation for UK life and pensions increased our focus on this and took significant model structured to meet their individual administration, we continue to grow our BPO steps forward, investing further in IT platforms needs.
By combining onshore, nearshore and capability across other sectors such as general in our life and pensions and registrar businesses offshore resources we can deliver maximum insurance, finance and accounting.
Recently, we and announcing the creation of a new business service exibility, quality and cost effectiveness.
have expanded our service capability in India centre in Europe.
Our comprehensive security and quality incorporating IT application development and assurance systems ensure consistent service testing, infrastructure consultancy and research quality across the entire infrastructure.
and analytical services for UK based pharmaceutical companies.
