Business review Governance Accounts Generating profitable growth The Capita Group Plc 15 Major contracts over 50m: Total value 613m, duration 5 to 10 years Local government Local government Education Local government Birmingham City Swindon Borough Harrow Council Building Schools for Council Service Council & the Future BSF contracts Value: 50m Birmingham Southampton City Council 10 year duration Value: 97m Appointed to be the authoritys IT Value: 300m ICT and property solutions for BSF Value: 50m infrastructure partner.
programme provided by our IT services and 10 and 5 year duration Expansion of strategic partnerships with property consultancy businesses.
Extension to original contract to provide ICT and contact centre services.
Additionally, Service Birmingham will Insurance Local government deliver the Councils revenues service.
Virgin Money West Sussex Extension for 5 years to March 2021.
Major new contracts and Revenues contract to commence Value: 60m County Council April 2011. extensions secured in 2010 5 year duration Value: 56m To provide end-to-end sales support, 7 year duration policy administration and processing Total value: Appointed to be the authoritys IT services for a new home and motor infrastructure partner.
795m 18 contracts Major contracts under 50m: Total value 182m, duration 19 months to 8 years Central government Insurance Local government Life and pensions Constructionline Marsh HSBC Nottinghamshire Aviva Dublin Governments register of local and To deliver back ofce functions and County Council To provide life and pensions national pre-qualied construction and processing services to enhance Marsh administration in Ireland.
To provide networking, applications and construction-related service providers.
UKs broking activities to clients across Service commenced April 2010. services secured by Synetrix.
Central government Education Insurance DWP Records East Midland Broadband AXA Sainsbury Records and storage contract.
Consortium embc Initially awarded in 1999.
To provide administration services for Sainsburys pet insurance offer.
To provide networking, applications and Extension awarded in February 2010. services secured by Synetrix.
Expansion New New Extension and new services New New Extension Expansion New New Extension New Extension
