Business review Governance Accounts Generating profitable growth The Capita Group Plc 14 Record bid pipeline record levels Progress in fuelling our growth Selecting new business opportunities Fuelling our growth: of quality business opportunities Major sales opportunities In February 2011, our bid pipeline was at a We constantly identify areas of opportunity record level of 4.7bn Feb 2010: 3.7bn and across all our chosen markets.
We actively We report on the pipeline twice a year when we contained 30 bids.
This included bids across engage with potential clients to demonstrate announce our half year and full year results.
Health many of our markets with the majority in life the benets and added value that outsourcing The bid pipeline contains contracts of 10m or and pensions, followed by defence and local offers to their organisations and customers.
above, where we have been shortlisted to the government.
This is a healthy indicator of the last 4 or fewer: all bids are capped at 500m In the private sector we seek out opportunities Other growing interest across both the public and to prevent very large individual contracts through business intelligence and existing private sector to engage with outsourcing and distorting the total.
relationships: increasingly, we are also Central the benets it can offer.
The government Behind our bid pipeline is an active prospect list procurement process is determined by each Life and of opportunities where the bidding process is individual client, often working with advisers.
Bid pipeline pensions underway but we have yet to reach a shortlist 4.7bn: 30 bids UK public sector contracts are subject to Local or final bidding stage.
Our prospect list is also government dened procurement processes.
EU policy at a record level.
This prospect list is in turn requires fair and open competition and supported by a list of suspects relationships opportunities are formally advertised and which we are nurturing to generate future bid notied.
In addition, under EU competition law, opportunities.
Defence public sector outsourcing contracts that are To support and convert this wealth of already in place must be offered for tender opportunities we have actively identied high when the initial contract term is complete.
quality candidates and increased the headcount The procurement landscape in 2011 in our major sales team.
However, we remain Public sector procurements can take up to disciplined when selecting bid opportunities 2 years to complete.
Government and local to pursue.
Prospects list authorities are exploring ways to speed up this Setting our bid success rate against our bid process as they strive to realise the benets of active live bids pipeline provides a useful indicator of likely outsourcing at a faster pace.
In 2010, we had a win rate As procurement processes on major bids can be of just below 1 in 2. costly in both time and resources, we remain Suspects list highly selective and disciplined throughout the identied opportunities bid process, only bidding where we see realistic opportunity for a positive working relationship that benets both the client and the Group.
Discover what was key to one of our transformation programmes.
Bid pipeline as at 24 February 2011: Shortlisted to 4 bidders or fewer.
