Business review Governance Accounts Generating profitable growth The Capita Group Plc 18 Progress in 2010 Rigorous selection criteria and pricing 1.2 Our pipeline of potential In 2010, we continued our acquisition strategy To stimulate growth we generally seek target acquisitions remains healthy and Acquisitions stimulating and spent 301m on 12 acquisitions.
acquisitions that: is providing opportunities to growth and adding value A number of our recent acquisitions have have operations and customers principally purchase operations at provided a footprint or strengthened our in the UK and or Ireland Acquisitions have consistently played a key role position in new or edgling markets for us.
reasonable valuation levels that in stimulating our growth.
We continuously t with our strategy and core competencies Premier Medical Group and FirstAssist Services look to acquire niche businesses that will help meet our criteria to enhance our generate sustainable, quality revenues.
Holdings Ltd have both become part of our us to enter new markets where we can: Potential acquisitions are identied and brought offering or to take us into new health division, allowing us to strengthen our grow organically to the Group by external consultants, people in footprint in the health and workforce assistance areas.
We continue to be selective strengthen existing capabilities our businesses, or direct approaches.
Our acquisition of SunGard Public and remain disciplined when acquisitions are assessed, priced and agreed by extend our market position Sector has provided us with a strong entry into the Group Board.
outsourced services for the secure radio build economies of scale communications services and police and wider We tend to select acquisition targets that are: enter a new market Andy Parker Joint Chief Operating officer emergency services.
Details of all our 2010 privately owned access a new client base.
acquisitions are on page 19. too small to interest the private equity market Expanding our presence through subsequent Smooth integration of acquisitions not in an auction, as we aim to acquire acquisitions and contract wins creates without competition significant additional scale benets.
We have substantial experience of successfully integrating acquired businesses and achieving attractively priced.
2011 synergies with our existing operations.
Stringent PRIORITIES This disciplined approach enables us to due diligence, before and after acquisition, is negotiate sensible purchase prices and terms, undertaken at both Group and business level so generating good returns for the Group.
enabling us to set clear targets for growth, integration benets and profit.
Our values and key processes are communicated and Priorities 2011: Acquisitions implemented right from the start of integration into the Group.
A dedicated project team Continue to encourage businesses to identify manages the transition bringing financial suitable acquisitions procedures, information and communications Select acquisitions that complement or grow technology ICT, HR, legal, compliance and our business offering marketing quickly into line with our standards.
Identify acquisitions that take us into new Acquiring only small to medium sized markets businesses enables us to integrate them into our Maintain rigorous criteria for selecting targets existing business infrastructure efficiently and allows us to generate value faster.
Maintain stringent disciplines regarding pricing Continue to enhance integration process.
