Business review Governance Accounts Generating profitable growth The Capita Group Plc 17 Securing appropriate pricing Maintaining a strong and contract terms competitive position Our major contracts are long term We have consistently led and helped shape the commitments.
It is therefore essential to get market by developing our outsourcing offering.
our pricing and contract terms correct from We maintain open and honest discussions with the start, to deliver value to both the Group our clients, which allow us to develop a detailed and our clients.
understanding of their business and challenges.
To ensure prudent pricing, we clearly separate We respond to clients specified requirements responsibilities: but always seek to propose alternative service models that deliver even greater value to our sales teams: client relationships clients' operations and further enhance sales support teams: pricing and risk models effectiveness and competitiveness.
Group Board: solution and pricing approval Our clients are highly selective.
they seek outsourcing partners who have not We undertake extensive due diligence to build just the expertise and capacity to support them 2011 detailed service, risk and pricing models.
We but also the financial strength and stability PRIORITIES often share these openly with our prospective essential to building a long term partnership.
clients to ensure that all our assumptions for We, too, must be selective and we undertake delivering successfully on the project are robust detailed due diligence of potential clients.
and that the benets generated to both parties Our knowledge and skill base and extensive are fully understood.
operational and technical infrastructure Our contract price is generally made up of a positions us strongly.
We have a detailed Priorities 2011: Organic growth base cost that covers the transformation and knowledge of our market: and our management normal running costs of the service.
Where Identify and employ talented sales individuals team is highly accessible and swift to respond demand on the service infrastructure uctuates, to expand our sales teams to our clients needs.
Our excellent track record the pricing will include a variable volumeof service delivery ensures a strong set of Continue to focus on converting opportunities related element.
All contracts include a related satisfied clients.
in the record bid pipeline basket of indices that reect the cost elements Identify quality new business opportunities to of the service such as wage ination indices, replenish and maintain a buoyant bid pipeline CPI and RPI.
Our low Group overhead costs help to provide additional competitive Continue addressing opportunities selectively advantage and enable us to generate reasonable Continue to explore new market segments margins for the Group.
where we can add value, such as health, Our track record in pricing contracts correctly defence and police enables us to offer clients sensible and realistic Maintain bid process disciplines to secure proposals while robustly managing and appropriate pricing and contract terms Find out how we are implementing mitigating risk.
Once agreed, the terms of our Maintain focus on retaining and expanding exible and mobile working platforms.
This means we have a good existing contracts.
Go to pages 30 and 31. view of stable, long term contracted revenues.
