Business review Governance Accounts Controlling and measuring growth The Capita Group Plc 39 Principal risk categories, potential impacts and examples of mitigations: Key risk categories Potential impacts Mitigating activities include: Adverse effect on financial performance and brand reputation.
Financial performance of each Business Unit is monitored monthly Financial Capital expenditure is subject to rigorous monitoring and budgetary controls.
Disruption to supply chain, reputation risk and financial loss.
Rigorous risk-based due diligence processes for the selection of key delegates and wider counterparties monitoring.
Delegates and counterparty failure Failure to meet contractual Service Level Agreements Risk committees and Board escalation of risks issues Operational risks Financial penalties MOB process escalation Potential loss of contracts Operating performance indicators in place Brand reputation impacted.
Business resilience arrangements in place Risk-based independent assurance Centralised proactive and reactive PR team provides full issues management communications support.
Planned synergies not achieved Rigorous risk-based due diligence Acquisitions and new contracts Adverse impact on financial growth and performance Black Hat process: Financial penalties.
Fit with strategy and pricing is subject to review and approval by the Board Appropriate contractual terms to ensure fair risk reward prole Robust integration and transition process.
Weaker economic conditions are a key driver for outsourcing Focus on 9 diverse public and private sector markets Economic conditions However, extreme economic uncertainty can result in a delay in buying Focus on widening scope of existing contracts to help clients save money decisions and lower discretionary spend across some market segments.
Supply of services that support essential client functions rather than discretionary activities Initiatives to increase the efficiency of Group operations.
Lack of appropriate resources may lead to inability to develop and Training and development Attract and retain staff execute Business Plans Continual development through objective setting and appraisals Poor staff morale Competitive incentive and bonus plans Competitive disadvantage.
Succession planning Comprehensive vetting process in line with roles.
Contractual and regulatory penalties Robust information security framework, including policies and processes Loss of sensitive or condential data Adverse media comment and reputation impact on brand.
Escalation to Risk committees and subsidiary boards Training and monitoring programme across businesses Sharing of best practice and issues through cross-Group forums Regular monitoring through risk-based audits and follow-up of actions Centralised proactive and reactive in-house PR team.
Potential for civil and criminal penalties for business and or Appropriate policies and procedures Fraud, bribery and corruption Senior Ofcers Anti corruption culture and a zero tolerance approach with a robust disciplinary process Media comment and reputation impact Risk assessments of vulnerabilities Prohibition from bidding for public sector contracts in EU.
Monitoring and audit Centralised proactive and reactive in-house PR team.
Non-compliance with FSA and other key regulatory Appropriate policies and procedures Financial services regulation requirements Monitoring by Compliance function Financial and contractual penalties Escalation of risks to Risk committees and subsidiary boards Adverse impact on reputation.
Risk-based assurance and actions for improvement Independent reporting to Audit Committees.
Non-compliance with health and safety regulations Rigorously applied health and safety policy and processes Health and safety Adverse impact on wellbeing of our employees.
Health and safety training Health and safety audits undertaken twice a year.
As a low impact company our key environmental impacts are energy Raising awareness of environmental issues and Group CR initiatives Environmental use, business travel, resource use and waste management which we Continue to measure and manage our carbon footprint and achieve energy reductions manage proactively.
Environmental management system in place Environmental site audits carried out twice a year Reduction of paper use and increase in recycling.
