Business review Governance Accounts Delivering business responsibly The Capita Group Plc 46 Our culture Recognising and rewarding 4.3 performance Over 70% of our employees have transferred Managing, motivating and into Capita from their previous employers, We motivate our employees by recognising and supporting our employees who outsource activities to Capita, or through rewarding their individual performance both acquisitions.
Successfully managing large-scale nancially, through competitive remuneration Aim: Our people are critical to our success.
employee transfers is one of our strengths and packages, and through our Capita People To be a sustainable business we need to build a our experienced HR integration team consult Awards scheme.
These awards celebrate those diverse workforce with the right skills so that we with all potential transferees throughout employees who have demonstrated can meet the needs of our business as it grows the whole process, providing support and commitment to our values.
and continue to deliver high quality services to information about our business and culture.
We also offer our employees the opportunity We have a clear set of values which are to share in Capitas success through joining embedded across our business and we How we manage our people our sharesave and share ownership schemes.
work hard to establish and maintain a We have a number of Group-wide policies In 2010, the schemes had 5,536 participants, Group-wide culture.
which focus on particular areas including with 17.47% of our eligible employees equality and diversity, and health and safety.
Engaging our people We also have an ethical code of business We use a range of communication tools, Employee safety and wellbeing conduct and statement of business principles.
encouraging open, two-way communication All our policies comply with or exceed the legal We are committed to providing a safe through formal and informal channels.
We also and regulatory requirements of the countries in working environment for our employees and conduct an annual employee survey, allowing which we operate.
We have detailed training us to identify where we are performing well, procedures and programmes in place to and areas which need improvement.
In our proactively identify and manage any risks to our 2010 survey the areas in which our employees people.
If an employee is working in a high risk thought we excelled were: supporting their new area a lone eld worker for example then ideas for improving services, ensuring they felt additional training is provided.
We have a good valued and respected by their colleagues and health and safety record and have achieved a our open door approach.
The areas where we 38% reduction in reportable accidents based needed to explore further and address were: on our 2004 baseline.
In 2010, our RIDDOR to encourage more cross-working between accident rate was 1.43 per 1,000 employees the individual businesses within Capita, and 2009: 1.65. ensuring that managers keep employees In addition to ensuring that our employees are up-to-date with developments within safe at work their wellbeing is also of great their business.
importance and we have health advice in place on our intranet for both employees and managers.
We recognise that by improving Learn how we designed quick and easy to wellbeing in the workplace this can help our use application forms.
Go to pages 52 and 53. people full their potential and lead to a reduction in absenteeism.
