Business review Governance Accounts The Capita Group Plc 30 Harrow Council strategic partnership A better deal for residents The challenge Harrow Council wanted to change the way its frontline staff deliver council services to residents, radically improving the residents experience.
At the same time it wanted to save as much as possible on back ofce functions and procurement.
Our approach In partnership with the Council we developed a borough-wide transformation programme.
This was underpinned by a robust IT platform that enabled us to drive improvements to the Councils systems and improve services for residents.
The result We have already delivered the 45m worth of savings we guaranteed on a gain-share basis.
Ground-breaking transformation projects currently in hand will realise another 25m of savings over 10 years, and further projects awaiting approval could deliver a further saving of 25m.
Business review Governance Accounts The Capita Group Plc 31 2 3 Improving Implementing information sharing exible and mobile working platforms A new streamlined IT infrastructure supports information sharing and a 1 We are introducing a exible, proven move to mobile and exible working.
workforce infrastructure that Getting the IT in place encourages a culture of part-time, exi-time and home working, and will We implemented SAP ERP, CRM, save over 500 desk spaces.
This more EDRMS, GPS Mobile Working, CCPH tailored approach will put council customer care platform, RFID Radio employees in a better position to Frequency Identication and Business support the community.
Warehouse management reporting across the Council.
500 desk spaces saved Savings of 3.1m over 10 years 5 Delivering services efficiently and effectively We are delivering a whole raft of improved services including: 133% increase in online transactions 4 GPS-enabled waste management Self-service technology in libraries Harrow Clicks Better special needs transport Improving accessibility We transformed the Councils waste Introducing RFID technology in This is a campaign to let people know We developed an assessment and to services management by introducing new back Harrows libraries enabled a new how many services they can access independent travel centre to offer ofce systems, route planning, self-service system alongside stock online.
Dealing with a customer online improved services for people with Our Access to Services plan aims to GPS-enabled mobile working and real management benets for staff.
This costs just 17p compared to a special needs.
New route planning give people easy access to council time integration with the contact was underpinned by a library face-to-face cost of 7.73: in less than software has maximised the efficiency services through a mix of personal centre.
This new technology will save management system upgrade, a new a year Harrow Clicks delivered a 133% of bus routes and we renegotiated contact using the One Stop Shop 3.1m over 10 years.
online payment facility, a web redesign increase in online transactions, saving contract fleet hire rates to bring contact centre and vastly improved and integration with the Councils over 200,000 while enhancing further financial savings.
