Business review Governance Accounts The Capita Group Plc 52 Home Access programme Helping low income families get online The challenge In October 2009 we signed a contract with Becta to administer the Home Access programme a national initiative across England to help low-income families gain access to a computer and the internet at home.
The scheme went live in January 2010, aiming to reach 270,000 low-income households.
Many of the target audience were hard to reach and it was essential to make sure outreach was balanced and fair.
Our approach We designed and ran a fair, secure process for delivering grants and created an informed sales force to get the message across.
We devised attractive sales messaging and used exible marketing to generate a great deal of interest in a short time.
The result Over 258,000 families received the grant and now have access to the internet.
In addition, thousands of tailor-made Home Access packages with specially adapted equipment have been awarded to children with severe disabilities or special educational needs.
Business review Governance Accounts The Capita Group Plc 53 10,000 calls an hour generated after featuring on GMTV 1 2 Rapid set-up Demand generation In less than 3 months we designed We had to generate a lot of interest in and implemented a robust process for a limited time.
The primary audience administering the grants.
We set up a was hard to reach, and condentiality CRM system to manage the data and and statutory restrictions meant we worked closely with Barclaycard, who could not communicate via schools.
supplied pre-loaded credit cards, to Our strategy and messaging had to be Less than 3 months limit fraud and ensure that grants were highly targeted.
Alongside an extensive issued promptly.
We hired a sales media programme, we teamed up and support team with education with a wide range of organisations experience and, because we were including housing associations, local handling information on children and authorities and community groups Extensive media programme personal nances, implemented the to get the message out.
To ensure highest levels of security including CRB fair allocation of grants we used personnel checks.
government gures to tailor activity to the response from each region.
NEWS Having the computer Its cool because I can has given my son a real do my homework on it.
Shakeel Parvez aged 11 3 Marrissa Mullans Handling the response Service delivery had to be exible to deal with enormous swings in volumes caused by spikes of national media 4 coverage.
Call centre employees did not work to a rigid script, so had more Processing applications exibility to engage with callers.
Initial 5 We included clear guidance notes with eligibility checks were carried out over Family goes online the application forms, which took no the phone, so friendliness was key to longer than 15 minutes to complete.
Customer satisfaction Successful applicants received a Completed forms were scanned and with our call handling was extremely pre-loaded Barclaycard and a list of assessed, and applicants knew if they high 90% of people surveyed were approved suppliers from which they were successful within 3 weeks.
very satisfied Source: IPSOS MORI.
could buy their Home Access package.
We gave Barclaycard daily updates with details of eligible applicants so that grant cards were issued promptly, and we were informed when grants were redeemed.
