Business review Governance Accounts Maintaining performance across our divisions The Capita Group Plc 55 5.1 5.2 5.3 2010 divisional structure Alignment with An individual A exible divisional In 2010, the Group consisted of 5 operating Group strategy business focus operating structure divisions, plus a Group Sales and Marketing The divisional structure that forms the Group is With an objective of achieving continuous Our exible structure is regularly refreshed division.
Each operating division brings together straightforward and pragmatic.
The operating growth and strong performance, each business as the Group develops.
We move businesses, activities with similar operating models or client divisions and the businesses within them are undertakes appropriate strategies to achieve or contracts and managers across the divisions bases.
Each major contract is managed within aligned with and deliver the Groups overall maintain market leading positions.
to ensure the best match of leadership and the division which best meets its operational, objectives and strategy.
They all focus on resources as the Group grows.
The businesses Research and development initiatives underpin regulatory and management requirements.
securing strong, sustainable growth, both benefit from the powerful combination of the creation of products and services to meet To provide greater transparency we report organically and by acquiring complementary individual focus and the ability to reach out the current and future needs of clients.
financial progress in 2010 for 8 business businesses.
across the Group to share operational skills and Businesses adopt the most appropriate segments, splitting Insurance & Investor resources, benefit from economies of scale and The divisional structure supports an individual marketing and sales activities to address the Services into 2 segments and Integrated centralised procurement, create and deploy focus for each business, while providing ready characteristics of their individual marketplaces Services into 3 segments.
innovation, and harness the best of ICT and access to the Groups wider resources, expertise and, where appropriate, procure services 2011 divisional structure business processes.
Each business also Many of our contracts draw on expertise and To reect the Groups continued expansion maintains strict disciplines on cost control Business planning resources from across a number of Group in 2011, we have created a further business and seeks to streamline processes where Each business produces its own annual businesses.
We have established robust models segment and moved some operations appropriate.
business plan outlining specic strategies and of collaborative working with clear lines of across the divisional structure to maximise Recognition considerations and setting performance responsibility, consistent communication management focus and create smaller targets for the following year.
The business The success of our business and service focus is and reporting to offer a seamless approach more exible business units to fuel growth.
units financial plans feed into the Group acknowledged through the breadth and number to our clients.
These changes have also provided us with an financial model.
of industry awards and accreditations we attain.
opportunity to recognise and promote some We have also helped many of our clients of the exceptional talent we have within Capita.
The MOB review process ensures regular win awards through our role in delivering monitoring and reporting of performance Group-wide support services, such as finance, improvements in operations and services.
Some against targets and is an effective forum for legal and commercial, property management, examples of these awards are highlighted in this planning ahead, identifying opportunities and procurement, health and safety and section and a more comprehensive list can be successes, solving issues and sharing expertise environment and HR continue to report directly found at www.
See page 33. to Board Executive Directors to ensure robust control, consistent standards and shared benets across the Group.
