Business review Governance Accounts The Capita Group Plc 20 AXA Improving the customer experience Our objectives In June 2009 we began a 15-year contract with AXA worth 523m to administer 3.2 million life and pensions policies.
From day one our objectives were clear: improve the customer experience simplify and modernise the complex IT infrastructure and reduce the cost base of the business manage the declining book of business while retaining customers where possible.
Our approach We launched a transformation programme which involved consolidating existing UK contact centres and repatriating call centre work from our clients operations in India, a sustained employee communication and training programme, rationalising IT systems, and streamlining the clients back ofce processes.
In September 2010, most of the business we were administering was transferred to Friends Provident when the majority of AXA Sun Life was acquired by Resolution, which also owns Friends Provident.
The result Just over a year into the partnership we have already reached several key milestones.
A smooth transition was followed by the successful repatriation of call centre work from India to the UK.
The UK relocation programme was completed 8 months ahead of schedule and 100 new roles have been created in Craigforth.
The transformation programmes we have implemented will bring further efficiency and cost improvement over the next 12 months.
Business review Governance Accounts The Capita Group Plc 21 45 people on Modern Apprenticeship Schemes 1 2 Seamless transition People development Starting in June 2009, we transferred A sustained employee communication services from AXAs centres in Bristol, and training programme helped to Coventry, Basingstoke, Pune and integrate new staff into a serviceBangalore to Capita.
This involved oriented outsourcing environment.
transferring 1,150 people in the UK We offer employees significant and a further 550 in India with no training opportunities and disruption to customer service.
currently have 45 people on Modern Apprenticeship Schemes and others working towards Institute of Customer Service awards and financial services qualications.
5 Back ofce programme The key to our process improvement programme was Dolphin, our image and workow system.
Scanning and indexing with Dolphin allows a high 6,000 calls a day degree of automation and gives operational managers the tools and techniques to drive both efficiency and consistent service delivery in the UK and India.
We are now relocating residual back ofce processing from Basingstoke and Coventry to Bristol, 3 which will lead to further process Contact centre improvements.
Secure data centre programme When we signed the contract in 2009, some customer calls were being Process improvements handled by AXAs India-based operation.
Over 15 months we successfully repatriated customer and 4 IFA calls from Bangalore and Systems rationalisation consolidated existing UK contact centres in Bristol, Basingstoke and At first we used AXAs desktop and Coventry to our voice services Centre business applications to deliver of Excellence in Craigforth.
We have since connected AXAs IT to our own so that AXA and Friends Provident applications can be accessed from our systems.
