Business review Governance Accounts Generating profitable growth The Capita Group Plc 16 By delivering operational excellence and adding We continue to look for: Converting opportunities value for our clients and their customers, we clients with whom we can build a strong We manage procurements either centrally or achieve high client retention rates.
In our 27 years relationship and deliver real benets at business level, depending on the size and of operation we have only failed to renew 3 of complexity of the opportunity.
Our major sales clients whose operations or services to be our material contracts dened as generating team pursues complex, long term contracts, outsourced are primarily UK based or where more than 1% of the previous years revenue.
usually valued in excess of 50m.
It can draw our delivery models can be effectively Over the next 5 years to 31 December 2015 we on the resources of the whole Group to tailor replicated internationally only have 2 rebids of our material contracts and solutions to each clients requirements.
a dened bid process with clear decision these are both due in 2012.
Sales teams in each business unit of each criteria We aim not just to keep our relationships, but division pursue smaller or less complex t with our core competencies in service also where possible to grow them through contracts, usually focused on a single service.
transformation supporting further areas of our clients Where these are worth over 10m, the major operations.
For example, our partnership with a fair risk reward balance sales team may provide extra support.
Birmingham City Council was established in limited requirement for capital investment, 2006 and commenced with an initial ICT Retaining and expanding contracts unless there is a real value proposition for transformation programme designed to provide the Group As well as securing new business from new a stable platform for further business clients, we work to renew or expand existing acceptable contractual obligations.
We have now delivered a series client relationships.
If at any stage we feel that conditions have of business transformation projects helping the We agree detailed service standards and key shifted signicantly or that any of these criteria Council to transform services to meet the needs performance indicators to measure progress are no longer met, we will, after detailed of their citizens and deliver significant cost and improvements.
As a result, clients nd that consultation, withdraw from the process.
See our case study for further outsourcing gives them more control over will not take on excessive risk or output based information on how we have been delivering Capitas strong balance sheet and support operations, not less.
contracts which are reliant on external factors benets to the Council and the local cash ow reassure clients that Depending on the nature and the size of the that are out of our control.
It is essential for us community on pages 40 and 41. contract, we create appropriate governance and their service is in the hands of a to pursue only those contracts that can both client engagement structures to ensure that we meet the clients expectations and generate stable partner.
Our proven record are delivering to expectations.
On our largest reasonable returns for Capita.
of strong governance and ethical, contracts, strategic partnership boards help both parties understand each others requirements socially responsible behaviour is better and ensure that the partnership develops also a competitive strength.
to support any changing needs.
Together, these elements clearly differentiate us from competitors and are significant barriers to entry for new participants in all our markets.
Gordon Hurst Group Finance Director
