Business review Governance Accounts The Capita Group Plc 62 Board members Following on from the changes made to the Board at the end of 2009, the Board has continued to review and shape its composition during 2010.
Martin Bolland was appointed Chairman from 1 January 2010 and Paddy Doyle moved to become a Non-Executive Director from 1 March 2010.
In May we appointed Nigel Wilson as Senior Independent Director and in June appointed Paul Bowtell as Martin Bolland Paul Pindar Gordon Hurst an independent Non-Executive Director and Chairman of our Audit Committee.
Bill Grimsey stood down in July 2010 as a Non-Executive Director.
On 10 January 2011, we also announced the appointments of Vic Gysin and Andy Parker to the Board as Joint Chief Operating Ofcers.
Simon Pilling stood down as Chief Operating officer the same day.
We believe we have a talented and substantial team in place to support our continued growth.
Andy Parker Vic Gysin Maggi Bell Nigel Wilson Paddy Doyle Martina King Paul Bowtell Business review Governance Accounts Board members The Capita Group Plc 63 Martin Bolland Andy Parker Nigel Wilson Martina King Non-Executive Chairman, Age 54 Joint Chief Operating officer, Age 41 Senior Independent Director, Age 54 Non-Executive Director, Age 49 Joined the Board in March 2008 and became Joined Capita in 2001 and was appointed to Joined the Board in May 2010 and became Joined the Board in January 2005.
A Chartered the Board in January 2011.
Andy oversees the Senior Independent Director upon previously held a number of senior positions Accountant, Martin previously held a number of majority of Capitas non-financial services appointment.
Nigel is Group Chief Financial in marketing and online media, including senior operational positions within the Lonrho operations.
Prior to joining the Board he was the officer of Legal & General Group Plc, appointed Managing Director roles at Yahoo!
and Capital Group and was also a founder and partner of Divisional Director for Capitas ICT, Health and in September 2009.
Having held many senior Radio.
Her broad knowledge and extensive Alchemy Partners for 11 years.
Martin continues Business Services Division.
Before this he held a management positions across varied sectors, experience of management and sales and to be a member of both Alchemys Investment number of senior finance director positions across including his roles as Chief Financial officer marketing brings a different range of expertise Committee and Monitoring Board.
He is also the Group including 3 years as a Senior Divisional and Deputy Chief Executive of United Business to the Board and is of value in our continued currently Chairman of QHotels Group Limited Finance Director.
Andy is a Chartered Accountant Media plc.
Nigels extensive financial and growth.
Martina is also a Non-Executive and RecyCoal Holdings Limited.
and has extensive commercial and financial commercial experience further strengthens the Director of Johnston Press plc, IMD PLC experience.
Andy has joint Board responsibility Board.
Nigel is also Senior Independent Director and Debenhams Plc.
Committee memberships: for clients and employees with Vic Gysin.
Nomination Committee Chairman Committee memberships: Committee memberships: Remuneration Committee Chair Vic Gysin Paul Pindar Nomination Committee Audit Committee Joint Chief Operating officer, Age 45 Chief Executive, Age 51 Remuneration Committee Nomination Committee Joined Capita in 2002 and was appointed to the Joined Capita in 1987 from 3i, after advising Audit Committee Board in January 2011.
Vic oversees Capitas Paul Bowtell Capita on its management buy-out.
He became financial services operations and the Integrated Paddy Doyle Chief Executive in 1999.
A Chartered Non-Executive Director, Age 42 Services Division.
Prior to joining the Board he Accountant, Paul is responsible for managing Non-Executive Director, Age 60 Joined the Board in June 2010.
Paul was on the was Divisional Director for Capitas Insurance and developing Capitas business to achieve the Joined Capita in 1992 and was appointed to the Board of Tui Travel PLC from June 2007 until and Investor Services Division.
Before this he Companys strategic objectives, and has overall Board in 1994.
As Group Operations Director December 2010 as Chief Financial officer and headed up the Integrated Services Division, responsibility for our charitable approach.
Paul he was responsible for the ongoing operational was on the Board of First Choice Holidays PLC.
containing many of Capitas major central is also Chair of the Great Ormond Street management of the Groups business units.
He is a Chartered Accountant and has extensive government contracts.
Since joining Capita he Hospitals Corporate Partnerships Board.
He From August 2006 to the end of July 2008 experience across the UK retail sector.
He brings has overseen the successful implementation was also Senior Independent Director at he was Joint Chief Operating officer before significant financial and commercial knowledge and delivery of a number of our key contracts.
Debenhams Plc until 30 April 2010. moving to a part-time Executive position.
He is also a Non-Executive Vic is an experienced business director with He became a Non-Executive Director from Director and Chairman of the Audit Committee Gordon Hurst strong leadership and management skills.
Paddy has been instrumental at SThree PLC.
Vic has joint Board responsibility for clients Group Finance Director, Age 49 to Capitas success and his insight and guidance Committee memberships: and employees with Andy Parker.
Joined Capita in 1988 and was first appointed continue to provide a valuable contribution Audit Committee Chairman to the Board as Commercial Director in to the Board.
Remuneration Committee Maggi Bell February 1995 and then as Group Finance Committee memberships: Nomination Committee Business Development Director, Age 55 Director in 1996.
A Chartered Accountant, he is Nomination Committee from 1 March 2010 Joined Capita in January 1999 and was appointed also Company Secretary.
He has Board to the Board in August 2008.
Maggi has held responsibility for our overall corporate Simon Pilling various positions across Capita, including running responsibility policy and specic responsibility Served on the Board from August 2006 until our recruitment businesses and leading the for our environment, health and safety January 2011 as Joint Chief Operating officer Business Services and Corporate Services approach and supplier relationships.
He chairs and then sole Chief Operating officer from Divisions, and has been head of the Group Sales the Business Services Associations Finance and August 2008.
After 11 years service, he stepped & Marketing Division since January 2005.
down from the Board and left the Group in responsible for driving forward business January 2011.
We wish him well in his future development across the Group, including career.
managing our Major Sales Team, and has Board responsibility for community engagement.
