Business review Governance Accounts The Capita Group Plc 01 Whats in the report 0160 Business review 02 A snapshot of our business A brief look at how Capita leads the business process outsourcing market in the UK, the benets we deliver to clients and their customers and how this allows us to create value for all our stakeholders.
07 Our principal KPIs A look at progress against our principal financial and non-financial KPIs and and performance how the Group has performed in 2010.
11 Our business model Paul Pindar, Chief Executive, introduces Capitas straightforward business goal and comprehensive strategy.
Our objective is to continue developing Capita as a long term, sustainable business that consistently performs, delivering value to all our stakeholders.
To achieve our objective we have a business model that focuses on 5 core elements: 1.
Generating profitable growth both organically and through acquisitions.
We secure long term, recurring revenues from new and existing clients and acquire small to medium sized businesses to expand our capability and take us into new areas.
Targeting growth markets for BPO and professional support services in the UK, Europe and Ireland.
We seek opportunities across our 9 chosen public and private sector markets where we can both deliver value to clients and make a fair return for Capita.
Controlling and measuring growth through strong leadership and business practices.
With good financial controls, careful risk management and effective governance, we work to clear financial KPI targets within a robust management and operating structure.
Delivering business responsibly to meet the needs of all our stakeholders.
We manage our business, resources and environmental and social impacts with a clear set of non-financial KPIs, embedded policies and robust initiatives.
Maintaining performance across to meet the Groups overall objectives.
Managed within a straightforward, pragmatic divisional structure, our our divisions operations are aligned to our Group business goals and share Group resources and scale benets to consistently deliver efficient, quality services.
Go to page 54 6190 Governance 62 Board members Meet the Capita team.
64 Corporate governance and Martin Bolland, Non-Executive Chairman, outlines Capitas approach to good remuneration corporate governance and Martina King, Chair of the Remuneration Committee, introduces the Directors remuneration report.
91145 Accounts 92 Our accounts Financial statements, notes and Auditors reports.
145 Shareholder information Who to contact and how to reach them.
