Business review Governance Accounts Corporate governance report The Capita Group Plc 68 Board independence Board evaluation Non-Executive Directors are required to be independent in character During September and October 2010 an evaluation of the Board, the and judgement.
All relationships that may materially interfere with this Committees and the Directors of the Board was carried out by means judgement are disclosed as required under the conicts of interest policy of a focused questionnaire requiring direct comment from Directors, and there are none at this time.
The Board has determined that all the rather than just tick-box comments.
To ensure independence and Non-Executive Directors, except Paddy Doyle, who served during the objectivity, the questionnaire was conceived, administered and reviewed year were independent and, before and upon appointment as Chairman, on an entirely condential basis by Capita Company Secretarial Services.
Martin Bolland met the criteria of independence as outlined in the The resultant report, analysing responses and drawing anonymous Combined Code.
The Board all support the value and continuity Paddy conclusions, was sent to each Director for consideration at the October brings to the Board.
Board meeting, and also reviewed in person with the Chairman.
The Board is also satisfied that there are no compromises to the The report recognised the robustness of the governance process within independence of the Non-Executives and also no conicts of interest the Board, and the strength of the dynamic that exists between strategic for any Director.
This item is a standing agenda item.
challenge and strategic focus amongst Executive and Non-Executive Directors.
Board Directors inductions and training It was noted that the Board was evolving its membership to cope with the We appointed 2 Non-Executive Directors in 2010 and 2 Executive increasingly broad requirements of the Capita portfolio of companies, and Directors in January 2011.
All Directors are encouraged to meet and be a number of recommendations were made with regard to the visibility of briefed on the roles of key people across the Group and have open access alignment of Risk and Strategy, as is now detailed in the 2010 UK to all business areas and employees to build up an appropriate level of Corporate Governance Code.
knowledge of the business, beyond formal papers and presentations to the Board.
All Directors have received an appropriate induction for their roles Company Secretary within Capita.
These have included: All Board members have access to independent advice on any matters Terms of Reference for all Committees and Matters Reserved for relating to their responsibilities as Directors and as members of the various the Board committees of the Board at the Groups expense.
Overviews of the business via Monthly Operating Board MOB reports The Company Secretary, Gordon Hurst, who is also the Group Finance Director, is available to all Directors and he is responsible for ensuring that Approach to Risk Management.
all Board procedures are complied with.
As with the Board composition Following Martin Bollands appointment as Chairman he undertook to and ongoing requirements, this is regularly reviewed.
refresh his knowledge and received detailed training on his role as Chairman.
The duties of the Company Secretary continue to grow with the increase This included information on the role as detailed within the Combined Code in size and diversity of the area within the business and also legislatively.
and also the requirements of the UK Corporate Governance Code June 2010.
Paul Bowtell has also received specic training for his role as To assist with this area, the Deputy Company Secretary coordinates and Chairman of the Audit Committee, which included the FRC Guidance manages the provision of company secretarial services to the Group on on Audit Committees which was published in December 2010. behalf of Gordon Hurst.
The Deputy Company Secretary has direct access and responsibility to the Chairman of the standing committees and open Following the appointment of Vic Gysin and Andy Parker to the Board access to all the Directors.
The Deputy Company Secretary has been in January 2011, training was given in respect of their roles and appointed as Secretary to the Audit, Remuneration and Nomination responsibilities as Executive Directors.
Committees to ensure that there are no conicts of interest.
During the year training was also given to the Executive Directors on the The Board continues to keep the Company Secretary role under review, requirements of the various corporate governance codes, with specic but feels that the combination of the roles continues to work well for the training held on making market announcements.
Ongoing training and business as a whole.
briengs are also given to all Directors, including external courses as required.
