Business review Governance Accounts Delivering business responsibly The Capita Group Plc 45 Business centre network Europe Protecting our clients We are also creating a new service delivery Managing our clients services responsibly Clients capability in Continental Europe.
A number of means adhering to all legal requirements our existing clients who have an international regarding data protection and information presence, especially across life and pensions and security.
This ensures that we protect and the wider financial services sector, are exploring maintain our reputation and that of our clients.
the opportunity to replicate their successful We have robust policies and procedures in UK arrangement with us in other European place to govern data security, providing our territories.
In addition, we have in recent employees with user guidance and online months established contact with a number training.
It is mandatory for all Capita of prospective new clients in Europe who are employees to complete information security, exploring the benets of outsourcing their data protection and fraud awareness training operations.
The training is regularly reviewed Business Business Business centres To embrace these opportunities requires and updated and those employees working in centres centres Capita to provide both back ofce and sensitive work areas receive specic, detailed customer engagement services in a number of training related to the specic client processes different core European languages.
In order to they are working on.
Onshore Nearshore Offshore ensure that we are well positioned to respond UK Ireland, Channel Islands, Europe India Each division of Capita has clear incident to this demand, we are establishing a multiprocedures for identifying, investigating, lingual shared services business centre in reporting and rectifying any security breaches What we do What we do Krakow, Poland, and plan to make this fully What we do that may occur.
Core client marketplace Additional tax jurisdictions to Quality, cost effective operational from early 2012.
The centre will Our employee vetting policy applies to all support clients products offshore service delivery support these existing clients and new clients employees, including contractors and as demand grows.
What we provide What we provide What we provide Back ofce administration Customer services Data validation and entry Customer services Life and pensions administration Claims and policy administration Life and pensions Financial services Fund management administration IT and software Corporate registrars Accounting and finance processing Resourcing and training Loan administration Payroll processing and HR services Share registration Property consultancy Property consultancy IT services Electronic document processing Consultancy and knowledge services Claims and policy administration HR administration
