Business review Governance Accounts The Capita Group Plc 40 Service Birmingham Productive employees supporting communities at lower cost The challenge Provide world-class information and communications technology ICT as part of our long term partnership to help drive service transformation across Birmingham City Council improving services, cutting costs, increasing employee motivation and benefiting citizens in the local community.
Our approach Our core contract focuses on ICT and we have used our success in this area to build a rm platform from which to transform the Councils business processes.
This in turn has delivered significant cost savings to the Council while helping to improve services for citizens.
Result Our business transformation programme has successfully delivered new capabilities enabling Birmingham City Council to realise over 156m of cashable savings so far.
In November 2010 the Council agreed to expand our contract and extend it by five years generating a further 135m in gross savings by March 2021. Business review Governance Accounts The Capita Group Plc 41 Increased customer satisfaction 4 Email speed up 500% Transforming services 3 We have delivered new capabilities, while improving systems and giving Improving Birmingham employees the tools to do their jobs Investors in Excellence Standard City Council customer more effectively and efficiently.
communication We have supported the City Council in moving 3,000 employees into In 2010 we took full responsibility for refurbished buildings, establishing 1 day-to-day delivery of the Councils a more productive working Building a platform contact centre services.
We recruited environment and reducing property 2 176 new agents to handle more costs by 2.8m in 2010 11 alone.
for change than 2 million customer contacts a Motivating employees year.
Productivity and call handling We have increased the efficiency of To date, Service Birmingham has Staff motivation is critical to our quality have improved and customer the Councils employee management invested some 50m in staff strategy and weve invested 4.5m in satisfaction levels have increased.
We systems and migrated payroll to a training, network upgrades, server staff training and development since have also given citizens better access new SAP system for some 35,000 replacements, hardware and software.
Our progress was to council services through the employees.
By implementing SAP As a result, email speed is up 500%, recognised recently when we achieved Councils award-winning Customer manager and employee self-service, trafc has grown 30% and 94% of Investors in Excellence re-accreditation First programme, which is getting weve enabled online performance council employees surveyed are and retained the ISO 20000 Service more queries resolved on first contact.
and development reviews for 93% satisfied with the ICT support Management standard.
we have achieved great success with We have increased the efficiency an apprenticeship scheme for young of information retrieval to support people from Birmingham schools more efficient social care by deploying who were considered to be an eRecords solution in the Adults and underachieving, and we currently have Communities Directorate.
6 Supporting the Increased efficiency local community The staff benefit scheme receives 5% of Service Birmingham profits.
Run by 7 staff representatives, it invests in schemes that support team-based community activities.
To date it has given 1.6m to local projects.
We also run a scheme to help the long 1.6m donated term unemployed back into work.
We currently employ 22 homeworkers 5 including lone parents, people with Creating jobs disabilities and carers.
We comfortably beat our target of creating 520 jobs by March 2011.
In fact, we have created 600 since 2006 a mixture of professional 600 jobs created administrative, technical and clerical roles and a significant boost to the local economy.
