Business review Governance Accounts Generating profitable growth The Capita Group Plc 19 Timeline 2010 Heath and medical services Secure information services Property consultancy February Premier Medical Group SunGard Public Sector Ltd Inventures Inventures Value: 60m Value: 86m Value: 6.8m NB Real Estate 5m deferred consideration Leading provider of medical reporting and A supplier of ICT, radio network services screening in UK.
and communication systems to the Provider of programme and project emergency services and to central and management, property and estate Benets to Capita local government.
management, healthcare planning and Adds new capability to our existing March facilities management advice to the NHS occupational health business and expands Benets to Capita and other public sector bodies across the UK.
Ross & Roberts our footprint in the health market.
Brings new market opportunities particularly in the area of ICT solutions and Benets to Capita Ramesys outsourced services to re, police and Enables Capita Symonds to access a wider Heath and medical services ambulance authorities.
range of clients and provide a unique full service proposition across health and the iSoft Business Solutions wider public sector.
IT services April Value: 23m Ramesys A leading provider of financial accounting Property consultancy Sureterm Direct and purchasing software to the public sector.
Value: 15m NB Real Estate PAL Services Benets to Capita A provider of integrated ICT solutions to New products to expand our range of Value: 10m the education and commercial sector.
Acquisitions in 2010 services and capabilities.
10m deferred consideration Benets to Capita Commercial property management Adds further scale and expertise to our June Total spend: specialists.
Heath and medical services Premier Medical Group Benets to Capita FirstAssist Services Holdings Ltd Adds further services, clients and expertise Insurance to Capita Symonds and allows us to offer a Value: 12.5m National Dental Plan full service proposition across the real estate A provider of telephone advice and life cycle.
301m assistance services to customers and Value: 30m employees of public and private sector One of the largest providers of corporate August Debt management organisations.
on 12 acquisitions dental plans in the UK.
National Dental Plan Benets to Capita Ross & Roberts Benets to Capita Adds further depth and breadth of expertise Extends our range of tailored insurance Value: 5m to our existing services for the health and services, including employee benets workforce management market.
Debt management company serving over schemes, to both public and private sectors.
Benets to Capita Insurance Travel administration September Extends our relationships with local Sureterm Direct BSI Holdings Ltd FirstAssist Services authorities.
Holdings Ltd Value: 8m Value: 42.5m Financial services 1.5m deferred consideration A hotel booking and meetings management agency with clients in both the public and Personal lines broker offering insurance for PAL Services private sector.
Value: 1.9m December Benets to Capita Benets to Capita 1.3m deferred consideration Adds significant new accommodation Allows us to align our classic car insurance iSoft Business Solutions Based in Luxembourg.
Provider of a range and meetings management capabilities businesses increasing the efficiency of our of corporate services to an international to existing operations.
BSI Holdings Ltd client base.
SunGard Public Sector Ltd Benets to Capita Complements our existing Luxembourg operations Capita Fiduciary S. A. part of Capita Fiduciary Group.
