RIT CAPITAL PARTNERS PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2010 BOARD OF DIRECTORS 24 EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS Lord Rothschild, OM GBE Lord Rothschild has chaired the Board of Directors of the Company since its inception in its present form in 1988.
He also serves as Chairman of the Nominations Committee.
Having left NM Rothschild & Sons in 1980, he co-founded companies in money management, insurance and investment, including Global Asset Management and St Jamess Place Capital plc.
He served as Deputy Chairman of BSkyB Plc for five years, from 2003.
He serves on the International Advisory Board of Blackstone plc and on three family office Advisory Boards as well as chairing his own familys office.
In addition to his career in finance he has been involved in public service including the arts, heritage and philanthropy having chaired The National Gallery, The National Heritage Memorial Fund and The Heritage Lottery Fund.
Mikael Breuer-Weil Mr. Breuer-Weil was appointed as Investment Director of the Company in 2008 having been a nonexecutive Director since 1998.
Since 1994 he has been the principal investment adviser to philanthropic foundations connected with Lord Rothschilds family interests.
Prior to this, he spent eight years at Mercury Asset Management Group plc as an investment manager, including a period of secondment to Odyssey Partners L. P. in New York.
Duncan Budge Mr. Budge was appointed an executive Director and Chief Operating Officer of the Company in 1995.
He has been a director of J. Rothschild Capital Management Limited, a wholly-owned subsidiary of RIT Capital Partners plc, since 1988 and has represented the Company on the boards of a number of its investments.
Prior to this, he spent six years with Lazard Brothers & Co Ltd. NON-EXECUTIVE DIRECTOR NON-INDEPENDENT Nathaniel Rothschild Mr. Rothschild was appointed as a non-executive Director in 2004.
He has co-founded and led companies in the fields of money management and investment, and currently serves as Co-Chairman and CoFounder of Attara Capital LP the successor manager to the Atticus European Fund.
From 1996 to 2009, he held various leadership roles at Atticus Capital LP, most recently as Co-Chairman.
He is a non-executive director of Barrick Gold Corporation, the worlds largest gold company.
He is an advisory trustee of the Yad Hanadiv Foundation and a member of the Belfer Centers International Council at the John F. Kennedy School of Government at Harvard University and the International Advisory Council of the Brookings Institution.
NON-EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS INDEPENDENT Charles Bailey Mr. Bailey is a chartered accountant and was appointed a non-executive Director in 1988.
He is the Senior Independent Director and Chairman of the Remuneration, Conflicts and Valuation Committees, as well as a member of the Audit and Nominations Committees.
He is also a director of General Oriental Investments Limited and Antofagasta plc.
Mr. Bailey has advised the Company of his intention not to stand for reelection at the Companys Annual General Meeting on 22 July 2010.
John Cornish Mr. Cornish is a chartered accountant and was appointed a non-executive Director in January 2008.
He is Chairman of the Audit Committee and a member of the Remuneration, Conflicts and Valuation Committees.
Previously he was a partner at Deloitte LLP where he led the firms services to the investment trust industry for 15 years and currently he is Chairman of Framlington Innovative Growth Trust PLC and a director of Henderson EuroTrust plc, RCM Technology Trust PLC and Strategic Equity Capital plc.
John Elkann Mr. Elkann was appointed as a non-executive Director in March 2007.
He is Chairman of Fiat Group and Chairman of Exor SpA and Itedi publisher of La Stampa, and a director of RCS Mediagroup, Banca Leonardo and The Economist.
Mr. Elkann is a graduate of the Engineering University of Turin.
25 NON-EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS INDEPENDENT continued James Leigh-Pemberton Mr. Leigh-Pemberton was appointed as a non-executive Director in 2004.
He has worked at Credit Suisse since 1994, holding positions as Head of Equity Syndicate, Head of Equity Capital Markets and from 2001 to 2004, Head of European Investment Banking.
He is currently Chief Executive Officer of Credit Suisse, UK.
Mr. Leigh-Pemberton began his career at S. G. Warburg & Co, where he worked for fifteen years.
Michael Marks CBE Mr. Marks is the Chairman of NewSmith Capital Partners LLP, which he founded in 2003.
He was formerly Co-Head of the Global Equities business of Merrill Lynch, which he joined in 1995, and where he subsequently held positions as Chief Operating Officer of Merrill Lynch Europe, Middle East and Africa and was subsequently named Executive Chairman.
He was also Executive Vice President of Merrill Lynch & Co. Inc. Mr. Marks began his career at Smith Bros. in 1958, where he became a director in 1975 and Chief Executive of Smith New Court in 1987.
He was a non-executive director of Old Mutual plc from February 2004 to May 2007 and a non-executive director of London Stock Exchange plc until 2004.
He was appointed as a non-executive Director of RIT Capital Partners plc in 2004.
Sandra Robertson Ms. Robertson was appointed as a non-executive Director of RIT Capital Partners plc in 2008.
She is Chief Investment Officer of Oxford University Endowment Management.
Before her appointment at Oxford in 2007, she spent the previous 14 years at Wellcome Trust, where she became Co-Head of Portfolio Management.
PROPOSED NON-EXECUTIVE DIRECTOR INDEPENDENT Lord Douro Lord Douro will stand for election as a non-executive Director at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting.
He has broad experience in banking and finance, having served as Chairman of Sun Life and Provincial Holdings from 1995 to 2000 and of the Framlington Group from 1994 to 2005.
He is currently a director of Sanofi-Aventis, Pernod-Ricard and Abengoa Bio Energia, Chairman of Richemont Holdings UK Limited and is a senior advisor to the Credit Agricole Group.
He was a member of the European Parliament from 1979 to 1989.
COMMITTEE MEMBERSHIP AT 15 JUNE 2010 Audit Committee Nominations Committee John Cornish Chairman Lord Rothschild Chairman Charles Bailey Charles Bailey James Leigh-Pemberton James Leigh-Pemberton Michael Marks Conflicts Committee Valuation Committee Charles Bailey Chairman Charles Bailey Chairman John Cornish Duncan Budge James Leigh-Pemberton John Cornish Michael Marks Sandra Robertson Remuneration Committee Charles Bailey Chairman John Cornish James Leigh-Pemberton Michael Marks
