Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance plc and UK Subsidiaries Returns under the Accounts and Statements Rules Notes to the Return Financial year ended 31 December 2010 Singapore 262 Consequential loss Singapore 263 Contractors or engineering all risks Singapore 271 Employers liability Singapore 272 Professional indemnity Singapore 273 Public and products liability Singapore 341 Marine liability Singapore 342 Marine hull Singapore 345 Freight demurrage and defence Singapore 347 Yacht Spain 261 Commercial property Spain 263 Contractors or engineering all risks Spain 273 Public and products liability Spain 342 Marine hull Spain 350 Total primary direct and facultative goods in transit 20Al Differences in gross unearned premium at the end of the financial year There are differences in the total provision for gross unearned premium at the end of the financial year represented in Form 20A and Form 15.
This has arisen due to foreign currency revenue items being translated into sterling using the cumulative average rate for the financial year and foreign currency balance sheet items being translated using year end rates.
2005 Other technical income or charges The amount shown for the other technical income and charges relates to Engineering Inspection income which is ancillary to the provision of Engineering insurance cover, and Risk Consultancy service income.
2007 Material connected-party transactions A number of reinsurance contracts are in place between the companies listed on page 144.
No individual contract is material and all are entered into on an arms length basis.
RSAI has contracts with other RSA Insurance Group Companies for which movements during the year represent the claims run off experience.
In 2003 RSAI wrote an Adverse Development Cover ADC contract with its former US subsidiary Royal Indemnity Company.
As part of the disposal of the US operation, and as publicly disclosed in 2006, the original contract was amended and restated.
The liabilities arising under the ADC contract comprise an insurance component and a deposit component.
The liability arising under the insurance component of 0.1bn represents the timing risk on the settlement of those liabilities.
The financial liability arising under the deposit component is offset by the value of funds held in a trust fund whose trust deed only permits the trust fund assets to be used to settle amounts due under the ADC.
The value of the funds held in trust at 31 December 2010 is 0.3bn and the value of the liability of the deposit component is 0.3bn.
2012 Submission of consolidated returns The FSA issued a direction in February 2008, under section 148 of the Act.
That direction requires Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance plc RSAI, when it prepares and submits a consolidated return, to apply the Accounts and Statement rules so that, or as if, the general insurance business reinsured from PA GI Ltd previously known as Phoenix Assurance plc to RSAI, or any of the firms included in this report, is treated as direct insurance business effected by the relevant reinsurer.
