Sustainability Ulster Bank extends MoneySense Building on its commitment to widen access to financial education, Ulster Bank launched its own MoneySense for Single Parents Guide in 2010.
This was produced with OPEN in the Republic of Ireland and Gingerbread in Northern Ireland.
This is the first in a set of financial life guides designed to give more practical support based on peoples specific circumstances.
Our five key themes How others have judged us Every year independent, external bodies judge our performance and compare us with our peers.
Fair banking We are committed to treating our customers to the highest of standards, We received the AA1000 2008 reporting and assurance accreditation for and being transparent about the products and services they can expect our 2008 and 2009 annual Sustainability Reports.
We were also short-listed from us.
This theme covers: responsible lending practices, customer for the ICSA Hermes award for best sustainability and stakeholder service including dealing with customer complaints, access to financial disclosure for the Sustainability Report 2009. services, and financial education.
We have participated in the Carbon Disclosure Project since its inception and in 2010 received the joint highest score for financial services globally, scoring 93 and an A rating for performance, a significant Supporting enterprise improvement since 2009.
We were also included in the Dow Jones One of our main responsibilities is to provide tailored support to a broad Sustainability Index for the third year running, scoring 75%, and in the range of businesses.
There are a number of ways that we demonstrate FTSE4Good index.
our commitment to enterprises: from lending to small and medium enterprises SMEs, to funding microfinance institutions in India, to Newsweek magazine placed us 27th in their recent Green Rankings making finance available to social enterprises and facilitating youth where three environmental research organisations ranked the worlds enterprise through working with partners 100 biggest listed companies across a number of environmental issues.
Employee engagement Our community programmes Our employees are the core of our organisation and it is very important that we treat them fairly and responsibly.
It has been a difficult year for some of them as we continue to restructure the Group.
So its vital that as We recognise our responsibility to play an active role in the communities we build the new RBS we support our people throughout these changes we serve.
This begins with providing the services our customers want, by involving and listening to them as much as possible.
and operating in a sustainable way.
We then go further through our community programmes, which allow us to make more of a difference in areas that we can have an impact.
Our efforts centre on our MoneySense, Supporting Enterprise, and Employee and Community Safety and security Engagement programmes.
Protecting the security of our customers money and data is a fundamental responsibility of the Group.
We have continued to invest MoneySense heavily in the prevention of financial crime.
This theme also includes how The aim of our MoneySense programme is to increase financial we safeguard the safety, health and wellbeing of our employees.
education, capability and inclusion, which is part of our wider commitment to Fair Banking.
Citizenship and environmental sustainability We continued to invest in our Group MoneySense programmes in 2010.
As a global organisation we have to manage our broader economic, We improved and expanded our MoneySense for Schools programmes by developing new online resources, holding teacher training days and social and environmental impacts.
This includes wider citizenship issues such as business and human rights and bribery and corruption as well completing the 3rd annual MoneySense Panel Research.
This research as environmental concerns.
We fully support the transition to the more revealed the attitudes towards money of over 10,000 12-19 year olds.
sustainable use of natural resources.
The 2nd annual RBS Personal Finance Education Awards for Schools recognised the 2010 achievements of primary and secondary schools.
