UK Retail UK Retail offers a comprehensive range of banking products and related financial services to the personal market.
It serves customers through the RBS and NatWest networks of branches and ATMs, and also through telephone and internet channels.
Brian Hartzer Chief Executive, UK Retail, Wealth and Ulster Bank Key business highlights For biographies M see pages 226-229 Operating profit recovered strongly Net interest income increased by 18% Non-interest income decreased by 11% Expenses decreased by 5% 2010 was another challenging year for our Impairment losses decreased by 31% Risk-weighted assets decreased by 5% customers and for UK Retail, against a backdrop of slow economic recovery, but our results reflect solid progress.
We are open for 2010 2009 business and we are here to help.
Customer Performance highlights m m lending is up and we are on course to achieve Net interest income 4,078 3,452 our 8 billion mortgage net lending target for the Non-interest income 1,327 1,495 period to February 2011.
Mortgage balances Total income 5,405 4,947 increased by 9% during the year.
At the same Expenses 2,873 3,039 time, our impairments are down substantially because of our commitment to responsible Operating profit before impairment losses 2,532 1,908 lending.
Customer deposits grew by 10%, faster Impairment losses 1,160 1,679 than the market average, and savings balances Operating profit 1,372 229 grew by 13%.
We have lowered our cost to Risk-weighted assets bn 48.8 51.3 serve by helping our customers understand and Return on equity 18.0% 3.0% make better use of direct channels, as well as Net interest margin 3.91% 3.59% addressing inefficiencies through the roll-out of Cost:income ratio 52% 60% Lean techniques in our branches.
Loan:deposit ratio 110% 115% Changing how we work so that we serve our customers better As part of our determination to become Britains most helpful bank, in 2010 we changed the way we work: we created a single Consumer Distribution business, reflecting the importance we place on delivering a great multi-channel experience to our customers: 10% 1,372m we reorganised our Retail Centre so its now better set up to support growth in customer operating profit the people serving our customers: and deposits we reshaped our Private Banking business so that we can meet better the needs of our affluent customers.
Listening to our customers and being clear about our commitments to them: our Customer Charter Our customer satisfaction already compares well with our competitors but we know we can do more.
In June, we launched our Customer Charter setting out our commitment to delivering helpful banking.
The views of more than 30,000 customers contributed to the Charter, Return on equity % Cost:income % Loan:deposit ratio % consisting of 14 long-term customer promises.
We are now working hard to deliver on the commitments we have made.
This won't happen 2010 18 52 110 overnight but our Customer Charter is our pledge that we will be held to 2013 15 c. 50 105 target account against the progress we make, publishing an independentlyassured report on our performance every six months.
22 RBS Group 2010 Divisional review UKRetail We have trained over 10,000 designated complaints handlers to ensure we are resolving customer complaints fairly, consistently and promptly.
We launched our Community Fund, providing 1.6 million of financial support to local charities and community projects nominated by our customers.
Listening is what a helpful bank does and we now have a programme in designated complaint handlers so that we can resolve customer place to ensure our staff, including our Executives, hear first hand about complaints more fairly and consistently and address the root causes of the needs and frustrations of our customers.
Through our Customer Charter we are also going one step Charter we will show clearly what were doing as a result of what our further by committing to be completely transparent about the top five customers tell us.
In 2010, we opened early morning and late evening customer complaints.
In addition, we open 846 branches on a Saturday because customers told us that would make life easier.
They Playing an active role in the communities we serve also told us to keep things simple so this year we have rewritten all our We know that playing an active role in supporting the communities where banking hall literature and improved our customer review process, we live and work is an important part of rebuilding our reputation.
We making it easier for customers to choose the right product for them.
We launched our Community Fund, providing 1.8 million worth of financial have also simplified our overdraft charging structure for customers who support to local charities and community projects nominated by our go overdrawn without agreement and introduced Act Now' pre-emptive customers.
In addition, all of our employees now have the option of a text and e-mail alerts.
days leave to get involved in local volunteering.
Our commitment to financial education remains as important as ever.
We delivered 30,653 While these are early days for the Charter, initial progress has been lessons in schools right across the country through our independently encouraging.
We asked Deloitte LLP to track our progress in the first six accredited MoneySense programme.
They told us that we achieved 80% of the goals during that time.
Committing to maintaining local banking services Highlights of their findings include: Many of our customers, particularly in Scotland, live in rural areas.
answering 91.4% of calls in under 60 seconds in our UK telephone Through our Customer Charter, we have made a firm commitment to banking call centres against a target of 90%: maintain local banking services in the communities we serve, pledging meeting a commitment to maintain local banking services where we to stay open if we are the last bank in town and continuing to run our are last bank in town, keeping 146 last bank branches open across mobile bank service.
We have also extended access to our accounts the country, against a target of 100: and through Post Office counters.
sending replacement cards within 24 hours to 97% of customers whose debit cards were lost or stolen, against a target of next Addressing the legacy of the past working day delivery.
In August 2010, we reached an early agreement on the sale of 318 branches to Santander UK Plc.
The sale was required as part of the Our goals are stretching and we still have work to do as we missed five State Aid agreement reached with the European Commission.
It provides of our 20 goals, including: greater clarity for our staff and customers and represents another against a goal of nine out of 10 customers being very satisfied with significant step forward in our restructuring for the future.
We expect the service, eight out of 10 were very satisfied: and process to be completed by the end of March 2012.
RBS Group remains against a target of simplifying and rewriting all our branch literature committed to the UK retail banking market and, even after the sale we in line with customer feedback, we managed to make available the will continue to operate the second largest retail branch network in the UK.
new literature from end of February 2011.
Striving to become Britains Most Helpful and Sustainable Bank We will strive to do better, but these first results are a good start and We expect 2011 to be another challenging year but we know that we will demonstrate our commitment to be a better bank for our customers.
succeed as a business by helping our customers through good times and bad.
Our commitment to becoming Britains most Helpful and Resolving customer complaints fairly, consistently and promptly Sustainable Bank is a long-term one and we are confident we are The treatment of complaints was a big focus for the industry in 2010. creating a new kind of retail bank.
We worked hard to get better at this.
We have trained over 10,000 RBS Group 2010 23
