Executive Committee The Executive Committee provides executive input to the Group Board, and monitors and reports to the Group Board on all operational and day to day activities in relation to the Groups businesses.
It is responsible for managing Group wide issues and those operational issues material to the broader Group.
1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 Key to pictures 1 Stephen Hester, Group Chief Executive 2 Bruce Van Saun, Group Finance Director 3 EllenAlemany, Chief Executive, Citizens and Head ofAmericas 4 Nathan Bostock, Head of Restructuring & Risk 5 Paul Geddes, Chief Executive, RBS Insurance 6 Brian Hartzer, Chief Executive, UK Retail, Wealth and Ulster Bank 7 John Hourican, Chief Executive, Global Banking & Markets 8 Chris Sullivan, Chief Executive, UK Corporate 9 RonTeerlink, ChiefAdministrative Officer 228 RBS Group 2010 Governance Chris Sullivan age 53 Executive Committee Chief Executive, UK Corporate Chris Sullivan was appointed Chief Executive of the UK Corporate Banking Division and the GTS Division inAugust 2009.
His previous role was Chief Executive of Stephen Hester, Group Chief Executive RBS Insurance, the second largest general insurance provider in the UK.
Prior to this, Chris was Chief Executive of Retail and Deputy Chief Executive of Retail Bruce Van Saun, Group Finance Director Markets.
Chris is Vice Chairman of theAssociation of British Insurers, Chairman of the General Insurance Council and a member of the CBI Presidents Committee.
For biographies see page 226 M He spent five years as Chief Executive of LombardAsset Finance and under his leadership it attained a leading position in the UK and Europe.
Chris Sullivan earned his Fellowship of Chartered Institute of Bankers Scotland for his services to Ellen Alemany age 55 Scottish Banking.
Chief Executive, Citizens and Head of Americas EllenAlemany joined the RBS Group in June 2007 as Chief Executive Officer of Ron Teerlink age 50 Citizens Financial Group, Inc. and Head of RBSAmericas.
She became Chairman Chief Administrative Officer of Citizens Financial Group, Inc. in March 2009.
Prior to this appointment, Ellen InApril 2008, RonTeerlink joined the RBS Group as Chief Executive of Business was the CEO for GlobalTransaction Services at Citigroup, one of Citis 12 publicity Services, becoming the Group ChiefAdministrative Officer in February 2009.
At the reported product lines.
Ellen joined Citibank in 1987 and has held various positions same time he was re-appointed to the Managing Board ofABNAMRO to oversee including EVPfor Commercial Business Group, Chairman and CEO for Citibank the integration programme.
Ron started his career withABN Bank in 1986 as an International plc and Citibanks European Bank.
IT Systems analyst and held various functional positions before becoming Chief Operating Officer of the Wholesale Clients Business in 2002.
He was appointed Nathan Bostock age 50 Chief Executive Officer of Group Shared Services in 2004 and joinedABNAMROs Head of Restructuring & Risk Managing Board in January 2006, where he was responsible for Services and Nathan Bostock joined the RBS Group in June 2009 as Head of Restructuring and Market Infrastructure.
Ron holds a Masters degree in Economics fromAmsterdams Risk with responsibility for the Non-Core Division &APS, the Global Restructuring Vrije Universiteit.
Before joining RBS, Nathan spent eight years withAbbey National plc in several roles and was latterly the CFO and main Board Director responsible for Products & Marketing, HR, Insurance and Cards.
Before joiningAbbey in 2001, Nathan spent ten years with RBS in a number of roles, including Chief Operating Officer of Treasury and Capital Markets and Group Risk Director.
ACharteredAccountant, Management Committee Nathan worked with Coopers & Lybrand, before starting his career in banking.
He spent seven years in Chase Manhattan Bank in a variety of areas and functions.
The Management Committee, comprising our major business and He also holds a BSc Hons in Mathematics.
functional leaders, meets three to four times annually as a vehicle for Paul Geddes age 41 strategy and business performance review.
Chief Executive, RBS Insurance Paul Geddes graduated from Oxford in 1990, where he read Politics, Philosophy It comprises members of the Executive Committee plus: and Economics.
His career started at Procter & Gamble, in the UK and Europe.
He entered retailing in 1997, holding senior roles in Kingfisher and GUS Groups before joining the RBS Group in 2004 as Managing Director, Products and ElaineArden, Group Human Resources Director Marketing, Retail Banking.
He was appointed CEO, Retail Banking in December Scott Barton, Chief Executive, GlobalTransaction Services 2006 and CEO, UK Retail in February 2009, before taking overall responsibility for Chris Campbell, Group General Counsel some of the UKs best-known insurance brands, including Direct Line, Churchill, Mark Catton, Chief Executive, UK Corporate & Institutional Banking Privilege and Green Flag as CEO, RBS Insurance inAugust 2009.
Paul is a Fellow of the Chartered Institute of Bankers in Scotland.
Rory Cullinan, Head of Non-Core Division John Cummins, GroupTreasurer Brian Hartzer age 44 Jennifer Hill, Group Director Strategy & Corporate Finance Chief Executive, UK Retail, Wealth and Ulster Bank Brian Hartzer has been the Chief Executive Officer for Retail, Wealth and Ulster Suneel Kamlani, President of Global Banking & Markets Bank sinceAugust 2009.
He joined RBS fromANZ inAustralia, where he was Chief Marco Mazzucchelli, Global Head of Banking & Deputy CEO, GBM Executive Officer Australia, as well as Global Segment Lead for Retail Cormac McCarthy, Chief Executive, Ulster Bank and Wealth.
Brian joinedANZ in 1999 as Managing Director, Consumer Finance, John McCormick, Chief Executive, GBMAsia Pacific and later ranANZs Personal Banking division.
Prior to joiningANZ, Brian spent ten years as a financial services consultant in NewYork, San Francisco, and Andrew McLaughlin, Head of Communications and Melbourne.
Brian is a graduate of Princeton University and holds joint US and Group Chief Economist Australian citizenship.
Peter Nielsen, Global Head of Markets John Hourican age 40 David Stephen, Deputy Group Chief Risk Officer Chief Executive, Global Banking & Markets Brian Stevenson, Chairman, GlobalTransaction Services John Hourican was appointed Chief Executive of Global Banking & Markets in RoryTapner, Chief Executive, Wealth Management October 2008.
Prior to this John held a variety of positions across the RBS Group, including CFO ofABNAMRO Group, Head of Leveraged Finance and Chief Operating Officer of Global Banking & Markets.
John was educated at the National University of Ireland and received his Postgraduate Diploma from Dublin City University before starting his career at Price Waterhouse, where he worked in Dublin, London and Hong Kong.
He is a fellow of the Institute of Chartered Accountants in Ireland.
