Business review  Risk and balance sheet management Introduction In this section pages 119 to 224 of the Business review certain All the disclosures in this section pages 119 to 125 are unaudited as information has been audited and is part of the Groups financial indicated by an asterisk.
Risk Management has an integral role to play statements as permitted by IFRS 7.
Other disclosures are unaudited and in the delivery of the strategic plan through the creation and management labelled with an asterisk.
Key points within this section relate to the of appropriate frameworks as illustrated below: Group before RFS Holdings minority interest RFS MI for 2009 and 2008 data.
Strategy & policy Alignment risk and business strategy Group policy framework Capital risk adjusted performance Risk architecture Operating Model Risk, finance and treasury architecture Governance Deliver 5 year plan with strong risk Risk data quality Organisation, people and culture and balance sheet management Analytics and modelling One risk community Risk information and reporting Regulatory and operational risk coverage Risk appetite and framework Credit risk approval and control Market risk limits and controls Risk concentrations Asset and product class Country risk Treasury risk management Scenario testing With the need for financial strength and resilience at the heart of this and Risk appetite in order to support the Groups stated objective of standalone strength by Risk appetite is an expression of the level of risk that the Group is 2013, the Group Board agreed in 2009 the key strategic risk objectives prepared to accept to deliver its business objectives.
Risk and balance which are aligned to all other elements of the plan.
These are: sheet management across the Group is based on the risk appetite approved by the Board, who will agree targets for each division and x maintain capital adequacy: regularly review and monitor the Group's performance in relation to risk.
x maintain market confidence: Risk appetite is defined in both quantitative and qualitative terms and serves as a way of tracking risk management performance in x deliver stable earnings growth: and implementing the agreed strategy.
x stable and efficient access to funding and liquidity.
x quantitative: encompassing scenario stress testing, risk concentrations, VaR, liquidity and credit related metrics, operational, These strategic risk objectives are the bridge between the Group level business risk and regulatory measures.
business strategy and the frameworks, measures and metrics which are used to set appetite and manage risk in the business divisions.
The risk x qualitative: ensuring that the Group applies the correct principles, appetite framework is aligned with business objectives, with underlying policies and procedures, manages reputational risk and develops and cascading frameworks and limits, which are described in this section.
Enhancements have been made through the year and are ongoing.
A key part of the Groups risk appetite is the macro reshaping of the balance sheet through the downsizing of Non-Core.
The Group will manage down previous concentrations in line with the strategic objectives for 2013.
This will be discharged by Non-Core but with Risk Management playing an integral role in executing the plan.
Non-Core assets and their movements are shown separately in the pages which follow.
unaudited RBS Group 2010 119 Business review continued Introduction continued Governance Risk and balance sheet management strategies are owned and set by the Group's Board of directors, and implemented by executive management led by the Group Chief Executive.
There are a number of committees and executives that support the execution of the business plan and strategy, as set out below.
Representation by, and interaction between, the individual risk disciplines is a key feature of the governance structure, with the aim of promoting cross-risk linkages.
The roles and responsibilities fulfilled by the key risk committees have been reviewed and more clearly defined during the course of 2010.
Group Board of Directors Group Remuneration Executive Committee Board Risk Committee Group Audit Committee Committee Executive Credit Group Executive Risk Forum Group Asset and Liability Group Risk Committee Management Committee  Shown below are the specialist risk sub-committees that report into the Group Risk Committee.
Group Risk Committee Global Market Risk Committee Basel Executive Steering Group Group Credit Risk Policy Committee Group Country Risk Committee Concentration Risk Committee Operational Risk Executive Committee Insurance Working Party Group Models Committee Group Problem Exposure Review Forum Group Operational Risk Policy Committee Group Stress Testing Committee Divisional Risk Committees Information Quality Committee Data Quality unaudited Operations Committee 120 RBS Group 2010 Business review  The role and remit of these committees is set out below.
These has been enhanced by the appointment of a Deputy Chief Risk Officer to committees are supported at a divisional level by a risk governance whom the Divisional CROs and the functional risk heads now report.
structure embedded in the businesses.
During 2010, Risk Management Committee Focus Membership Group Board The Group Board is the main decision making forum at Group level.
The Board of directors It ensures that the Group manages risk effectively through approving and monitoring the Groups risk appetite, considering Group stress scenarios and agreed mitigants and identifying longer term strategic threats to the Groups business operations.
Executive This committee is responsible for managing Group-wide issues and Group Chief Executive Committee ExCo those operational issues material to the broader Group.
Group Finance Director Chief Administrative Officer Chief Executive Officers: US Retail & Commercial and Head of Americas: RBS Insurance: Global Banking & Markets: UK Corporate: and UK Retail, Wealth and Ulster Head of Restructuring and Risk Board Risk The Board Risk Committee provides oversight and advice to the At least three independent non-executive directors, one Committee BRC Group Board in relation to current and potential future risk exposures of whom is the chairman of the Group Audit Committee of the Group and risk strategy, including determination of risk appetite and tolerance.
It reviews the performance of the Group relative to risk appetite and provides oversight of the effectiveness of key Group policies, referred to as the Group Policy Framework.
Group Audit The Group Audit Committee is responsible for assisting the Group At least three independent non-executive directors, at Committee GAC Board in carrying out its responsibilities relating to accounting least one of whom is a financial expert as defined in the policies, internal control and financial reporting functions.
It assists SEC Rules under the US Exchange Act on such other matters as may be referred to it by the Group Board and acts as the Audit Committee of the Group Board.
The Group Audit Committee also identifies any matters within its remit which it considers that action or improvement is needed and makes recommendations as to the steps to be taken.
Group The Remuneration Committee is responsible for the overview of the At least three independent non-executive directors Remuneration Groups remuneration policy and remuneration governance Committee framework, ensuring that remuneration arrangements are consistent with and promote effective risk management.
The committee also makes recommendations to the Board on the remuneration arrangements for executive directors.
Executive Credit The ECG decides on requests for the extension of existing or new Group A members Group ECG credit limits on behalf of the Board of directors where the proposed Head of Restructuring and Risk aggregate facility limits are in excess of the credit approval Deputy Chief Risk Officer Group Chief Credit Officer Chief Credit Officer RBS N. V. authorities granted to individuals in divisions or in RBS Risk Management, or where an appeal against the decline decision of the Head of Global Restructuring Group Group Chief Credit Officer or delegates or Group Chief Risk Officer Chief Risk Officer, Non-Core division APS alternate is referred for final decision.
Group B members Group Chief Executive Chief Executive Officers: UK Retail, Wealth and Ulster: US Retail & Commercial and Head of Americas: Global Banking & Markets: RBS Insurance: UK Corporate President, Global Banking & Markets Group Finance Director RBS Group 2010 121 Business review continued Introduction continued Governance continued Committee Focus Membership Executive Risk Acts on all strategic risk and control matters across the Group Group Chief Executive Forum ERF including, but not limited to, credit risk, market risk, operational risk, Head of Restructuring and Risk compliance and regulatory risk, enterprise risk, treasury and liquidity Deputy Group Chief Risk Officer risk, reputational risk, insurance risk and country risk.
Group Finance Director Chief Executive from each division Group Asset and Identifies, manages and controls Group balance sheet risks.
Group Finance Director Liability Committee Director, Group Finance GALCO Head of Restructuring and Risk Chief Executive Officer from each division Group Chief Accountant Group Treasurer Group Head of Capital Management Global Head of Balance Sheet Management, Group Treasury Global Head of Markets Head of Non-Core division Group Risk Recommends and approves limits, policies, processes and Head of Restructuring and Risk Committee GRC procedures to enable the effective management of risk across the Deputy Chief Risk Officer Group.
Group Chief Credit Officer Global Head of: Market and Insurance Risk: Operational Risk: Country Risk and Firm Wide Risk Director, Group Finance Chief Operating Officer, RBS Risk Management Director Group Compliance Director Group Regulatory Affairs Divisional Chief Executive Officers nominees Chief Administrative Officers nominee for Business Services Divisional Chief Risk Officers Chief Operating Officer Global Restructuring Group These committees play a key role in ensuring that the Group's risk The annual business planning and performance management processes appetite is supported by effective risk management through limit approval and associated activities together ensure that the expression of risk and setting, monitoring and maintenance, reporting and escalation.
Both GRC and GALCO support this work.
The Board Risk Committee considers and recommends for approval by Group Strategy the Group Board, the Group's risk appetite framework and tolerance for current and future strategy, taking into account the Group's capital Strategic Risk Profile Group Board adequacy and the external risk environment.
Key Risk Appetite Measures Board Risk Committee The Executive Risk Forum is responsible for ensuring that the implementation of strategy and operations are in line with the risk Risk Limits Executive Risk Forum appetite determined by the Board with a particular focus on identifying and debating macro risks that could, if not managed effectively, impact adherence to the Groups strategic plan.
This is reinforced through policy and limit frameworks ensuring that all staff within the Group make appropriate risk and reward trade-offs within pre-agreed boundaries.
unaudited 122 RBS Group 2010 Detailed Strategy and high Risk Appetite level Risk Appetite Business review  Risk coverage The main risk types facing the Group which are covered by the risk appetite framework and managed by the above committees are shown below: Risk type Definition Features Key developments in 2010 Risk mitigation Funding and The risk that the Group Potential to disrupt the Against a backdrop of further The Group strengthened the structural liquidity risk does not have sufficient business model and stop market instability, progress integrity of the balance sheet through financial resources to normal functions of the was made in meeting the active management of both asset and meet its commitments Group.
Groups strategic objectives: liability portfolios including a centrallywhen they fall due, or can reduced reliance on shortmanaged liquidity portfolio of secure them only at Potential to fail to meet the term wholesale funding: 155 billion.
supervisory requirements of expanded customer deposit regulators.
franchise: and increased maturity of term debt Significantly correlates with issuance.
Credit risk The risk that the Group Loss characteristics vary Asset quality has broadly Further enhancements were made to including will incur losses owing to materially across portfolios.
stabilised, resulting in total the Groups credit risk frameworks as counterparty, the failure of customers loan impairments 33% lower well as the systems and tools that country and to meet their financial Significant correlation than in 2009.
However, support credit risk management political risks obligations to the Group.
between losses and the weakness in the Irish processes.
The Group continues to macroeconomic economy and falling property reduce the risk associated with legacy environment.
values have resulted in the exposures through further reductions doubling of Ulster Bank in Non-Core assets.
Concentration risk - potential Group impairments Core for large material losses.
Market risk The risk that the value of Potential for large material Markets have remained both The Group has continued to enhance an asset or liability may losses.
volatile and uncertain since its market risk management framework change as a result of a 2007 resulting in a higher and reduced trading and banking book change in market factors.
Potential for losses due to level of market risk, despite a exposures, with asset sales and writestress events.
reduction in trading book downs within Non-Core and banking exposure.
book available-for-sale assets in Core.
Insurance risk The risk of financial loss Frequent small losses which There have been significant In response to this, the industry has through fluctuations in are material in aggregate.
losses as a result of bodily increased pricing on motor insurance the timing, frequency injury claims across the UK business and the Group has made and or severity of insured Infrequent large material motor insurance industry, significant progress in removing events, relative to the losses.
higher-risk business through targeted expectations at the time rating actions.
Operational The risk of loss resulting Frequent small losses.
The level of operational risk The Group Policy Framework GPF risk from inadequate or failed remains high due to the scale supports the risk appetite setting processes, people, Infrequent material losses.
of structural change occurring process and underpins the control systems or from external across the Group: increased environment.
government and regulatory scrutiny: and external threats The three lines of defence model gives e. g. e-crime.
assurance that the standards in GPF are being adhered to.
RBS Group 2010 123 Business review continued Introduction continued Risk coverage continued Risk type Definition Features Key developments in 2010 Risk mitigation Regulatory The risks arising from Adverse impacts on The scale and scope of The Group manages regulatory risk regulatory changes and business operating models, regulatory change remains at change through active engagement enforcement.
including increased unprecedented levels, with the FSA, other regulators and complexity.
particularly in the area of governments.
prudential regulation capital, Financial costs adapting to liquidity, governance and risk The most material risks from new changes or from penalties.
Increased regulations, or changes to existing attention was paid to the legislation, are assigned an executive Reputational damage from treatment of systemically sponsor.
important areas such as recovery and resolution plans, remuneration and capital.
Compliance Risks arising from nonBreach or alleged breach The Group, other global The Group has continued to review risk compliance with laws, could result in public or financial institutions and the and enhance its regulatory policies, rules, regulations or private censure or fine, banking industry have faced procedures and operations.
During other standards could have an adverse increased legal, regulatory 2010, there has been specific, applicable to the Group.
impact on the Groups and public scrutiny.
targeted focus on enhancing business model including arrangements for handling customer applicable authorisations The Group has continued to complaints and managing the risks and licenses, reputation, engage in discussions with associated with money laundering, results of operations and or relevant stakeholders, and sanctions and terrorism financing.
regulators and other governmental and nongovernmental bodies, including those in the UK and US, regarding the Groups efforts to satisfy all relevant standards and ensure compliance with applicable existing and prospective laws, rules and regulations.
Reputational The risks arising from the Failure of the business to Government support brings In 2010, the Group established the risk failure to meet provide an experience which heightened public scrutiny of Group Corporate Sustainability stakeholders meets customers, regulators the way the Group manages Committee, and also developed a perceptions and and other stakeholders its business including: staff framework for managing expectations.
remuneration: how environmental, social and ethical risks customers are managed: to support its lending decisions.
and the levels of lending in Businesses consider potential the UK and environmental reputational risks and appropriate impact.
Pension risk The risk that the Group Volatile funding position The triennial funding During 2010, the Group implemented may have to make caused by the uncertainty of valuation for the Main an enhanced reporting and modelling additional contributions future investment returns scheme was undertaken in framework to improve the to its defined benefit and the projected value of 2010 with a schedule of identification and management of key pension schemes.
contributions to be agreed pension risks.
In early 2010 the Main with the Trustees.
scheme increased its bond allocation to better match liabilities.
Each of these risk types map into our risk appetite framework and contribute to the overall achievement of our strategic objectives with underlying frameworks and limits.
The key frameworks and developments this year are described in the relevant section of the following pages.
unaudited 124 RBS Group 2010 Business review  Stress testing In addition to the EU stress test, during the second half of 2010 RBS has Stress testing commonly describes the evaluation of a banks financial undertaken the FSA anchor scenario test.
position under severe but plausible stress scenarios.
The term stress testing is used to refer not only to the application of individual stress tests During 2011, RBS is planning to take part in forthcoming International but also to the wider economic environment within which these tests are Monetary Fund, European Banking Federation and FSA stress testing developed, evaluated and used within the decision making process.
Other stress testing Since the financial crisis of 2008 2009 there has been an increased focus, In addition to industry wide stress tests, Group standards for stress both amongst regulators and senior management, on stress testing as a testing allow for a combination of various stress testing methods in order means of identifying vulnerabilities within a financial institution and within to provide a comprehensive view of the Groups risk profile.
Depending the financial system as a whole.
on the complexity and materiality of the portfolio, techniques may range from sensitivity analyses performed on an individual product or an Many regulatory documents and initiatives have emerged which require individual portfolio to the evaluation of complex stress scenarios strong involvement of senior management in the design and evaluation of performed at Group-wide level.
scenarios, an emphasis on plausible events and a shift from the assessment of instant shocks to multi-period analysis of capital adequacy Stress testing techniques applied within the Group are: over a prolonged period of stress.
x sensitivity analysis: The Groups stress testing framework is designed to embed stress testing as a key risk management technique into mainstream risk reporting, x scenario analysis: and capital planning and business processes at both the Group and divisional level.
The Executive Risk Forum is the main body overseeing the stress testing The stress testing programme implemented aims to provide a approach, processes and results.
The forum is primarily responsible for comprehensive view of the Groups risk profile.
Stress tests are reviewing and challenging the results of any Group-wide stress tests and performed at the following levels of aggregation: ensuring, where necessary, appropriate management actions are initiated.
x firm-wide level: Industry wide scenarios RBS has taken part in a number of industry wide stress tests such as an x division level: EU-wide stress testing exercise, the results of which were published in July 2010. x portfolio level: and It is important to note that the tests are theoretical in nature and none of x transactional or sub-portfolio level.
the data published represent a forecast or prediction by RBS of what would actually happen in any of the modelled scenarios.
Furthermore, the More details on stress and scenario testing are set out in various sub results are FSA calculations impacting revenues, impairments and sections in the following pages.
balance sheet items and assume an unchanged balance sheet from the end of 2009.
The test confirms RBS remains well capitalised with a strong Tier 1 capital ratio under both the benchmark and adverse scenarios.
