Wealth Wealth Management provides private banking and investment services in the UK through Coutts & Co and Adam & Company: offshore banking through RBS International, NatWest Offshore and Isle of Man Bank: and international private banking through RBS Coutts.
Key business highlights Rory Tapner Chief Executive, Wealth Total income fell by 5% Expenses increased by 12%, reflecting additional strategic investment Operating profit fell by 28% Assets under management grew by 5% Our Wealth Management business contains some of our most valuable brands, including Coutts, RBS Coutts and RBS International.
The 2010 2009 depth of relationship they have with our clients Performance highlights m m is at the heart of everything they do.
These Net interest income 609 663 businesses have an international presence, offer Non-interest income 447 446 a proven suite of products, and between them Total income 1,056 1,109 manage over 68 billion of assets for 290,000 Expenses 734 656 clients in jurisdictions around the world.
Operating profit before impairment losses 322 453 Operating profit fell in 2010, driven by lower net interest income and Impairment losses 18 33 higher expenses as we invested in the future of the businesses partly Operating profit 304 420 offset by lower impairments.
Assets under management grew by 5% and deposits were up, too.
Risk-weighted assets bn 12.5 11.2 Net interest margin 3.37% 4.38% Investing to improve service to our clients In 2010, we took a hugely important step to enhance the service we give Cost:income ratio 70% 59% clients by investing in a new IT platform.
Although it is invisible to our Loan:deposit ratio 44% 38% clients, it will transform how we do business and free our private bankers to spend more time providing a high quality service.
This significant investment reflects the Groups commitment to the division, something further demonstrated by support for our ambitious hiring strategy, which enabled us to recruit high quality people across all of our businesses.
c. 1m 68bn Investing to communicate effectively with our clients We try to communicate with our clients in the ways that best suit them.
donated to worthwhile causes of assets Demand for online access has been growing.
In response to client by Coutts Charitable Trust under management feedback, our Coutts & Co and Adam & Company websites were completely rebuilt, enabling clients to navigate our products and services in a smarter, simpler way.
2010 also saw Coutts embrace social media.
A Twitter service was launched in January and the Coutts YouTube channel went live in December.
These steps on the social media ladder enable us to share our knowledge around investments and financial markets faster then ever before.
Many clients like to keep in touch by phone and our specialist service, Coutts24, which provides round-the-clock support, handled over one Cost:income % Loan:deposit ratio % million calls in 2010.
Client feedback on the service is extremely positive 2010 70 44 2013 50 30 target 26 RBS Group 2010 Divisional review Wealth Our sponsorship of London Fashion Week is part of a programme designed to build our profile with young entrepreneurs.
Our investment in new systems is designed to improve the service we give our clients.
and the Coutts24 team pride themselves in going the extra mile when Supporting good causes responding to enquiries.
This was evident during the volcanic ash cloud In 2010, the Coutts Charitable Trust donated around 1 million to restrictions.
Stranded clients experienced a range of financial and travel worthwhile causes and Wealth Management staff in the UK have raised issues but received support from Coutts24 with payments, short-term around 300,000 for charities like the NSPCC, Maggies Cancer Centres credit sanctioning, booking new journeys and reserving hotels.
The Coutts Senior Client Partners chose ChildLine as their nominated charity in 2010, raising over 215,000, which would Supporting entrepreneurs fund a ChildLine supervisor for three years.
In 2010, we hosted our 5th annual Coutts Prize for Family Businesses, with MI Dickson and Shepherd Neame winning the top awards in their The team at RBS International led an active sustainability turnover category.
programme in their business and raised more than 160,000 for Macmillan Cancer Support.
Our launch of the Coutts Social Enterprise Advisory service demonstrated our commitment to entrepreneurs.
It aims to match clients with social The MoneySense for Schools programme is an online, interactive entrepreneurs looking for funding and or mentoring.
The Entrepreneurs financial education programme to help 1118 year olds prepare to magazine and Coutts Entrepreneurs video were launched the former manage their finances in the future.
Specially trained RBS International reached 1,500 clients, the latter showcased the breadth of industries employees helped to deliver over 100 lessons in schools and colleges across which our entrepreneurs work.
In RBS Coutts, our businesses during the year.
on the Isle of Man and Jersey continued to focus on entrepreneurs, sponsoring awards and events to raise our profile.
And our sponsorship Our tradition of supporting the performing arts goes back over 150 years of London Fashion Week was part of a programme designed to build and continued in 2010.
This included Coutts principal sponsorship of our profile with entrepreneurs from the creative industries, which play the Almeida Theatre in London for the eighth successive year and such a vital role in their contribution to our economy.
Adam & Companys sponsorship of the Scottish Ballets Autumn Season, Geometry and Grace, for which it received a Commendation in the Arts Focusing on women clients & Business Scotland Awards.
These sponsorships are an important We ran more than 60 events solely for women, which were attended element of our client centric service.
Its an approach that has helped us by around 1,900 clients and prospects.
The continuing success of the to acquire new clients across Wealth Management.
In Coutts for example, Coutts Woman website has led to plans for a global roll-out in 2011.
The there were 4,833 new clients in 2010.
And of these, over 1,000 were RBS Coutts FT Women in Asia awards helped us to build on the launch referred to us from other divisions within RBS, demonstrating the breadth of the RBS Coutts Woman initiative and lay the foundations for a global of relationships we have across the Group.
approach to targeting this valuable segment.
The year also saw the creation of the Coutts Women Network CWN, a series of tailored Looking ahead events.
Using mentoring and professional development programmes, In 2011, we have a strategy for growth and a desire to develop further a it aims to create an inclusive and supportive environment for women.
well-balanced business across all of our jurisdictions.
The second phase of our IT project will also see us roll out the platform in Coutts.
It promises Being recognised for the quality of our service to be a busy and exciting year.
RBS International launched its three customer promises in 2010, a campaign which saw the business achieve world class levels of Net Promoter Scores.
It was also shortlisted in five categories at the National Customer Service awards, with a Jersey employee winning Frontline Professional of the Year.
In addition, two RBS International products, Autopilot and Navigator, won the Innovation Award in the 2010 Investment Life and Pensions Moneyfacts awards.
