Business Services and Central Functions Business Services provides specialist services and expertise for the divisions, helping to provide greater value to our customers and to deliver our Strategic Plan objectives.
In 2010, we focused on innovating, managing change, managing operational risk and becoming Ron Teerlink, Chief more efficient.
Administrative Officer For biographies M see pages 226-229 Central Functions comprises group and corporate functions, such as treasury, funding and finance, risk management, legal, communications and human resources.
Managing change The Centre manages the Groups capital RBS is undertaking one of the largest ever corporate restructurings, so resources and Group-wide regulatory projects we face a huge and varied change agenda.
Helping divisions to plan, and provides services to the operating divisions.
implement and adapt to change is hugely important.
In 2010, Business Services provided specialist support for the processes involved with the EU mandated divestments, including the sale of 318 UK branches and associated infrastructure.
2 The level of restructuring that is required unfortunately involves some 389,000m 94% difficult decisions.
As part of our own strategic review, we announced reduction in property of GBM calls handled at plans in 2010 for a further 3,500 potential redundancies in the UK, to be footprint since 2009 first point of contact by our implemented over the next two years.
We have committed to be open Corporate Services Centre and transparent, communicating upfront with our staff.
We have engaged with UNITE in the UK and other partners globally to explain the rationale for the change and to gain their co-operation in how it is implemented.
Business Services To minimise the need for compulsory redundancies, we try hard to redeploy affected staff within the Group.
Becoming more efficient We work closely with the other divisions to identify efficiencies and Innovating opportunities to create value through innovation.
Weve played a key role We focus on innovation in our operations.
We use leading edge in delivering on the Groups target of more than 2.5 billion of cost technologies in service innovation.
New consumer devices and savings by 2011. networking technologies enhance the connections between our customers and employees.
Since its launch in 2009, our Mobile Money In 2010, several programmes helped to improve the service we provide application has attracted over 600,000 users and we have helped to to customers.
Intelligent Working is designed to improve how we use launch similar products across other areas of the Group.
property and to give our staff flexible working opportunities.
Since its 2009 launch, it has allowed us to reduce our property footprint by Technology Services runs a programme to deliver innovative solutions, 2 389,000m, more than Heathrow Airports Terminal 5.
An upgrade to which includes building its own RBS App Store to develop new business our Building Management Systems enabled us to reduce energy use applications that boost productivity and enhance customer value.
in our buildings by 2.3 million, which would power 1,584 average UK households for a year.
Managing operational risks Our Security & Risk team aims to protect our customers, our information Our Lean programme is designed to become embedded in how people and our people against security and fraud threats.
We help the business work, looking for ways to improve customer experience and staff and our customers to understand the operational threats and to take engagement, whilst eliminating activities that dont add value.
It has action to minimise risks.
For example, our Trusteer Rapport free achieved significant results, including an increase in the volume of GBM software has been downloaded by over four million customers, helping customer calls handled at first point of contact by our Corporate Service to protect their online banking details and reduce the risk of identity Centres from 55% to 94%.
38 RBS Group 2010 Divisional review  Bruce Van Saun, Group Finance Director For biographies M Elaine Arden, Group Human Resources Director see pages 226-229 We provide business continuity support, enabling the Group to continue Human Resources to deliver key products and services in the event of disruption.
A new leadership capability framework has been launched to ensure our leaders are assessed and developed against behaviours that Investing for the future support the delivery of our strategic plans and our emerging culture.
Business Services offers a range of scale benefits, including The behaviours are assessed in a 360-degree feedback tool which is purchasing, and specialist knowledge for the Group.
Our focus is on an integral part of how we review our Executives performance.
The improving on these services, whilst managing risk.
Together, the actions behaviours we focus on include: Strategic Progress, Business Delivery we took in 2010, and will continue to implement in future years, are & Financial Performance, Customers' Expectations, Risk, Efficiency designed to make the Group more efficient and enable it to provide a and Control, People Management, and Personal Skills.
The outputs of better service to our customers.
360-degree feedback help to prepare personal development plans and inform leadership development priorities.
Central Functions Group Strategy and Group Corporate Finance RBS Risk Management Our Group Strategy and Corporate Finance team supports the Chief RBS Risk Management is responsible for developing and embedding Executive, Chief Financial Officer and the Executive Committee in the risk policy, measurement and frameworks to ensure that risk is identified, development of the Groups strategy.
Its objective is to ensure that the managed and controlled across the Group.
The management of risk is a Group has the right portfolio of businesses, active in the right markets, fundamental activity performed throughout all the Group's Businesses.
supported by the appropriate allocation of capital and other resources.
It underpins the Group's performance and future success.
It is critically The team plays a key role in the Groups disposal activity.
important that the adequacy and effectiveness of our risk management processes are of the highest standard and subject to continuous review Group Legal, Secretariat and Regulatory Affairs & Compliance and enhancement.
Our Group Legal, Secretariat and Regulatory Affairs & Compliance functions play a vital role in setting a framework within which the Group Finance can deliver long term sustainable returns.
The team works in partnership Finance is responsible for the external reporting of the Groups with the businesses it supports.
It adopts a commercial approach but performance and financial position, including regulatory and central retains its independence and professional judgement in order to drive a bank reporting.
As part of our mission to rebuild investor confidence and culture of compliance and good governance designed to protect the trust, we have greatly improved the quality and transparency of RBSs Group's franchise.
external reporting, and we provide financial information to the market quarterly.
Finance has a critical role in partnering with our divisions to RBS Communications monitor performance against the Group Strategic Plan, and is helping RBS Communications manages our relationships with external the business achieve our strategic aims using enhanced forecasting stakeholders and makes sure we keep our employees informed about tools and thoughtful analytics.
RBS wants to be open to stakeholders and during the year RBS Communications helped elected officials, The Treasury function has focused on driving improvements to the commentators and others gain a better understanding of our business Groups liquidity, funding and capital position.
In 2010, Finance has and our plans.
played a central role in the initiative to dispose of EU-mandated divestments as well as assessing the implications of changes in the regulatory environment.
Finances key objectives include a transformation programme to improve the efficiency of the function over the next three years.
The programme envisages the creation of a world class finance function through a number of initiatives including substantial investment in finance and risk systems infrastructure.
