Directors remuneration report continued Deferred awards Benefits The purpose of deferred awards is to support a performance culture Executive directors are eligible to receive various employee benefits or a where employees recognise the importance of sustainable Group, cash equivalent from a flexible benefits account, on a similar basis to business and individual performance.
Under the Group-wide deferral other employees.
arrangements a significant proportion of annual incentive awards for our more senior employees will be deferred over a three year period.
Details of pension arrangements of directors are shown on page 262.
Deferred awards are subject to clawback.
Gordon Pell retired from the Group and the Board on 31 March 2010, shortly after his normal pension age of 60.
Details of his pension are A new deferral plan was approved by shareholders on 15 December shown in this report.
Following Gordon Pell's retirement, no current 2009.
Under this plan, annual incentives are deferred into awards vesting director is a member of the Group's defined benefit pension plans.
A significant portion of deferral is in a form which meets regulatory requirements.
For all executive directors joining on or after 1 October 2006, pension provision is in the form of a pension allowance which may be used to Long-Term Incentive Plans participate in The Royal Bank of Scotland Group Retirement Savings To encourage the creation of value over the long term and to align the Plan which is open to all employees, or to invest in alternative pension rewards of the participants with the returns to shareholders, the arrangements, or to take all or some of the allowance in cash.
In addition, Group provides employees in senior roles executive level and selected as employees, executive directors are eligible to participate in Sharesave senior management the opportunity to receive annual awards of longand Buy As You Earn plans.
These plans are not subject to performance term incentives.
conditions since they are operated on an all-employee basis.
Executive directors also receive death-in-service cover.
A new Long-Term Incentive Plan was approved by shareholders on 28 April 2010, under which awards are structured as performance-vesting In addition to salary and benefits, executive directors receive variable shares.
For the most senior roles, vesting will be based partly on remuneration in the form of annual and long-term incentives.
divisional or functional performance and partly on performance across the Group.
Annual incentives Following consultation with UKFI and other institutional shareholders, a Awards will not vest unless the Remuneration Committee is satisfied that Share Bank arrangement has been put in place for the executive risk management during the performance period has been effective at a directors annual incentive awards for 2010 and 2011.
The Share Bank Group and division functional level.
The Remuneration Committee's arrangement replaces the previous annual incentive arrangement and determination will be informed by input from the Group Chief Risk Officer means that the executive directors will receive no cash bonus.
and the Board Risk Committee.
Specifically, prior to vesting, the 2010 Remuneration Committee will have regard to risk and compliance across The 2010 targets covered progress against the Strategic Plan, financial the Group and divisions and make an assessment of future risks as performance, risk efficiency and control measures as well as stakeholder appropriate.
Executive directors have a normal maximum incentive opportunity of 200% of salary with an exceptional maximum of All awards are subject to clawback.
Pension arrangements The Group aims to provide competitive retirement benefits.
Since The Remuneration Committee has reviewed the annual incentive awards October 2006, UK employees have been eligible for a cash allowance in for the executive directors for 2010 performance, taking into account lieu of pension provision and have had the facility to choose to have part performance against targets set at the beginning of 2010.
Performance of their remuneration in the form of contributions to The Royal Bank of was assessed across a broad range of quantitative and qualitative Scotland Group Retirement Savings Plan.
A little over one half of UK measures and was supported by a robust performance management employees continue to participate in defined benefit pension framework including a formal half year review.
During 2010, performance has been strong and all the Group's main Executive remuneration policy performance indicators are ahead of the Strategic Plan both in terms of Components of executive directors remuneration timing and outcomes.
More information on the Groups performance can be found on pages 12 and 13.
There are, however, a small number of Salary areas where the Group is not performing well ahead of the targets which Base salaries of executive directors are reviewed annually.
Accordingly, the Remuneration Committee has agreed that the Group Chief Executive will receive no increase in base recommended, and the Board excluding executive directors has agreed, salary in 2011.
The annual salary for the Group Finance Director will be that the Group Chief Executive and Group Finance Director should increased from 725,000 to 750,000 with effect from 1 April 2011. receive annual incentive awards of 170% and 186% of salary respectively.
