Business review Business review Description of business Wealth provides private banking and investment services in the UK Introduction through Coutts & Co and Adam & Company, offshore banking through The Royal Bank of Scotland Group plc is the holding company of a large RBS International, NatWest Offshore and Isle of Man Bank, and global banking and financial services group.
Headquartered in Edinburgh, international private banking through RBS Coutts.
the Group operates in the United Kingdom, the United States and internationally through its two principal subsidiaries, the Royal Bank and Global Transaction Services GTS ranks among the top five global NatWest.
Both the Royal Bank and NatWest are major UK clearing banks transaction services providers, offering global payments, cash and whose origins go back over 275 years.
In the United States, the Group's liquidity management, and trade finance and commercial card products subsidiary Citizens is a large commercial banking organisation.
It includes the Group's corporate money transmission the Group has a diversified customer base and provides a wide range of activities in the United Kingdom and the United States.
products and services to personal, commercial and large corporate and institutional customers in over 50 countries.
Ulster Bank is the leading retail and business bank in Northern Ireland and the third largest banking group on the island of Ireland.
It provides a Following placing and open offers in December 2008 and in April 2009, comprehensive range of financial services.
The Retail Markets division HM Treasury owned approximately 70.3% of the enlarged ordinary share which has a network of 236 branches, operates in the personal and capital of the company.
In December 2009, the company issued a further financial planning sectors.
The Corporate Markets division provides 25.5 billion of new capital to HM Treasury.
This new capital took the services to SME business customers, corporates and institutional form of B shares, which do not generally carry voting rights at general markets.
meetings of ordinary shareholders but are convertible into ordinary shares and qualify as core tier one capital.
Following the issuance of the US Retail & Commercial provides financial services primarily through the B shares, HM Treasury's holding of ordinary shares of the company Citizens and Charter One brands.
US Retail & Commercial is engaged in remained at 70.3% although its economic interest rose to 84.4%.
retail and corporate banking activities through its branch network in 12 states in the United States and through non-branch offices in other During the year, the company converted non-cumulative convertible states.
preference shares into ordinary shares in the company.
As a result, HM Treasurys holding in the companys ordinary shares reduced to 67.8% The divisions discussed above are collectively referred to as Retail & and its economic interest reduced to 82.8%.
The Group had total assets of 1,453.6 billion and owners' equity of Global Banking & Markets GBM is a leading banking partner to major 75.1 billion at 31 December 2010.
The Group's capital ratios, were a corporations and financial institutions around the world, providing an Total capital ratio of 14.0 per cent, a Core Tier 1 capital ratio of 10.7 per extensive range of debt and equity financing, risk management and cent and a Tier 1 capital ratio of 12.9 per cent, at 31 December 2010. investment services to its customers.
The division is organised along six principal business lines: money markets: rates flow trading: currencies Organisational structure and business overview and commodities: equities: credit and mortgage markets and portfolio The Groups activities are organised on a divisional basis as follows: management & origination.
UK Retail offers a comprehensive range of banking products and related RBS Insurance provides a wide range of general insurance products to financial services to the personal market.
It serves customers through the consumers through a number of well known brands including: Direct Line, RBS and NatWest networks of branches and ATMs in the United Churchill and Privilege.
It also provides insurance services for third party Kingdom, and also through telephone and internet channels.
UK Retail brands through its UKI Partnerships division.
In the commercial sector, its launched the Retail Customer Charter in June 2010 and progress against NIG and Direct Line for Business operations provide insurance products the commitments made will be formally reported in March 2011. for businesses via brokers or direct respectively.
Through its international division, RBS Insurance sells general insurance, mainly motor, in UK Corporate is a leading provider of banking, finance, and risk Germany and Italy.
In addition to insurance services, RBS Insurance management services to the corporate and SME sector in the United continues to provide support and reassurance to millions of UK motorists Kingdom.
It offers a full range of banking products and related financial through its Green Flag breakdown recovery service and Tracker stolen services through a nationwide network of relationship managers, and also vehicle recovery and telematics business.
through telephone and internet channels.
The product range includes asset finance through the Lombard brand.
