Presentation of information In the Report and Accounts, and unless specified otherwise, the term International Financial Reporting Standards company or RBSG means The Royal Bank of Scotland Group plc, As required by the Companies Act 2006 and Article 4 of the European RBS, RBS Group or the Group means the company and its Union IAS Regulation, the consolidated financial statements of the Group subsidiaries, the Royal Bank means The Royal Bank of Scotland plc and are prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting NatWest means National Westminster Bank Plc.
Standards issued by the International Accounting Standards Board IASB and interpretations issued by the International Financial Reporting The company publishes its financial statements in pounds sterling or Interpretations Committee of the IASB together IFRS as adopted by sterling.
The abbreviations m and bn represent millions and the European Union.
They also comply with IFRS as issued by the IASB.
thousands of millions of pounds sterling, respectively, and references to pence represent pence in the United Kingdom UK.
Reference to RBS Holdings N. V. formerly ABN AMRO Holding N. V. dollars or $ are to United States of America US dollars.
The In 2007, RFS Holdings B. V. which was jointly owned by RBSG, the abbreviations $m and $bn represent millions and thousands of millions Dutch State successor to Fortis and Santander the Consortium of dollars, respectively, and references to cents represent cents in the Members completed the acquisition of ABN AMRO Holding N. V..
The abbreviation represents the euro, the European single currency, and the abbreviations m and bn represent millions and RFS Holdings B. V. has now substantially completed the separation of the thousands of millions of euros, respectively.
business units of ABN AMRO Holding N. V.. As part of this reorganisation, on 6 February 2010, the businesses of ABN AMRO Holding N. V. Certain information in this report is presented separately for domestic and acquired by the Dutch State were legally demerged from those acquired foreign activities.
Domestic activities primarily consist of the UK domestic by the Group and were transferred into a newly established company, transactions of the Group.
Foreign activities comprise the Group's ABN AMRO Bank N. V. save for certain assets and liabilities acquired by transactions conducted through those offices in the UK specifically the Dutch State that were not part of the legal separation and which will organised to service international banking transactions and transactions be transferred to the Dutch State as soon as possible.
conducted through offices outside the UK.
Legal separation of ABN AMRO Bank N. V. occurred on 1 April 2010, with The geographic analysis in the Business Review, including the average the shares in that entity being transferred by ABN AMRO Holding N. V balance sheet and interest rates, changes in net interest income and renamed RBS Holdings N. V. at legal separation to a holding company average interest rates, yields, spreads and margins in this report have called ABN AMRO Group N. V. which is owned by the Dutch State.
been compiled on the basis of location of office - UK and overseas.
Management believes that this presentation provides more useful Following legal separation, RBS Holdings N. V. has one direct subsidiary, information on the Group's yields, spreads and margins of the Group's The Royal Bank of Scotland N. V. RBS N. V., a fully operational bank activities than would be provided by presentation on the basis of the within the Group.
RBS N. V. is independently rated and regulated by the domestic and foreign activities analysis used elsewhere in this report as it Dutch Central Bank.
Certain assets within RBS N. V. continue to be more closely reflects the basis on which the Group is managed.
UK in shared by the Consortium Members.
this context includes domestic transactions and transactions conducted through the offices in the UK which service international banking transactions.
The results, assets and liabilities of individual business units are classified as trading or non-trading based on their predominant activity.
Although this method may result in some non-trading activity being classified as trading, and vice versa, the Group believes that any resulting misclassification is not material.
50 RBS Group 2010 Business review Pro forma results Statutory results The pro forma financial information shows the underlying performance of The statutory results of the Group include the results and financial the Group including the results of the ABN AMRO businesses retained by position of RFS Holdings, the entity that acquired ABN AMRO see page the Group.
This information is prepared using the Groups accounting 50.
The interests of the State of the Netherlands and Santander are policies and is being provided to give a better understanding of the included in non-controlling interests.
results of RBS operations excluding the results attributable to the other Consortium Members.
Reconciliations between pro forma and statutory results are detailed on pages 113 to 118.
In future periods, there will be no significant differences between pro forma and statutory results other than presentation aspects discussed Comparative information below.
Following legal separation of ABN AMRO Bank NV, the results of ABN AMRO attributable to the Consortium Members are classified as Consistent with the manner in which the Group is managed, Group discontinued operations, with consequent changes to the presentation of operating profit on a pro forma basis excludes: comparative financial information.
x amortisation of purchased intangible assets: Glossary A glossary of terms is detailed on pages 434 to 439. x integration and restructuring costs: x gain on redemption of own debt: x strategic disposals: x bonus tax: x Asset Protection Scheme credit default swap - fair value changes: x gains on pensions curtailment: x write-down of goodwill and other intangible assets: and x other Consortium Members interest in shared assets.
