Business review  Interest rate risk subjected to approval of divisional ALCOs and GALCO.
Limits on IRRBB The banking book consists of interest bearing assets, liabilities and are proposed by the Group Treasurer for approval by ERF annually.
derivative instruments used to mitigate risks which are accounted for on IRRBB is measured using a version of the same VaR methodology that is an accrual basis, as well as non-interest bearing balance sheet items used for the Groups trading portfolios.
Net interest income exposures are which are not subjected to fair value accounting.
measured in terms of sensitivity over time to movements in interest rates.
Additionally, Citizens measures the sensitivity of the market value of The Group provides financial products to satisfy a variety of customer equity to changes in forward interest rates.
Loans and deposits are designed to meet customer objectives with regard to repricing frequency, tenor, index, prepayment, Divisions with the exception of Citizens and GBM are required to manage optionality and other features.
These characteristics are aggregated to banking book exposures through internal transactions with Group form portfolios of assets and liabilities with varying degrees of sensitivity Treasury to the greatest extent possible.
Residual risks in divisions must to changes in market rates.
Mismatches in these sensitivities give rise to be measured and reported as described.
net interest income NII volatility as the level of interest rates rise and fall.
For example, a bank with a floating rate loan portfolio and largely fixed Group Treasury aggregates exposures arising from its own external rate deposits will see its NII rise as interest rates rise and fall as rates activities and positions transferred in from divisions.
Due to the long-term nature of many banking book portfolios, Group Treasury nets offsetting risk exposures to determine a residual layered repricing characteristics and maturities, it is likely the NII will vary exposure to rate movements.
Hedging transactions using cash and from period to period even with no change in market rate level.
New derivative instruments are executed to manage within the GALCO business volumes originated in any period will alter the interest rate approved VaR limits.
sensitivity of a bank if it differs from portfolios originated in prior periods.
Citizens and GBM manage their own IRRBB exposures within approved Interest rate risk in the banking book IRRBB is assessed using a set of limits to satisfy their business objectives.
standards to define, measure and report the market risk.
It is the Groups policy to minimise interest rate sensitivity in banking book portfolios and IRRBB VaR for the Group's retail and commercial banking activities at a where interest rate risk is retained to ensure that appropriate measures 99% confidence level was as follows: and limits are applied.
Key conventions in evaluating IRRBB are Average Period end Maximum Minimum m m m m 2010 57.5 96.2 96.2 30.0 2009 85.5 101.3 123.2 53.3 2008 130.0 76.7 197.4 76.7 A breakdown of the Group's IRRBB VaR by currency is shown below.
The average exposure in 2010 was 33% below the average for 2009. x In general, actions taken throughout 2010 to mitigate earnings sensitivity from interest rate movements were executed in US dollars, hence the year on year shift in VaR by currency.
