Corporate governance Governance The company is committed to high standards of corporate governance, As stated above, in the case of the company, the Board, rather than the business integrity and professionalism in all its activities.
Remuneration Committee, reserves the authority to make the final determination of the remuneration of the Group Chief Executive.
"Throughout the year ended 31 December 2010, the company has complied with all of the provisions of the Combined Code issued by the The Audit Committee complies with the provisions of the NYSE corporate Financial Reporting Council in June 2008 the ""Code"" except in relation governance listing standards that relate to the composition, to the provision that the Remuneration Committee should have delegated responsibilities and operation of audit committees."
In May 2010, the responsibility for setting remuneration for the Chairman and executive company submitted its required annual written affirmation to the NYSE directors.
The company considers that this is a matter which should confirming its full compliance with those and other applicable provisions.
rightly be reserved for the Board.
No director is involved in decisions More detailed information about the Audit Committee and its work during regarding his or her own remuneration.
2010 is set out in the Audit Committee report on pages 240 to 243.
Board of directors Although not applicable to the current accounting period, the company The Board is the main decision-making forum for the company.
It has has also complied with the main provisions of the UK Corporate overall responsibility for management of the business and affairs of the Governance Code issued by the Financial Reporting Council in May 2010 Group, the establishment of Group strategy and the allocation and raising the new Code except as noted above.
The company has also taken of capital, and is accountable to shareholders for financial and steps to implement the recommendations arising from the review of operational performance.
The Board considers strategic issues and governance in banks and financial institutions undertaken by Sir David ensures the Group manages risk effectively through approving and Walker the Walker Review, details of which are described in this monitoring the Groups risk appetite, considering Group stress scenarios section.
A copy of the new Code can be found at and agreed mitigants and identifying longer term strategic threats to the http: www.
The Board has a formal schedule of matters detailing key aspects of the companys affairs reserved to it for its The company has also complied in all material respects with the Financial decision.
This schedule is reviewed bi-annually.
Reporting Council Guidance on Audit Committees issued in December 2010.
The roles of Chairman and Group Chief Executive are distinct and separate, with a clear division of responsibilities.
"The Chairman leads the Under the US Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 the ""Act"", specific standards Board and ensures the effective engagement and contribution of all of corporate governance and business and financial disclosures apply to executive and non-executive directors."
The Group Chief Executive has companies with securities registered in the US.
The company complies responsibility for all Group businesses and acts in accordance with the with all applicable sections of the Act.
authority delegated by the Board.
Responsibility for the development of policy and strategy and operational management is delegated to the The New York Stock Exchange As a foreign issuer with American Depositary Shares representing Group Chief Executive and the Group Finance Director.
ordinary shares, preference shares and debt securities listed on the New York Stock Exchange the NYSE, the company must disclose any All directors participate in discussing strategy, performance and the significant ways in which its corporate governance practices differ from financial and risk management of the company.
Meetings of the Board those followed by US companies under the NYSE corporate governance are structured to allow sufficient time for consideration of all items and the listing standards.
In addition, the company must comply fully with the Chairman encourages constructive challenge and debate.
provisions of the listing standards that relate to the composition, responsibilities and operation of audit committees.
These provisions For 2010, eleven Board meetings were scheduled.
Individual attendance incorporate the relevant rules concerning audit committees of the US at these meetings is set out on page 238.
The directors were supplied Securities Exchange Act of 1934 Exchange Act.
with comprehensive papers in advance of each Board meeting.
The Group Chief Executive provides a written report on business activities at The company has reviewed its corporate governance arrangements and each Board meeting.
Members of executive management attend and is satisfied that these are consistent with the NYSEs corporate make regular presentations at meetings of the Board.
The Chairman and governance listing practices, with the exception that the Chairman of the the non-executive directors meet at least once per year without executive Board is also the Chairman of the Nominations Committee, which is directors present.
permitted under the Code since the Chairman was considered independent on appointment.
The companys Audit, Board Risk, The Board is aware of the other commitments of its directors and has Remuneration and Nominations Committees are otherwise composed established procedures for ensuring that the Boards powers for solely of non-executive directors deemed by the Board to be independent.
authorising directors conflicts of interest are being operated effectively.
The NYSE corporate governance listing standards also require that a With effect from 1 October 2008, the Companies Act introduced a compensation committee has direct responsibility to review and approve statutory duty on directors to avoid conflicts of interest unless authorised.
Since that date, the Board has considered, and where appropriate the Group Chief Executives remuneration.
authorised, any actual or potential conflicts of interests that directors may have.
