Business review  REIL, provisions and reserves nor of any provision marked.
Therefore impaired assets which are highly All the disclosures in this section pages 181 to 192 are audited.
collateralised, such as mortgages, will have a low coverage ratio of The Group classifies impaired assets as either risk elements in lending provisions held against the reported impaired balance.
REIL or potential problem loans PPL.
REIL represents impaired loans, and loans that are accruing but are past due 90 days.
PPL represents The analysis of risk elements in lending and impairments below, form a impaired assets which are not included in REIL, but where information key part of the data provided to senior management on the credit about possible credit problems cause management to have serious performance of the Group's portfolios.
doubts about the future ability of the borrower to comply with loan repayment terms.
The table below analyses the Group's REIL and PPL and takes no account of the value of any security held which could reduce the eventual Both REIL and PPL are reported gross and take no account of the value loss should it occur, nor of any provisions.
2 Loans where an impairment event has taken place but no impairment recognised.
This category is used for fully collateralised non-revolving credit facilities.
3 Loans for which an impairment event has occurred but no impairment provision is necessary.
This category is used for advances and revolving credit facilities where the past due concept is not applicable.
4 Includes gross loans relating to disposal groups but excludes reverse repos.
RBS Group 2010 181 Business review continued Risk management: Credit risk continued REIL, provisions and reserves continued Movement in REIL and PPL The table below details the movement in REIL and PPL during the year ended 31 December 2010.
throughout 2010. x In UK Corporate impaired loans increased reflecting a number of x Increase in provisions and related REIL in Non-Core reflected specific cases which resulted in REIL PPL as a % of loans difficult conditions in specific sectors, particularly UK and Irish increasing from 2.2% to 3.7%.
x Provisions, REIL and related coverage ratios in Ulster Bank increased reflecting a deterioration in customer credit quality due to a fall in Irish property prices.
Past due analysis The table below shows loans and advances to customers that were past due at the balance sheet date but not considered impaired: 2009 2010 Group before 2008 Core Non-Core Total Core Non-Core RFS MI RFS MI Group Group m m m m m m m m m Past due 1-29 days 6,401 822 7,223 5,101 1,486 6,587 1,209 7,796 9,517 Past due 30-59 days 1,725 392 2,117 1,943 357 2,300 424 2,724 2,941 Past due 60-89 days 922 271 1,193 2,203 207 2,410 177 2,587 1,427 Past due 90 days or more 1,696 1,201 2,897 1,358 1,820 3,178 46 3,224 1,782 10,744 2,686 13,430 10,605 3,870 14,475 1,856 16,331 15,667 Note: 1 The amounts shown above include loans and advances to customers that are past due through administrative and other delays in recording payments or in finalising documentation and other events unrelated to credit quality.
unaudited 182 RBS Group 2010 Business review  Loans, REIL and impairments by industry and geography The tables below analyse gross loans and advances to customers and banks excluding reverse repos and disposal groups, REIL, provisions, impairment charge and amounts written-off relating to these loans, by industry and geography by location of office.
The wholesale calculation is based on REIL, provisions and reserves continued similar principles but there is no segmentation into portfolios: PDs and LGDs are calculated on an individual basis.
Impairment loss provision methodology x Once a loss event has occurred, a loan is assessed for an Provisions for impairment losses are assessed under three categories: impairment provision.
In the case of loans that are restructured due to the financial condition of the borrower, the loss event and x Individually assessed provisions: provisions required for individually consequent loan impairment provision assessment based on significant impaired assets which are assessed on a case by case managements best estimate of the incurred loss almost invariably basis, taking into account the financial condition of the counterparty take place prior to the restructuring.
The quantum of the loan and any guarantee and other collateral held after being stressed for impairment provision may change once the terms of the downside risk.
This incorporates an estimate of the discounted value restructuring are known resulting in an additional provision charge or of any recoveries and realisation of security or collateral.
The asset a release of provision in the period in which the restructuring takes continues to be assessed on an individual basis until it is repaid in place.
full, transferred to the performing portfolio or written-off: Provisions and AFS reserves x Collectively assessed provisions: provisions on impaired credits The Group's consumer portfolios, which consist of high volume, small below an agreed threshold which are assessed on a portfolio basis, value credits, have highly efficient largely automated processes for to reflect the homogeneous nature of the assets, such as credit identifying problem credits and very short timescales, typically three cards or personal loans.
The provision is determined from a months, before resolution or adoption of various recovery methods.
quantitative review of the relevant portfolio, taking account of the Corporate portfolios consist of higher value, lower volume credits, which level of arrears, security and average loss experience over the tend to be structured to meet individual customer requirements.
It incorporates loss experience adjustments, where appropriate, in the light of current economic and credit conditions.
Provisions are assessed on a case by case basis by experienced These include review of current cash collections profile performance specialists with input from professional valuers and accountants.
The against historic trends, updates to metric inputs - including model Group operates a transparent provisions governance framework, setting recalibrations and monitoring of operational processes used in thresholds to trigger enhanced oversight and challenge.
managing exposure - including the time taken to process nonAnalyses of provisions are set out on page 189. performing exposures: and Available-for-sale financial assets are initially recognised at fair value plus x Latent loss provisions: provisions held against impairments in the directly related transaction costs and are subsequently measured at fair performing portfolio that have been incurred as a result of events value with changes in fair value reported in owners equity until disposal, occurring before the balance sheet date but which have not been at which stage the cumulative gain or loss is recognised in profit or loss.
identified at the balance sheet date.
The Group has developed When there is objective evidence that an available-for-sale financial asset methodologies to estimate latent loss provisions that reflect: is impaired, any decline in its fair value below original cost is removed historical loss experience adjusted where appropriate, in the light from equity and recognised in profit or loss.
of current economic and credit conditions: and Impairment losses are recognised when there is objective evidence of the period emergence period between an impairment event impairment.
The Group reviews its portfolios of available-for-sale financial occurring and a loan being identified and reported as impaired.
assets for such evidence which includes: default or delinquency in interest or principal payments: significant financial difficulty of the issuer x Recoverable cash flows or proceeds are estimated using two or obligor: and it becoming probable that the issuer will enter bankruptcy parameters: loss given default LGD - this is the estimated loss or other financial reorganisation.
However, the disappearance of an amount, expressed as a percentage, that will be incurred if the active market because an entitys financial instruments are no longer borrower defaults: and the probability that the borrower will default publicly traded is not evidence of impairment.
of an entitys credit rating is not, of itself, evidence of impairment, although it may be evidence of impairment when considered with other x Emergence periods are estimated at a portfolio level and reflect the available information.
A decline in the fair value of a financial asset below portfolio product characteristics such as a coupon period and its cost or amortised cost is not necessarily evidence of impairment.
repayment terms, and the duration of the administrative process Determining whether objective evidence of impairment exists requires the required to report and identify an impaired loan as such.
Emergence exercise of management judgment.
The unrecognised losses on the periods vary across different portfolios from 2 to 225 days.
They are Groups available-for-sale debt securities are concentrated in its portfolios based on actual experience within the particular portfolio and are of mortgage-backed securities.
The losses reflect the widening of credit reviewed regularly.
spreads as a result of the reduced market liquidity in these securities and the current uncertain macroeconomic outlook in the US and Europe.
The x The Group's retail business segment their performing loan books underlying securities remain unimpaired.
into homogenous portfolios such as mortgages, credit cards or unsecured loans, to reflect their different credit characteristics.
Analyses of AFS debt securities and related AFS reserves are set out on Latent provisions are computed by applying portfolio-level LGDs, pages 191 and 192.
188 RBS Group 2010 Business review  Movement in loan impairment provisions The movement in provisions balance by division is shown in the table below.
RBS Group 2010 189 Business review continued Risk management: Credit risk continued REIL, provisions and reserves continued Analysis of loan impairment charge The following table analyses impairment losses.
2010 2009 2008 m m m Latent loss 121 1,184 769 Collectively assessed 3,070 3,994 2,391 Individually assessed 6,208 7,878 3,200 Loans to customers 9,157 13,056 6,360 Loans to banks 13 34 118 Securities 112 809 961 Charge to income statement 9,256 13,899 7,439 Charge relating to customer loans as a % of gross customer loans 1 1.7% 2.3% 0.9% Note: 1 Gross of provisions and excluding reverse repurchase agreements and including gross loans relating to disposal groups.
190 RBS Group 2010 Business review  Available-for-sale debt securities and related reserves The table below analyses available-for-sale AFS debt securities by issuer and related AFS reserves, for countries exceeding 0.5 billion at any reporting date below, together with the total of those individually less than 0.5 billion.
x The 500 million reductions in both Greek and Portuguese exposures primarily reflect disposals.
RBS Group 2010 191 Business review continued Risk management: Credit risk continued REIL, provisions and reserves continued Available-for-sale debt securities: gross unrealised losses The table below shows the fair value of available-for-sale debt securities that were in an unrealised loss position at 31 December, and the related gross unrealised losses.
