Business review Risk and balance sheet management Reputation risk The RBS Group Pension Fund Main scheme is the largest of the schemes and the main source of pension risk.
The Main scheme Reputation risk is defined as the potential loss in reputation that could operates under a trust deed under which the corporate trustee, RBS lead to negative publicity, loss of revenue, costly litigation, a decline in Pension Trustees Limited, is a wholly owned subsidiary of The Royal the customer base or the exit of key Group employees.
Bank of Scotland plc and the trustee board comprises six directors selected by the Group and four directors nominated by members.
Reputation risk can arise from actions taken by the Group or a failure to take action, such as failing to assess the environmental, social or ethical The trustee is solely responsible for the investment of the schemes impacts of clients or projects that the Group has provided products or assets which are held separately from the assets of the Group.
Group and the trustee must agree on the investment principles and the funding plan.
The Group seeks to safeguard its reputation by considering the impact on the value of its franchise from how it conducts business, its choice of In October 2006, the Main scheme was closed to new employees.
In customers and the way stakeholders view the Group.
Managing the November 2009, the Group confirmed that it was making changes to the Groups reputation is the joint responsibility of all employees, and Main scheme and a number of other defined benefit schemes including reputational considerations should, as part of standard practice, be the introduction of a limit of 2% per annum or Consumer Price Indices integrated into the Groups day-to-day decision making structures.
CPI inflation, if lower to the amount of any salary increase that will count for pensionable purposes.
Currently the Group manages reputational risk through a number of functions, such as divisions, Group Communications, Group Risk appetite and investment policy are agreed by the trustee with Sustainability and an Environmental, Social and Ethical ESE risk quantitative and qualitative input from the scheme actuaries and management function.
The latter function is responsible for assessing investment advisers.
The trustee also consults with the Group to obtain ESE risks associated with business engagements and business divisions.
its view on the appropriate level of risk within the pension fund.
The Board has ultimate responsibility for managing any impact on the The Group maintains an independent review of risk within its pension reputation of the Group arising from its operations.
The Group Risk Committee now monitors pension obligation risk Sustainability Committee established at the beginning of 2010 sets the on an ongoing basis with a monthly report illustrating the funding overall strategy and approach for the management of Group sustainability, positions and key sensitivities of the Groups pension schemes.
however all parts of the Group take responsibility for reputation Additionally, as part of the Internal Capital Adequacy Assessment management.
Process ICAAP process, the change in asset and liability values is modelled over a twelve-month time horizon under a stressed scenario.
The risk is viewed as material given the central nature of the Groups market reputation in the strategic risk objectives.
The funding valuation of the Main scheme at 31 March 2010 is currently in progress.
Further details are given in Note 4 on the accounts.
Pension risk The Main scheme, which represents 84% of plan assets at 31 December The Group is exposed to risk from its defined benefit pension schemes to 2010, is invested in a diversified portfolio of quoted and private equity, the extent that the assets of the schemes do not fully match the timing government and corporate fixed interest and index-linked bonds, and and amount of the schemes liabilities.
Pension scheme liabilities vary other assets including property and hedge funds.
The trustee has taken with changes to long-term interest rates, inflation, pensionable salaries measures to partially mitigate inflation and interest rate risks both by and the longevity of scheme members as well as changes in legislation.
investment in suitable physical assets and by entering into inflation and The Group is exposed to the risk that the market value of the schemes interest rate swaps.
The Main scheme has an additional exposure to assets, together with future returns and any additional future contributions rewarded risk by investing in equity futures.
could be considered insufficient to meet the liabilities as they fall due.
In such circumstances, the Group could be obliged, or may choose, to make The table below shows the impact on the Main schemes assets and additional contributions to the schemes.
liabilities measured according to IAS 19 Employee Benefits of changes in interest rates and equity values at the year end, taking account of the current asset allocation and hedging arrangements.
Decrease Change Change increase in net in value in value of pension of assets liabilities obligations m m m As at 31 December 2010 Fall in nominal swap yields of 0.25% at all durations with no change in credit spreads 422 193 229 Fall in real swap yields of 0.25% at all durations with no change in credit spreads 355 799 444 Fall in credit spreads of 0.25% at all durations with no change in nominal or real swap yields 98 1,005 907 Fall in equity values of 10% 1,083 1,083 RBS Group 2010 203
