Corporate governance continued Meetings In addition to scheduled meetings, 15 additional meetings of the Board The number of scheduled meetings of the Board and the Audit, Board and Committees of the Board were held during 2010, including meetings Risk, Remuneration and Nominations Committees and individual to consider and approve financial statements.
There were also three attendance at these meetings by members in 2010 is shown below.
additional meetings of the Board Risk Committee and six additional meetings of the Remuneration Committee during 2010.
Board Audit Board Risk Remuneration Nominations Total number of scheduled meetings in 2010 11 7 6 9 2 Number of meetings attended in 2010 Philip Hampton 11 2 Stephen Hester 11 Colin Buchan 1 10 6 6 4 2 Sandy Crombie 11 6 9 2 Penny Hughes 11 9 2 Joe MacHale 2 11 3 5 2 John McFarlane 11 9 2 Brendan Nelson 3 84 3 2 Art Ryan 4 61 Philip Scott 10 7 6 1 Bruce Van Saun 11 Former directors Archie Hunter 5 43 3 Gordon Pell 6 2 Notes: 1 Stood down from the Remuneration Committee with effect from 1 June 2010.
2 Stood down from the Audit Committee with effect from 30 April 2010.
3 Appointed as a director on 1 April 2010.
4 Unable to attend a number of Board and Committee meetings during 2010 due to family illness.
5 Ceased to be a director on 28 April 2010.
6 Ceased to be a director on 31 March 2010.
Relations with shareholders x The Chairman independently meets with the Groups largest The company communicates with shareholders through the Annual institutional shareholders annually to hear their feedback on Report and Accounts and by providing information in advance of the management, strategy, business performance and corporate Annual General Meeting.
Individual shareholders can raise matters governance.
Additionally, the Chairman, Senior Independent relating to their shareholdings and the business of the Group at any time Director and chairs of the Board Committees met with the throughout the year primarily by letter, telephone or email via the Groups governance representatives of a number of institutional website www.
Shareholders are given the opportunity to ask questions at the Annual x The Senior Independent Director is available if any shareholder has General Meeting or submit written questions in advance.
The chairmen of concerns that they feel are not being addressed through the normal the Audit, Board Risk, Remuneration and Nominations Committees are channels.
available to answer questions at the Annual General Meeting.
The Senior Independent Director is also available.
x The Chair of the Remuneration Committee consults with institutional shareholders in respect of the Groups remuneration policy.
Communication with the company's largest institutional shareholders is undertaken as part of the Investor Relations programme: Throughout the year, the Chairman, Group Chief Executive and Group Finance Director communicate shareholder feedback to the Board and x The Group Chief Executive meets regularly with UKFI, the the directors receive independent analyst notes and reports reviewing organisation set up to manage the Governments investments in share price movements and the Groups performance against the sector.
financial institutions, to discuss the strategy and financial Detailed market and shareholder feedback is also provided to the Board performance of the Group.
He also undertakes an annual after major public announcements such as earnings releases.
The programme of meetings with the companys largest institutional arrangements used to ensure that directors develop an understanding of shareholders, as does the Group Finance Director.
the views of major shareholders are considered as part of the annual Board evaluation.
