Governance Performance evaluation Governance An internal review of the effectiveness of the Remuneration Committee There is a robust governance framework in place to ensure that reward during 2010 was conducted.
The evaluation used detailed questionnaires design and delivery complies with appropriate policy, standards, and and individual meetings were held with each member.
Amongst the areas meets relevant regulatory requirements.
reviewed were the role of the Committee, composition, meetings and processes, continuing professional development and communication.
The Remuneration Committee undertakes an annual review of the adequacy and effectiveness of the remuneration policy to ensure it is fully Generally, the Committee was considered to be effective and meeting its aligned with the Groups long-term objectives.
There is also a key role for objectives, with members willing to spend the time necessary to the RBS Risk Management function in the management and oversight of discharge their responsibilities.
Whilst the Committee was viewed as reward structures and decision-making.
The Remuneration Committee being of the right size and headed by a strong Chair, composition will be will consider any issues raised by the Board Risk Committee prior to kept under review to maintain the correct balance of skills and experience.
Improvement in the quality of Committee papers was acknowledged, although work is being undertaken to deliver further improvements.
The The individual elements of employees' remuneration packages are as importance of a strong link between the Committee and the Board Risk follows: Committee was recognised and, whilst it was acknowledged that this Base salary relationship was working well, it was agreed that further improvements Base salaries should be appropriate in the specific market for the should be actively considered.
business in which an individual works and also reflect the talents, skills and competencies that the individual brings to the Group.
There should The Committee has considered and discussed the report on the be a sufficient level of fixed pay so that inappropriate risk-taking is not outcomes of the evaluation and is satisfied with the way in which the encouraged.
evaluation has been conducted, the conclusions and the recommendations for actions.
The outcomes of the evaluation have been Annual incentives reported to the Board and the actions are being progressed.
Annual incentives are designed to reward good financial and nonfinancial performance that supports the business strategy, taking into Group-wide remuneration policy account the Groups risk appetite and personal contribution in the context The Remuneration Committee has reviewed the Group's remuneration that it was delivered.
policy which is anticipated will apply in 2011 and in subsequent years.
The approach to determining an appropriate annual incentive pool is The remuneration policy supports the Group's business strategy and is based around four technical workstreams led by the central control designed to: functions Finance, Human Resources and RBS Risk Management.
The workstreams provide context around how much a market-competitive on x attract, retain, motivate and reward high calibre employees to deliver target pool would be on financial performance, on risk performance, on superior long-term business performance: and capital adequacy and on the impact of incentive awards on the balance sheet.
x ensure that the Group's metrics, reward structures and governance processes as a whole provide coverage of the key risks in an Performance is central to the determination of annual incentive pools.
Performance assessment is based on a balanced scorecard of measures including financial performance, risk, people and customer measures.
The key principles underpinning the remuneration policy are set out below: Overall expenditure on annual incentives is reviewed by the Remuneration Committee at the end of each year taking into account the Pay-for-performance performance of the business on the basis described above.
This is further Reward is linked to business and individual performance and appropriate scrutinised on a divisional and functional basis based on a range of account is taken of risk factors associated with that business, including different efficiency and risk adjusted profit measures including changes in where appropriate risks associated with the sustainability agenda.
Market facing Reward structures are designed to offer value for money in the markets Allocation of any variable reward from the pool depends on divisional, where the Group operates.
Both annual compensation and total functional and individual performance against the performance measures compensation are set around market median competitiveness although set at the beginning of the year.
Individual performance assessment is our pay-for-performance policy allows for higher pay for the highest supported by a structured performance management framework.
should be specific, measurable, set at the beginning of the year and communicated to the employees.
Allow for customisation The composition of reward generally allows for customisation through The Group only uses guaranteed bonuses in limited circumstances in individual choice, in order to maximise value delivered to employees.
accordance with the FSA Code.
