Report of the directors The directors present their report together with the audited accounts for organisational structure and business overview of the Group, including the year ended 31 December 2010. the products and services provided by each of its divisions and the competitive markets in which they operate, are contained in the Business Group structure review on pages 53 and 54.
The company is a holding company owning the entire issued ordinary Risk factors share capital of The Royal Bank of Scotland plc, the principal direct The Groups future performance and results could be materially different operating subsidiary undertaking of the company.
The Group comprises from expected results depending on the outcome of certain potential risks the company and all its subsidiary and associated undertakings, including and uncertainties.
Certain risk factors the Group faces are summarised the Royal Bank and NatWest.
Details of the principal subsidiary on page 55.
Fuller details of these and other risk factors are set out on undertakings of the company are shown in Note 18 on the accounts.
Following placing and open offers in December 2008 and in April 2009, The reported results of the Group are also sensitive to the accounting HM Treasury owned approximately 70.3% of the enlarged ordinary share policies, assumptions and estimates that underlie the preparation of its capital of the company.
In December 2009, the company issued a further financial statements.
Details of the Groups critical accounting policies 25.5 billion of new capital to HM Treasury.
This new capital took the and key sources of accounting judgments are included in Accounting form of B shares, which do not generally carry voting rights at general policies on pages 275 to 285. meetings of ordinary shareholders but are convertible into ordinary shares and qualify as Core Tier 1 capital.
The Groups approach to risk management, including its financial risk management objectives and policies and information on the Groups During the year, the company converted certain non-cumulative exposure to price, credit, liquidity and cash flow risk, is discussed in the convertible preference shares into ordinary shares in the company.
As a Risk and balance sheet management section of the Business review on result, HM Treasurys holding in the companys ordinary shares reduced pages 119 to 224. to 67.8%.
Financial performance Results and dividends A review of the Group's performance during the year ended 31 December The loss attributable to the ordinary and B shareholders of the company 2010, including details of each division, and the Group's financial position for the year ended 31 December 2010 amounted to 1,125 million as at that date is contained in the Business review on pages 56 to 112. compared with a loss of 3,607 million for the year ended 31 December 2009, as set out in the consolidated income statement on page 268.
ABN AMRO In 2007, RFS Holdings B. V. which was jointly owned by the Group, the The company did not pay a dividend on ordinary shares in 2009 or 2010.
Dutch State successor to Fortis and Santander the Consortium Members completed the acquisition of ABN AMRO Holding N. V..
The Group has undertaken that, unless otherwise agreed with the European Commission, neither the company nor any of its direct or RFS Holdings B. V. has now substantially completed the separation of the indirect subsidiaries other than companies in the RBS Holdings N. V. business units of ABN AMRO Holding N. V.. As part of this reorganisation, group, which are subject to different restrictions, see below will pay on 6 February 2010, the businesses of ABN AMRO Holding N. V. external investors any dividends or coupons on existing hybrid capital acquired by the Dutch State were legally demerged from those acquired instruments including preference shares, B shares and upper and lower by the Group and were transferred into a newly established company, tier 2 instruments for a period of two years from 30 April 2010 the ABN AMRO Bank N. V. save for certain assets and liabilities acquired by Deferral Period, or exercise any call rights in relation to these capital the Dutch State that were not part of the legal separation and which will instruments between 24 November 2009 and the end of the Deferral be transferred to the Dutch State as soon as possible.
Period, unless there is a legal obligation to do so.
Hybrid capital instruments issued after 24 November 2009 will generally not be subject Legal separation of ABN AMRO Bank N. V. occurred on 1 April 2010, with to the restriction on dividend or coupon payments or call options.
the shares in that entity being transferred by ABN AMRO Holding N. V renamed RBS Holdings N. V. at legal separation to a holding company The Group has agreed that RBS Holdings N. V. will not pay investors any called ABN AMRO Group N. V. which is owned by the Dutch State.
coupons on, or exercise any call rights in relation to, specified hybrid Following legal separation, RBS Holdings N. V. has one direct subsidiary, capital instruments for an effective period of two years from 1 April 2011, The Royal Bank of Scotland N. V. RBS N. V., a fully operational bank unless in any such case there is a legal obligation to do so.
RBS Holdings within the Group.
RBS N. V. is independently rated and regulated by the N. V. and its group companies are also subject to restrictions on the Dutch Central Bank.
Certain assets within RBS N. V. continue to be exercise of call rights in relation to their other hybrid capital instruments.
shared by the Consortium Members.
Business review The shareholdings of RFS Holdings B. V. were amended on 31 December Activities 2010, resulting in approximately 98% of its issued share capital now The Group is engaged principally in providing a wide range of banking, being held by the Group.
insurance and other financial services.
Further details of the 230 RBS Group 2010 Governance Business divestments The Group recognises employee representative organisations such as Significant progress has been made on the Groups European trade unions and work councils in a number of businesses and countries.
Commission-mandated disposal programme, with three of the four disposals largely agreed.
In August 2010, agreement was reached on the The Group has two European employee fora that provide elected sale of the Groups RBS branches in England and Wales and NatWest representatives with an opportunity to understand better its European branches in Scotland to Santander UK plc.
The sale remains subject to operations.
Engagement with its employees and such bodies remains regulatory and other approvals.
The sale of 80.01% of the Global Merchant Services GMS business to Diversity and inclusion a consortium of Advent International and Bain Capital completed in The Group recognises that the diversity of its workforce is a significant November 2010.
The Group holds a 19.99% minority stake in the new and necessary asset to the business.
During 2010, the Group executive GMS business, to be known as WorldPay.
renewed its commitment to ensuring a working environment that is inclusive to all and one that will enable all employees to develop to their The sale of RBS Sempra Commodities Metals, Oil and European Energy full potential.
business lines to J. P. Morgan completed in July 2010.
The sale of Sempra Energy Solutions to Noble Americas Gas & Power Corp completed in The Group has a range of policies and processes that extend through the November 2010, while the sale of Sempra North American Power and employee life-cycle including recruitment, flexible working and support for Gas to J. P. Morgan completed in December 2010. ill-health and disability-related absence.
Diversity performance is monitored and reviewed at Group and divisional executive level.
This Employees commitment extends beyond the Group including support of external As at 31 December 2010, the Group employed over 148,500 employees charitable networks and fora and as part of the community engagement full-time equivalent basis throughout the world.
Details of employee and supplier relationships.
Internally, the Group supports initiatives such related costs are included in Note 3 on the accounts.
as the Women in Business network.
Employee learning and development Safety, health and wellbeing The Group maintains a strong commitment to creating and providing Ensuring the safety, health and wellbeing of employees and customers is learning opportunities for all its employees through a variety of personal core to the Groups business, and a fundamental social responsibility for development, training programmes, learning networks and targeted the Group.
Employees are also encouraged to do voluntary work with community partners.
During 2010, the Group continued to focus on compliance, governance and managing risk across all jurisdictions.
Enhanced services and Employee communication supporting communication were implemented to support the health and Employee engagement is encouraged through a range of communication wellbeing of employees, particularly given the impact of the economic channels, at both divisional and Group level.
access to news and information in a number of ways, including the intranet, magazines, video, team meetings led by line managers, Pre-employment screening briefings held by senior managers and regular dialogue with employees The Group has a comprehensive pre-employment screening process to and employee representatives.
guard against possible infiltration and employee-related fraud for all direct and non-direct staff engaged on Group business.
The Group Chief Executive and other senior Group executives regularly Code of conduct communicate with, and encourage feedback from, employees across a The code of conduct applies to all employees globally and to all those range of channels.
engaged by the Group, but who are not employees, such as contractors and those engaged through external agencies.
Employee consultation Each year, all employees are invited to complete the global employee opinion survey.
The survey is confidential and independently managed by The code of conduct exists to promote honest and ethical conduct, Towers Watson.
The survey provides a channel for employees to express including the handling of actual or apparent conflicts of interest between their views and opinions about the Group on a range of key issues.
The Group recognises that personal conduct, business integrity and the Groups security are crucial, The 2010 survey took place in September 2010 and the final response and the code of conduct serves to inform employees of the Groups rate was 81%.
This represents over 119,000 employees participating in expectations of their behaviour and practices.
the survey, from more than 50 countries.
RBS Group 2010 231 Report of the directors continued Sustainability Corporate governance Sustainability is central to the way the Group is managed.
Sustainability The company is committed to high standards of corporate governance.
is not just about the many responsibilities and obligations that the Group Details are given on pages 235 to 245.
The corporate governance has in a legal sense, but about specific issues that need to be addressed statement forms part of this Report of the directors.
to ensure that the Group is a healthy and respected business operating on a sustainable basis.
There is a clear governance structure for Group Share capital Sustainability that oversees and aligns the Group's approach to the range Details of the ordinary share capital and preference share capital at 31 of social, ethical and environmental issues which confront the business December 2010 and movements during the year, are shown in Note 29 on a daily basis.
For more information on the governance structure, see on the accounts.
Additional information The Group continues to do significant work and address challenges Where not provided elsewhere in the Report of the directors, the following across five key themes: Fair banking, Supporting enterprise, Employee additional information is required to be disclosed by Part 6 of Schedule 7 engagement, Safety and security, and Citizenship and environmental to the Large and Medium-sized Companies and Groups Accounts and sustainability.
For more information on the Group Sustainability Reports Regulations 2008. programme, see pages 43 to 47.
The rights and obligations attaching to the companys ordinary shares Going concern and preference shares are set out in the companys Articles of The Groups business activities and financial position, the factors likely to Association, copies of which can be obtained from Companies House in affect its future development and performance and its objectives and the UK or at www.
policies in managing the financial risks to which it is exposed and its capital are discussed in the Business review.
The risk factors which could On a show of hands at a general meeting of the company every holder of adversely affect the Groups future results are set out on pages 405 to ordinary shares and cumulative preference shares present in person or 422.
The Groups regulatory capital resources and significant by proxy and entitled to vote shall have one vote.
On a poll, every holder developments since 2009 and anticipated future developments are of ordinary shares present in person or by proxy and entitled to vote shall detailed in the Capital section on pages 126 to 133.
The Funding and have one vote for every share held.
On a poll, holders of cumulative liquidity risk section, pages 134 to 142, describes the Groups funding preference shares present in person or by proxy and entitled to vote shall and liquidity profile, including changes in key metrics, the build up of have four votes for every share held.
The voting rights of holders of nonliquidity reserves and the outlook for 2011. cumulative preference shares are set out in Note 29 on the accounts.
The notices of Annual General Meetings and General Meetings specify the Having reviewed the Groups forecasts, projections and other relevant deadlines for exercising voting rights and appointing a proxy or proxies to evidence, the directors have a reasonable expectation that the Group and vote in relation to resolutions to be passed at the meeting.
the company will continue in operational existence for the foreseeable future.
Accordingly, the financial statements of the Group and of the The cumulative preference shares represent less than 0.01% and the company have been prepared on a going concern basis.
non-cumulative preference shares represent less than 0.73% of the total voting rights of the company respectively, the remainder being BBA disclosure code represented by the ordinary shares.
In September 2010, the British Bankers Association published its Code for Financial Reporting Disclosure.
The code sets out five disclosure There are no restrictions on the transfer of ordinary shares in the principles together with supporting guidance.
The principles are that the company other than certain restrictions which may from time to time be Group and other major UK banks will provide high quality, meaningful imposed by laws and regulations for example, insider trading laws.
and decision-useful disclosures: review and enhance their financial Pursuant to the Listing Rules of the Financial Services Authority FSA, instrument disclosures for key areas of interest to market participants: certain employees of the company require the approval of the company assess the applicability and relevance of good practice recommendations to deal in the companys shares.
to their disclosures acknowledging the importance of such guidance: seek to enhance the comparability of financial statement disclosures The rules governing the appointment of directors are set out in the across the UK banking sector: and clearly differentiate in their annual companys Articles of Association and on page 236.
The companys reports between information that is audited and information that is Articles of Association may only be amended by a special resolution at a unaudited.
The Groups 2010 financial statements have been prepared general meeting of shareholders.
in compliance with the codes principles.
232 RBS Group 2010 Governance A number of the companys share plans include restrictions on transfers Gordon Pell retired as an executive director on 31 March 2010. of shares while shares are subject to the plans or the terms under which the shares were awarded.
Brendan Nelson was appointed as a non-executive director on 1 April 2010.
The rights and obligations of holders of non-cumulative preference shares are set out in Note 29 on the accounts.
Archie Hunter retired as a non-executive director on 28 April 2010.
Except in relation to the Dividend Access Share, the company is not All directors of the company will stand for re-election by shareholders at aware of any agreements between shareholders that may result in the 2011 Annual General Meeting and annually thereafter.
Colin Buchan restrictions on the transfer of securities and or voting rights.
There are no will stand down as a non-executive director on 5 August 2011 following persons holding securities carrying special rights with regard to control of the announcement of the Groups interim results, having served just over the company.
Group General Counsel and Group Secretary Under the rules of certain employee share plans, eligible employees are Miller McLean retired as Group General Counsel and Group Secretary on entitled to acquire shares in the company, and shares are held in trust for 30 April 2010.
He was succeeded by Chris Campbell as Group General participants by The Royal Bank and Ulster Bank Dublin Trust Company Counsel and Aileen Taylor as Group Secretary.
Voting rights are exercised by the Trustees on receipt of participants instructions.
If a participant does not submit an instruction to Directors interests the Trustee no vote is registered.
The interests of the directors in the shares of the company at 31 December 2010 are shown on page 264.
None of the directors held an The Royal Bank of Scotland plc 1992 Employee Share Trust, The Royal interest in the loan capital of the company or in the shares or loan capital Bank of Scotland Group plc 2001 Employee Share Trust and The Royal of any of the subsidiary undertakings of the company, during the period Bank of Scotland Group plc 2007 US Employee Share Trust hold shares from 1 January 2010 to 23 February 2011. on behalf of the Groups employee share plans.
The voting rights are exercisable by the Trustees, however, in accordance with investor Directors indemnities protection guidelines, the Trustees abstain from voting.
The Trustees In terms of section 236 of the Companies Act 2006 the Companies Act, would take independent advice before accepting any offer in respect of Qualifying Third Party Indemnity Provisions have been issued by the their shareholdings for the company in a takeover bid situation.
company to directors, members of the Groups Executive and Management Committees and FSA Approved Persons.
Awards granted under the companys employee share plans may be met through a combination of newly issued shares and shares acquired in the In terms of section 236 of the Companies Act, Qualifying Pension market by the companys employee benefit trusts.
Scheme Indemnity Provisions have been issued to all trustees of the Groups pension schemes.
A change of control of the company following a takeover bid may cause a number of agreements to which the company is party to take effect, alter Post balance sheet events or terminate.
All of the companys employee share plans contain There have been no significant events between the year end and the provisions relating to a change of control.
Outstanding awards and date of approval of these accounts which would require a change to or options may vest and become exercisable on change of control, subject disclosure in the accounts.
where appropriate to the satisfaction of any performance conditions at that time and pro-rating of awards.
In the context of the company as a Shareholdings whole, these agreements are not considered to be significant.
The table below shows shareholders that have notified the Group that they hold more than 3% of the total voting rights of the company at 31 Directors December 2010.
The names and brief biographical details of the directors are shown on Solicitor For The Affairs of Her Majestys Treasury as pages 226 and 227.
Nominee for Her Majestys Treasury Number of shares % held Ordinary shares 39,644,835,194 67.8 Colin Buchan, Sandy Crombie, Philip Hampton, Stephen Hester, Penny B shares non-voting 51,000,000,000 100.0 Hughes, Joe MacHale, John McFarlane, Art Ryan, Philip Scott and Bruce Van Saun all served throughout the year and to the date of signing of the financial statements.
RBS Group 2010 233 Report of the directors continued Charitable contributions Policy and practice on payment of creditors In 2010, the Groups overall community contribution was 56.1 million The Group is committed to maintaining a sound commercial relationship 2009 - 63.9 million.
The total amount given for charitable purposes by with its suppliers.
Consequently, it is the Groups policy to negotiate and the company and its subsidiary undertakings during the year ended 31 agree terms and conditions with its suppliers, which include the giving of December 2010 was 29.6 million 2009 - 34.7 million.
an undertaking to pay suppliers within 30 days of receipt of a correctly prepared invoice submitted in accordance with the terms of the contract To ensure it makes its community investments as effective as possible, or such other payment period as may be agreed.
the Groups policy is to focus its resources on a small number of substantial strategic programmes.
These are issues most relevant to a At 31 December 2010, the Groups trade creditors represented 29 days financial institution and relate broadly to financial education, supporting 2009 - 30 days of amounts invoiced by suppliers.
enterprise and microfinance and the charitable endeavours of employees.
Directors disclosure to auditors Political donations Each of the directors at the date of approval of this report confirms that: At the Annual General Meeting in 2010, shareholders gave authority under Part 14 of the Companies Act, for a period of one year, for the a so far as the director is aware, there is no relevant audit information of company and its subsidiaries to make political donations and incur which the companys auditors are unaware: and political expenditure up to a maximum aggregate sum of 500,000.
This authorisation was taken as a precaution only, as the company has a b the director has taken all the steps that he she ought to have taken as longstanding policy of not making political donations or incurring political a director to make himself herself aware of any relevant audit information expenditure within the ordinary meaning of those words.
Shareholders and to establish that the companys auditors are aware of that information.
will be asked to renew this authorisation at the Annual General Meeting in 2011.
This confirmation is given and should be interpreted in accordance with the provisions of section 418 of the Companies Act.
During 2010, the Group made no political donations in the UK or EU.
In keeping with the Groups employment policies, Coutts & Company Auditors allowed a member of staff paid leave during the year to stand for election The auditors, Deloitte LLP, have indicated their willingness to continue in at the UK General Election.
This might constitute political expenditure for office.
A resolution to re-appoint Deloitte LLP as the companys auditors the purposes of the Companies Act, as the definition in the Companies will be proposed at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting.
Act is capable of having a very wide meaning.
The amount of expenditure in relation to the paid leave was 2,128.
By order of the Board RBS Services Australia Limited, a company acquired by the Group through its acquisition of ABN AMRO, made donations of AUS$126,552 Aileen Taylor 75,397 during 2010 to Australian political parties and Australian partySecretary affiliated fundraising vehicles.
These payments were fully compliant with 23 February 2011 ABN AMRO policy and Australian electoral law.
No further donations will be made and it is not proposed that the Groups longstanding policy of The Royal Bank of Scotland Group plc not making contributions to any political party be changed.
is registered in Scotland No.
