UK Corporate UK Corporate is the leading provider of banking, finance and risk management services to the corporate and SME sector in the United Kingdom.
It offers a full range of banking products and related financial services through a nationwide network of relationship Chris Sullivan, Chief Executive, mangers, and also through telephony and UK Corporate online channels.
The product range includes For biographies M see pages 226-229 asset finance through the Lombard brand and invoice finance through RBS Invoice Finance.
Key business highlights Our success rests on how well we support our Operating profit grew by 30% customers.
We have a responsibility to help Net interest income increased by 12% them through difficult and uncertain times.
Non-interest income increased by 3% Thats why our charter for SME customers, Expenses increased by 9% published in November 2009, sets out clear Impairment losses were 18% lower Risk-weighted assets decreased by 10% commitments on what customers can expect from us and on how we will behave.
In 2010, we put it into practice.
2010 2009 Performance highlights m m We achieved that while boosting operating profit Net interest income 2,572 2,292 by 30% compared with 2009, a result that reflects Non-interest income 1,323 1,290 strong income growth, as well as lower impairments, partially offset by higher costs.
Total income 3,895 3,582 Expenses 1,671 1,530 Helping businesses to start-up and grow Operating profit before impairment losses 2,224 2,052 We know that new businesses are vital to the recovering UK economy.
In 2010, we opened on average more than 2,200 start-up accounts per Impairment losses 761 927 week.
Each one benefits from free transactional banking services in their Operating profit 1,463 1,125 first two years of operation.
Risk-weighted assets bn 81.4 90.2 We launched the Start-Up Hotline, which received nearly 1,700 calls Return on equity 12.1% 9.4% by the end of 2010.
It provides practical help and advice to budding entrepreneurs.
Business experts can discuss with potential start-ups the Net interest margin 2.51% 2.22% factors that affect their market.
Our Business Planning Software enables Cost:income ratio 43% 43% new firms to prepare a business plan, and our free business plan review Loan:deposit ratio 110% 126% service provides constructive feedback on its development.
Along with our partners, including the British Chambers of Commerce and Smarta, we launched the Fitness for Growth campaign.
It provides firms with information and advice that will be useful as they try to grow.
In October, we launched the first of a series of training seminars in 5,000 4,000 conjunction with the Federation of Small Businesses.
loans to UK businesses hours spent listening to our each week customers and people Our SME Business Knowledge Hub provides free access to a range of designing Genesis excellent business guides and support materials, including an Online Business Review tool.
We recognise that financial management is important for our customers and have produced a practical guide with information on cashflow management.
It also highlights the factors the Return on equity % Cost:income % Loan:deposit ratio % Bank will look at when assessing credit requests.
2010 12 43 110 In times of heightened financial pressures, we know we have to provide 2013 15 35 130 target more intensive support for some customers.
Our Specialised Relationship 24 RBS Group 2010 Divisional review UKCorporate We are currently opening more than 2,200 start-up accounts per week.
To date, we have led the field in taking applications for the Enterprise Finance Guarantee, accounting for over 40% of all loans drawn under the scheme.
Management team of over 500 experienced employees continued to breached conditions or there was a significant deterioration in their risk provide locally based, hands-on support where needed.
Our price promise ensures that we will not increase overdraft 5,600 customers were successfully managed back to financial health.
margins at renewal times, unless there is a significant change in the firms risk profile.
By October 2010, over nine out of 10 small businesses had Giving customers access to finance benefited from overdraft renewals at the same or a lower rate.
Getting access to finance is a key concern for many of our customers.
We continue to be open for business.
In 2010, we provided on average Meeting our customer needs over 5,000 loans to UK businesses each week.
Our approval rate remains Our customers like the steps we have taken and the support we provide.
high: we continue to accept over 85% of the credit applications we receive.
RBS Group is in the top three banks in the UK for business customer satisfaction.
The percentage of our corporate customers describing For the period from March 2010 to February 2011, RBS Group had agreed themselves as very satisfied has remained consistently high.
In March, to make 50 billion of gross new lending facilities available to customers Lombard won Best Leasing and Asset Finance Provider at the Business through its Business & Commercial, Corporate and Institutional Banking Moneyfacts Awards for the second consecutive year.
Our Invoice Finance and GBM businesses.
We launched a number of initiatives to ensure firms business works closely with customers providing products to meet their and their advisers know we are making lending available.
For example, in October, RBS Invoice Finance finalised its first asset backed lending deal for the retail sector, with a flexible 9 In January, we announced our Manufacturing Fund, pledging to make 1 million facility to DM London Limited trading under the brand Time 2. billion of new loans available on competitive and flexible terms to UK manufacturing businesses.
However, we continue to look for ways to improve how we deliver services.
A major contribution to that is our transformation programme, which we The Manufacturing Fund won the Innovation in Product Design Business call Genesis.
When we put it together, we spent over 4,000 hours listening Banking category at the Financial World Financial Innovation Awards.
to our customers and people in developing the programmes design.
We We also created 2.15 billion of specific lending programmes to support believe that Genesis will make our customers banking experience simpler, infrastructure and public sector developments, including social housing, more responsive and better suited to their needs.
local authorities and renewable energies.
Contributing towards the new RBS We supported the creation of the Enterprise Finance Guarantee EFG The progress we made in 2010 contributes to the wider objectives of in 2008, which aims to improve the availability of working capital to SME making RBS a stronger and safer Bank.
We increased our customer firms.
Initially available until March 2010, it was extended to March 2011. deposits by 14%, helping to reduce the gap between loans and deposits By December 2010, we led the field in taking applications for the EFG, by 16%.
We continued to enhance our risk control systems, including accounting for over 40% of all loans drawn under the scheme.
implementing specific new guidance for Real Estate Finance.
In 2008, we agreed a 250 million funding agreement with the European We also took steps to deal with the legacy of the past.
In line with the Investment Bank, whereby funds were provided to eligible customers at EUs divestment requirements, in August 2010 we announced a sale preferential borrowing rates.
The success of the scheme led to a second agreement with Santander UK plc for 318 branches.
This includes the 300 million tranche being agreed in July 2010.
SME accounts attached to these branches, as well as our Direct SME business and certain mid-sized corporate customers.
Our plans for We remain a leader in helping UK corporate clients to raise funds from separating and segregating this business are well advanced and we the stock market, as well as a range of debt products.
In 2010, we led expect the process to be completed by the end of March 2012.
We will on the arrangements for two of the top three UK corporate equity deals.
try to keep any disruption for customers and staff to a minimum.
Being fair and transparent in how we treat our customers 2010 was a year of delivering the commitments we have made to support In our SME charter, we extended our committed overdraft and price our customers.
We are taking the necessary steps to restore the reputation promises to cover 2010.
This ensured that a customers overdraft facility of the Bank, brick by brick, and putting our customers at the heart of remained in place for the duration of their agreement, unless they everything we do.
