Business review  Credit approval authority is discharged by way of a framework of Originating business units consult with GRG prior to transfer to GRG individual delegated authorities that requires at least two individuals to when a potentially negative event or trend emerges which might affect a approve each credit decision, one from the business and one from the customers ability to service its debt or increase the Groups risk credit risk management function.
Both parties must hold sufficient exposure to that customer.
Such circumstances include deteriorating delegated authority under the Group-wide authority grid.
Whilst both trading performance, likely breach of covenant, challenging parties are accountable for the quality of each decision taken, the credit macroeconomic conditions, a missed payment or the expectation of a risk management approver holds ultimate sanctioning authority.
The level missed payment to the Group or another creditor.
of authority granted to individuals is dependent on their experience and On transfer of the relationship, GRG devises a bespoke strategy that expertise with only a small number of senior executives holding the optimises recoveries from the debt.
This strategy may also involve GRG highest authority provided under the framework.
Daily monitoring of reviewing the business operations and performance of the customer.
A individual counterparty limits is undertaken.
number of alternative approaches will typically be considered including: At a minimum, credit relationships are reviewed and re-approved x Covenant relief: the temporary waiver or recalibration of covenants annually.
The renewal process addresses: borrower performance, may be granted to mitigate a potential or actual covenant breach.
including reconfirmation or adjustment of risk parameter estimates: the Such relief is usually granted in exchange for fees, increased margin, adequacy of security: and compliance with terms and conditions.
For additional security, or a reduction in maturity profile of the original certain counterparties, early warning indicators are also in place to detect loan.
deteriorating trends of concern in limit utilisation or account performance.
x Amendment of restrictive covenants: restrictions in loan documents Single name concentrations may be amended or waived as part of an overall remedial strategy Reducing the risk arising from concentrations to single names remains a to allow: additional indebtedness: the granting of collateral: the sale key focus of management attention.
Notwithstanding continued market of a business: the granting of junior lien on the collateral: or other illiquidity and the impact of negative credit migration caused by the fundamental change in capital or operating structure of the current economic environment, significant progress was made in 2010 enterprise.
and credit exposures in excess of single name concentration limits fell by over 40% during the year.
x Variation in margin: contractual margin may be amended to bolster Country the customers day-to-day liquidity, with the aim of helping to sustain Country risk arises from sovereign events default or restructuring : the customers business as a going concern.
This would normally be economic events contagion of sovereign default to other parts of the accompanied by the Group receiving an exit payment, payment in economy, cyclical economic shock : political events convertibility kind or deferred fee.
restrictions and expropriation or nationalisation : and natural disaster or x Payment holidays and loan rescheduling: payment holidays or conflict.
Such events have the potential to impact elements of the Groups changes to the contracted amortisation profile including extensions credit portfolio that are directly or indirectly linked to the affected country in contracted maturity or roll-overs may be granted to improve and can also give rise to market, liquidity, operational and franchise risk customer liquidity.
Such concessions often depend on the related losses.
expectation that liquidity will recover when market conditions The framework for the Groups appetite for country risk is set by the improve or from capital raising initiatives that access alternative Executive Risk Forum ERF in the form of limits by country risk grade, sources of liquidity.
Recently, these types of concessions have with sub-limits on medium-term exposure.
Authority is delegated to the become more common in commercial real estate transactions in Group Country Risk Committee to manage exposures within the situations when a shortage of market liquidity rules out immediate framework, with escalation where needed to ERF.
Specific limits are set refinancing and short-term forced collateral sales unattractive.
for individual countries based on a risk assessment taking into account x Forgiveness of all or part of the outstanding debt: debt may be the Groups franchise and business mix in that country.
Additional forgiven or exchanged for equity where a fundamental shift in the limitations for example, on foreign-currency exposure and product types customers business or economic environment means that other with higher potential for loss in case of country events may be forms of restructuring strategies are unlikely to succeed in isolation established to address specific vulnerabilities in the context of a country's and the customer is incapable of servicing current debt obligations.
outlook and or the Group's business strategy in a particular country.
A Debt forgiveness is often an element in leveraged finance country watch list framework is in place to proactively monitor emerging transactions which are typically structured on the basis of projected issues and facilitate the development of mitigation strategies.
cash flows from operational activities rather than underlying tangible Global Restructuring Group asset values.
Maintaining the business as a going concern with a The Global Restructuring Group GRG manages problem and potential sustainable level of debt is the preferred option rather than realising problem exposures in the Group's wholesale credit portfolios.
Its primary the underlying assets, provided that the underlying business model function is to actively manage the exposures to minimise loss for the and strategy are considered viable.
Group and, where feasible, to return the exposure to the Groups mainstream loan book.
RBS Group 2010 147 Business review continued Risk management: Credit risk continued Retail collections and recoveries Global Restructuring Group continued There are collections and recoveries functions in each of the consumer Depending on the case in question, GRG may employ a combination of businesses.
Their role is to provide support and assistance to customers these options in order to achieve the best outcome.
It may also consider who are currently experiencing difficulties in meeting their financial alternative approaches, either alone or together with the options listed obligations.
Where possible, the aim of the collections and recoveries above.
teams is to return the customer to a satisfactory position, by working with them to restructure their finances.
If this is not possible, the team has the The following are generally considered as options of last resort: objective of reducing the loss to the Group.
x Enforcement of security or otherwise taking control of assets: where Forbearance the Group holds underlying collateral or other security interest and is The Groups retail forbearance activities involve granting various contract entitled to enforce its rights, it may take ownership or control of the revisions not normally available, such as reduced repayments, payment assets.
The Groups preferred strategy is to consider other possible moratoriums and the roll up of arrears, principally to retail customers with options prior to exercising these rights.
secured lending that are experiencing temporary financial difficulties.
x Insolvency: where there is no suitable restructuring option or the Loans are identified for forbearance primarily as a result of contact from business is no longer regarded as sustainable, insolvency will be the customer or payment arrears and it is only granted following an considered.
Insolvency may be the only option that ensures that the assessment of the customers ability to pay.
For those loans that are assets of the business are properly and efficiently distributed to classified as impaired, the Groups objective is to minimise the loss on relevant creditors.
these accounts: for currently performing loans the aim is to enable the customer to continue to service the loan.
As discussed above, GRG will consider a range of possible restructuring strategies.
At the time of execution, the ultimate outcome of the strategy Forbearance lending for which an impairment loss provision has been adopted is unknown and highly dependent on the cooperation of the recognised remains classified as non-performing.
Where the customer borrower and the continued existence of a viable business.
The met the loan terms prior to modification and where there is an expectation customers financial position, its anticipated future prospects and the that the customer will meet the revised terms, these loans are classified likely effect of the restructuring including any concessions are considered as performing loans.
by the GRG relationship manager to establish whether an impairment provision is required, subject to divisional and Group governance.
Retail loan forbearance arrangements during 2010 totalled 3.3 billion residential mortgages 3.1 billion, of which 1.0 billion were classified During 2010, GRG completed corporate loan restructurings totalling 6.2 as impaired.
The incidence of the main types of retail forbearance is billion exposures of more than 5 million of which 2.7 billion were analysed below.
%of loans classified as impaired.
Of these restructurings 2.4 billion related to by value commercial real estate and 2.1 billion to manufacturing.
The incidence Reduced repayments 59 of the main types of arrangements is analysed below: Payment moratoriums 20 %of loans by value Roll up of arrears 19 Term extensions 54 Interest reductions 6 Debt forgiveness Term extensions 25 3 Debt for equity 23 Interest rate concessions and payment moratoriums 36 The total exceeds 100% as an individual case can involve more than one type of arrangement.
The total above exceeds 100% as an individual case can involve more than one type of arrangement.
Of the forbearance arrangements agreed in the performing book during 2010, less than 15% were impaired as at 31 December 2010.
Transfer of restructured loans to the performing book follows assessment by relationship managers in GRG.
All cases are individually assessed: when no further losses are expected the loan is returned to performing status.
Restructured loans that carry an impairment provision remain classified as impaired.
Of the 3.5 billion of corporate loans that were transferred to the performing book with a concession during 2010, loans amounting to 1.8 billion had a negotiated margin increase as compensation for concessions granted.
