Business review continued Risk management: Operational risk continued Global regulatory risk policies Physical security Within the Group Policy Framework GPF, regulatory risk and The Group continues to implement strong security measures to ensure compliance policies define minimum standards for all businesses to the safety of staff, the Groups customers and businesses from physical adhere to on a global basis.
These policies are primarily driven by the harm.
Against an ever changing threat environment, these measures are rules and regulations set by the FSA as the Groups lead regulator.
kept under constant review and adapted accordingly.
The past year has These global minimum standards are supplemented by division specific seen protests groups continue to target the Group most notably Climate policies where appropriate product specific or local market specific Camp in August 2010 : robust processes are in place to ensure the requirements.
safety of customers and staff during these demonstrations.
The Group Regulatory developments also continues to mitigate against the threat posed by international Regulatory environments are constantly evolving and it is critical that the related terrorism.
Group both understands early on the drivers for this change and be able Information security to assess the potential impact of prospective rules and regulations on the The Group is committed to protecting customer, employee and Group different businesses.
The regulatory developments tracker seeks to information with regard to the loss of confidentiality, integrity and identify, track and monitor all such material changes and ensure that an availability.
This extends to all physical and electronic information.
All appointed senior executive is responsible for assessing the potential employees and related third parties of the Group are responsible for the impacts on the Groups business.
Such activity supports both effective protection of Group assets, systems and information.
All customer engagement in the regulatory consultation process, and planning for the information is treated as confidential and appropriate security is applied introduction of new or changed rules and regulations.
Additionally, the Groups information security During the last 12 months the Group has experienced unprecedented policy is reviewed regularly and includes processes for managing and monitoring compliance with the policy.
The same standards apply to levels of prospective rules and regulations particularly in the area of information controlled by the Group or managed by authorised third prudential regulation capital, liquidity, governance and risk management, parties.
and to the treatment of systemically important entities, in particular through initiatives on recovery and resolution plans living wills - see The Group continues to invest in programmes to enhance and maintain page 398 for regulatory developments and reviews.
information security controls and systems.
For example, during 2010 the Training and awareness Group have risk assessed the externally facing websites and penetration Maintaining compliance with existing rules and regulations requires a tested those websites that contain confidential, high-risk Group data and continued investment in professional training and maintaining risk established an assurance team to implement an ongoing programme of awareness.
The group undertakes extensive training both with group third party reviews.
wide learning initiatives e. g. anti-money laundering as well as divisional Business continuity or product specific training.
To support the professional development of The need to ensure the continuity of business across the Group and the the Groups regulatory risk staff the Group has a comprehensive management of crisis situations is a key activity within the risk function.
progressive training programme that is deployed on a global basis.
Key risks and threats that the Group is consistently monitoring from a Assurance and monitoring business continuity perspective include pandemics, terrorism, Assurance and monitoring activities are key to ensuring that the Group environmental impacts and technology disruptions.
Business continuity can demonstrate ongoing compliance with existing rules and regulations.
plans are in place to ensure that the Group can continue key products, Such activities are conducted in both the first line and second line of services, and operations.
A consistent crisis management framework has defence.
Work to design, implement and embed enhanced monitoring been developed that includes a six step methodology and allows tools was undertaken in 2010 and will continue into 2011. incidents to be managed and resolved through skilled global teams.
Regulatory relationship management All business continuity plans, related activities and systems are tested The Group is committed to working with its regulators in an open and annually.
The plan data is validated every 6 months and where the constructive way as it deals with both the evolution of regulatory impact on business is high, the validation frequency is increased to every frameworks as well as the ongoing compliance to existing rules and 3 months.
The regulatory relationship management tool is used to track, Regulatory risk record, monitor and report on all material regulatory engagement to ensure that activities remain co-ordinated across the Group - see page Regulatory risk arises from the non-adherence to international and 397 for a description of the key regulatory and supervisory bodies with national rules and regulations.
The Group manages regulatory risk which the Group engages.
through a regulatory risk and compliance framework that seeks to ensure the Group is in compliance with all banking, securities, insurance and anti-money laundering regulations defined by more than 120 different regulatory bodies and central banks across the world.
This framework comprises global regulatory risk policies, tracking of regulatory developments, training and awareness, assurance and monitoring and regulatory relationship management.
