Business review continued Central Functions comprises Group and corporate functions, such as In the small business banking market, the Group competes with other UK treasury, funding and finance, risk management, legal, communications clearing banks, specialist finance providers and building societies.
The Centre manages the Group's capital resources and Group-wide regulatory projects and provides services to In the personal banking segment, the Group competes with UK clearing the operating divisions.
banks and building societies, major retailers and life assurance companies.
In the mortgage market, the Group competes with UK Non-Core Division manages separately assets that the Group intends to clearing banks and building societies.
The ambitions of non-traditional run off or dispose of.
The division contains a range of businesses and players in the UK market remain strong with retailers and new entrants asset portfolios primarily from the GBM division, linked to proprietary forming aggressive expansion plans.
The Group's life assurance trading, higher risk profile asset portfolios including excess risk businesses compete with Independent Financial Advisers and life concentrations, and other illiquid portfolios.
It also includes a number of assurance companies.
other portfolios and businesses including regional markets businesses that the Group has concluded are no longer strategic.
In the UK credit card market large retailers and specialist card issuers, including major US operators are active in addition to the UK banks.
In Business Services supports the customer-facing businesses and addition to physical distribution channels, providers compete through provides operational technology, customer support in telephony, account direct marketing activity and the internet.
management, lending and money transmission, global purchasing, property and other services.
Business Services drives efficiencies and In Wealth Management, The Royal Bank of Scotland International supports income growth across multiple brands and channels by using a competes with other UK and international banks to offer offshore banking single, scalable platform and common processes wherever possible.
Coutts and Adam & Company compete as private banks with also leverages the Group's purchasing power and is the Group's centre of UK clearing and private banks, and with international private banks.
excellence for managing large-scale and complex change.
For reporting Competition in wealth management remains strong as banks maintain purposes, Business Services costs are allocated to the divisions above.
It their focus on competing for affluent and high net worth customers.
is not deemed a reportable segment.
RBS Insurance competes in personal lines insurance and, to a more Business divestments limited extent, in commercial insurance.
There is strong competition from To comply with EC State Aid requirements the Group has agreed a series a range of insurance companies which now operate telephone and of restructuring measures to be implemented over a four year period from internet direct sales businesses.
Competition in the UK motor market December 2009.
This will supplement the measures in the strategic plan remains intense, and price comparison internet sites now play a major previously announced by the Group.
These include divesting RBS role in the marketplace.
These sites are now extending their scope to Insurance, 80.01% of Global Merchant Services and substantially all of home insurance and other lines.
RBS Insurance also competes with local RBS Sempra Commodities JV business, as well as divesting the RBS insurance companies in the direct motor insurance markets in Italy and branch-based business in England and Wales and the NatWest branches Germany.
in Scotland, along with the Direct SME customers across the UK.
In Ireland, Ulster Bank competes in retail and commercial banking with Competition the major Irish banks and building societies, and with other UK and The Group faces strong competition in all the markets it serves.
Banks international banks and building societies active in the market.
The balance sheets have strengthened whilst loan demand has been challenging conditions in the Irish economy persist and many of the subdued as many customers have sought to fide-lever and the UK domestic Irish banks have required State support and are engaged in economy has proved slow to recover.
Competition for retail deposits significant restructuring actions.
remains intense as institutions continue to target strong and diverse funding platforms for their balance sheets.
In the United States, Citizens competes in the New England, Mid-Atlantic and Mid-West retail and mid-corporate banking markets with local and Competition for corporate and institutional customers in the UK is from regional banks and other financial institutions.
The Group also competes UK banks and from large foreign financial institutions who are also active in the US in large corporate lending and specialised finance markets, and and offer combined investment and commercial banking capabilities.
In in fixed-income trading and sales.
Competition is principally with the large asset finance, the Group competes with banks and specialised asset US commercial and investment banks and international banks active in finance providers, both captive and non-captive.
In European and Asian the US.
The economic recovery in the US is proving weaker than corporate and institutional banking markets the Group competes with the expected and loan demand is weak in Citizens markets which in turn has large domestic banks active in these markets and with the major dampened the level of competitive pressure in the deposit markets as international banks.
