Business review continued Product asset class Risk management: Credit risk x Retail: a formal risk appetite framework establishes Group-level All the disclosures in this section pages 146 to 165 are audited unless statements and thresholds that are cascaded through all retail otherwise indicated by an asterisk.
franchises in the Group and to granular business lines.
These include measures that relate to both aggregate portfolios and to Credit risk is the risk of financial loss owing to the failure of customers or origination asset quality that are monitored frequently to ensure counterparties to meet payment obligations.
The quantum and nature of consistency with Group standards and appetite.
This appetite setting credit risk assumed across the Group's different businesses varies and monitoring then informs the processes and parameters considerably, while the overall credit risk outcome usually exhibits a high employed in origination activities that require a large volume of small degree of correlation to the macroeconomic environment.
scale credit decisions, typically involving an application for a new product or a change in facilities on an existing product.
The majority Credit risk organisation of these decisions are based upon automated strategies utilising The existence of a strong credit risk management organisation is vital to credit and behaviour scoring techniques.
Scores and strategies are support the ongoing profitability of the Group.
The potential for loss typically segmented by product, brand and other significant drivers through economic cycles is mitigated through the embedding of a robust of credit risk.
These data driven strategies utilise a wide range of credit risk culture within the business units and through a focus on the credit information relating to a customer including, where importance of sustainable lending practices.
The role of the credit risk appropriate, information across customers holdings.
A small management organisation is to own the credit approval, concentration number of credit decisions are subject to additional manual and risk appetite frameworks and to act as the ultimate authority for the underwriting by authorised approvers in specialist units.
This, together with strong independent oversight and include higher value, more complex, small business and personal challenge, enables the business to maintain a sound lending environment unsecured transactions and some residential mortgage applications.
x Wholesale: formal policies, specialised tools and expertise, tailored Responsibility for development of Group-wide policies, credit risk monitoring and reporting and in certain cases specific limits and frameworks, Group-wide portfolio management and assessment of thresholds are deployed to address certain lines of business across provision adequacy sits within the functional Group Credit Risk the Group where the nature of credit risk incurred could represent a organisation GCR under the management of the Group Chief Credit concentration or a specific heightened risk in some other form.
Execution of these policies and frameworks is the responsibility of portfolios are subject to formal governance, including periodic review, the risk management organisations located within the Groups business at either Group or divisional level, depending on materiality.
These divisional credit risk functions work together with GCR to ensure that the Boards expressed risk appetite is met within a clearly Sector defined and managed control environment.
Each credit risk function Across wholesale portfolios, exposures are assigned to, and reviewed in within the division is managed by a Chief Credit Officer who reports jointly the context of, a defined set of industry sectors.
Through this sector to a divisional Chief Risk Officer and to the Group Chief Credit Officer.
framework, appetite and portfolio strategies are agreed and set at Divisional activities within credit risk include credit approval, transaction aggregate and more granular levels where exposures have the potential and portfolio analysis, early problem recognition and ongoing credit risk to represent excessive concentration or where trends in both external stewardship.
factors and internal portfolio performance give cause for concern.
Formal periodic reviews are undertaken at Group or divisional level depending on GCR is additionally responsible for verifying compliance by the divisions materiality: these may include an assessment of the Groups franchise in with all Group credit policies.
It is assisted in this by a credit quality a particular sector, an analysis of the outlook including downside assurance function owned by the Group Chief Credit Officer and housed outcomes, identification of key vulnerabilities and stress scenario tests.
Specific reporting on trends in sector risk and on status versus agreed appetite and portfolio strategies is provided to senior management and to Credit risk appetite the Board.
Credit risk appetite is managed and controlled through a series of frameworks designed to limit concentration by sector, counterparty, Single name country or asset class.
These are supported by a suite of Group-wide and Within wholesale portfolios, much of the activity undertaken by the credit divisional policies setting out the risk parameters within which business risk function is organised around the assessment, approval and units may operate.
Information on the Groups credit portfolios is reported management of the credit risk associated with a borrower or group of to the Board via the divisional and Group level risk committees detailed in related borrowers.
the Governance section on page 120.
A formal single name concentration framework addresses the risk of outsized exposure to a borrower or borrower group.
The framework includes specific and elevated approval requirements: additional reporting and monitoring: and the requirement to develop plans to address and reduce excess exposures over an appropriate timeframe.
