RBS Insurance RBS Insurance sells and underwrites retail and SME insurance over the telephone and internet, as well as through brokers and partnerships.
Its brands include Direct Line, Churchill and Privilege, which sell general insurance products direct to the customer, Paul Geddes Chief Executive, as well as Green Flag and NIG.
Through its RBS Insurance international division, RBS Insurance sells For biographies M see pages 226-229 general insurance, mainly motor, in Germany and Italy.
Key business highlights 2010 was a disappointing year financially.
A 2% Performance was adversely affected by significant weather fall in income and increased claims, offset partly events in Q1 and Q4 and the impact of bodily injury claims by a 7% reduction in expenses led to a loss of Net claims were 9% higher than in 2009 295 million.
However, the actions we took to deal International own brands in-force policies grew by 15% with the challenging environment contributed to Expenses were reduced by 7% a clear improvement in our underlying financial performance in the final quarter.
2010 2009 Performance highlights m m In addition, the fundamental strengths of our Insurance net premium income 4,311 4,354 business enabled us to build on market leading Total income 4,092 4,155 positions, while setting out plans to transform and enhance how we do business in the future.
Expenses 703 759 Net claims 3,961 3,635 Working hard for customers 2010 saw some of the worst weather conditions in the UK for over Impairment losses 8 20 years.
Drivers got stuck in the snow, cars failed to start and the Investment income 277 305 treacherous conditions led to traffic collisions.
Our accident repair Operating loss profit 295 58 centres concentrated on getting customers back on the road, repairing nearly 60,000 vehicles in January and February alone.
Green Flag was Return on equity 7.9% 1.7% called out over 220,000 times in January and February, battling through Expense ratio 13% 14% difficult conditions to reach and help stranded customers.
Combined operating ratio 115% 106% It was a challenging year for air travellers, too.
The volcanic ash cloud brought air travel to a temporary standstill in Europe, while several holiday companies and airlines went out of business.
Our travel insurance brands assisted over 12,000 customers by taking a flexible approach to their policies terms and conditions.
The increase in bodily injury claims continued to affect our financial 250,000 220,000 results.
We took steps to meet genuine claims more efficiently and Direct Line for Business times that Green Flag was ensure that suspect cases can be highlighted at an earlier stage.
We Customer policies called to reach and help also implemented changes to mitigate any future impact of bodily injury stranded customers in claims.
This included NIG exiting its personal lines broker business to January and February 2010 focus on its expanding commercial business.
Restoring profitability We remained the largest personal lines insurer in the UK, built around strong brands such as Direct Line, Churchill and Privilege.
We are now Return on equity % Cost:income ratio less claims % the UKs largest home insurer, adding to the position that we already held as the UKs largest motor insurer.
We continue to provide support 2010 8 172 and reassurance to millions of UK motorists through our Green Flag 2013 20 60 target breakdown recovery service.
36 RBS Group 2010 Divisional review RBSInsurance Our travel insurance brands assisted over 12,000 customers during the Icelandic volcanic ash cloud episode.
We are now the UKs largest home insurer, adding to the position that we already held as the UKs largest motor insurer.
Gross written premiums in our international business grew 25% in Euro Direct Line celebrated its 25th birthday in 2010.
Its spirit of innovation terms compared to 2009, with the Italian business reporting 35% growth.
continued as it launched its free On the Road application for the Combined, the Italian and German businesses surpassed the landmark iPhone.
This provides a route planner and live traffic updates to help plan 1 million insured vehicles at 1.1 million.
Direct Line for Business also journeys.
Should an accident happen, it also features an easy-to-use tool accomplished a new landmark, growing rapidly from its launch in 2007 to record and store key information and to send the details straight to reach over 250,000 customer policies.
It offers insurance products through to the Direct Line claims team.
direct to small business customers, providing them with a straightforward way to insure their firm.
NIG extended its free Risk Aware risk management service to new customer areas.
It provides a tailored assessment of risk management We implemented pricing changes that reflect the increased risk and procedures and assists with the implementation of any recommended frequency of bodily injury claims.
To reduce this risk further, a new improvements.
NIG also rolled out a new mapping tool, covering the rating engine was implemented in the own brands motor business.
whole of the UK, which provides underwriters with specific geographical It dramatically increases the flexibility in pricing risk, reducing the time data on issues such as the risks of flood.
required to deliver new risk and pricing strategies.
It will continue to be rolled out among other products.
Our dedication to customers, innovative products and hard working employees was recognised through a variety of awards in 2010.
We A pro-active programme of investment in people, processes and received three Your Money awards, with Direct Line winning for the Best technology ensured that we were ready for the introduction in April Online Travel Insurance, Churchill for Best Pet Insurance and Green Flag of the Ministry of Justices new insurance claims handling procedure.
For the second consecutive year, Green Flag The reforms enable genuine personal injury claimants to receive fair received the Institute of Transport Managements award for UK Roadside compensation more quickly and provides greater control over costs Assistance Company of the Year.
RBS Insurances investment in the for insurers.
learning and development of its people was honoured with a prestigious National Training Award.
Our vocational training programme supports In October, we sponsored an event at the Houses of Parliament to employees in their jobs and provides the opportunity to gain discuss the challenging environment the UKs compensation culture qualifications and strengthen key skills.
has created for the insurance industry.
We continue to work alongside the Association of British Insurers in support of Lord Justice Jacksons Refocusing for the future recommendations for reforming personal injury compensation claims.
We announced plans to restructure our UK office network to create new Centres of Excellence.
This will help to make better use of our properties, Putting customers first lower costs and promote best practice across our functions.
Fewer sites Our customer satisfaction ratings remain strong.
We scored 85.8% for will enhance our ability to serve customers by allowing new technology Sales and Service and received the same result for Claims.
In October, and telephony systems to be introduced at a faster pace in the future.
our commitment to the highest standards of service and behaviour was affirmed as we signed the Aldermanbury Declaration.
It sets out the The settlement agreed with the European Commission in 2009 means professional standards we will meet in areas including: Commitment to that RBS must divest, at least, the controlling interest in RBS Insurance Excellence: Training and Development: and standards for broking, by the end of 2013.
We continue to explore the available options for underwriting, claims and management procedures.
meeting this commitment in the most effective way for customers, staff and investors.
2010 has been an important year for RBS Insurance in We are committed to protecting customers from the scourge of refocusing the business for an independent future and we will continue uninsured drivers.
In November, Direct Line hosted a seminar with the to be managed in a way that meets customer and shareholder needs.
industry, politicians and police to promote wider discussion about the impact of uninsured drivers and potential measures to stop it.
