Global Transaction Services Global Transaction Services GTS ranks among the top tier of global transaction banks, offering payments, cash and liquidity management, trade finance, and commercial card products and services.
Through our network and our extensive partner bank agreements we are able to support and Brian Stevenson, connect customers across 128 countries and Chairman, Global Transaction Services we offer Merchant Acquiring Services via our association with WorldPay.
Key business highlights GTS helps our customers manage their cash Income increased by 3% and liquidity, make and receive payments and Expenses broadly in line with 2009 support their trade requirements across the Operating profit increased by 12% Risk-weighted assets fell by 4% world.
Our vision is to be the leading transaction bank of choice for the Groups clients.
We have laid the foundations to achieve this, by 2010 2009 strengthening our close working relationships Performance highlights m m with other divisions and offering innovative Net interest income 974 912 products based on our customers needs, now Non-interest income 1,587 1,575 and in the future.
Total income 2,561 2,487 Healthy income growth, combined with lower impairments and good Expenses 1,464 1,475 cost control led to an increase in operating profit of 12%.
With a 21% Operating profit before impairment losses 1,097 1,012 loan-to-deposit ratio, GTS remains an important source of liquidity for the wider Group.
Impairment losses 9 39 Operating profit 1,088 973 Leveraging our global network GTS processes over 4.6 billion worldwide payments per year in 43 Risk-weighted assets bn 18.3 19.1 different currencies and we administer 4,600 global trade transactions Net interest margin 6.73% 9.22% each day.
We use our international branch network to help customers do Cost:income ratio 57% 59% more business in more countries.
Loan:deposit ratio 21% 21% We established a new UK exporter initiative which recognises the key role that exports can have in the UK economic recovery.
This provides a package of business support for potential exporters, including online training, help and advice, and telephone hotlines.
We partnered with the Governments UK Trade & Investment initiative, 4.6bn 16 through their Asia Task Force, to present a series of events entitled worldwide payments product innovations Doing Business in Asia: Meet the Experts.
The events helped British per year in the year businesses explore opportunities in Asia, and our Global Trade Advisory and Asia experts provided advice.
We expect over 1,500 firms to have attended these events by the time they conclude in early 2011, of which around half will be considering doing business in Asia for the first time.
We worked closely with colleagues in Global Banking & Markets GBM, Citizens, Ulster Bank and UK Corporate to develop and fine-tune our products and services.
Following its 2009 launch, our Global Network Cost:income ratio % Loan:deposit ratio % Banking GNB business, a joint initiative with GBM, has concentrated on fast-growing markets, such as China and India, and set up an 2010 57 21 international network advisory team.
It also introduced a joint programme 2013 50 20 target with UK Corporate to showcase our business capabilities in China.
28 RBS Group 2010 Divisional review  We partnered with the Governments UK Trade & Investment initiative, through their Asia Task Force, to present a series of events entitled Doing Business in Asia: Meet the Experts.
We administer 4,600 global trade transactions each day.
Innovating to enhance customer service Positioning for the future In 2010, we embarked on a significant investment programme, designed We continued to build upon the foundation of the Groups 2009 Strategic to drive innovation and deliver new technologies to our customers.
Our risk management programmes have been enhanced, with the new products and services provide customers with greater flexibility and first phase of a new model for credit risk and portfolio management.
This transparency, and in many cases help to improve risk management and provides a more streamlined credit approval process for customers and lower costs.
strengthens accountability across business divisions.
We were one of the first global banks to facilitate cross-border trade Our people agenda seeks to align employees with customer needs and settlement in Chinese Renminbi RMB and to offer RMB accounts, our business strategy.
In 2010, we identified a set of values for GTS based currency exchange and trade finance services.
For financial institutions, upon empowered leaders, customer focus, the drive to succeed, we unveiled the new Euro Trade Deduct product that maximises the connectivity, and risk awareness.
Our employees are encouraged to benefits available from our cash and trade services.
engage fully through discussion forums, focus groups and roadshows.
Fostering teamwork throughout our business creates an inclusive workplace The launch of the RBS SWIFT Service Bureau throughout our Global and we are active in creating a trusted adviser role with our clients.
Payments network enables us to offer comprehensive, global solutions to large corporate customers.
Users can become quickly established on the In April, we completed the legal separation and integration of the former universal banking platform and with less capital investment than before.
The parts acquired by RBS now operate under a unified brand which gives us greater opportunities for our Other innovations included: business and our clients.
Our new banking platform in the Netherlands PayAway-IP Direct, a remote access web-based payment service for successfully migrated more than 40,000 corporate accounts to RBS.
GTS Salesline, which since its launch in May 2010 has helped more In line with the settlement agreed with the EC in 2009, we announced and than 1,000 customers to arrange and complete transactions.
completed the divestment of our Global Merchant Services WorldPay accessMOBILE, introduced by Citizens as an easy-to-use smartphone business to Advent International and Bain Capital.
Under the terms of application enabling clients to manage commercial banking the sale, RBS will retain a 19.99% stake in the business, and will refer our transactions on a convenient and portable basis.
customers to WorldPay for merchant acquiring products and services.
Our Netherlands investment product, the Yield Call Demand Account, rewards longer-term deposits while also ensuring funds are accessible Going onto the front foot if needed.
It has also been successfully rolled out in Singapore.
The launch of our new customer proposition highlights the strengths of MaxTrad Digisuite provides a secure online service for firms with our business, enhances our market profile and helps to differentiate us global supply chains and reduces the need for expensive from the competition.
The combined strengths of our business include documentation and courier services.
our global reach, product expertise, customer service, technology platforms and most importantly our people.
These are underpinned by Being recognised for the quality of our service our continuing commitment to customers and our ability to generate new Our awards in 2010 reflect the quality and international coverage of our ideas and products.
Global Finance magazine awarded us: Best Bank for Liquidity Management Western Europe In 2011, we will continue to build on the momentum of 2010 and to Best Continuous Linked Settlement Bank Western Europe and position GTS as a stable and powerful transaction bank for our customers North America and our shareholders.
GTS will move forward under new leadership, with Best Trade Finance Bank Netherlands Scott Barton taking over as CEO in January 2011.
Brian Stevenson will Best Supply Chain Finance Provider work with Scott in his new capacity as Chairman, GTS.
