Divisional review Non-CoreDivision  APS We passed the 100 billion milestone in our journey, reducing third party assets to 138 billion at year-end.
We continue to target an exit from the APS within the last two years of the Strategic Plan 2012-13, subject to regulatory approval.
Rory Cullinan Head of Non-Core Division Maximising shareholder value markets area, risk management has reduced the daily income We achieved a significant reduction in the divisions operating loss from volatility of traded assets, helping to protect the Bank against sudden 14.6 billion in 2009 to 5.5 billion, largely due to improvements in income market changes.
from trading activities and lower impairments.
However, there was upward pressure on Risk Weighted Assets from proThe active management of our market risk exposures helped to achieve cyclical increases in risk weights and from regulatory changes.
Offsetting a significant improvement in income from trading activities, turning a 5.2 this has been the progress achieved in asset disposals, run-offs and billion loss in 2009 into a 31 million loss in 2010.
Our exposure to monoline strengthened risk management.
As a result, RWAs have reduced from insurers has been managed down, while hedging and credit protection 171 billion at the start of the year to 154 billion at year-end.
helped to reduce day-to-day swings even when market volatility was high.
Looking ahead Impairments continued to fall, reflecting the reduction in assets and The Non-Core Division is central to the strategy that will return RBS to improvements in the underlying quality of the remaining portfolio.
The encouraging progress made so far provides Impairments totalled 5.5 billion in 2010, down from 9.2 billion in 2009. a solid foundation for meeting the challenges ahead.
Taking risk off the table We are ahead of our plan and gathering momentum for the further work We also concentrated on strengthening risk management, through ahead.
We are confident that we have the team in place to continue to reducing risk exposures and responding to risks that emerge.
In the deliver one of the largest corporate restructurings ever undertaken.
Asset Protection Scheme APS Schemes requirements.
We continue to work closely with the Asset The APS is a key part of the UK governments Protection Agency APA with regard to the day-to-day stewardship of measures to restore stability and confidence assets covered by the Scheme.
It provides RBS with It is our opinion that the APS continues to provide valuable support during credit protection in the unlikely, though still our restructuring, providing additional confidence to the market against possible, event of a severe downturn in the the backdrop of economic uncertainty.
But we continue to target an exit economy.
RBS Groups participation in the from the APS within the last two years of the Strategic Plan 2012-13, subject to regulatory approval.
APS is managed centrally within the Restructuring & Risk area.
The amount of assets covered by the scheme has fallen from an initial 282 billion to 195 billion at the end of 2010.
We estimate, on the basis of expected future recoveries, the expected loss on triggered assets at 31 December 2010 to be approximately 25 billion, equivalent to 42% of Following the agreement of the terms of the Scheme in December 2009, the 60 billion first loss threshold under the APS.
RBS does not currently we have enhanced and widened our training programme for staff and expect that losses on covered assets will exceed the first loss provision have restructured our operating procedures to accommodate the over the lifetime of its participation in the Scheme.
