Our approach to business We have three over-riding goals: Customers to serve customers well Serving our customers well is the cornerstone of the Groups strategy.
It is embedded in our to restore the Bank to undoubted standalone strength Operational Objectives, our Customer to rebuild sustainable value for all shareholders Charters and in our How we do business framework, which we describe below.
It is encouraging that most of our core franchises There are important inter-dependencies between these goals.
showed gains on a variety of customer We cannot serve customers well if the Bank is not safer and measures during the year.
But we are not more resilient.
We cannot achieve standalone strength without complacent.
Our customers needs and rebuilding shareholder value.
And we cannot rebuild shareholder preferences change over time, so good service today does not guarantee good value if we do not serve customers well.
So while each of these service tomorrow.
And financial services is a goals is important on its own, we will succeed only if we competitive, dynamic industry.
So it is consistently achieve them together.
important that we work hard to streamline and enhance our customer service proposition.
Reputation Customers We conduct ourselves in a We understand way that protects our reputation our customers  lawsandregulations Weknowwhowe  aredealingwith memberofthecommunity  Weconductourbusiness inasustainablemanner Wetreatallcustomer  informationas  processesatalltimes confidential People We value our people Werecruit, developand  abilitytodothejob Wemanageourpeople responsiblyandfairly 10 RBS Group 2010 Our business and our strategy  Standalone strength Sustainable value How we do business Restoring the Bank to standalone strength is Of our three goals, building the sustainable We deliver products and services to crucial.
The first part of the challenge is fixing value for all shareholders will inevitably take millions of customers around the world.
We took a large step the most time to deliver fully.
We have a strong So it is important that we are consistent towards this goal in 2009, with significant foundation in our core businesses, which in the way we do business from how improvements on both capital and liquidity.
We generated a 13% return on equity in 2010, we manage our risks, to how we treat both made further progress in 2010.
The second just short of our 2013 target of greater than our customers and our employees.
part of the challenge is to make RBS safer for 15%.
We are confident that our core businesses the future.
To achieve this, we launched a new will generate strong value both in their own right To achieve this, we have made six statements vision for RBS Risk Management in 2010.
That and as a cohesive whole, given cross-business that describe how we do business.
These vision is about adopting a more holistic synergies and the balance they bring.
relate to: our customers, our people, our approach towards risk across the business, We outline how they are each performing reputation, the security of our environment, the risk function and audit to create a safe, against their own targets, and together to deliver the risks we take, and our finances.
sustainable and valuable bank for our our Strategic Plan, on pages 12-15. customers, staff and shareholders.
Rebuilding sustainable value will enable the UK Government to sell its holding profitably over time.
We are acutely aware of our responsibility to repay the support weve received from the UK taxpayer.
By successfully implementing our Strategic Plan, we will achieve the business success needed to attract new investors.
Security Finances We operate in a secure environment We manage our finances carefully Weprotectaccesstoour  premises, systemsanddata  ,  systemsandcontrols  tominimiselossfrom fraudorerror Risk We understand and manage the risks we are taking Weidentifyandmanage thelevelofriskweare preparedtotake RBS Group 2010 11
