Progress on our Strategic Plan Strategy and business objectives How are we going to do this?
RBS to generate a sustainable Market-leading franchises Target and measure market positions and customer satisfaction in all core businesses.
15% return on equity, powered by market-leading businesses in large Income growth customer-driven markets Focus on businesses capable of delivering sustainable growth and achieve market-level growth in each.
Cost control Deliver on the Groups cost programmes, whilst making essential investments in our businesses.
Achieve a cost:income ratio that places RBS among the most efficient of its global peers.
Rigorous capital and cost allocation Accurately deploy the Groups capital and allocate appropriate costs to focus the divisions on returns, as well as on profit growth.
RBS to deliver its strategy from Reduced balance sheet scale Continue to fide-risk and shrink the Groups balance sheet, including careful control of future asset growth.
a stable AA category risk profile and balance sheet Funding programme Limit over-reliance on wholesale markets to meet the Groups funding requirements, while building up an appropriate liquidity reserve.
Stable and robust capital support Focus on implementing state of the art risk controls, run-off of excess risk concentrations and maintenance of strong equity capital.
The chosen business mix Strong retail and commercial banking Activity focused on UK, US and Ireland and supported by significant business investment plans.
to produce an attractive blend of profitability, stability and Sustain focused customer-driven wholesale banking sustainable growth GBMs strategic plan is progressing well.
Having refocused the business on its core franchises, disciplined deployment of capital, technology and human resources support our targeted global client base.
Exit Non-Core business lines Expeditious run-off or sale of businesses and asset portfolios while maximising the value obtained for the Group.
Publish targets for risk return balance RBS management hallmarks Demonstrate execution effectiveness by setting clear performance targets for risk and returns, and give regular to include an open, investorupdates on progress against them.
friendly approach, discipline Improve levels of disclosure and proven execution Rebuild confidence and trust with investors by combining clear performance targets with improved disclosure.
effectiveness, strong risk management and central Set customer franchise targets for every business Maintain excellent customer service as a core objective of the Group, now defined with reference to a series of targets.
focus on the customer Management change At the centre of its efforts to rebuild standalone strength, RBS is dedicated to building continually the strength of its Board and senior management teams.
Strong risk management Embed the new set of management disciplines to ensure that the RBS of the future is adequately protected, notably by its risk management processes and frameworks.
12 RBS Group 2010 Our business and our strategy  Our progress so far Targets by 2013 We maintained top five positions in the principal markets we compete in.
For example: Top two in UK retail and All our main Core businesses sustain commercial banking Top five in US retail and commercial banking in our chosen regional markets Top five in positions amongst the leaders in their most principal investment banking markets e. g. foreign exchange.
We won't compete where we can't succeed for markets our customers and shareholders.
The economic environment showed signs of improvement in 2010 but continued volatility and monetary policy Sustainable 5-10% organic interventions in some countries in which the Group operates meant 2010 was still far from a normal year.
Our core growth in normal times businesses remain resilient, and, we believe, are strongly positioned to achieve targeted growth levels when the major economies in which they operate fully normalise.
We have already reached our goal of delivering 2.5 billion of annualised cost savings from across the Group.
Core cost:income ratio Annual savings are now forecast to exceed 3 billion by 2013.
The Core cost:income ratio was 56% for 2010, 50% down from a peak of 97% in 2008, and on track to hit our 2013 target.
In 2009, each business was made fully accountable for the costs it incurs and capital it requires through the Implemented in 2009 and on going implementation of divisional level targets for risk weighted assets, return on equity and cost:income ratios.
In 2010, this enabled us to focus accurately on the individual performance of our divisions as well as capture the benefits of our universal banking model.
In 2010, Non-Core run-off accelerated, reducing the divisions funded assets to 138 billion, over 100 billion lower Group leverage below 20x, in line with than the December 2008 portfolio of 258 billion.
Our Tier 1 leverage ratio decreased slightly in 2010 to 16.9x, strongest global peers down from 17.0x in 2009.
We improved our Group loan-to-deposit ratio to 117% by the end of 2010, compared with 135% a year earlier, and, Group loan:deposit ratio of c. 100% by December 2010, our Core businesses were taking in 1 of deposits for every 1 of loans made.
We continued to Short-term wholesale funding reduce our reliance on wholesale funding, from 250 billion of short-term wholesale funding in 2009 to 157 billion in 150 billion 2010.
Our liquidity reserves were in line with our 2013 target at the end of 2010, at 155 billion.
Liquidity reserves of c. 150 billion Our Core Tier 1 capital ratio was 10.7% at the end of 2010, which although marginally lower than a year earlier, is Core Tier 1 capital ratio 8% above our 2013 target and positions the Group well to deal with future regulatory changes in capital requirements.
Retail and commercial businesses generated around 51% of the Core operating profit for 2010, moving towards the Two-thirds of Group profit and achievement of our 2013 target.
In the UK, we exceeded our 8 billion mortgage net lending target and 50 billion revenue to come from retail and gross business lending target for the 12 month period to February 2011. commercial banking GBM reported 2010 performance that was down from a highly unusual 2009.
The division sustained its core GBM to account for approximately product and market strengths, supporting its target customer franchises whilst continuing to implement its one-third of Group profit and revenue substantial change programme and invest for future growth.
GBM third party assets, excluding derivatives, were down 15.5 billion compared with 31 December 2009 and its proportion of our Core operating profit has reduced during 2010 to 45%.
We made substantial progress in our disposal programme over the course of 2010: 20 business disposals were Run-down of the Non-Core Division signed or completed.
The disposal programme reduced Non-Core funded assets by 33 billion over the course of 2010, with a further 12 billion of Non-Core disposals signed and due to complete in the course of 2011.
By 31 December 2010 the Group had also completed the sales of GMS and substantially all of its interest in RBS Sempra Commodities, and had agreed the sale of RBS England and Wales and NatWest Scotland branch-based businesses to Santander.
This demonstrates solid progress towards the achievement of our EC divestment commitments.
We have announced clearly defined financial targets, at both individual division and Group level which we report against on a quarterly basis.
Performance against the Groups strategy, as announced in 2009, can be tracked at our Changing the bank website https: changingthebank.
We provide financial information to the market quarterly.
We continue to track customer satisfaction scores and market position metrics, for each of our core businesses, to make sure we achieve our goal of serving customers well.
All implemented in 2009 We made comprehensive changes to the Board and Executive Management team in 2009, so 2010 was a year of and continuing to 2013 relative stability.
Brendan Nelson was appointed as a new Non-executive Director with effect from 1 April 2010, and is now Chair of the Group Audit Committee.
Penny Hughes joined the Group Board on 1 January 2010, also as a Non-executive Director, and assumed the responsibility of Chair of our Remuneration Committee.
RBS Risk Management is aligned to support the Groups stated objective of standalone strength by 2013, as measured by reaching, and retaining, a standalone credit rating in line with the strongest international peer group.
For an overview of how this is working in practice, see pages 17 to 19.
