Global Banking & Markets Global Banking & Markets GBM provides financing, risk management and advisory services to major corporations, financial institutions and public sector clients in 39 countries.
John Hourican Chief Executive, Global Banking & Markets Key business highlights For biographies M Operating profit excluding fair value of own debt fell by 42%, see pages 226-229 reflecting sharply reduced revenue, partially offset by lower costs and a significant improvement in impairment losses Expenses fell by 6% Impairment losses were 489 million lower than in 2009 Only by truly understanding our clients needs can we apply our expertise to its best effect.
That is why long-term customer relationships 2010 2009 Performance highlights m m are so important at RBS.
Net interest income 1,276 2,243 In 2010, we made good progress implementing the GBM strategy Non-interest income 6,636 8,815 and achieving our ambitions.
Our people found ways to work more Total income 7,912 11,058 intelligently to help clients rebuild from the financial downturn at a time when competition was fierce, the regulatory landscape changed and Expenses 4,397 4,660 market conditions were subdued.
Operating profit before impairment losses and fair value of own debt 3,515 6,398 GBM had a reasonable set of financial results.
Even as the make-up of Impairment losses 151 640 our business made the revenue environment challenging, we reduced costs and impairments to post an above-target return on equity of 16.6 Operating profit before fair value of own debt 3,364 5,758 per cent.
We invested in reinforcing our core platforms and contributed Fair value of own debt 139 49 to the restructure of the RBS Group, working with the Non-Core Division on the sale of a GBP1.4 billion portfolio of primarily senior leveraged Operating profit 3,503 5,709 loans and of GBP3.9 billion of project finance assets.
Risk-weighted assets bn 146.9 123.7 Focusing on clients Return on equity 16.6% 29.8% We continued to focus on improving our client offering.
We refined how Net interest margin 1.05% 1.38% we interact with clients to make it more customer focused and efficient, including aligning operations in our core Fixed Income, Currencies & Cost:income ratio 56% 42% Commodities business.
We deployed our expertise to support our Loan:deposit ratio 193% 194% customers ambitions, leading to notable transactions including: The World Bank: Joint bookrunner for the first US dollar global benchmark bond launched by The World Bank in 2010, a USD3.5 billion, three-year deal.
Cheung Kong Infrastructure and Power Assets Holdings: Sole 39 16.6% financial advisor and lead mandated arranger in the GBP5.8 billion GBM is present return on equity purchase of EDFs UK electricity distribution networks.
in 39 countries SAS AB: Joint lead manager and joint bookrunner on a SEK5 billion fully underwritten rights issue.
RWE: Joint bookrunner on the largest ever euro corporate hybrid bond sale.
CIBC: Inaugural USD2 billion three-year and USD1.85 billion five-year covered bonds, which re-opened the US market after a three-year hiatus.
Return on equity % Cost:income ratio % Scottish and Southern Energy: Structuring advisor and joint lead 2010 17 56 manager on the GBP750 million and EUR500 million corporate hybrid 2013 for SSE.
It was the first ever hybrid in sterling from a UK-listed 15 c. 55 target company and reopened the global market.
34 RBS Group 2010 Divisional review GlobalBanking&Markets Our clients voted us in the global top five for foreign exchange and one of the top five dealers for derivatives.
Our debt and capital markets business was voted Euromoney Best Debt House in the UK and the Netherlands.
Our clients valued the work we did for them in 2010 and rewarded us In India, we completed one out of every three foreign-currency bond accordingly.
They voted us in the global top five for foreign exchange issues in 2010, including the countrys biggest corporate and financial 2010 Euromoney FX Survey and one of the top five dealers for institutions bond sales.
In November, we became the first UK bank given derivatives 2010 Risk Interdealer Poll.
Our debt capital markets preliminary permission to form a joint venture securities company in business was voted Euromoney Best Debt House in the UK and the China, which will allow us to underwrite equity and bond sales in the Netherlands.
The Banker magazine gave us the Deal of the Year award domestic market.
for equities and sovereign bonds in Europe, financial institutions in the Middle East and loans in Asia.
Investing in risk management We continued to improve how we manage risk, introducing systems GBM engaged with regulators to help our clients, and our own people, and processes that optimised capital and made us more efficient.
We fully understand the various changes proposed to banking supervision.
improved the way in which we manage our exposure to derivatives and We invited expert regulatory speakers to client meetings in cities in introduced an Operational Data Cache, which consolidated all sources Europe, Asia Pacific and the US, giving our customers the rare of data into a single real-time database.
A global investment programme, opportunity to ask technical questions on how changes will affect their launched in 2009, is nearly complete and on target to deliver its objective businesses.
We also acted as bookrunner on the first Solvency IIof establishing front-to-back systems that improve client transactions compliant issue in the market.
Making global connections Investing in our people and communities We maximised our 39-country network to help customers manage risks Our achievements in 2010 were made possible by our people.
We between regions and access funding around the world, cementing our focused on attracting the best talent welcoming more than 200 new position in the worlds biggest economies and increasing our presence graduates globally.
We nurtured almost 300 new joiners through our in high-growth markets.
revamped induction programme and hired experienced leaders.
We combined these efforts with activities that embedded our GBM Values In Europe, we delivered some of the largest transactions of the year.
of accountability, connectivity, thoughtful decisions and success These included Switzerland-based Glencores USD2.5 billion repurchase among employees.
of the Prodeco coal mine in Colombia and the EUR3.6 billion sale of German drugs producer Ratiopharm.
Improvements in the equities We helped GBM reach out in our local communities and make a business led to Greenwich Associates ranking us number one in Overall difference to young people from disadvantaged backgrounds.
The Service Quality for retail structured products in Europe.
GBM in the Community programme, launched in September, provided an avenue through which employees volunteered their time and donated In the US, GBM cemented our place as a leader in the bond market.
Together we gave GBP1.7 million to communities in which we We were ranked the Number Two Manager by Asset-Backed Alert after operate and donated more than 16,000 hours of employee time.
the US ABS team closed 73 deals worth USD58 billion and we executed covered bonds that re-opened the US market after a three-year gap.
In September alone, GBM was active bookrunner on about USD11 billion of investment grade debt offerings.
