US Retail & Commercial US Retail & Commercial provides financial services primarily through the Citizens Bank, Charter One and RBS Citizens brands.
It is engaged in retail and corporate banking activities through its 1,500 branch network in Ellen Alemany 12 states in the northeastern quadrant of the Chief Executive, Citizens and Head of United States and through non-branch offices Americas in other states.
It ranks among the top five For biographies M see pages 226-229 banks in New England based on deposit market share.
Key business highlights In 2009, we set out our five-year plan to create Net interest income increased by 8% a stronger, more resilient business.
2010 saw Non-interest income increased by 8% us take significant steps along this path, with Expenses decreased by 1% investments in products, customer service, Impairment losses decreased by 26% infrastructure and people.
Operating profit increased by 419 million We have seen a return to operating profitability and a substantial increase in new accounts opened.
We are better placed to respond to external factors, 2010 2009 such as regulatory changes and a subdued and uncertain US economic Performance highlights m m recovery.
Though we are still at the early stages of our plan, momentum is building towards our aim of being a leading super-regional bank.
Net interest income 1,917 1,775 Non-interest income 1,029 949 Strengthening customer relationships Total income 2,946 2,724 In May, Citizens Bank and Charter One launched the Good Banking is Good Citizenship brand platform.
The initiative underscores our longExpenses 2,123 2,135 standing heritage and helps to restore trust in the banking industry, Operating profit before impairment losses 823 589 and has received a positive response from new and existing customers.
It brings to life our central and long-standing belief that a bank should Impairment losses 517 702 contribute to the growth and vibrancy of its communities, operating Operating profit loss 306 113 through all of the channels in which the bank interacts with its customers and the community.
Risk-weighted assets bn 57.0 59.7 Return on equity 3.6% 1.3% US Retail & Commercial added more than 52,500 new customer accounts and 12,500 small business accounts in the year to 30 September 2010.
Net interest margin 2.85% 2.37% Commercial Banking has expanded its reach into niche markets with Cost:income ratio 72% 78% significant growth opportunities, including Commercial Enterprise Banking, Health-Care Banking, Capital Markets Debt Syndication and Loan:deposit ratio 81% 80% Franchise Finance.
Our Home Lending Solutions first mortgage business is ranked nationally among the top 20 retail originators by Inside Mortgage Finance, having moved up the rankings in the past two years.
In addition, we see wellmanaged home-equity lending as a strategic product, attracting new 50% 81% customers and serving as an anchor for stronger customer relationships.
reduction in average time loan to deposit ratio Nearly 90% of home-equity customers also have deposit relationships to answer a customer call with us.
over the last two years Good customer service is at the heart of our ability to attract and retain customers.
Citizens Contact Centers have made significant improvements in the customer experience, reducing the average time to answer a Return on equity % Cost:income ratio % Loan:deposit ratio % customer call by 50% over the last two years.
2010 472 81 In September, we launched a new Mobile Banking application for the 2013 15 55 90 iPhone.
It allows retail customers to check account balances, transfer target funds, find ATM and branch locations, and make payments.
We also 32 RBS Group 2010 Divisional review USRetail&Commercial New client acquisition in the Commercial Enterprise Banking segment tripled from the prior year.
Citizens was named second in the US in delivering the best experience for small business customers, moving up from No.
10 in 2009. launched the Student Money Bundle, a new packaged account offering The Commercial teams are capitalizing on market disruption, as three in a range of services and incentives for students.
GoalTrack Savings is a five mid-sized companies $10 million to $500 million in annual sales are programme that allows customers to set their own savings goals and actively seeking a new provider or would consider it if presented with a earn a bonus for achieving them.
Since it was introduced in December compelling offer.
We are also leveraging strong client loyalty, with 86% of 2009 it has seen over 26,000 new enrolments, with more than $42 million the $5 million to $25 million client segment and 75% of the $25 million to in committed savings goals.
$500 million client segment saying they would continue using Citizens for future banking needs.
Re-investing in the core franchise We are committed to upgrading our infrastructure, with a 41% increase Our new Commercial Enterprise Banking division addresses the needs in capital investment in 2010 compared with the previous year.
Key of companies with $5 million to $25 million in annual revenues.
CEBs initiatives include new commercial loan and mortgage systems, a new $10 million in technology and people investments included Citizens first teller system with image capture at our branches, and online banking shared, uniform credit delivery and portfolio management business enhancements, as well as the iPhone mobile banking.
model, as well as a larger sales force to improve market coverage and better serve existing clients.
Restructuring for the future In line with the settlement agreed with the EC in 2009, we announced Community response and completed the divestment of our Global Merchant Services GMS Often we experience events outside our control.
A profound example is business, including RBS WorldPay in Atlanta.
Under the terms of the sale the historic flooding that occurred in New England in late March and to Advent International and Bain Capital, RBS will retain a 19.9% stake in early April.
Citizens responded with special financing and grants for local the business, and can refer its customers to them for global merchant businesses, non-profit agencies and individual customers.
In May 2010, we also completed the exit of our We supported our colleagues who suffered damages of their own joint arrangement with Kroger Personal Finance.
through the companys Emergency Assistance Fund.
This event was more than a disaster recovery exercise it was leadership at its finest.
Strengthening risk management Enhancing our risk-management capabilities is a critical business objective Recognition within our Strategic Plan.
We have created two new Risk Management We received a range of awards that recognised our industry leadership groups and made several appointments to our risk leadership team, and commitment to staff, customers and the communities where we do including a Chief Risk Officer for Citizens Financial Group.
Were being business: swift and strategic as we respond to the changing environment we face.
Citizens was named second in the US in delivering the best experience for small-business customers by the ath Power 2010 Small Business Leveraging commercial capabilities Banking Study, moving up from No.
Through Global Transaction Services GTS, we introduced In New Hampshire, Citizens Bank was named the Business of the accessMOBILE, an easy-to-use smart phone application that enables Decade in the financial services category by Business NH Magazine.
clients to manage commercial banking transactions on a convenient and In Connecticut, we received a Green Business Award from Business portable basis.
We were the first bank in our footprint area to offer such New Haven for our Green$ense programme.
We also worked closely with GTS on a fall sales campaign, Headquarters building in Stamford also received a Climate Change strengthening our partnership for the benefit of serving our customers.
Leadership Award from Connecticuts Governor.
Citizens Financial Group was recognised by Conceive magazine, for Commercial Banking has partnered with Business Services to implement the third consecutive year, as the top company nationwide for offering AFS, our new loan origination and servicing platform.
This will enhance family-building benefits to its staff, including fertility treatment and our relationship managers ability to respond quickly to their customers adoption assistance.
For the fourth consecutive year, we were also needs.
We also invested in over 150 days of training programmes aimed recognised by the Dave Thomas Foundation as the Best Adoptionat enhancing sales management skills across different products and Friendly workplace in financial services.
More than 700 staff from Commercial Banking, GTS and Foreign Exchange desks participated in the training.
