Directors remuneration report continued Deferred awards Benefits The purpose of deferred awards is to support a performance culture Executive directors are eligible to receive various employee benefits or a where employees recognise the importance of sustainable Group, cash equivalent from a flexible benefits account, on a similar basis to business and individual performance.
Under the Group-wide deferral other employees.
arrangements a significant proportion of annual incentive awards for our more senior employees will be deferred over a three year period.
Details of pension arrangements of directors are shown on page 262.
Deferred awards are subject to clawback.
Gordon Pell retired from the Group and the Board on 31 March 2010, shortly after his normal pension age of 60.
Details of his pension are A new deferral plan was approved by shareholders on 15 December shown in this report.
Following Gordon Pell's retirement, no current 2009.
Under this plan, annual incentives are deferred into awards vesting director is a member of the Group's defined benefit pension plans.
A significant portion of deferral is in a form which meets regulatory requirements.
For all executive directors joining on or after 1 October 2006, pension provision is in the form of a pension allowance which may be used to Long-Term Incentive Plans participate in The Royal Bank of Scotland Group Retirement Savings To encourage the creation of value over the long term and to align the Plan which is open to all employees, or to invest in alternative pension rewards of the participants with the returns to shareholders, the arrangements, or to take all or some of the allowance in cash.
In addition, Group provides employees in senior roles executive level and selected as employees, executive directors are eligible to participate in Sharesave senior management the opportunity to receive annual awards of longand Buy As You Earn plans.
These plans are not subject to performance term incentives.
conditions since they are operated on an all-employee basis.
Executive directors also receive death-in-service cover.
A new Long-Term Incentive Plan was approved by shareholders on 28 April 2010, under which awards are structured as performance-vesting In addition to salary and benefits, executive directors receive variable shares.
For the most senior roles, vesting will be based partly on remuneration in the form of annual and long-term incentives.
divisional or functional performance and partly on performance across the Group.
Annual incentives Following consultation with UKFI and other institutional shareholders, a Awards will not vest unless the Remuneration Committee is satisfied that Share Bank arrangement has been put in place for the executive risk management during the performance period has been effective at a directors annual incentive awards for 2010 and 2011.
The Share Bank Group and division functional level.
The Remuneration Committee's arrangement replaces the previous annual incentive arrangement and determination will be informed by input from the Group Chief Risk Officer means that the executive directors will receive no cash bonus.
and the Board Risk Committee.
Specifically, prior to vesting, the 2010 Remuneration Committee will have regard to risk and compliance across The 2010 targets covered progress against the Strategic Plan, financial the Group and divisions and make an assessment of future risks as performance, risk efficiency and control measures as well as stakeholder appropriate.
Executive directors have a normal maximum incentive opportunity of 200% of salary with an exceptional maximum of All awards are subject to clawback.
Pension arrangements The Group aims to provide competitive retirement benefits.
Since The Remuneration Committee has reviewed the annual incentive awards October 2006, UK employees have been eligible for a cash allowance in for the executive directors for 2010 performance, taking into account lieu of pension provision and have had the facility to choose to have part performance against targets set at the beginning of 2010.
Performance of their remuneration in the form of contributions to The Royal Bank of was assessed across a broad range of quantitative and qualitative Scotland Group Retirement Savings Plan.
A little over one half of UK measures and was supported by a robust performance management employees continue to participate in defined benefit pension framework including a formal half year review.
During 2010, performance has been strong and all the Group's main Executive remuneration policy performance indicators are ahead of the Strategic Plan both in terms of Components of executive directors remuneration timing and outcomes.
More information on the Groups performance can be found on pages 12 and 13.
There are, however, a small number of Salary areas where the Group is not performing well ahead of the targets which Base salaries of executive directors are reviewed annually.
Accordingly, the Remuneration Committee has agreed that the Group Chief Executive will receive no increase in base recommended, and the Board excluding executive directors has agreed, salary in 2011.
The annual salary for the Group Finance Director will be that the Group Chief Executive and Group Finance Director should increased from 725,000 to 750,000 with effect from 1 April 2011. receive annual incentive awards of 170% and 186% of salary respectively.
250 RBS Group 2010 Governance For 2010 performance, the executive directors annual incentive will be To comply with the FSA Code, shares will be subject to a holding period delivered entirely as an allocation into Share Bank.
The allocated shares of six months after vesting.
will vest in two equal tranches in March 2012 and 2013, and must then be Long-term incentives held for a further six months.
The Group Chief Executive has voluntarily The Group provides long-term incentives which are designed to link agreed to a total holding period of twelve months after vesting.
Clawback reward with the long-term success of the Group and recognise the provisions will again apply prior to vesting of the shares.
responsibility participants have in driving its future success and delivering 2011 value for shareholders.
The maximum potential allocation of shares in respect of the 2011 financial year under Share Bank will be 6.0 million shares for the Group Performance conditions attaching to awards made to executive directors Chief Executive and 3.75 million shares for the Group Finance Director.
under the LTIP in 2010 are shown on page 259.
These allocations were agreed, following consultation with shareholders at the beginning of 2011.
The potential allocations represent normal As in 2010, awards in 2011 will be granted under the LTIP, and will be maximum annual incentive levels for executive directors based on the entirely in the form of shares rather than share options.
share price prevailing at the start of the consultation period and will be assessed for final allocation in 2012 on that basis.
Depending on share Awards to executive directors have a normal maximum limit of 400% of price movement during the performance period, the value of the final salary.
Whilst the award policy for executive directors may be increased allocation could further increase or decrease.
in exceptional circumstances, prior shareholder consultation would be undertaken.
Between 0% and 100% of the maximum potential allocation will be formally allocated into Share Bank in March 2012 based on 2011 Awards granted to executive directors in 2011 will be capped at 375% of performance across five performance categories: strategic direction: agreed salary.
business delivery and financial performance: stakeholders including Performance criteria for awards granted to executive directors delivery against UK government lending commitments : risk and control: under the LTIP in 2011 and capability and development.
Fixing the number of shares in this way Performance conditions for the 2011 LTIP awards have been chosen not avoids unintended consequences arising from share price volatility only to align executive directors directly with outcomes for shareholders around award dates and provides a clear alignment with shareholder but also with those key actions required to deliver shareholder value over interests through the year.
the long term and factor in the growing regulatory emphasis on riskadjusted financial metrics.
The four performance measurement areas set The Remuneration Committee will determine the actual allocation to out below are equally weighted: Share Bank by reference to the extent to which executive directors have met the performance targets.
Shares allocated in respect of 2011 x Relative Total Shareholder Return TSR 25% : performance will vest in two equal tranches in March 2013 and 2014 respectively.
Clawback provisions will apply to shares allocated to Share x Core Bank Economic Profit 25% : Bank for the period prior to their vesting.
x Balance Sheet & Risk 25% : and Share awards made as part of Share Bank will be delivered under the rules of the Deferral Plan approved by shareholders in 2009. x Strategic Scorecard 25%.
An illustration of Share Bank for the 2011 performance year is set out The four performance conditions attached to the awards see description below: of performance conditions on pages 252 to 254 will each have the ability to deliver a number of shares worth up to 100% of salary based on agreed salary at date of grant and share price based on a five day Maximum 50% average prior to grant : however, the number of shares that vest will be potential allocation subject to an overall cap in value of 375% of salary again, based on 50% determined Maximum Performance Performance agreed salary and share price at the time the award was made.
potential allocation 50% There is an underpin to the performance conditions whereby awards will determined 0 0 %% to to 100 100 % % only vest if the Committee is satisfied that risk management during the 50% performance period has been effective and that financial and nonfinancial performance has been satisfactory, in line with the Strategic Plan.
In assessing this, the Committee will be advised independently by Year 2011 2012 2013 2014 Year 2012 2013 2014 2011 the Board Risk Committee.
Subject to Subject to clawba clawba ck ck prior to five prior to vesting sting RBS Group 2010 251 Allocation to bank Directors remuneration report continued Relative TSR applying to 25% of overall 2011 LTIP award in total To receive any of the LTIP awards subject to this performance measure Relative TSR has been retained in the LTIP to provide a direct the Groups performance must be at least as good as the median of the connection between the reward provided to executive directors and the comparator companies, with vesting as follows: relative performance delivered to our shareholders.
x 20% of the award will vest if the Groups TSR is at the median of the The relative TSR performance condition is identical to that applying for companies in the comparator group.
The relative TSR measure compares the Groups performance over a three year performance period against a basket of x 100% of the award will vest if the Groups TSR is at the upper banks from the UK and overseas, weighted towards those companies quartile of the companies in the comparator group.
most similar to the Group.
A pro-rata proportion of the award will vest in between these points.
The companies in the comparator group for 2011 awards are as follows: Core bank Economic Profit applying to 25% of overall 2011 LTIP award in total Comparator companies Weighting At the end of the performance period for these awards, the value of the 1 Barclays 200% Group will be determined by the Core banks ability to generate enduring 2 Lloyds Banking Group returns for shareholders.
For this reason for the 2011 LTIP awards the 3 Santander 150% Economic Profit measure is focused on the Core bank.
The focus on 4 HSBC Core bank Economic Profit ensures that performance reflects enduring 5 Standard Chartered earnings for the bank, while the Balance Sheet & Risk targets capture 6 Citigroup 100% performance of Non-Core.
7 Deutsche Bank 8 JP Morgan Chase Economic Profit, being a risk-adjusted financial measure, is consistent 9 Bank of America 50% with the FSA Code, and also provides a balance between measuring 10 BBVA growth and the cost of capital employed in delivering that growth.
11 BNP Paribas 12 Credit Agricole 13 Credit Suisse Group 14 National Australia Bank Limited 15 Royal Bank of Canada 16 Societe Generale 17 The Toronto-Dominion Bank Group 18 UBS 19 Unicredito 20 Wells Fargo & Company 252 RBS Group 2010 Governance Core bank Economic Profit is defined as return attributable to Performance measures shareholders less equity multiplied by the cost of equity: Non-Core assets Cumulative Non-Core loss x return attributable to shareholders is Core Operating Profit reported Group Core Tier 1 Capital in the financial statements, excluding fair value of own debt and APS, Balance Wholesale funding taxed at a standard tax rate of 28%.
Sheet & Risk Liquidity reserves measures Leverage ratio x equity is defined as tangible equity allocated to the Core businesses, and targets Loan to deposit ratio with adjustments to strip out distorting impacts arising from fair value Risk Appetite Framework of own debt, available-for-sale reserves, cashflow hedging reserve, Funded assets and APS.
Attributes driving credit rating UK Retail and Commercial franchise x current cost of equity is 12%, which is subject to review at least US Retail and Commercial franchise annually.
Investment Banking franchise Measures from Groups customer dashboard Targets have been set so that maximum vesting under the awards is only achieved for performance ahead of the Groups refreshed Strategic Plan.
Cost:income ratio in Core bank Strategic 25% of this portion of the award will vest at threshold performance.
European Commission divestments Scorecard Threshold vesting requires average return on tangible equity over the Sustainability measures performance period at a reasonable margin above the cost of capital.
Relative Economic Profit Growth and targets Progress in people issues Due to the commercially sensitive nature of these targets details of the Embed strategic thinking, balanced business actual targets, and performance against these, will be disclosed evolution retrospectively once the award vests.
Majority of Groups divisions to have met the 5 tests at heart of the Strategic Plan Balance Sheet & Risk and Strategic Scorecard applying to 50% of overall 2011 LTIP award in total Where possible, quantitative strategic measures will be used.
However, it For the 2011 awards, 25% of the overall award will vest based on is also important to the Group to focus on qualitative measures which achievement of Balance Sheet & Risk targets and 25% of the overall consider issues such as reputation, customer excellence, organisational award will vest on achievement of Strategic Scorecard targets, over a capability and sustainability given these will support the long term goals three year period.
Targets for each measure will be set at the start of the performance These measures have been chosen to complement the Core bank Economic Profit and Relative TSR measures in aligning the LTIP with the period.
Where applicable these will be aligned with the banks published Strategic Plan targets.
At the end of the period each measure will be advancement of the strategic position and capability of the organisation assessed against the target, and vesting will be based on the proportion and the building of a sustainable business.
The 2011 measures will have of targets fully met see below, qualified by Remuneration Committee a particular focus on risk reduction, the resolution of the Non-Core discretion taking other relevant factors into account.
Consideration will business and the building of a sustainable and responsible franchise for also be given to volume of lending over the performance period, subject the Group.
To ensure that the Group is positioned to deliver sustainable value for To avoid unintended consequences, the scorecard will not be set in a shareholders beyond the initial turnaround timeframe, the balanced formulaic manner, but will provide a framework for structured Strategic Scorecard rewards management for delivering a robust basis Remuneration Committee discretion, which will be supported by for future growth in terms of the strength of our franchise, efficiency, disclosure at the end of the performance period justifying the vesting reputation, and the strength and engagement of our employees.
In addition, commentary will be provided on an annual basis in relation to progress against targets where not commercially For the first of these awards, the Remuneration Committee will assess sensitive.
and judge performance against the measures set out below.
Vesting point Indicative performance Does not meet 0% Over half of objectives not met Partially meets 25% Half of objectives met Significantly meets 62.5% Two-thirds of objectives met Fully meets 100% Objectives met or exceeded in all material respects Qualified by Remuneration Committee discretion taking into account changes in circumstances over the performance period, the relative importance of the measures, the margin by which individual targets have been missed or exceeded, and any other relevant factors.
RBS Group 2010 253 Directors remuneration report continued Risk underpin and clawback The Remuneration Committee will also review financial and operational performance against the Strategic Plan and risk performance prior to agreeing vesting of awards.
If the Remuneration Committee considers that the vesting outcome calibrated in line with the performance conditions outlined above does not reflect the Group's underlying financial results or if the Committee considers that the financial results have been achieved with excessive risk, then the terms of the awards allow for an underpin to be used to reduce vesting of an award, or to allow the award to lapse in its entirety.
All awards are subject to clawback.
2011 compensation framework The chart below summarises the 2011 compensation framework illustration for the Group Chief Executive : LTIP 100% up to 400% of salary 3 year LTIP 3 year performance up to performance 100% 400% of 0% to 100% salary 0% to 100% Share 50% Bank 50% 6 million 1 year 1year Share shares performance performance Bank 6 million 50% 0% 0% to to 100 100 % % shares 50% 2013 Salary Subject Subject to clawba to clawback p ck prior rior to to vesti vesting ng Salary 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2014 2015 2011 2012 2013 In order to comply with the FSA Code, shares will be subject to a holding period of six months after vesting.
254 RBS Group 2010 Cash Shares Shares Allocation to bank LTIP Allocation Governance Non-executive directors Shareholding guidelines The level of remuneration for non-executive directors reflects their The Group operates shareholding guidelines for executive directors.
The responsibility and time commitment and the level of fees paid to nontarget shareholding level is 200% of gross annual salary for the Group executive directors of comparable major UK companies.
Non-executive Chief Executive and 100% of gross annual salary for executive directors.
directors do not participate in any incentive or performance plan.
NonExecutive directors have a period of five years in which to build up their executive director fees are reviewed regularly.
Fees paid to nonshareholdings to meet the guideline levels.
executive directors for the year ended 31 December 2010 are set out on page 258.
UK-based executive directors' remuneration balance Executive director pay mix Total shareholder return performance Group Chief Executive - Stephen Hester The performance graph below illustrates the performance of the company over the past five years in terms of total shareholder return compared with that of the companies comprising the FTSE 100 Index.
This Index has been selected because it represents a cross-section of leading UK companies.
The total shareholder return for FTSE banks for the same period has been added for comparison.
The total shareholder return for the company and the indices have been rebased to 100 for 2005.
The Salary second graph below illustrates the same performance of the company Salary Benefits during 2010.
Pension allowance Benefits Total shareholder return On-Target Bonus Pension allowance deferred into shares 140 140 Long term incentive award On-Target Bonus deferred into shares expected value 120 120 Long-term incentive award expected value 100 100 80 80 60 60 Group Finance Director - Bruce Van Saun 40 40 FTSE 100 FTSE Banks 20 20 RBS 0 0 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 Salary Royal Bank of Scotland FTSE 100 FTSE Banks Source : Thomson Reuters Datastream Benefits Salary Pension allowance Total shareholder return - one year Benefits On-Target Bonus deferred into shares 250 Long term incentive award expected value 200 150 The charts above show the composition of remuneration opportunity for on-target annual performance, and with the long term incentive awards shown at the expected value.
Short term incentive payments earned in 100 relation to 2011 performance will be deferred and will vest, subject to FTSE 100 satisfactory performance.
The actual value of the long term incentive 50 FTSE Banks awards will depend on performance over the period 2011 to 2013 and the RBS share price at the time the awards vest.
0 Jan Feb Mar Apr May Jun Jul Aug Sep Oct Nov Dec RBS Group 2010 255 Directors remuneration report continued Service contracts Any compensation payment made in connection with the departure of an The company's policy in relation to the duration of contracts with directors executive director will be subject to approval by the Remuneration is that executive directors' contracts generally continue until termination Committee, having regard to the terms of the service contract and the by either party, subject to the required notice, or until retirement.
notice period under the service contracts of executive directors will not normally exceed twelve months.
In relation to newly recruited executive No compensation was paid to Gordon Pell on his retirement from directors, subject to the prior approval of the Remuneration Committee, employment of the Group on 31 March 2010.
Details of his pension are the notice period may be extended beyond twelve months if there is a shown on page 262. clear case for this.
Where a longer period of notice is initially approved on appointment, it will normally be structured such that it will automatically Information regarding directors' service contracts is shown below: reduce to twelve months in due course.
All new service contracts for executive directors are subject to approval by the Remuneration Committee.
Those contracts normally include standard clauses covering the performance review process, the company's normal disciplinary procedure, and terms for dismissal in the event of failure to perform or in situations involving actions in breach of the Group's policies and standards.
Notice period Notice period Date of current contract from the company from executive Executive directors Stephen Hester 4 November 2008 12 months 12 months Bruce Van Saun 8 September 2009 12 months 12 months Former executive director Gordon Pell Contract expired 12 months 6 months Except as noted below, in the event of severance where any contractual voluntarily and the company does not require him to work out his notice notice period is not worked, the employing company may pay a sum to period, Stephen Hester may receive a payment in lieu of notice based on the executive in lieu of the notice period.
In the event of situations salary only i. e. no bonus or benefits.
In both cases the treatment of any involving breach of the employing company's policies resulting in other unvested stock awards will be determined at the discretion of the dismissal, reduced or no payments may be made to the executive.
Depending on the circumstances of the termination of employment, the Bruce Van Saun executive may be entitled, or the Remuneration Committee may allow, In the event that Bruce Van Saun's employment is terminated by reason outstanding awards under long-term incentive arrangements to vest, of his personal underperformance, the company is entitled to terminate subject to the rules of the relevant plan.
by giving written notice with immediate effect and without making any payment in lieu of notice.
Any payment in lieu of notice that may be made Stephen Hester to Bruce Van Saun would be based on salary only i. e. no bonus or If Stephen Hester's employment is terminated by reason of his personal benefits.
underperformance, the company is entitled to terminate by giving written notice with immediate effect and without making any payment in lieu The company has agreed that, provided certain conditions are met, on thereof and Stephen Hester will forfeit any unvested stock awards.
leaving employment, Bruce Van Saun will not forfeit awards under the rules of the Deferral Plan, the Medium-term Performance Plan and the In the event that Stephen Hester's employment is terminated by the Executive Share Option Plan.
company other than by reason of his personal underperformance, the following will apply.
First, he will be entitled to receive a payment in lieu of Gordon Pell notice to the value of base salary, bonus and benefits including pension Gordon Pell retired from employment of the Group on 31 March 2010 on contributions.
Secondly, any share awards granted to him to replace attaining his normal retirement age.
In line with the rules of the Group bonus and share awards he forfeited on leaving The British Land Pension Fund, no discount applied on payment of his pension.
Company PLC will vest immediately on such termination.
If he resigns 256 RBS Group 2010 Governance Chairman and non-executive directors Under the Articles of Association of the company, directors must stand for re-election by shareholders at least once every three years.
However, in accordance with the provisions of the UK Corporate Governance Code, all directors of the company will stand for re-election by shareholders at the companys 2011 Annual General Meeting and annually thereafter.
The original dates of appointment as directors of the company for the Chairman and non-executive directors and the dates for next re-election are as follows: Date for election or Date first appointed next re-election Philip Hampton 19 January 2009 2011 Colin Buchan 1 1 June 2002 2011 Sandy Crombie 1 June 2009 2011 Penny Hughes 1 January 2010 2011 Joe MacHale 1 September 2004 2011 John McFarlane 1 October 2008 2011 Brendan Nelson 1 April 2010 2011 Art Ryan 1 October 2008 2011 Philip Scott 1 November 2009 2011 Note: 1 Colin Buchan will stand down as a non-executive director of the Group on 5 August 2011 following the announcement of the Groups interim results, having served just over nine years on the Board.
The non-executive directors do not have service contracts or notice No compensation would be paid to any non-executive director in the periods although they have letters of engagement reflecting their event of termination of appointment.
These letters make clear to nonexecutive directors the time commitment they are expected to give to Philip Hampton is entitled to receive a cash payment in lieu of notice if his their Board duties.
Brendan Nelson, Philip Scott and Penny Hughes' appointment is terminated as a result of the Group's majority shareholder letters of engagement specifically state that their time commitment should seeking to effect the termination of his appointment.
The applicable be in line with the Walker Review in respect of their general Board duties notice period is twelve months.
In the event that the company terminates and additional time as necessary in respect of Committee duties, Philip Hampton's appointment without good reason, or his re-election is including in particular any Committees which they chair.
not approved by shareholders in General Meeting resulting in the termination of his appointment, he will be entitled to receive a cash payment in lieu of notice of twelve months' fees.
