Directors remuneration report Membership of the Remuneration Committee In December 2010, the Asset Protection Scheme Performance and The current members of the Remuneration Committee are Penny Hughes Reward Committee APSPRC was formed.
It is responsible for reviewing, Chair since 1 June 2010, Sandy Crombie, and John McFarlane.
The reporting and, in certain cases, making recommendations to the members of the Remuneration Committee are all independent nonRemuneration Committee in respect of i collective overall and individual executive directors.
Colin Buchan stepped down as Chairman and performance of individuals who manage business units or assets which member of the Remuneration Committee on 1 June 2010.
Attendance of are assigned to or participate in the Asset Protection Scheme APS, and each member at meetings of the Remuneration Committee in 2010 is members of the Group executive against the APS performance targets: shown on page 238.
APS In-Scope employees ii the individual proportion of the incentive and bonus components of the remuneration of those employees to be Responsibilities evaluated against APS performance targets for each calendar year and The Remuneration Committee is responsible for setting the Groups iii whether clawback should be applied to any deferred compensation policy on remuneration and overseeing its implementation, considering elements of the remuneration of those employees prior to their vesting.
executive remuneration and making recommendations to the Group Board in respect of the remuneration arrangements of the executive The Remuneration Committee considers recommendations and reviews directors of the Group.
No director is included in decisions regarding his reports from the APSPRC and is responsible for determining the or her own remuneration.
remuneration of APS In-Scope employees.
The Remuneration Committee is also responsible for setting the Remuneration advisors remuneration arrangements for members of the Groups Executive On 14 September 2010, the Remuneration Committee appointed Committee and Management Committee, as well as all higher-earning  LLP PwC as its remuneration advisors, employees and any employees falling within the definition of Code Staff replacing Towers Watson.
PwC were appointed after a formal selection under the FSA Code.
Details of the FSA Code can be found at process of panel interviews following the submission of detailed written www.
proposals by a number of remuneration advisors.
One aspect taken into account as part of the selection process was that the remuneration The Remuneration Committee undertakes a regular review of the advisors be signatories to the voluntary code of conduct in relation to adequacy and effectiveness of the remuneration policy to ensure it is fully executive remuneration consulting in the UK.
Both PwC and Towers aligned with the Group's long-term objectives.
The Committee receives a Watson are signatories to the code of conduct and the relationship number of reports to assist it in its oversight of remuneration policy, such between the Remuneration Committee and both companies takes as on risk and financial performance across the Group.
In determining directors remuneration, the Remuneration Committee has During the year, as well as advice received from Towers Watson and taken into account pay and employment conditions of employees of the PwC, the Committee took account of the views of the Group Chairman, company.
It does this using an analysis of annual market data against an Philip Hampton: Group Chief Executive, Stephen Hester: Group Human assessment of the competitiveness of current base salary ranges or Resources Directors, Neil Roden until October 2010 and Elaine Arden benchmarks and actual salaries in payment.
Salary increases for from October 2010 : the Group General Counsel and Group Secretary, executive directors are also considered in the context of salary increases Miller McLean until April 2010 : and the Group Secretary, Aileen Taylor for the wider employee population.
Advice was received from Nathan Bostock, Head of Restructuring and Risk, on risk-adjustment of measures for bonus pool The Remuneration Committee considers remuneration in the context of funding and a risk review of individual performance evaluations for the the wider Group agenda such as talent development and the external Management Committee.
The Chairman of the Board Risk Committee, market environment.
The Remuneration Committee recognises that Philip Scott, also attended a Remuneration Committee meeting to advise remuneration is only one aspect of the value proposition which the Group the Committee on matters relating to risk adjustment.
presents to our employees, and that engagement, flexibility and career development are important factors.
It has received in-depth presentations PwC also provides professional services in the ordinary course of from Human Resources functions in the USA and Asia so as to have a business including assurance, advisory, tax and legal to subsidiaries of better understanding of the unique issues in these areas.
Towers Watson also provides actuarial advice to subsidiaries has also attended a number of external meetings and workshops with of the Group and investment consulting and actuarial advice to the organisations such as Women in Business and the Young Bankers trustees of some of the Group's pension funds.
The advisors to the Association to gain a broader understanding of the people agenda.
Remuneration Committee are appointed independently by the Committee, which reviews its selection of advisers annually.
The Committee is The Remuneration Committee also receives regular updates on notified of any work that is being undertaken by its advisors and is regulatory developments and general remuneration issues, as well as satisfied that there are processes in place to ensure that the advice it market and benchmarking data from its remuneration advisors to support receives is independent.
