Q&As on progress When we speak to our investors, some rose by 25 basis points to 2.01 per cent.
This improvement was driven by the Retail & Commercial business, where asset margins recovered questions are asked more often than others.
across a number of markets, primarily due to the run-off of older Below we provide a selection of those business written at unsustainably lower margins.
frequently asked questions and answers.
Progress on liability margins has been more difficult.
This reflects strong competition for customer deposits, as the banking sector tries to narrow x Where are you in the impairment cycle?
its funding gap, and the low interest rate environment.
The level of Group impairments fell by 33 per cent in 2010, reflecting improvements in the economic environment.
Impairments fell in all core x What recommendations have you made to the Independent businesses, except Ulster Bank, where asset default levels and loss Commission on Banking ICB ?
rates remained high in both the retail and corporate portfolios, reflecting The Commission inquiry is a major event for our industry in the UK, and difficult economic conditions in Ireland.
we have sought to engage thoughtfully.
Our response was published on the ICB website.
We currently expect impairments in Ulster Bank to stabilise in 2011, and to continue falling in our other businesses, assuming the global In our view, the debate about banking size and structure can often economic recovery is sustained.
generate more heat than light.
The banks that failed during the crisis didnt fail because they were too big, or because they had an x When will the UK Government sell its shareholding?
They failed because they had some form of The UK Government set up UK Financial Investments Ltd UKFI to concentration risk: in funding, in lending to property, in geography manage its investments in financial institutions, including RBS.
UKFI or in proprietary trading.
has been given a clear mandate by the Government, to protect and create value for the taxpayer as shareholder.
As such, decisions We should aim for a financial system where the probability of future around the timing of any sale are outside the remit of the RBS Group.
crises is substantially reduced and there is an effective resolution We are acutely aware of our responsibility as part of this process.
regime for those institutions that do still fail.
If this can be achieved then By successfully implementing our Strategic Plan, we will serve our the size and shape of banks can be driven by the choices of customers customers well and achieve the business success needed to attract and shareholders, within the context of strong and effective regulation.
x How much progress have you made towards the x Can you explain the treatment of the APS and fair value cost reduction target you set?
Our cost reduction programme continues to deliver material savings.
Our financial performance is affected by two items that do not reflect Annualised savings are now just ahead of the 2.5 billion target for the day-to-day business of the Group the Asset Protection Scheme 2011 and are forecast to exceed 3 billion by 2013.
This reflects better and the fair value of own debt.
Both can exhibit counter-cyclical cost control in our day-to-day operations, as well as a number of behaviour, in that improving market conditions result in a charge, and business disposals.
These cost savings will help to finance the 6 billion of essential The APS is a credit derivative and so must be accounted for at fair investments we have committed to make as part of our five-year value: fluctuations in this value are reflected in the results.
These will strengthen our core businesses.
Examples circumstances are getting better and credit spreads for the assets in include the provision of an integrated Wealth IT platform and enhanced the covered portfolio narrow, the value of the protection decreases and electronic trading facilities for GBM.
If spreads widen, the protection is more valuable, giving rise to a gain.
x How much exposure do you have to the sovereign debt crisis?
Our exposure to sovereign bonds in the two countries most deeply For accounting purposes, the Group values some of its issued debt embroiled in the crisis Greece and Ireland is relatively low 895 e. g. bond issues at the current market price.
Changes in this value are million and 104 million, respectively at 31 December 2010.
But we recorded in profit or loss.
Part of this change results from market clearly have significant exposure to the Republic of Ireland economy movements in the price of the Groups credit: when the Groups credit through our Ulster Bank subsidiary total lending was 43.2 billion spreads tighten a loss is recorded, when they widen a gain is recorded.
To help manage this exposure, we placed c. 15 billion of assets in our Non-Core Division, the vast majority of x What has been happening to margins, and why?
which relates to commercial property.
We are managing this down over We need to rebuild net interest margins NIMs if we are to produce time and, where assets are currently non-performing, they are being adequate profits to service the capital our shareholders have invested in heavily provisioned.
Encouragingly, we made further progress in 2010: the Group NIM 6 RBS Group 2010
