Business review  Probability of default customer credit grade PD Credit risk mitigation These models assess the probability that a customer will fail to make full The Group employs a number of structures and techniques to mitigate and timely repayment of their obligations.
The probability of a customer credit risk.
Netting of debtor and creditor balances will be undertaken in failing to do so is measured over a one year period through the economic accordance with relevant regulatory and internal policies: exposure on cycle, although certain retail scorecards use longer periods for business over-the-counter derivative and secured financing transactions is further management purposes.
mitigated by the exchange of financial collateral and documented on market standard terms.
Further mitigation may be undertaken in a range Wholesale businesses: as part of the credit assessment process, each of transactions, from retail mortgage lending to large wholesale financing, counterparty is assigned an internal credit grade derived from a default by structuring a security interest in a physical or financial asset: credit probability.
There are a number of different credit grading models in use derivatives, including credit default swaps, credit linked debt instruments, across the Group, each of which considers risk characteristics particular and securitisation structures: and guarantees and similar instruments for to that type of customer.
The credit grading models score a combination example, credit insurance from related and third parties are used in the of quantitative inputs for example, recent financial performance and management of credit portfolios, typically to mitigate credit concentrations qualitative inputs, for example, management performance or sector in relation to an individual obligor, a borrower group or a collection of outlook.
Retail businesses: each customer account is separately scored using The use and approach to credit risk mitigation varies by product type, models based on the most material drivers of default.
In general, customer and business strategy.
Minimum standards applied across the scorecards are statistically derived using customer data.
Customers are Group cover: general requirements, including acceptable credit risk assigned a score, which in turn is mapped to a probability of default.
The mitigation types and any conditions or restrictions applicable to those probabilities of default are used to group customers into risk pools.
Pools mitigants: the means by which legal certainty is to be established, are then assigned a weighted average probability of default using including required documentation and all necessary steps required to regulatory default definitions.
establish legal rights: acceptable methodologies for the initial and any subsequent valuations of collateral and the frequency with which they are Exposure at default to be revalued for example, daily in the trading book : actions to be taken Facility usage models estimate the expected level of utilisation of a credit in the event the current value of mitigation falls below required levels: facility at the time of a borrowers default.
For revolving and variable draw management of the risk of correlation between changes in the credit risk down type products which are not fully drawn, the exposure at default of the customer and the value of credit risk mitigation: management of EAD will typically be higher than the current utilisation.
The concentration risks, for example, setting thresholds and controls on the methodologies used in EAD modelling provide an estimate of potential acceptability of credit risk mitigants and on lines of business that are exposure and recognise that customers may make more use of their characterised by a specific collateral type or structure: and collateral existing credit facilities as they approach default.
management to ensure that credit risk mitigation remains legally effective and enforceable.
Counterparty credit risk exposure measurement models are used for derivative and other traded instruments where the amount of credit risk Credit risk measurement exposure may be dependent upon one or more underlying market Credit risk models are used throughout the Group to support the variables such as interest or foreign exchange rates.
These models drive quantitative risk assessment element of the credit approval process, internal credit risk activities such as limit and excess management.
ongoing credit risk management, monitoring and reporting and portfolio analytics.
Credit risk models used by the Group may be divided into three Loss given default categories, as follows.
These models estimate the economic loss that may be experienced the amount that cannot be recovered by the Group on a credit facility in the event of default.
The Groups loss given default LGD models take into account both borrower and facility characteristics for unsecured or partially unsecured facilities, as well as the quality of any risk mitigation that may be in place for secured facilities, plus the cost of collections and a time discount factor for the delay in cash recovery.
