Ulster Bank Ulster Bank is a leading bank in Northern Ireland and the Republic of Ireland.
It provides a comprehensive range of financial services through both its Retail Markets division, which has a network of branches and operates in the personal and bancassurance sectors, and its Corporate Markets division Cormac McCarthy, which provides services to business Chief Executive, Ulster Bank customers, corporates and institutional markets.
Key business highlights Conditions in Irelands economy remained very Net interest income decreased by 1% challenging indeed throughout 2010 and our Non-interest income decreased by 14% results reflect that.
Continuing stresses in Expenses decreased by 24% Impairment losses increased by 512 million property markets, together with pressure on borrowers who depend on consumer spending resulted in increased losses on corporate 2010 2009 lending.
Higher unemployment and lower Performance highlights m m disposable incomes contributed to higher Net interest income 761 780 mortgage impairments.
In Northern Ireland too, Non-interest income 214 254 the economy was weak and unemployment Total income 975 1,034 increased over the year.
Expenses 575 753 These factors lie behind the increase in our impairment losses to Operating profit before impairment losses 400 281 1.2 billion and our operating loss of 761 million.
Despite lower income, Impairment losses 1,161 649 an impressive 24% reduction in costs contributed to a pre-impairment operating profit of 400 million.
Operating loss 761 368 Risk-weighted assets bn 31.6 29.9 Lower costs was one objective of the five-year strategy we published in 2009.
We will continue to make changes inside our business to help Return on equity 21.0% 11.7% us achieve those aims.
But we recognise that if 2010 was tough for Net interest margin 1.84% 1.87% us, it was just as difficult for our customers and we have tried hard to support them.
In 2010, we said that we wanted to become Irelands most Cost:income ratio 59% 73% helpful bank, across the whole island.
Helping our customers helps our Loan:deposit ratio 152% 177% business too, making it stronger and more resilient for the future.
Listening to customers and providing Help For What Matters In September, we launched the Help For What Matters programme.
We listened to what our customers need and developed commitments that focus on the issues that matter to them.
8% 45 For personal customers this means: increase in customer branches opened on deposit balances in Saturday for the first time making banking easy, including extended branch opening hours, constant currencies Saturday openings, less queuing and helpful service: treating our customers fairly, including text alerts to avoid unnecessary charges and assistance with debt problems: and local support, including no branch closures, a community fund and a Give a Day volunteering programme.
Return on equity % Cost:income ratio % Loan:deposit ratio % 2010 21 59 152 2013 15 c. 50 150 target 30 RBS Group 2010 Divisional review UlsterBank We became the first bank in the Republic of Ireland to launch an iPhone mobile banking application.
Our online business resource initiative www.
com attracts over 15,000 SME visitors each month.
For SME business customers this means: In business banking, over the course of 2010 we achieved an average access to credit and working capital.
We will continue to make credit Customer Satisfaction Index of 89% for all our business banking available to viable businesses and maintain overdrafts for their full touchpoints.
We continued to forge strong links with key small business term, unless there is a breach of terms.
An appeals process is support and lobbying bodies island-wide through our business available for unsuccessful applications: engagement programme.
clarity about what customers can expect concerning the costs, terms and conditions of credit and the factors that influence the In September, we launched a new campaign to support early-stage price of a loan: and businesses, including access to a Start Up Knowledge Centre and Start understanding and support for businesses, including two-year Up Live events in 14 different locations.
free transactional banking for start-ups and an on-line business support programme.
Investing in our people Our employees are central to our ambition of becoming Irelands most We are still at an early stage in the programme, but we are already helpful bank.
Through the Ulster Bank People Plan, we are taking steps delivering on these commitments.
For example, in 2010 we opened 45 to ensure our people feel engaged, motivated and that we give them branches on Saturdays for the first time.
We now have more branches opportunities to develop to their full potential.
In January, we launched open on Saturdays across Ireland than any other bank.
By opening on the Ulster Bank Academy, with over 3,500 of our people attending Saturdays and extending our weekly opening hours, we are giving our learning and development courses throughout the year.
customers an extra 30,000 hours each year to visit our branches.
Getting fit for the future Focusing on customers and service The Lean programme is part of our strategy to transform the way we We are working with our personal and business customers every day do business so that we can serve customers better.
It will also help us to support them in dealing with any financial difficulties they may be to become more efficient.
Behind every interaction with a customer is a experiencing.
Initiatives such as Flex and Breathing Space in retail process and it is important to get this process right from start to finish.
banking demonstrate to our customers that we are committed to them If we do that, it will help us to be Irelands most helpful bank.
Our smallbusinesscan online community in business banking is well received and continues to grow.
It now attracts over Were using the experience of our people in making these changes, 15,000 small and medium enterprise visitors each month, allowing them for example in designing new procedures for call-handling, feeding back to access knowledge and share insights, ideas and experiences with on call quality and coaching the telephony agents.
As a result, weve like-minded peers to assist the survival and growth of their businesses.
reduced the Average Handling Time of a call by 23% since January 2010.
This means we are able to speak to more customers each day.
In 2010, we increased the numbers of new retail customers to Ulster It has also provided stronger links between our businesses, with our Bank and made strong progress in growing our deposit franchise.
We telephony agents able to hand over more customer leads to the Retail also extended our Private Banking business into the Republic of Ireland, Direct Sales Centre.
with new relationship managers based in Dublin and Cork.
Significant economic and business challenges remain.
However, over the We became the first bank in the Republic of Ireland to launch an iPhone last two years we have proven our ability to adapt to change and support mobile banking application.
In October, we extended our mobile phone our customers.
This, combined with the continued strong support of banking services to a wider range of mobile phones, enabling our RBS, leaves us very well positioned for the future.
customers to manage their money on the move and helping them reduce avoidable current account charges.
