Business review  All the disclosures in this section pages 199 to 203 are unaudited and Most general insurance contracts are written on an annual basis, which are marked with an asterisk.
means that the Group's liability extends for a twelve month period, after which the Group is entitled to decline to renew the policy or can impose Insurance risk renewal terms by amending the premium, terms and conditions.
An analysis of gross and net insurance claims can be found in the notes Insurance risk arises through fluctuations in the timing, frequency and or on the financial statements see page 347. severity of insured events, relative to the expectations at the time of underwriting.
Insurance risk is managed in four distinct ways: Operational risk x underwriting and pricing risk management is managed through the Operational risk is the risk of loss resulting from inadequate or failed use of underwriting guidelines which detail the class, nature and internal processes, people and systems, or from external events.
type of business that may be accepted, pricing policies by product Operational risk is an integral and unavoidable part of the Groups line and brand, and centralised control of wordings and any business as it is inherent in the processes it operates in to provide subsequent changes: services to customers and generate profit for shareholders.
An objective of operational risk management is not to remove operational risk x claims risk management is handled using a range of automated altogether, but to manage the risk to an acceptable level, taking into controls and manual processes: account the cost of minimising the risk as against the resultant reduction in exposure.
Strategies to manage operational risk include avoidance, x reserving risk management is applied to ensure that sufficient funds transfer, acceptance and mitigation by controls.
have been retained to handle and pay claims as the amounts fall Group Policy Framework GPF due, both in relation to those claims which have already occurred or The GPF supports a consistent approach to how we do business and will occur in future periods of insurance.
Reserving risk is managed helps everyone understand their individual and collective responsibilities.
through the detailed analysis of historical and industry claims data It is a core component of the Groups Risk Appetite Framework: it and robust control procedures around reserving models: and supports the risk appetite setting process, and also underpins the control environment.
x reinsurance risk management is used to protect against adverse claims experience on business which exceeds internal risk appetite.
Work to design, implement and embed an enhanced GPF has continued The Group uses various types of reinsurance to transfer risk that is throughout 2010 and will extend into 2011.
The Groups plans for ongoing outside the Group's risk appetite, including individual risk excess of development of GPF will support increased consistency in risk appetite loss reinsurance, catastrophe excess of loss reinsurance and quota setting across all risk types faced by the Group, including alignment to share reinsurance.
the Groups strategic business and risk objectives.
The Group will use relevant external reference points such as peers and rating agencies to Overall, insurance risk is predictable over time, given the large volumes challenge and verify the content of the Policy Standards making up GPF.
However, uncertainty does exist, especially around predictions such as the variations in weather for example.
Risk is minimised through Appropriate and effectively implemented Policy Standards are a the application of documented insurance risk policies, coupled with risk fundamental component of GPF and support attainment and governance frameworks and the purchase of reinsurance.
maintenance of an upper quartile control framework as compared The Group underwrites retail and SME insurance with a focus on high against the Groups relevant peer set.
The key insurance risks are as follows: The GPF requires consideration and agreement through Group governance of the level of risk appetite we have and how this is justifiable x motor insurance contracts private and commercial : claims in the context of our strategic objectives.
experience varies due to a range of factors, including age, gender and driving experience together with the type of vehicle and location: There will be ongoing reassessment of risks, risk appetite and controls within the GPF and where appropriate, potential issues will be identified x property insurance contracts residential and commercial : the major and addressed to ensure the Group moves in line with the set objectives causes of claims for property insurance are weather flood, storm, and remains constantly aligned with the upper quartile objective and theft, fire, subsidence and various types of accidental damage: and market practice at all times.
x other commercial insurance contracts: risk arises from business interruption and loss arising from the negligence of the insured liability insurance.
