Letter from the Chair of the Remuneration Committee Performance management Dear Shareholder, We operate a structured process to ensure that all employees have clear objectives that are linked to long-term plans designed to drive business I am pleased to be presenting the Groups Remuneration Report for 2010. objectives including financial performance, risk, people and customer measures.
Assessment of individuals performance is subject to a During the year, the Remuneration Committee has built on the progress rigorous review of achievements against their objectives.
made during 2009 when significant changes were made to the structure of rewards to staff following a thorough review of remuneration policy.
We Risk adjustment have continued to embed these practices throughout the organisation to Focus on risk is achieved through clear risk input into incentive plan ensure that they are aligned with good corporate governance and robust design and target setting, as well as a thorough risk review of risk management.
performance, bonus pools and clawback.
The Remuneration Committee has been supported in this by the Board Risk Committee and the RBS Our focus is to ensure that our remuneration policy continues to support Risk Management function.
delivery of the Groups Strategic Plan.
We are working hard to complete a hugely challenging and complex turnaround and are on track to deliver Deferral across a range of measures.
The Group plays an important economic The Remuneration Committee is acutely aware of the external focus on role, both as an employer and a lender.
If we are going to achieve our the role of incentive payments in the financial sector.
The reality is that strategic objectives and deliver a return to our shareholders including the these remain a key part of the structure of pay across the industry.
UK taxpayer, we need talented and motivated management and However, we have radically reformed our incentive plans.
This requires us to pay them fairly within the context of the senior employees annual awards are deferred over three years and a markets in which they operate.
In setting pay policy, we take account of portion of the awards are paid in shares which increases alignment with our duties to shareholders and our strategic objectives and seek to the interests of shareholders.
There will be a 2,000 cap on cash ensure that shareholder interests are not damaged as a result of staff bonuses paid in March 2011, as was the case last year.
retention, recruitment or motivation issues.
Our commitment is to reward success not failure, and we are also very conscious of the need to Clawback demonstrate restraint.
We have had clawback provisions in place since 2009, which means that, in certain circumstances, the Group can reduce deferred annual Across the Group we operate a range of incentive structures which are incentives and long-term incentive awards up to the point they are designed to reinforce messages about what employees are being asked released.
Clawback allows us to respond appropriately if the performance to achieve, and deliver pay for performance.
Our key objective in factors on which reward decisions were based turn out not to reflect the determining bonus awards is not to pay more than is warranted given corresponding performance in the longer term.
In this context performance includes financial and Shareholder consultation non financial measures, risk performance and any other relevant factors.
In early 2011, we consulted extensively with institutional shareholders Our aggregate bonus awards for 2010 are lower than prior year as a and other stakeholders on our remuneration approach.
The consultation result of lower profits and bonuses in the investment banking division and process involved one to one meetings and a roundtable session hosted our recognition of the need for moderation.
There is clear focus on by the Association of British Insurers and National Association of Pension differentiation, so that individually and by business, the best performers Funds.
Our presentation covered our wider remuneration policy as well and the best performance will continue to be rewarded.
There is strong as executive directors remuneration and we have been pleased with both central governance and oversight of both bonus pools and individual the level of engagement with investors and the positive feedback we awards, and each year a significant proportion of staff will receive zero have received.
Topics discussed with investors included pay positioning, scale and The key elements of our remuneration policy are: design of incentive structures, risk alignment of remuneration, deferral, Pay for performance clawback and remuneration disclosures.
We have listened to the Performance related pay is designed to reflect success or failure against feedback from investors and have made a number of enhancements to the range of targets which we set for our people, taking into account the disclosures in the Remuneration Report as a result.
context in which results were achieved.
By way of example, the pay arrangements for executive directors are aligned to the performance of Investors recognised the difficult challenge faced by the Remuneration the Group and performance related pay is paid entirely in shares over Committee in positioning pay competitively to support business goals, several years.
Executive directors have no reward for failure provisions while being mindful of the wider economic environment and the need to in their service contracts.
Further information on the companys business show restraint.
The Remuneration Committee and the Board have performance and progress towards achievement of its strategic considered carefully their responsibilities and have applied judgement to objectives can be found on pages 12 to 13. achieve a balance whereby remuneration policy supports business goals without causing unacceptably high people risks.
246 RBS Group 2010 Governance External developments The retention and motivation of our executive directors is crucial over the A number of external developments have impacted remuneration and next three years and whilst most aspects of our remuneration policy remuneration policy in 2010, including the publication of the FSAs remain unchanged, we are making some changes to enhance the overall revised Remuneration Code the FSA Code.
In light of the FSA Code, effectiveness of executive director remuneration.
These include replacing a review was undertaken of the remuneration policy and governance the annual incentive plan with a long-term Share Bank and changes to arrangements.
I am pleased to report that the Group has been fully the performance measures for the Long Term Incentive Plan LTIP.
We compliant with all aspects of the FSA Code from 1 January 2011. have introduced a scorecard of measures relating to risk and strategic goals to sit alongside the existing measures of total shareholder return The Remuneration Committee supports the UK Governments position and economic profit.
These measures ensure that rewards for executive that an international approach is required in relation to regulation on directors are aligned with achieving a sustainable long-term platform for remuneration and disclosure.
To rebuild the value of the company, an the future success of the Group across a range of areas including risk, international level playing field that allows the Group and other UK banks profitability, franchise strength and people.
Details of these changes are to compete fairly with international competitors is essential.
set out in the Remuneration Report.
On 9 February 2011, the UK Government issued a statement in While the primary focus of the remuneration policy clearly has to be to connection with Project Merlin, which represents commitments by the support the business to deliver the Strategic Plan, some shareholders UKs four largest banks, including the RBS Group, on matters including asked for reassurance that the Remuneration Committee had in place lending, shareholder engagement and pay disclosures.
The banks have sufficient tools to be able to adjust remuneration appropriately should agreed that aggregate UK bonus pools will be lower than last year another financial crisis occur.
I am pleased to confirm that a huge amount reflecting consideration of the public mood and engagement with key of progress has been made in this respect.
Furthermore, as a result of the Project Merlin agreement, we are disclosing in this years Remuneration Report the pay of our two The starting point is making sure we set the right objectives in the first executive directors and the pay of the five highest paid senior executive place.
Risk is a key factor when setting annual and long term objectives officers.
The Remuneration Committee has also reviewed the and an independent review of risk objectives is undertaken by the RBS remuneration of the ten highest paid staff in each of the Groups divisions.
Risk Management function and the Board Risk Committee.
At the end of each performance period, performance outcomes and bonus pool Throughout 2010 we continued to work through a period of proposals are subject to rigorous review by the control functions, unprecedented restructuring.
The Group has delivered remuneration independent of the businesses divisions.
Our LTIP also has a risk arrangements that are FSA compliant, take proper account of the public underpin whereby awards will not vest unless the Remuneration mood and call for restraint and support the overarching objective of Committee is satisfied on risk performance.
Both annual and long term maximising shareholder returns and delivering a profit for the taxpayer.
awards are subject to clawback and, accordingly, the Remuneration Importantly, these arrangements are consistent with the Project Merlin Committee has discretion to reduce the number of shares under award or agreement.
determine that no shares will vest.
Changes to approach On behalf of the Remuneration Committee I would like to place on record In addition to the changes made to executive directors remuneration our sincere appreciation for our people who have continued to focus on arrangements, the Remuneration Committee reached decisions on the service to our customers, managing risk and driving the performance of following key areas during 2010: our core and non-core businesses.
Our people are working hard to help return the Group to financial strength and the Remuneration Committee is x establishing a governance framework for incentive plans and bonus committed to creating an environment in which they can meet their funding across the Group, involving the Finance, Risk and Human ambitions.
Resources functions at all key decision points: x a structure of deferment for incentives for up to three years, with the Penny Hughes ability to clawback if appropriate: and Chair of the Remuneration Committee 23 February 2011 x the introduction of a new Long Term Incentive Plan following consultation with a number of institutional shareholders.
The new LTIP received the approval of over 99% of shareholders at the Annual General Meeting in 2010, and at the same meeting the Remuneration Report received overwhelming shareholder support.
