EXECUTIVE TEAM The Executive Team comprises the Executive 1.
ANNE JGER Directors whose biographies are on page 38 Chief Executive, UK Group Chief Auditor and the following senior executives: Adrian Brown was appointed Chief Executive Anne has been with the RSA Group since of the UK in September 2008.
She was appointed Group Chief Auditor qualifi ed management accountant and has in September 2008, having been Regional been with the RSA Group since 1989.
He Chief Auditor for International, based in was previously the UK Chief Operating Denmark.
She was part of the Codan Offi cer with responsibility for Claims, Sales Group Executive Leadership Team and the and Service, IT and Change across Personal International Central Leadership Team.
Anne and Commercial lines, and prior to that was was previously CFO at Maersk Data for two UK Director of Personal lines and led the years and spent 13 years with KPMG as a State launch of MORE TH N. Authorised Public Accountant, where she was involved in work with publicly listed 2.
ORLAGH HUNT companies, M&A and restructuring.
Group Human Resources Director Orlagh joined the Group as Human Resources 4.
TIMOTHY MITCHELL Director for International in September 2003 Group Underwriting and Claims Director and was appointed Group Human Resources Tim was appointed Group Underwriting and Director in October 2006.
She was previously Claims Director in November 2007 when Head of Human Resources for AXA Sun Life he joined the Group.
Tim has over 30 years and has worked at Walkers and Tesco in a experience in the insurance industry.
He variety of Human Resources management roles.
joined RSA from Zurich Financial Services where senior underwriting roles included three years as Global Chief Underwriting Offi cer for General Insurance.
Tim has also held senior management roles at AIG and Continental Insurance.
Tim is a member of the Cheltenham Ladies College Council.
40 | RSA | Annual Report and Accounts 2010 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE 5.
PAUL WHITTAKER Group Strategy, Marketing and Group Operations and Risk Director Chief Executive, Emerging Markets Customer Director David joined as Group Operations and IT Paul was appointed Chief Executive of Clare joined as Group Strategy, Marketing Director in June 2007.
David spent 27 years Emerging Markets in 2006, having been and Customer Director in June 2007. with the Barclays Group, where senior Group Human Resources Director since Previously she was Director of Marketing roles included Chief Operating Offi cer April 2003.
He has over 20 years senior and Commercial Strategy at ITV plc and a for Corporate Banking and Group Chief management experience in the fi financial member of the Executive Management Board, Information Offi cer.
He was also on the services sector including three years at AXA Managing Director of AA Financial Services Group Executive Committee.
He recently and ten years at GE Capital, including work and has held senior commercial roles at spent two years consulting to blue chip and in Asia and Eastern Europe on acquisition Prudential and British Gas.
She is a Nongovernment organisations and acting as an integration and business development.
Executive Director of Alliance Trust plc.
independent board member at the DTI and Chordiant Inc, the US Nasdaq quoted 6.
Group General Counsel and Group Company Secretary Derek joined the Group as General Counsel and Company Secretary in July 2010.
Derek has over 15 years experience in the insurance industry.
From 2002, he served as Group General Counsel at Benfi eld Group Limited, where he was responsible for the global legal, company secretarial and compliance teams.
Prior to that, Derek held positions in law fi rms Pinsent Curtis now Pinsent Masons, McKenna & Co now CMS Cameron McKenna and Norton Rose.
Annual Report and Accounts 2010 | RSA | 41
