SIMON LEE Chairman Group Chief Executive Chief Executive, International Age 68.
John joined as a Non-Executive Age 49.
Andy joined the Board as Group Age 49.
Simon was appointed as an Executive Director in January 2003 and became Chief Executive in April 2003 and is a member Director in January 2007 having been Chief Chairman of the Board and Nomination of the Group Executive Team, Investment Executive of International since April 2003 Committee in March 2003.
He is a member Committee and Board Risk Committee.
and is a member of the Group Executive of the Investment and Remuneration He was appointed as a Non-Executive Team.
He is Chairman of the Codan Group, Committees.
John is currently the Chairman Director of ITV plc media in August 2008 Trygg-Hansa and RSA Ireland, and is a of Aegis Group plc media and was also and has been a member of the Board of the Director of RSA Canada.
Previous roles interim Chief Executive of Aegis Group plc Association of British Insurers since 2003. include 17 years with the National from December 2008 until May 2010.
Previous Previous roles include Chief Executive of Westminster Group, in the UK and US, roles include Chairman of Kelda Group plc AXA Sun Life plc and Director of AXA UK including time as Chief Executive, Natwest water utility, stepping down after its sale and plc life and pensions, President and Chief Offshore and Head of US Retail Banking.
subsequent fide-listing from the London Stock Executive Offi cer of Global Consumer Finance A, I, N, R Exchange.
He has previously been Chairman Europe at GE Capital UK, Western Europe 5.
EDWARD LEA of Booker plc cash and carry and Managing and Eastern Europe fi financial services and Senior Independent Director of Hays plc business services and President of National Westminster Banks US Non-Executive Director AGB Research plc international market Consumer Credit Business retail banking.
Appointed as a Non-Executive research and information services.
Director in July 2003, Edward was appointed B, I 3.
GEORGE CULMER Senior Independent Director on 27 January Chief Financial Offi cer 2011.
He is Chairman of the Group Age 48.
George joined the Board as Chief Audit Committee and a member of the Financial Offi cer in May 2004 and is a member Remuneration, Nomination and Investment of the Investment Committee, the Group Committees.
Edward is currently a Director Executive Team and the Board Risk of Powertraveller Limited and MacIntyre Committee, which he chaired until June Care charity.
Previous roles include Head of Capital of BUPA and Redbourn Group Limited Management of Zurich Financial Services property management and investment.
insurance and Chief Financial Offi cer of its UK operation.
Before that George spent ten years with Prudential.
38 | RSA | Annual Report and Accounts 2010 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE A, B, I A, I, N, R A, I, N 6.
JOHANNA WATEROUS Independent Non-Executive Director Independent Non-Executive Director Independent Non-Executive Director Age 63.
Appointed as a Non-Executive Director in March 2004, Noel joined the Director in July 2003, John is Chairman of the Director in May 2008, Johanna is a member of Board Risk Committee as Chairman in June Remuneration Committee and a member of the Group Audit, Investment and Nomination 2009 and is a member of the Group Audit the Group Audit, Nomination and Investment Committees.
She was appointed as a and Investment Committees.
John is a Director of London Non-Executive Director of Wm Morrison a Director of Logica plc IT and outsourcing, Finance and Investment Group plc, FirstAssist Supermarkets plc in February 2010.
She is Impellam Group plc support services, Harry Group Holdings Limited and the Motor Sports also a Director of the RBG Kew Foundation, Winston Diamond Corporation mining and Association.
Previous roles include Executive an Operating Partner of Duke Street LLP retail and Deputy Chairman of Sumitomo Director of Prudential Group plc, Chairman and the Chairman of Britt Lintner Limited and Mitsui Banking Corporation Europe Limited of DXServices plc mail, Director of Sandpiper CI.
Previous roles include Chairman fi finance.
Previous roles include Chief Operating Provident Financial plc fi financial services of Tate Enterprises and over 20 years with Offi cer of Citibank International plc fi finance.
and Homeserve plc support services McKinsey & Company, with roles including and Director General of The Automobile Co-leader of the Global Marketing and Sales B, I, R 7.
MALCOLM LE MAY Association Limited.
Practice and Leader of their UK Consumer Independent Non-Executive Director Practice and the European Retail Practice.
Appointed as a Non-Executive Director in March 2004, Malcolm is Chairman of the Investment Committee and a member Key A Group Audit Committee Member of the Remuneration and Board Risk B Board Risk Committee Member Committees.
He is also a Non-Executive I Investment Committee Member Director of Pendragon plc general retailers N Nomination Committee Member R Remuneration Committee Member and Chief Executive of Matrix Corporate Capital LLP.
Previous roles include Deputy Chief Executive of Morley Fund Management Investment Fund Manager and Deputy CEO of ING-Barings fi finance.
Annual Report and Accounts 2010 | RSA | 39
