RISK REVIEW OUR BUSINESS SUCCESS IS UNDERPINNED BY OUR STRONG RISK MANAGEMENT RISK MANAGEMENT consistent process to identify, assess, manage There is a formal identification and escalation We ensure risk is managed to reduce losses and monitor its risks.
and ensure opportunities for profitable growth are taken.
The Board Risk Committee ensures RISK FRAMEWORK thatmaterial risks are identified and that The Group has 3 lines of defence for the The Group operates under a common appropriate arrangements are in place to oversight and management of risk as follows: framework through which risk management manage and mitigate those risks effectively.
and control is embedded throughout 1st line Management the Group.
GROUP RISK APPETITE Setting strategy, performance measurement, The Group risk appetite is set and monitored establishment and maintenance of internal The Board is responsible for the Groups risk at both a Group and regional level and is control and risk management in the business.
management system and defining the Groups annually reviewed and signed off by the Board risk appetite.
Risk Committee and Group Board.
It sets 2nd line Risk oversight business volumes for certain higher risk Operating a formal risk management Executive management is responsible for insurance classes, stipulates loss retention framework within which the Group policies implementing systems and controls that limits, reinsurance protection, targets for and minimum standards are set manage our risk exposures to the risk appetite.
credit rating and solvency margins and Oversight and challenge across the Group.
Each Group business is required to follow a other measures.
GOVERNANCE STRUCTURE THE PRINCIPAL COMMITTEES ARE SHOWN BELOW BOARD GROUP BOARD RISK GROUP AUDIT INVESTMENT COMMITTEE COMMITTEE COMMITTEE ICA & CAPITAL SOLVENCY II GROUP GROUP ASSET REGIONAL AUDIT ALLOCATION STEERING EXECUTIVE MANAGEMENT COMMITTEES STEERING GROUP COMMITTEE COMMITTEE COMMITTEE GROUP RISK, GROUP GROUP REGIONAL RISK INVESTMENTS RESERVING TRANSACTION COMMITTEES & TREASURY COMMITTEE COMMITTEE COMMITTEE GROUP GROUP REINSURANCE DISCLOSURE CREDIT COMMITTEE COMMITTEE 28 | RSA | Annual Report and Accounts 2010 BUSINESS REVIEW Our risk appetite clearly sets out which risks we are and are not prepared to take.
PRINCIPLES SIMPLE OBJECTIVES Create value for all stakeholders Focus on general insurance in our selected markets Commitment to sustainable, profitable performance.
CLEAR RISK APPETITE Underwriting and operating excellence Strong control environment Tight financial management Protecting and managing the Groups reputation.
ROBUST GOVERNANCE, CONTROL Comprehensive policy, procedures and controls AND REPORTING Clear delegation of authorities Robust lines of defence Regular and relevant reporting and assurance processes.
STRONG CULTURE Putting the customer at the centre of what we do High quality and engaged staff.
3rd line Independent assurance 2010 UPDATE Providing independent and objective assurance of the effectiveness of the Groups systems of internal control During the year we maintained our focus on risk management, strengthening and established by the first and second developing our processes, controls and capabilities through the following activities: lines of defence.
We continued to invest in our integrated Group wide governance, risk GROUP RISK POLICY STATEMENTS and compliance approach through which we manage and report our risks Our policy statements set out the minimum We continued to make solid progress on extending our risk capability standards to be maintained by the Groups to support our transition into the Solvency II regulatory environment operations to manage their risks in a way that is consistent with the risk appetite.
We further developed our rolling programme of comprehensive stress and scenario testing which reinforces our understanding of our risk profile RISK CATEGORIES and the effectiveness of our control environment Risk elements are viewed under headings We actively responded to the changing insurance regulatory architecture thatbroadly correspond to those used in across the UK and Europe theFinancialServices Authoritys Prudential Sourcebook for Insurers INSPRU and We recruited a new Group Risk Director to develop and strengthen Senior Management Arrangements, Systems our risk capability and Controls SYSC.
Additional information We have developed formal processes to envisage and critically evaluate is provided in the Risk Management section our emerging risks.
Some of the key current practices and tools for each risk category areset out overleaf alongside our risks and uncertainties.
Annual Report and Accounts 2010 | RSA | 29 RISK REVIEW CONTINUED RISKS CATEGORIES RISKS PRIMARY ACTIVITIES KEY TOOLS FOR MANAGING INSURANCE RISK Pricing, acceptance and management Reviews of individual insurance portfolios Our insurance risk strategy has ofrisks arising from our contracts Regional and Group Reserving enabled us to continue delivering withcustomers Committees held to determine a strong insurance results.
recommended level of outstanding claims and aggregate outstanding claims reserves Investigation of potential emerging insurance risks.
REINSURANCE RISK Reinsurance strategy and appetite Group reinsurance policy aligned with Our reinsurance buying and recommended to the Board by the strategy and appetite management expertise has allowed BoardRisk Committee Analysis of major treaty purchases using us to manage our insurance exposure Purchase of the worldwide programme various sophisticated modelling tools and losses such as those arising from ofglobal and local treaties.
Monitoring and control of the Groups the Chilean earthquake.
reinsurance activity Monitoring of the reinsurance markets.
OPERATIONAL RISK Effective and reliable operation Risk and control self assessments We have completed various Group wide of processes Key risk indicators to assess and manage assessments and roll-out activities to Business continuity and disaster recovery operational risk strengthen our operations.
Information security management Scenario analyses to assess operational Monitoring and control to prevent fraud events that have occurred elsewhere and human error.
andpotential exposure to the Group Incident management, near misses andlossreporting.
CREDIT, MARKET Investment strategy and portfolio Controls to ensure that exposure is & LIQUIDITY RISK management managed within risk appetite Our conservative approach to financial Treasury activities such as Group liquidity Reinsurance counterparties approved by risks has helped support the business Reinsurance counterparty management the Group Reinsurance Credit Committee in a challenging climate.
Contingency funding plans ensuring Requirements to maintain a minimum minimum levels are met even in level of cash or highly liquid assets stressconditions.
Committees overseeing the Groups investment strategy and risk limits.
REGULATORY RISK Ensuring compliance in all geographical Active engagement with regulators Our response to regulatory changes locations, with diverse regulatory Close monitoring of regulatory and compliance has helped safeguard requirements requirements our business and we remain at the Response to regulatory changes.
Compliance framework with consistent forefront of UK firms in respect of monitoring methodology our Solvency II application process.
Monthly reporting of significant regulatory developments and mitigation of emerging risks.
30 | RSA | Annual Report and Accounts 2010 BUSINESS REVIEW PRINCIPAL UNCERTAINTIES RISKS POTENTIAL IMPACT MITIGATION PROLONGED Exposure reduction impacts Diversified portfolio providing exposure to markets ECONOMIC premiumlevels at different levels of development and insurance cycle DOWNTURN Increased claims frequency.
Limited exposure to economically triggered contracts KPI dashboard developed to support early corrective action Maintain focus on underwriting discipline and targeted profitable growth Continuous action on rate and expenses.
ADVERSE FINANCIAL Impact on investment portfolio and Retain focus on high quality, low risk investment strategy MARKETS investment income due to lower Action taken to mitigate falling yields includes increased interest rates and market volatility.
holding in non government bonds, and measured increase in higher-yielding equities, property and duration.
RATING Inability to charge adequate rates places Diversified portfolio ENVIRONMENT downward pressure on operating results.
Each portfolio has a rate plan which is regularly reviewed Focus on underwriting and profitable growth Actively shift capacity to where we see the best returns Continue to invest in technical skills, sales and marketing capabilities.
ADVERSE LOSS Catastrophic losses arising from Underwriting strategy set to ensure risks written are EXPERIENCE insuranceevents well diversified and within riskappetite Increasing frequency and severity Regular portfolio reviews to monitor underwriting oflargelosses performance Deterioration in long tail reserves.
Emerging trends in large losses, frequency and severity are investigated and corrective action taken Reinsurance programmes limit net losses Conservative reserving policy ensuring that claims reserves will be more likely than not to result in positive prior year development.
INSURANCE RISKS Adverse impact on operating results The Group operates under a clear risk appetite set OUTSIDE GROUPS due to increased volatility.
by the Board which is monitored at Group and RISK APPETITE regional level Underwriters are licensed only to write risks within specified limits based on their own experience Reviews assess each portfolio against key performance and risk indicators.
Portfolios that trigger key risk indicators are investigated.
Corrective measures are implemented where required.
Annual Report and Accounts 2010 | RSA | 31
