16 Market review 2010: financial markets Changes to sales channels After a very strong recovery in markets in the second The growing longevity of an ageing population half of 2009, 2010 reminded investors that the postisforcing the closure of defined benefit pension financial crisis environment remained fragile.
Investors schemes, which historically fuelled the growth of had to contend with fears of a double dip recession institutional asset management.
This has driven the and the risk of sovereign default, whilst monetary move to defined contribution pension schemes and policies struggled to gain traction as households thegrowing importance of individual and instividual andbanks deleveraged and housing markets savings.
Accessing the individual retail investor, either remainedweak.
directly orvia intermediaries, will remain an important part of our strategy.
The first half of 2010 was dominated by concerns over some of the eurozone countries, and the second half The distribution of products to retail investors is also The movement in key by concerns over protectionism and the effects of a under review from regulators in the UK, Europe and financial markets is outlined second round of quantitative easing.
In the UK from 2013, the Retail Distribution inthe graphs opposite.
end of the year, the combination of strong earnings Review looks to remove provider bias in the advice growth and better than expected economic data process, improve consumer choice and enhance helped push global equity markets higher.
We believe that this could December, investors had enjoyed gains across a leadto a fall in the number of Independent Financial broadrange of assets as none of the major structural Advisors, with platforms, tied advisers and issues faced by markets led to real stress globally.
discretionary sales channels having a greater marketshare.
We won 27.1 billion of net new business 2009: 15.0billion during the year and investment returns The retirement of the baby boomer generation, which increased funds under management by a further owns approximately 60 per cent.
of global wealth, is 21.2billion 2009: 23.2 billion.
also creating a major opportunity as this generation looks to use its assets to finance retirement.
This is The recovery in European retail investor risk appetite known as decumulation and accounts for nearly that we saw in the second half of 2009 continued into 40per cent.
of gross flows into the financial sector of 2010, however the second quarter saw a slowdown mature economies.
Currently, banks and insurance asinvestors became concerned about eurozone companies see the majority of these flows and as a instability and the sustainability of theglobal economic result they are becoming an increasingly important recovery.
Demand from institutional investors remained sales channel to reach a growing customer base.
strong throughout 2010 across a broad range of asset classes.
Product changes These changes create demand for asset-liability Longer-term market trends management and investment solutions.
Defined Longer-term, key global and demographic trends benefit pension funds are increasingly looking to arechanging the outlook for savings.
The ratio of nonmatchassets and liabilities through the use of liabilityworking to working age individuals in the major western driven investment.
Others are beginning to think about economies is likely to increase dramatically in the next implementing a glide-path strategy gradually to fide- 30 to 40 years.
This is expected to have a major impact risk their portfolios as defined benefit schemes close, on the cost of state-provided pensions and individuals time horizons shorten and funds become increasingly will need to save more during their working lives.
At Schroders, we look to support our clients We anticipate that this will lead to changes in the asset inconstructing dynamic investment portfolios that are management industry, in terms of clients, products and able to respond quickly to market changes.
We are well placed to take advantage of these To address decumulation needs, we expect to see developments.
increased demand for capital protected and income Another theme of the past decade has been the generating products as clients seek to minimise risks.
increasing divergence between growth in developed We also expect demand for outcome-orientated and emerging countries.
This trend was reinforced as products to continue to grow.
emerging economies avoided much of the fall out from Investors continue to look to separate sources of alpha the financial crisis.
The majority of new savings flows and beta.
Passive products have attracted increasing are also expected to arise from emerging economies, inflows butthe demand for alpha has also led to particularly Asia, due to the growth of China and rapidly growth in alternative products as savers look to increasing wealth accumulation in the region.
This diversify their investment portfolios in pursuit of higher includes sovereign wealth funds and central returns.
For the small to medium sized Institutional bankswhich are becoming an increasingly important client, a realistic way to access these instruments is institutional market segment, as well as corporate through diversified growth funds.
Again, we are well pension funds and retail investors.
placed to take advantage of this trend.
| Schroders Annual Report and Accounts 2010 48485 TEXT pp16 17. indd 16 15 03 2011 04:03 17 Local stock market movement Broad market indices FTSE 100 S&P 500 US$ Nikkei 225 MSCI World MSCI Pacic MSCI Europe Index Index Ex UK Index E0YH MSEXUKL 115 115 110 110 105 105 100 100 95 95 90 90 85 85 80 80 January 2010 June 2010 December 2010 January 2010 June 2010 December 2010 Fixed income: 10 year benchmark Alternatives UK Benchmark 10 Year US Benchmark 10 Year FTSE All UK Property DJ CS Hedge Fund Index Govt.
