29 Strategic priorities Looking ahead: managing growth In Private Banking, we will leverage the investment Schroders has all the attributes for success, beginning inclient-facing executives to enhance the dedicated with a strategy that is focused on asset management.
relationship management that is core to our client We are a global business, with considerable scale and offering.
an ability to react quickly to opportunities as they arise.
Operational effectiveness Our highly diversified business, by geography, During the last two years, our operational platform saleschannel and product, combines defensive hasenabled us to take on in excess of 42 billion of characteristics in a difficult market environment netnew business.
andgrowth characteristics when investor demand isstrong.
The underlying strength of our business We will continue this investment programme and isevident in the results for 2010. drivefor operational efficiencies and increased productivity across our core operating hubs.
In 2011, we intend to build on our success to drive further organic growth, leveraging the strategy thathas An employer of choice served us well for many years.
We will continue to recruit talented individuals with diverse backgrounds, in addition to developing and Maintaining competitive investment encouraging the career ambitions of our existing performance employees.
This is one of our strategic goals.
Sustainability ofinvestment performance is key for an active asset Investing in long-term growth opportunities manager.
Maintaining a strong financial position has been a We believe that we can achieve superior performance keypart of our strategy and we believe that this is through our talented people, the depth of our increasingly important in the changing regulatory resources and the disciplined investment processes environment that we face today.
that we use across our range of asset classes.
Our financial strength allows us to invest for the longWe will continue to monitor investment capacity across term and as a result, we are well placed to deliver our product range and take action where appropriate.
This will ensure that we can continue todeliver good investment performance.
Close relationships with clients Understanding and addressing our clients investment needs has been a cornerstone of the significant organic growth we have delivered in the last two years.
We will continue to build on both existing and new client relationships as we develop our product offering, particularly in outcome-orientated, absolute return and benchmark-unaware strategies forIntermediary and Institutional clients.
We are well placed to realise the benefits of our consistent strategy, our trusted heritage and the stability of the Group to deliver further organic growth.
Schroders | Annual Report and Accounts 2010 48485 TEXT pp029.
