Includes 10.0m of investments which are unlisted.
Report & Accounts 2010 The Scottish Investment Trust PLC 7 Management Review continued Summary Another volatile year for global stockmarkets Equity portfolio total return 17.6% and NAV total return 17.0% Dividend income growth ahead of expectations Strong second half investment performance The year to October 2010 proved to be another volatile Stockmarket Performance period for global equity markets.
The year began with 10 years to 31 October 2010 a continuation of the strong rally from the stockmarket 120 lows of March 2009, sparked initially by emergency monetary and fiscal stimulus measures.
Markets overcame 110 intermittent concerns over EU member country budget levels and slowing Chinese growth to post a strong return 100 over the first half of the financial year.
Sentiment was 90 buoyed by steadily improving economic data from around the world, a robust recovery in corporate profits and 80 considerable merger and acquisition activity.
However, between May and July, markets retreated sharply as fears 70 surfaced regarding a faltering US economic recovery and an intensifying EU debt crisis centred on Greece.
With 60 markets having fallen back to near the lows for the year, 50 the chairman of the US Federal Reserve Bank indicated in 2001 2002 2003 2004 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 late August that further stimulus measures, which would take the form of quantitative easing, would be forthcoming.
FTSE All-World Index UK FTSE All-Share Index Markets responded by rallying sharply to the October year end.
Equity markets maintained a close inverse relationship Source: Thomson Reuters Datastream with the US dollar.
As the chart below shows, advances and Performance improved over the second half of the year during declines by equities were matched by corresponding spells which the portfolio and NAV return exceeded that of both of dollar weakness and strength, a sign that markets were indices.
Dividend income was above expectations despite still being driven by major macro-economic themes.
the passing of dividends by BP.
The difference between the portfolio and NAV total returns reflects management expenses FTSE All-World Index $ & US dollar inverted and interest payments partially offset by the uplift from share 72 220 buybacks and the effect of gearing.
215 74 210 Total Return Comparison 76 % 205 78 20 200 80 195 82 190 15 84 185 86 180 88 175 10 90 170 NovDec JanFeb MarApr MayJun JulAug Sep Oct US dollar index inverted scale 5 FTSE All-World Index US dollar terms The companys equity portfolio achieved a total return of 0 17.6% over the year compared with 18.2% for the FTSE FTSE All-World Index All-World Index and 17.5% for the UK FTSE All-Share Index.
The equity portfolio held its own against the FTSE All-World Sterling in local currency terms.
However, sterling weakness against Local the US dollar, which has a very significant influence on the All-World Index, lowered relative portfolio performance by around 1%.
8 The Scottish Investment Trust PLC Report & Accounts 2010 SIT Total Equities UK FTSE All-Share Index US dollar FTSE All-World Index $ FTSE All-World Middle East & Africa Asia Pacic ex Japan Japan Latin America North America Europe ex UK UK FTSE All-World Technology Financials Utilities Telecommunications Consumer Services Health Care Consumer Goods Industrials Basic Materials Oil & Gas Management Review continued Industry Sector Performance Regional Performance Year to 31 October 2010 Year to 31 October 2010 % % 30 30 25 25 20 20 15 15 10 10 5 5 0 0 -5 -5 -10 -10 Sterling Sterling Local Local Indices are components of the FTSE All-World Index Series Indices are components of the FTSE All-World Index Series The above charts show the spread of global equity The top ten contributors added 7.0% to portfolio returns by industry and region.
Despite frequent changes performance while the bottom ten subtracted 2.7%.
of leadership as investor risk appetite oscillated during the year, cyclical sectors ended up providing the best Positive contributors to absolute performance returns.
Oil & Gas, Financials and more defensive areas Apple US generally lagged.
Sterling weakness substantially elevated Apple designs and markets personal computers, emerging region stockmarket returns for sterling-based software and consumer electronics products including investors.
We were well positioned in the strongest regions the iPhone, iPod and iPad.
Apple shares rose by 60% and overall industry positioning was broadly helpful.
over the year, adding over 1% to performance, as its earnings consistently beat expectations.
Drivers included strong Our central investment positioning for the year was demand for mobile handsets and computers with sales influenced by the existence of two opposing but equally of the new iPhone 4 exceeding initial expectations.
The first was predicated on the US Apple has achieved market share gains in its main and other troubled western economies gradually improving, product categories, and particularly so in mobile handsets.
aided by additional central bank measures and, potentially, Media and mobile device software sales were also strong.
an upturn in bank credit growth.
The second, more Despite the strong performance, Apples valuation remained pessimistic, scenario saw a clear risk of a return to reasonable with substantial cash balances on the balance recession in the west, accompanied by weak stockmarkets.
Apple was the companys largest holding for much The volatility of markets and the real risk of another market of the year.
correction, if recession fears were vindicated, meant that we opted for a tactical use of gearing over the year as we Kia Motors South Korea sought to avoid gearing into weakening markets.
There was also volatility in regional stockmarket performance.
In early Kia Motors is South Koreas second-largest automobile 2010, the emphasis in the portfolio was shifted towards manufacturer.
The shares rose by 108% from initial purchase the US, and away from Europe in anticipation of a spell of in February 2010 and added over 1% to performance.
weaker performance on EU budget concerns.
While the Part of the holding was sold late in the year in order to lock switch was well-timed, we did not capitalise fully as the in some gains.
Strong new product launches helped the performance of US holdings was lacklustre.
Stock selection company increase both domestic and global market share.
in other areas was stronger, particularly so in the Asia Kia is targeting an increase in unit shipments of over 30% Pacific ex Japan region.
Such changes in the level of in 2010 following the opening of overseas production plants.
gearing and geographical exposure in volatile markets as Average selling prices and operating margins have risen well as sales to finance share buybacks inflated headline with sales of new larger models.
Incentives offered in the portfolio turnover levels.
In order to give shareholders more US market have been falling as vehicle residual values have insight into the portfolio and performance, there follows increased.
Kia has also been deepening manufacturing ties a summary of some of the top contributors to and from with sister company Hyundai Motor to generate operating performance for the year.
The group has made faster than expected progress in reducing its debt and earlier this year it paid a dividend for the first time in four years.
Report & Accounts 2010 The Scottish Investment Trust PLC 9 Management Review continued a number of bolt-on acquisitions.
Fresenius Medical Care Aspen Pharmacare South Africa is a German-listed, US-based, renal care company whose Aspen Pharmacare is a South African-based supplier share price benefited from an end to uncertainty concerning of branded and generic pharmaceuticals in approximately US healthcare reforms.
Fresenius has substantial scope 100 countries.
Aspen shares rose by 41% over the year to expand further its international network of kidney care as it continued to mould itself into a broader-based centres.
Mexican telephony group Amrica Mvil is now emerging market pharmaceutical company.
Pharmaceutical the largest provider of wireless communication services patent expiries and rising disposable income levels in South in Latin America.
It is also one of the leading integrated Africa have been strong underlying drivers.
Aspens strong telecoms groups in the region after gaining control of strategic alliances and focus on emerging markets have Mexican fixed line operators Telmex and Telmex International.
As a result, Aspens shares are now valued more in line with international peers.
The domestic business has benefited from a strong rand Negative contributors to absolute performance with raw materials priced in US dollars helping Aspen to There were three main individual detractors from absolute expand profit margins.
performance over the year, all of them in the Oil & Gas industry: Spectris UK Diamond Offshore Drilling US Spectris is a manufacturer of instrumentation and controls Diamond is an offshore drilling contractor with a large fleet which enable its industrial customers to monitor and of semi-submersible and jack-up rigs.
Although reductions improve various aspects of production.
Spectris shares rose were made in the first half, Diamond shares fell steadily over by 67% over the year as the company benefited from the the year, with a cost to performance of 0.4%.
The company ongoing recovery in manufacturing, particularly in industrial formerly commanded a higher valuation than peers due markets and in the Far East.
This is a well-run company to its high dividend yield which was a factor in the decision with tight control over costs.
A strong balance sheet has to hold these shares.
Several mid and deepwater contracts been used to make sensible bolt-on acquisitions.
With a expired during the year.
Utilisation rates and contract prices significant proportion of overseas revenue, the company did not recover and new contracts were signed at lower has also benefited from favourable exchange rates.
Lower utilisation rates and rising costs led to earnings disappointments and ultimately the company cut the dividend in April 2010 prompting a significant fall in the CIMB Malaysia share price.
The moratorium on US Gulf of Mexico drilling CIMB is a Malaysian bank with growing Asia Pacific regional in May after the Deepwater Horizon oil spills also affected operations.
The key drivers of the group are its investment utilisation rates and led to force majeure declarations banking division and overseas operations, primarily by oil companies.
Further earnings downgrades followed, in Indonesia and Thailand.
The bank has a strong capital culminating in another cut in the dividend in July.
base to support its wide range of operations.
It is a key beneficiary of rising infrastructure spending in Malaysia BP UK by virtue of its leading position in capital markets while its exposure to Indonesia, a higher growth market, is gaining The share price of UK energy group BP fell by 26% scale and helping to drive higher returns.
during the year with a cost to performance of 0.4%.
BP fell heavily in the aftermath of the tragic accident Other large positive contributors: The share price which sank the Deepwater Horizon rig in the Gulf of Mexico.
performance of UK and Australian-listed mining and The environmental threat outraged US public opinion and oil group BHP Billiton benefited from strength in the investors discounted a variety of dire scenarios.
In response price of a number of mining commodities, with Chinese to political pressure, BP replaced the chief executive, demand a key factor.
Hong Kong-listed consumer hygiene suspended the dividend and established a $20bn goods manufacturer Hengan International had a good year compensation fund.
However, as BPs weak share price operationally and its share price benefited from investor appeared to more than reflect the likely costs, the holding demand for China-linked consumer stocks which prompted was increased by a purchase of 6.1m at comparatively us to take some profits.
One of our largest holdings over low levels.
The suspension of the BP dividends resulted the year, Li & Fung, is a Hong Kong-based consumer in a loss of projected dividend income of 0.25p per share.
goods sourcing company which manages the supply chains for retailers worldwide.
Li & Fung shares benefited from news of a major new contract with Wal-Mart and also 10 The Scottish Investment Trust PLC Report & Accounts 2010 Management Review continued Petrobras Brazil Holdings in UK Listed Investment Companies Petrobras is a Brazilian energy group which is part-owned Company holdings include investments in UK-listed by the Brazilian government and is the largest company investment companies of 17.6m or 2.8% of total in Latin America.
Petrobras fell by 22% over the year assets 2009: 19.7m, 3.4%.
These are held to provide with a cost to performance of 0.3%.
Throughout the year, exposure to private equity, small companies, Indian and the companys shares were held back by uncertainty environmental equities.
The company has a policy not over the proposed purchase of 5bn offshore barrels of to invest more than 15% of total assets in other UK-listed oil equivalent from the Brazilian government.
were also concerned at the amount to be spent on refining operations to develop Brazils oil and gas infrastructure.
The Share Price, Discount and Buybacks company raised 44bn in a share offering after the price of The share price rose by 14.5% as the discount to ex-income the 5bn barrels was announced.
We were fortunate to have NAV was stable over the year and ended the period at 9.0% halved the holding in January 2010 through a sale of 12m 2009: 8.9%.
The companys buyback policy is intended before the underperformance for the year had really begun.
to keep the discount to ex-income NAV at or below 9.0% with borrowings at market value.
Under the policy, 8.1m Other top ten negative contributors to absolute performance shares were repurchased for cancellation over the financial all had individual cost impacts of below 0.3% and included year adding 0.7% to NAV performance and utilising 4.62 a small number of European and Japanese companies, percentage points of the 14.99% authority renewed at the these being the two weakest regions globally over the year.
The shares were repurchased at an Among them, complete sales of Spanish bank BBVA, which estimated average discount to ex-income NAV of 10.2% fell on EU budget concerns, and Finnish electronics group and at a cost of 36.0m inclusive of dealing expenses.
The Nokia, which faced strong mobile handset competition, buybacks were funded from sales of fixed interest holdings were made ahead of much worse underperformance.
and equities and from net current assets.
The average BBVA did well for the company in the previous financial year.
discount over the year was 9.6% and the daily average Japanese fashion retailer Fast Retailing, which operates between the introduction of the scheme in February 2006 the Uniqlo fashion brand, failed to meet its expected and the year end was 8.4%.
sales and also gave a surprisingly cautious outlook for next year.
Also, sales in the summer months were poor due in part to a long heat-wave in Japan.
Subsequent to the year end, the share price rallied on the release of improved trading statistics.
NAV Attribution Analysis Discount to ex-income NAV Year to 31 October 2010 with borrowings at market value 5 years to 31 October 2010 Relative to FTSE: All-World All-Share % % % -3 Increase in NAV 14.6 14.6 Increase in index 15.3 13.6 0 Relative performance -0.5 0.9 3 Total equities local terms -0.1 0.5 Currency effect -0.9 6 Total equities sterling terms -1.0 0.5 9 Gearing 0.7 0.6 Buybacks 0.7 0.7 12 Interest and expenses charged to capital -0.8 -0.8 Increase in pension liability -0.1 -0.1 15 Relative performance -0.5 0.9 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 Report & Accounts 2010 The Scottish Investment Trust PLC 11
