Directors Report continued Annual General Meeting Auditors The directors consider that the resolutions, to be proposed Re-appointment of auditors at the AGM, are all in the best interests of the company A resolution to re-appoint Deloitte LLP as the companys and of shareholders as a whole, and recommend that auditors, and to authorise the directors to fix their shareholders vote in favour of them.
remuneration, will be proposed at the forthcoming annual general meeting.
Resolutions 1 to 6 are self explanatory.
Resolution 7, set out in the Notice of the Annual General Meeting on page 45, Disclosure of information to auditors seeks to renew the authority to repurchase shares until It is the companys policy to allow the auditors unlimited 30 April 2012.
The principal reasons for such repurchases access to its records.
The directors confirm that, so far as are to enhance the net asset value of the shares by each of them is aware, there is no relevant audit information repurchasing shares for cancellation at prices which, of which the companys auditors are unaware and they have after allowing for costs, improve the NAV for remaining taken all the steps which they should have taken as directors shareholders and to allow implementation of the in order to make themselves aware of any relevant audit companys share buyback policy.
information and to establish that the companys auditors are aware of that information.
This confirmation is given Under the Listing Rules of the UK Listing Authority, the and should be interpreted in accordance with the provisions maximum price that may be paid on the exercise of the of Section 418 of the Companies Act 2006. authority must not exceed the higher of i 105% of the average of the middle market quotations for the shares Payment of Creditors as derived from the Daily Official List of the London Stock It is the companys policy to agree in advance the terms of Exchange over the five business days immediately preceding business with suppliers and then to abide by those terms.
the date of purchase and, ii the higher price of the last independent trade and the highest current independent bid.
As the company has no trade creditors, no disclosure can The minimum price which may be paid is 25p per share.
be made of creditor days at the year end.
Voting Policy Donations The management reviews resolutions put to general meetings No charitable or political donations were made during of the companies in which it invests and, wherever practicable, the year 2009: same.
will cast its vote, usually by proxy.
By order of the board Socially Responsible Investing When investments are made, the primary objective is to achieve the best investment return while allowing for an acceptable degree of risk.
In pursuing this objective, various factors that may impact on the performance are considered Steven Hay and these may include socially responsible investment issues.
Company Secretary If it is considered that a companys social, environmental 16 December 2010 or ethical record will adversely affect financial performance and result in poor returns, then an investment will not be made in the company.
20 The Scottish Investment Trust PLC Report & Accounts 2010
