Directors Report The companys investment activities are subject to the Business Review following limitations and restrictions: Investment policy under the companys articles of association, up to 40% The company carries on business as a global growth of the companys total assets on the last audited balance investment trust.
Its objective is to provide investors, sheet may be used to make investments of up to a over the longer term, with above-average returns maximum of 8% of the value of total assets in any one through a diversified portfolio of international equities company, at the time the investment is made.
Thereafter, and to achieve dividend growth ahead of UK inflation.
individual investments may not exceed 3% of the value of total assets, at the time the investment is made: In order to achieve this objective, the company invests in an the levels of effective equity gearing and gross gearing integrated global portfolio constructed through an investment are monitored closely by the board and manager.
The process whereby assets are primarily allocated on the basis company applies a ceiling on effective equity gearing of of the investment merits of individual stocks rather than that 120%.
While effective equity gearing will be employed in of regions, sectors or themes.
a typical range of 100% to 120%, the company retains the ability to lower equity exposure below 100% if The companys portfolio is actively managed and typically deemed appropriate: will contain 70 to 120 listed international equity investments.
the company has a policy not to invest more than The portfolio is widely diversified both by industrial sector 15% of gross assets in other UK listed investment and geographic location of investments in order to spread companies: and investment risk.
the company may not make investments in respect of which there is unlimited liability.
Whilst performance is compared against major global and UK indices, the composition of indices has no influence on Investment policy implementation investment decisions or the construction of the portfolio.
As a During the year under review, the assets of the company were result, it is expected that the companys investment portfolio invested in accordance with the companys investment policy.
and performance may deviate from the comparator indices.
For details of how the companys absolute performance and relative performance compared to its comparator indices, Since the companys assets are invested globally and please refer to the Management Review on pages 7 to 12. without regard to the composition of any index, there are no restrictions on maximum or minimum exposures A full list of holdings is disclosed opposite and detailed to specific geographic regions, industry sectors or unlisted analyses of the spread of investments by industry sector and investments.
However, such exposures are reported geographic region are shown on pages 7 and 9.
Further in detail to, and monitored by, the board at each board analysis of changes in asset distribution by industry sector meeting in order to ensure that adequate diversification over the year and the sources of gains and losses are shown is maintained.
An attribution of NAV relative performance against a global equity index is shown on page 11.
Liquidity and long-term borrowings are managed with the aim of improving returns to shareholders.
In pursuing its At the year end, the number of listed holdings was 111, investment objective, from time to time the company will including one holding which was held within the companys hold certain financial instruments comprising equity and unlisted portfolio.
The top ten holdings comprised 19.8% non-equity shares, fixed income securities, interests in of total assets 2009: 20.5%.
limited partnerships, structured products and cash and liquid resources.
The company may use derivatives for Details of the extent to which the companys objective hedging or tactical investment purposes with the prior has been achieved and how the investment policy was authorisation of the board and subject always to the implemented are provided in the Chairmans Statement investment restriction which prohibits the company from on pages 4 and 5 and the Management Review on making any investment in which there is unlimited liability.
The company has the ability to enter into contracts to hedge against currency risks on both capital and income.
Report & Accounts 2010 The Scottish Investment Trust PLC 15 Directors Report continued HM Revenue and Customs approved the company as an Additional limitations on borrowings investment trust for the purposes of S842 of the Income and Under the companys articles of association, the directors Corporation Taxes Act 1988 up to the accounting period control the borrowings of the company and its subsidiaries ended 31 October 2009.
This approval is subject to any to ensure that the aggregate amount of borrowings does not, subsequent enquiry by HM Revenue and Customs.
The unless approved by an ordinary resolution of shareholders, company continues to satisfy the conditions for such approval.
exceed the aggregate of the reserves excluding unrealised capital profit of the company and its subsidiaries, as published in the latest accounts.
In addition, the directors Share Capital are entitled to incur temporary borrowings in the ordinary General course of business of up to 10% of the companys issued The company had 118,102,926 shares in issue on 31 October share capital.
Such temporary borrowings are to be for no 2010.
The rights attaching to shares in the company are set longer than six months.
out in the companys articles of association.
The companys articles of association may be amended by the passing of a Principal risks and uncertainties special resolution of shareholders, that is, by the approval The principal risks and uncertainties facing the business of a majority of not less than 75%.
are as follows: investment and market price risk: Rights to the capital of the company on winding up interest rate risk: Shareholders would be entitled to the assets of the company liquidity risk: in the event of a winding up after the companys other foreign currency risk: and liabilities have been satisfied.
Voting These and other risks facing the company are reviewed On a show of hands, every shareholder present in person regularly by the audit committee and the board.
Further or by proxy has one vote and on a poll every member information is given in note 17 to the accounts on pages present in person or by proxy has one vote for each share.
Deadlines for exercising voting rights Performance If a shareholder wishes to appoint a proxy to attend, speak The management provides the board with detailed and vote at a meeting on his behalf, a valid appointment information on the companys performance at every board is made when the form of proxy together, where relevant, meeting.
Performance is measured in comparison with with a notarially certified copy of the power of attorney the companys peer group and comparator indices.
or other authority under which the form of proxy is signed is received by the companys registrar not less than Key Performance Indicators are: 48 hours before the start of the meeting or the adjourned NAV total return: meeting at which the proxy is appointed to vote or, in the NAV total return against comparators: case of a poll taken more than 48 hours after it is demanded, NAV and share price total return against peers: no later than 24 hours before the time appointed for taking discount with debt at market value: the poll.
In calculating these time periods, no account is dividend growth against UK inflation: and taken of any day or part thereof that is not a working day.
Buybacks Dividends The companys buyback policy, is intended to keep the The board may declare dividends, including interim discount to ex-income NAV at or below 9%.
In calculating dividends, but no dividend is payable except out of the NAV for the purposes of the buyback policy, the companys companys revenue returns or in excess of the amount borrowings are taken at their market value so as to ensure recommended by the directors.
Neither unrealised that future repurchases of shares will take into account appreciation of capital assets nor realised profits arising changes in the value of the borrowings brought about from the sale of capital assets are available for dividend.
by movements in long-term interest rates.
During the year ended 31 October 2010, the company bought back for The directors recommend a final dividend of 5.60p per cancellation a total of 8,126,792 shares representing share payable on 7 February 2011.
With the interim dividend 6.4% of shares in issue at 31 October 2009, at a cost of of 4.45p already paid in July 2010, this makes a total of 36,046,000.
Buybacks since the AGM on 5 February 2010 10.05p for the year.
Based on shares in issue at 31 October have utilised 4.62 percentage points of 14.99% authority 2010 the final dividend will cost 6,614,000.
The total renewed at the AGM.
The number of shares authorised dividend for the year will cost 11,973,000. for repurchase at the AGM was 18,560,407 leaving a balance of 10,433,615 shares remaining.
Status The company is a self-managed investment trust and is an investment company within the meaning of the Companies Act 2006.
16 The Scottish Investment Trust PLC Report & Accounts 2010 Directors Report continued Substantial Shareholdings Directors Interests At 10 December 2010 the company had been notified The interests of the directors and their families in the of the following holdings in excess of 3% of its shares.
companys capital are as follows: % of Shares of 25p issue 31 October 31 October at date of Beneficial interests 2010 2009 Shares notification Douglas McDougall 60,000 60,000 AXA Group 15,002,892 12.3 Francis Finlay 60,000 60,000 Lloyds Banking Group 6,346,502 5.1 Hamish Buchan 22,325 22,325 Legal & General 5,100,886 3.9 James MacLeod 22,708 22,553 Russell Napier 14,000 14,000 Directors The companys policy on the appointment of directors There have been no changes in the directors interests is shown on the companys website.
The directors of the company on 31 October 2010 and Corporate Governance their biographical details are shown on page 6.
Compliance The board has reviewed the principles set out in the The performance of each director was appraised by the Combined Code on Corporate Governance and believes nomination committee during the year.
The chairmans that the way the company is governed is consistent performance was appraised in his absence by the other with these principles.
Throughout the year, the company directors and the results were communicated to him.
complied with the provisions of the Combined Code The board believes that each director is independent including section 1 of the Combined Code except: of the management in character and judgement and there there is no senior independent director: and are no relationships with the company or its employees the chairman is a member of the audit committee.
which might compromise his independence.
The directors consider that, as all directors are independent Two directors are standing for re-election at the AGM.
and non-executive, there is no compelling case for having Douglas McDougall and Francis Finlay have served as a senior independent director.
The board considers the directors for more than nine years and therefore retire chairman to be independent in character and judgement on an annual basis.
After formal performance evaluation, and therefore there is no reason for Douglas McDougall the board confirms that Douglas McDougall and Francis not to be a member of the audit committee.
The Combined Finlay continue to perform effectively and with great Code is available from the Financial Reporting Council commitment and it recommends their re-election.
uk The appointments of Douglas McDougall and Francis Finlay The board as directors run for one year at a time.
Hamish Buchan was The board normally meets eight times throughout the appointed in November 2003, James MacLeod was appointed year while the audit and remuneration committees meet in September 2005 and Russell Napier was appointed in July three times each.
The nomination committee meets at 2009 each for initial terms of three years.
appointment was renewed in November 2006 and November 2009 and James MacLeods appointment was renewed in There is a schedule of matters reserved for the board September 2008.
Directors letters of appointment will be which includes investment strategy, accounting and available for inspection at the AGM.
financial controls, dividends and announcements, capital structure, gearing and major contracts.
The company maintains insurance in respect of directors and officers liability in relation to their acts on behalf of the Day to day management, including the selection of company.
The companys articles of association provide investments, is delegated to the companys executive that any director or other officer of the company may be management which reports directly to the board.
indemnified out of the assets of the company against any liability incurred by him as a director or other officer of the company to the extent permitted by law.
Report & Accounts 2010 The Scottish Investment Trust PLC 17 Directors Report continued Prior to each board meeting, directors are provided with Directors fees are set with a view to attracting individuals a comprehensive set of papers giving detailed information of appropriate calibre and experience, taking into account on the companys transactions, financial position and the time commitment required and the level of fees paid performance.
There is a procedure for directors to seek by similar investment trusts.
No other benefits are provided independent professional advice at the expense of the to directors.
Fees recommended by the remuneration company and training is available to directors as required.
committee are subject to approval by the board.
The companys articles of association provide for a maximum The Companies Act 2006 requires that a director of the level of total remuneration of 250,000 payable to directors company must avoid a situation in which he has, or might in any financial year.
have, an interest that conflicts, or may conflict, with the interests of the company.
Each director submits a list of The company aims to provide levels of employee remuneration potential conflicts prior to each meeting.
The other board which reward responsibility and achievement and are members consider these and recommend whether or not comparable with other fund management organisations each potential conflict should be authorised.
No situation operating in Scotland.
arose during the year whereby an interest of a director Every employee is entitled to a salary and other benefits conflicted with the interests of the company.
In addition, there is a discretionary performance related bonus scheme.
The following table shows the attendance of directors For investment staff, bonuses payable depend, inter alia, at board and committee meetings during the year to on individual performance, the companys NAV total return 31 October 2010. and the NAV total return relative to comparator indices and peers.
For other staff, bonuses depend, inter alia, on Board Audit Remuneration Nomination individual performance and share price total return.
Notice periods for employees range from three to twelve months.
Number of meetings 9 3 3 1 Douglas McDougall 8 2 2 1 Relations with shareholders Francis Finlay 8 n a n a 1 The company recognises the value of good communication with its shareholders.
The management meets regularly Hamish Buchan 9 3 3 1 with private client stockbrokers and the companys major James MacLeod 9 3 3 1 institutional shareholders.
The board receives regular Russell Napier 9 n a n a 1 briefings from the companys brokers.
Newsletters are sent to shareholders during the year and are posted on the companys website.
Nomination committee There is a nomination committee comprising the whole The annual general meeting of the company is the main board.
The committee meets at least annually to review forum at which shareholders can ask questions of the board the structure, size and composition of the board and is and the management.
All shareholders are encouraged responsible for identifying and nominating candidates to fill to attend the AGM and to vote on the resolutions which board vacancies as and when they arise.
It has written terms are contained in the Notice of Meeting on page 45 and of reference which are shown on the companys website.
which is posted to shareholders at least 21 days prior to the meeting.
Shareholders who cannot attend the Unless nominated by the board, a person nominated as AGM are encouraged to vote by proxy on the resolutions.
a director is not eligible for election at a general meeting Proxy voting figures are given at the end of the meeting.
unless a shareholder who is entitled to vote at the meeting gives the company secretary at least six clear days written Any shareholder who wishes to ask a question at another notice of his intention to propose the relevant nominee time should write to the chairman.
for election, along with a notice in writing signed by the nominee confirming his willingness to be elected.
Remuneration committee The board has appointed a remuneration committee to recommend pay and conditions for the board and employees.
It has written terms of reference which are shown on the companys website.
18 The Scottish Investment Trust PLC Report & Accounts 2010 Directors Report continued There are procedures in place to ensure that: Accountability and audit all transactions are accounted for accurately and The responsibilities of the directors and auditors in respect reported fully to the board: of the financial statements are given below and on page 41. the management observes the authorisation limits set by the board: The audit committee has written terms of reference which there is clear segregation of duties so that no investment are shown on the companys website.
Its duties include transaction can be completed by one person: risk assessment, reviewing internal controls, the companys control activities are regularly checked: and accounting policies, financial statements prior to their legal and regulatory obligations are met.
release and the companys procedures on whistleblowing.
The committee is also responsible for all aspects of the The board recognises that such systems can only provide companys relationship with its external auditors including: reasonable, but not guaranteed, assurance against material reviewing the scope and effectiveness of the annual audit: misstatement or loss.
the auditors remuneration: the terms of engagement: and Directors responsibilities the level of non-audit work, if any, carried out by the auditors.
United Kingdom company law requires the directors to prepare annual financial statements which give a true and The committee will also ensure that the level of non-audit fair view of the state of affairs of the company and of the work does not compromise the auditors independence.
returns and cash flows for that year.
In preparing those financial statements, the directors are required to: The accounts of the company have been prepared on select suitable accounting policies and then apply a going concern basis.
It is the opinion of the directors that, them consistently: as most of the companys assets are readily realisable and make judgements and estimates that are reasonable exceed its liabilities, it is expected that the company will and prudent: continue in operational existence for the foreseeable future.
state whether applicable accounting standards have The company does not have an internal audit function as the been followed subject to any material departures audit committee believes that the companys straightforward disclosed and explained in the financial statements: and structure and small number of employees do not warrant prepare the financial statements on a going concern such a function.
This is reviewed by the committee annually.
basis unless it is inappropriate to presume that the company will continue in business.
The board is responsible for ensuring that the company has in place an effective system of internal controls designed to The directors are responsible for keeping adequate maintain the integrity of accounting records and to safeguard accounting records which disclose with reasonable the companys assets.
The board has applied the Combined accuracy at any time the financial position of the company Code by establishing a continuous process for identifying, and enable them to ensure that the financial statements evaluating and managing the significant risks the company comply with the Companies Act 2006.
This process, which has existed throughout the year, responsibility for taking such steps as are reasonably is in accordance with Internal Control: Revised Guidance for open to them to safeguard the assets of the company Directors on the Combined Code published in June 2008 and to prevent and detect fraud and other irregularities.
In compliance with the Combined Code, the board reviews the effectiveness of the companys The audit committee has reviewed the matters within system of internal control at six-monthly intervals.
its terms of reference and reports as follows: it has approved the financial statements for the year The boards monitoring covers all controls, including to 31 October 2010: financial, operational, and compliance controls and risk it has reviewed the effectiveness of the companys management.
It is based principally on reviewing reports internal controls and risk management: from management and considering whether significant it has reviewed the need for a separate internal risks are identified, evaluated, managed and controlled, audit function: and whether any significant weaknesses are promptly it has recommended to the board that a resolution remedied or require more extensive monitoring.
During the be proposed at the AGM for the reappointment of the course of its review of the system of internal control, the external auditors and it has considered the proposed board has not identified, nor been advised of, any material terms of their engagement: failings or weaknesses.
Therefore a confirmation in respect it has satisfied itself as to the independence of the of necessary actions has not been considered appropriate.
external auditors: and The audit committee assists the board in discharging its it has satisfied itself that the terms of the business review responsibilities.
review are consistent with the financial statements.
Report & Accounts 2010 The Scottish Investment Trust PLC 19
