DIRECTORS AND MANAGERS Directors and Managers Members of the Board come from a broad variety of backgrounds.
The Board can draw on a very extensive pool of knowledge and experience.
Baillie Gifford & Co, a leading UK investment management firm, who act as Managers and Secretaries to the Company have done so since its formation in 1909.
Professor JA Kay Directors John Kay has a distinguished record as an economist, academic, JPHS Scott author and commentator on business, government and economic John Scott, the Chairman, is a former international investment issues.
John was appointed a Director in 2008, he is a Visiting banker who maintains a number of interests in the investment Professor at the London School of Economics, a director of Law trust sector.
John was appointed a Director in 2001 and became Debenture Corporation p. l. c. Value and Income Trust PLC and a Chairman on 31 December 2009.
He is a former executive director member of the Scottish Governments Council of Economic Advisers.
of Lazard Brothers & Co. Limited.
During his twenty years with Lazard, he was involved with the merchant banks corporate advisory FC McBain activities and its Asian businesses.
He is currently a director of various Fiona McBain is chief executive of Scottish Friendly Assurance, companies, including Martin Currie Pacific Trust plc, JP Morgan a Glasgow based and mutually owned financial services group Claverhouse Investment Trust plc, Miller Insurance Services, Schroder with over 500,000 policyholders.
Fiona was appointed a Director Japan Growth Fund plc and Alternative Asset Opportunities PCC in 2009.
Before joining Scottish Friendly in 1998, Fiona, a chartered Limited.
In addition, he is chairman of Dunedin Income Growth accountant, was employed by Prudential plc and Arthur Young now Investment Trust PLC and deputy chairman of Endace Limited.
Ernst & Young where she spent some time working across a number of industry sectors, both in the UK and in the United States.
She is MM Gray also a director of the Association of Friendly Societies and a director Michael Gray, the Senior Independent Director, joined the Board of the Association of Mutual Insurers.
in 2004 after a successful career in printing and technology industries where he gained valuable global business experience.
WG McQueen As chairman and chief executive he led the growth of McQueen Gordon McQueen, the Chairman of the Audit Committee, International over a 17 year period as it evolved from being a printing brings to the Board first class financial and banking expertise, company into a global enterprise providing a range of support he is a former finance director of the Bank of Scotland.
Gordon services to technology companies.
On McQueens acquisition, was appointed a Director in 2001.
Until 2003 he was an executive he became senior vice president of Sykes Enterprises Inc. a global director of HBOS plc, Bank of Scotland and Halifax plc, where his NASDAQ quoted outsourcing services company.
He retired from main role was chief executive, Treasury.
He is a director of JP Morgan Sykes in 1999 and currently has many business, community, charity Mid Cap Investment Trust plc and Shaftesbury PLC.
and sporting interests and responsibilities including being a member of the Advisory Board of The Winning Scotland Foundation and of The Scottish Governments Rural Development Council.
06 ANNUAL REPORT 2010 DIRECTORS AND MANAGERS John Scott Michael Gray John Kay Fiona McBain Gordon McQueen Managers and Secretaries Management Details Scottish Mortgage is managed by Baillie Gifford & Co, an investment Baillie Gifford & Co are appointed as investment managers and management firm formed in 1927 out of the legal firm Baillie & secretaries to the Company.
The management contract can be Gifford, WS, which had been Managers and Secretaries to the terminated at six months notice.
Company since its formation in 1909.
Management Fee Baillie Gifford & Co are one of the largest investment trust managers Baillie Gifford & Cos annual remuneration is 0.32% of total assets in the UK and currently manage eight investment trusts.
Baillie Gifford less current liabilities excluding short term borrowings for investment also manage unit trusts and Open Ended Investment Companies, purposes, calculated and payable on a quarterly basis.
together with investment portfolios on behalf of pension funds, charities and other institutional clients, both in the UK and overseas.
Funds under the management or advice of Baillie Gifford total over 60 billion at 31 March 2010.
Based in Edinburgh, it is one of the leading privately owned investment management firms in the UK, with 32 partners and a staff of over 600.
The Manager of Scottish Mortgages portfolio is James Anderson, a partner of Baillie Gifford, the firms Chief Investment Officer and Head of the Global Growth Team.
The Deputy Manager is Tom Slater, also a member of Baillie Giffords Global Growth Team.
The firm of Baillie Gifford & Co is authorised and regulated by the Financial Services Authority.
SCOTTISH MORTGAGE INVESTMENT TRUST PLC 07
