DIRECTORS REPORT Directors Report The Directors present their Report together with the financial A long term investment horizon is observed and little attention is paid statements of the Company for the year to 31 March 2010. to short term market trends when deciding policy.
This patient approach allows market volatility to be exploited to shareholders Business Review long term advantage.
An average holding period for investments Business and Status of five years or more is targeted.
The Company is an investment company within the meaning of Investment may be made in fixed interest securities, convertible section 833 of the Companies Act 2006. securities, funds, unquoted entities and other assets based on the The Company carries on business as an investment trust.
It was individual investment cases.
With prior approval of the Board, the approved as an investment trust under section 842 of the Income Company may use derivatives for the purpose of efficient portfolio and Corporation Taxes Act 1988 for the year ended 31 March management i. e. for the purpose of reducing, transferring or 2009, subject to matters that may arise from any subsequent enquiry eliminating investment risk in its investment, including protection by HM Revenue and Customs into the Companys tax return.
In the against currency risk and for investment purposes.
The primary opinion of the Directors, the Company has subsequently conducted investment focus is on equity investments predominantly with good its affairs so as to enable it to continue to seek approval as an liquidity.
investment trust under section 842 of the Income and Corporation Exposures to any one entity are monitored regularly by the Board.
At the time of investment the maximum exposure to any one holding is limited to 8% of total assets.
A maximum of 40% of total assets Objective may be invested in holdings exceeding 3% of total assets.
These two Scottish Mortgage carries on business as an Investment Trust.
The restrictions do not apply to investment in unit trusts or OEICs, investments investment objective is to maximise total return, whilst also generating by way of rights issues or certain government bonds.
The maximum real dividend growth, from a focused and actively managed global permitted investment in other UK listed investment companies in portfolio.
The equity portfolio is relatively concentrated and investments aggregate is 15% of gross assets.
are chosen on their long term merits rather than with reference to geographical asset allocation or the composition of an index.
Borrowings are invested in equity markets when it is believed that The Company aims to achieve a greater return than the FTSE All investment considerations merit the Company taking a geared World Index in sterling terms over a five year rolling period.
Gearing levels, and the extent of equity gearing, both in absolute terms and relative to the peer group, are discussed Investment Policy by the Board and Managers at every Board meeting.
The portion of Scottish Mortgage is a truly active fund and does not attempt to track borrowings which is not invested in equities may be invested in fixed its benchmark index.
Its objective is to maximise total return, whilst interest securities.
Apart from in exceptional circumstances the also generating real dividend growth, from a focused and actively Company will not take out additional borrowings if, at the time of managed global portfolio.
Investments are chosen for inclusion borrowing, this takes the level of effective gearing beyond 130% within the equity portfolio by looking closely at the merits of with net asset value calculated with borrowings at par value.
individual companies in a structured and rational fashion.
The benchmark is a reference point for judging performance and A global perspective is taken.
Asset allocation is the outcome of emphatically is not a portfolio construction tool.
The portfolio does stock selection and not arrived at by making specific weightings not set out to reproduce the index and there will be periods when to regions, industries or sectors.
Achieving diversification is a performance diverges significantly from the benchmark.
Performance requirement when selecting investments but an unconstrained against the benchmark is assessed over a five year rolling term.
approach is adopted and there are no fixed limits set as to geographical, industry and sector exposure.
Levels of diversity Details of investment strategy and activity this year can be found in achieved are monitored by the Board on a regular basis.
the Chairmans Statement on pages 4 and 5 and the Managers Review on pages 8 to 12.
A detailed analysis of the Companys The number of equity holdings will typically range between investment portfolio is set out on pages 16 to 18.
50 and 100 and are chosen from around the world.
20 ANNUAL REPORT 2010 DIRECTORS REPORT Discount Borrowings The Board recognises that it is in the long term interests of shareholders There are four debentures in issue, all of which are listed and quoted to manage discount volatility and believes that the prime driver of on the London Stock Exchange and details of which are given on discounts over the longer term is performance.
The Board does not pages 42, 47 and 49.
In addition, multi-currency loan facilities are have a precise discount target at which shares will be bought back in place which are also shown on page 42. as it believes that the announcement of specific targets is likely to During the year a bank loan of US$99 million was renewed.
hinder rather than help the successful execution of a buyback policy.
The Company has an Aaa Issuer Rating by Moodys.
Future buybacks will be considered primarily by reference to the Companys discount relative to its peers.
Review of the Year and Future Trends A review of the main features of the year and the investment outlook During the year the Company bought back a total of 12,570,000 is contained in the Chairmans Statement and the Managers Review shares, all of which are held in treasury, increasing net asset value on pages 4, 5 and 8 to 12 respectively.
Between 1 April 2010 and the date of this report, the Company has bought back a further 1,450,000 shares, Principal Risks and Uncertainties which are being held in treasury, increasing net asset value per The Companys assets consist mainly of listed securities and its share by 0.1%.
principal risks are therefore market related and include market risk comprising currency risk, interest rate risk and other price risk, Performance liquidity risk and credit risk.
An explanation of those risks and how At each Board meeting, the Directors consider a number of they are managed is contained in note 23 to the financial statements performance measures to assess the Companys success in achieving on pages 45 to 49. its objectives.
Other risks faced by the Company include the following: The key performance indicators KPIs used to measure the progress and performance of the Company over time are established industry Regulatory Risk measures and are as follows: Failure to comply with applicable legal and regulatory requirements could lead to suspension of the Companys Stock Exchange Listing, the movement in net asset value per ordinary share after financial penalties or a qualified audit report.
Breach of section 842 deducting borrowings at fair value : of the Income and Corporation Taxes Act 1988 could lead to the the movement in the share price: Company being subject to tax on capital gains.
Baillie Giffords the movement of net asset value and share price performance heads of Business Risk & Internal Audit and Regulatory Risk provide compared to the Benchmark: regular reports to the Audit Committee on Baillie Giffords monitoring programmes.
The Managers monitor investment movements and the the discount after deducting borrowings at fair value : level of forecast income and expenditure to ensure the provisions of the total expense ratio: section 842 are not breached.
earnings per share: and Operational Financial Risk dividend per share.
Failure of the Managers accounting systems or those of other third party service providers could lead to an inability to provide accurate The one and five year records of the KPIs are shown on pages 1, reporting and monitoring or a misappropriation of assets.
The Board 2, 3 and 19. reviews the Managers Report on Internal Controls and the reports In addition to the above, the Board considers performance against by other key third party providers are reviewed by the Manager on other companies within the AIC Global Growth Sector.
Results and Dividends Discount Volatility The net asset value per share after deducting borrowing at fair The discount at which the Companys shares trade can widen.
value increased by 80.5% during the year, compared to an The Board monitors the level of discount and the Company has increase in the benchmark of 44.5%: the discount was 12.1% at authority to buy back its own shares.
Gearing Risk The Board recommends a final dividend of 5.80p per ordinary share The Company may borrow money for investment purposes known as which, together with the interim of 5.50p already paid, makes a gearing.
If the investments fall in value, any borrowings will magnify total of 11.30p for the year compared with 12.30p for the previous the extent of this loss.
If borrowing facilities are not renewed, the year.
The dividend for the year to 31 March 2009 included a Company may have to sell investments to repay borrowings.
non-recurring 1.50p per share from the reimbursement of previous All borrowings require the prior approval of the Board and gearing years VAT and associated interest thereon.
levels are discussed by the Board and Managers at every meeting.
If approved, the recommended final dividend on the ordinary shares The majority of the Companys investments are in quoted securities will be paid on 1 July 2010 to shareholders on the register at the close that are readily realisable.
The ex-dividend date is 2 June 2010.
The Companys Registrars offer a Dividend Reinvestment Plan see page 50 and the final date for elections for this dividend is 10 June 2010.
SCOTTISH MORTGAGE INVESTMENT TRUST PLC 21 DIRECTORS REPORT Directors Interests Nature Ordinary 25p shares held at Name of interest 31 March 2010 31 March 2009 JPHS Scott Beneficial 34,398 33,940 MM Gray Beneficial 150,000 221,000 Non-beneficial 12,500 12,500 Professor JA Kay Beneficial 5,000 5,000 FC McBain Beneficial 1,069 1,069 WG McQueen Beneficial 1,500 1,500 The Directors at the year end, and their interests in the Company, were as shown above.
There have been no changes intimated in the Directors interests up to 14 May 2010.
The Board comprises five Directors, all of whom are non-executive.
Employees The Company has no employees.
The executive responsibility for investment management has been delegated to the Companys Managers and Secretaries, Baillie Gifford Social and Community Issues & Co, and, in the context of a Board comprising only non-executive As an investment trust, the Company has no direct social or Directors, there is no chief executive officer.
Mr MM Gray is the community responsibilities.
The Company, however, believes that Senior Independent Director.
it is in the shareholders interests to consider environmental, social The Directors believe that the Board has a balance of skills and and governance factors when selecting and retaining investments.
experience that enables it to provide effective strategic leadership and Details of the Companys policy on socially responsible investment proper governance of the Company.
Information about the Directors, are set out on page 25. including their relevant experience, can be found on pages 6 and 7.
Corporate Governance There is an agreed procedure for Directors to seek independent The Board is committed to achieving and demonstrating high standards professional advice, if necessary, at the Companys expense.
This statement outlines how the principles of Terms of Appointment and Re-elections The Combined Code on Corporate Governance published in 2008, Letters which specify the terms of appointment are issued to new the Combined Code were applied throughout the financial year.
The letters of appointment are available for inspection Compliance on request.
The Board confirms that the Company has complied throughout the Under the provisions of the Companys Articles of Association, a year under review with the provisions set out in Section 1 of the Director appointed during the year is required to retire and seek Combined Code except that the Chairman of the Board is a member election by shareholders at the next Annual General Meeting.
The Board believes it is appropriate for Directors are required to submit themselves for re-election at least Mr JPHS Scott to be a member of the Committee as he is considered once every three years and Directors who have served for more to be independent and there are no conflicts of interest.
than nine years offer themselves for re-election annually.
The Association of Investment Companies AIC has published its The names of Directors retiring and offering themselves for re-election own Code of Corporate Governance which provides a framework together with the reasons why the Board supports the re-elections are of best practice for investment companies.
The Board is of the set out on page 25. opinion that the Company has complied with the recommendations of the AIC Code in all material respects.
Independence of Directors All the Directors are considered by the Board to be independent The Board of the Managers and free of any business or other relationship that The Board has overall responsibility for the Companys affairs.
It has could interfere with the exercise of their independent judgement.
a number of matters reserved for its approval including strategy, investment policy, currency hedging, borrowings, gearing, treasury Mr WG McQueen, who has served on the Board for more than matters, dividend and corporate governance policy.
A separate nine years, offers himself for re-election annually.
meeting devoted to strategy is held each year.
The Board also The Directors recognise the value of progressive refreshing of, reviews the financial statements, investment transactions, revenue and succession planning for, company boards and the Boards budgets and performance.
Full and timely information is provided composition is reviewed annually.
However, the Board is of the to the Board to enable the Board to function effectively and to allow view that length of service will not necessarily compromise the Directors to discharge their responsibilities.
independence or contribution of directors of an investment trust company, where continuity and experience can be a benefit to the board.
The Board concurs with the view expressed in the AIC Code that long-serving Directors should not be prevented from being considered as independent.
22 ANNUAL REPORT 2010 DIRECTORS REPORT Directors Attendance at Meetings Audit Nomination Board Committee Committee Number of meetings 6 2 1 JPHS Scott 6 2 1 Sir Donald MacKay retired 31 December 2009 5 2 GA Ball retired 25 June 2009 2 1 MM Gray 5 2 1 Professor JA Kay 5 2 1 FC McBain 6 2 1 WG McQueen 6 2 1 Lord Strathclyde retired 28 February 2010 6 2 1 Following formal performance evaluation, the Board has concluded A review of the Chairmans and other Directors commitments was that, notwithstanding his length of service, Mr WG McQueen retains carried out and the Nomination Committee is satisfied that they are independence of character and judgement and his skills and capable of devoting sufficient time to the Company.
There were experience are a benefit to the Board.
no significant changes to the Chairmans other commitments during the year.
Meetings There is an annual cycle of Board meetings which is designed to Induction and Training address, in a systematic way, overall strategy, review of investment New Directors are provided with an induction programme which is policy, investment performance, marketing, revenue budgets, tailored to the particular circumstances of the appointee.
Regular dividend policy and communication with shareholders.
The Board briefings are provided on changes in regulatory requirements that considers that it meets sufficiently regularly to discharge its duties could affect the Company and Directors.
The Directors receive other effectively.
The table above shows the attendance record for the training as necessary.
Board and Committee Meetings held during the year.
The Annual Remuneration General Meeting was attended by all Directors serving at that date.
As all the Directors are non-executive, the provisions of the Combined Nomination Committee Code in respect of Directors remuneration are not relevant to the The Nomination Committee consists of the independent non-executive Company except to the extent that they relate specifically to nonDirectors and the Chairman of the Board is Chairman of the executive directors.
Consequently there is no requirement for a Committee.
The Committee meets on an annual basis and at separate remuneration committee.
Directors fees are considered by such other times as may be required.
The Committee has written the Board as a whole within the limits approved by shareholders.
terms of reference which include reviewing the Board, identifying The Companys policy on remuneration is set out in the Directors and nominating new candidates for appointment to the Board, Remuneration Report on pages 28 and 29.
Board appraisal, succession planning and training.
The Committee Internal Controls and Risk Management also considers whether Directors should be recommended for The Directors acknowledge their responsibility for the Companys re-election by shareholders.
The Committee is responsible for system of internal controls and for reviewing its effectiveness.
considering Directors potential conflicts of interest and for making The system of internal controls is designed to manage rather than recommendations to the Board on whether or not the potential eliminate risk and can only provide reasonable but not absolute conflicts should be authorised.
The terms of reference are available assurance against material misstatement or loss.
on request from the Company and on the Companys website: The Board confirms that there is a process for identifying, evaluating www.
and managing the significant risks faced by the Company in Performance Evaluation accordance with the guidance Internal Control: Revised Guidance The Nomination Committee met to assess the performance of the for Directors on the Combined Code.
Chairman, each Director, the Board as a whole and its Committees, The Directors confirm that they have reviewed the effectiveness of the after inviting each Director and the Chairman to consider and system and they have procedures in place to review its effectiveness respond to a set of questions.
The appraisal of the Chairman was on a regular basis.
The practical measures to ensure compliance with regulation and The appraisals considered, amongst other criteria, the balance of skills company law, and to provide effective and efficient operations and of the Board, the contribution of individual Directors and the overall investment management, have been delegated to the Managers and effectiveness of the Board and its Committees.
Following this process Secretaries, Baillie Gifford & Co, under the terms of the Management it was concluded that the performance of each Director, the Chairman, Agreement.
The Board acknowledges its responsibilities to supervise the Board and its Committees continues to be effective and each and control the discharge by the Managers and Secretaries of their Director and the Chairman remains committed to the Company.
SCOTTISH MORTGAGE INVESTMENT TRUST PLC 23 DIRECTORS REPORT Major Interests in the Companys Shares No.
of ordinary Name 25p shares held % of issue D. C. Thomson & Company Limited Direct 13,400,000 5.2 Legal & General Group Plc Direct 10,847,845 4.2 BlackRock Inc Indirect 8,461,197 3.3 The above information has been intimated to the Company as at 14 May 2010.
Baillie Gifford & Co have been delegated responsibility for the Accountability and Audit design, implementation and maintenance of control policies and The respective responsibilities of the Directors and the Auditors in procedures to safeguard the assets of the Company and to manage connection with the Financial Statements are set out on pages 30 its affairs properly.
This responsibility also extends to maintaining and 31. effective operational and compliance controls and risk management.
Going Concern The Baillie Gifford & Co heads of Business Risk & Internal Audit and The Companys principal risks are market related and include market Regulatory Risk provide the Board with regular reports on Baillie risk, liquidity risk and credit risk.
An explanation of these risks and Gifford & Cos monitoring programmes.
The reporting procedures how they are managed is contained in note 23 to the financial for these departments are defined and formalised within a service statements.
Baillie Gifford & Co conduct an annual review The Companys assets, the majority of which are investments in of their system of internal controls which is documented within an quoted securities which are readily realisable, exceed its liabilities internal controls report which complies with Technical Release significantly.
The Board approves borrowing limits and reviews AAF 01 06 Assurance Reports on Internal Controls of Service regularly the amount of any borrowings and compliance with Organisations made available to Third Parties.
This report is banking covenants.
The US$99 million loan from The Bank of New independently reviewed by Baillie Gifford & Cos auditors and York Mellon has been renewed for a futher year.
Arrangements are a copy is submitted to the Board.
in place to replace the 100 million multi-currency loan from ING The Companys investments are segregated from those of Baillie Bank N. V. on its maturity.
Accordingly, the financial statements have Gifford & Co and their other clients through the appointment of been prepared on the going concern basis as it is the Directors The Bank of New York Mellon as independent custodian of the opinion that the Company will continue in operational existence for Companys investments.
A detailed risk map is prepared which identifies the significant risks Audit Committee faced by the Company and the key controls employed to manage An Audit Committee has been established consisting of all Directors.
Its authority and duties are clearly defined within its written terms of reference, which are available on request from the Company and on These procedures ensure that consideration is given regularly to the the Companys website: www.
As the Board nature and extent of the risks facing the Company and that they are believes that Mr JPHS Scott is independent and that there are no being actively monitored.
Where changes in risk have been identified conflicts of interest, the Board considers it appropriate for Mr JPHS Scott during the year they also provide a mechanism to assess whether to be a member of the Audit Committee.
Mr WG McQueen is further action is required to manage the risks identified.
The Board Chairman of the Audit Committee.
The Committees responsibilities confirms that these procedures have been in place throughout the which were discharged during the year include: Companys financial year and continue to be in place up to the date of approval of this Report.
monitoring and reviewing the integrity of the half-yearly and annual financial statements and any formal announcements Internal Audit relating to the Companys financial performance: The Audit Committee carries out an annual review of the need for an internal audit function.
The Committee continues to believe that the reviewing standards of internal control and risk management: compliance and internal control systems and the internal audit making recommendations to the Board in relation to the function in place within the Managers and Secretaries provide appointment of the external auditors and approving the sufficient assurance that a sound system of internal control, which remuneration and terms of their engagement: safeguards shareholders investment and the Companys assets, developing and implementing policy on the engagement is maintained.
An internal audit function, specific to the Company, of the external auditors to supply non-audit services: is therefore considered unnecessary.
24 ANNUAL REPORT 2010 DIRECTORS REPORT reviewing and monitoring the independence, objectivity and The Managers are signatories of the United Nations Principles for effectiveness of the external auditors: Responsible Investment and the Carbon Disclosure Project.
reviewing the arrangements in place within Baillie Gifford & Conflicts of Interest Co whereby its staff may, in confidence, raise concerns about Each Director submits a list of potential conflicts of interest to the possible improprieties in matters of financial reporting or other Nomination Committee on an annual basis.
The Committee matters insofar as they may affect the Company: considers these carefully, taking into account the circumstances reviewing the terms of the Investment Management Agreement: surrounding them, and makes a recommendation to the Board and on whether or not the potential conflicts should be authorised.
Board authorisation is for a period of one year.
Having considered considering annually whether there is a need for the Company the lists of potential conflicts there were no situations which gave to have its own internal audit function.
rise to a direct or indirect interest of a Director which conflicted KPMG Audit Plc are engaged as the Companys Auditors.
Having with the interests of the Company.
considered the experience and tenure of the audit partner and staff and the nature of services provided, the Committee remains satisfied Investment Managers with the Auditors effectiveness.
The audit partners responsible for The Board as a whole fulfils the function of the Management the audit are rotated every 5 years and the current lead partner has Engagement Committee.
An Investment Management Agreement been in place for 4 years.
There are no contractual obligations between the Company and Baillie Gifford & Co sets out the matters restricting the Companys choice of external auditor.
The Committee over which the Managers have authority in accordance with the receives confirmation from the auditors that they have complied policies and directions of, and subject to restrictions imposed by, with the relevant UK professional and regulatory requirements on the Board.
In line with best industry practice, and with the agreement independence.
Non-audit fees for the year to 31 March 2010 were of the Managers, the notice period for terminating the Management 595 and related to the certification of financial information for the Agreement has been reduced from one year to six months with effect debenture trustees.
The Committee does not believe that this has from 1 April 2010.
Careful consideration has been given by the impaired the Auditors independence.
Board as to the basis on which the management fee is charged.
The Board considers that maintaining a relatively low total expense Relations with Shareholders ratio is in the best interests of all shareholders as lower costs mean The Board places great importance on communication with higher returns, particularly when compounded over long periods.
The Companys Managers meet regularly with The Board is also of the view that calculating the fee with reference institutional shareholders and report shareholders views to the to performance would be unlikely to exert a positive influence over Board.
The Chairman is available to meet with shareholders as the long term performance.
Details of the fee arrangements with appropriate.
Shareholders wishing to communicate with any Baillie Gifford & Co are shown on page 37. members of the Board may do so by writing to them at the Companys registered office.
The Board considers the Companys investment management and secretarial arrangements on an ongoing basis and a formal review The Companys Annual General Meeting provides a forum for is conducted annually.
The Board considers, amongst others, the communication with all shareholders.
The level of proxies lodged for following topics in its review: the quality of the personnel assigned each resolution is announced at the Meeting and is published on the to handle the Companys affairs: the investment process and the Companys website: www.
com subsequent to the results achieved to date: the administrative services provided by the meeting.
The notice period for the Annual General Meeting is at least Secretaries and the marketing efforts undertaken by the Managers.
Following the most recent review, it is the opinion of the Directors Shareholders and potential investors may obtain up-to-date information that the continuing appointment of Baillie Gifford & Co as Managers, on the Companys website: www.
on the terms agreed, is in the interests of shareholders as a whole.
Voting Policy and Socially Responsible Investment Directors The Company has given discretionary voting powers to the Mr JPHS Scott retires by rotation at the Annual General Meeting Investment Managers, Baillie Gifford & Co.
The Managers vote and offers himself for re-election.
Mr WG McQueen having served against resolutions they consider may damage shareholders rights or for more than nine years offers himself for re-election annually.
The Company believes that it is in the shareholders interests to consider environmental, social and governance factors Following formal performance evaluation, the performance of when selecting and retaining investments and have asked the Mr JPHS Scott and Mr WG McQueen continues to be effective and Managers to take these issues into account as long as the investment each remains committed to the Company.
Their contribution to the objectives are not compromised.
The Managers do not exclude Board is greatly valued and the Board recommends their re-election companies from their investment universe purely on the grounds of to shareholders.
environmental, social and governance issues but adopt a positive Mr GA Ball retired from the Board at the conclusion of the Annual engagement approach whereby matters are discussed with General Meeting in 2009, Sir Donald MacKay retired on 31 December management with the aim of improving the relevant policies and 2009 and Lord Strathclyde resigned on 28 February 2010. management systems.
The Managers policy has been reviewed and endorsed by the Board.
SCOTTISH MORTGAGE INVESTMENT TRUST PLC 25 DIRECTORS REPORT Director Indemnification and Insurance The shares in question were purchased at a price after allowing for costs below the net asset value.
As a result of such purchases the net The Company has entered into deeds of indemnity in favour of each of its Directors.
The deeds cover any liabilities that may arise to a third asset value of the Company has increased by approximately 1.4%.
The current authority of the Company to make market purchases of party, other than the Company, for negligence, default or breach of trust or duty.
The Directors are not indemnified in respect of liabilities up to 14.99% of the issued ordinary shares expires at the end of the Annual General Meeting.
to the Company, any regulatory or criminal fines, any costs incurred in connection with criminal proceedings in which the Director is convicted Resolution 8, which is being proposed as a special resolution, or civil proceedings brought by the Company in which judgement is seeks to renew the Companys authority to make market purchases given against him her.
In addition, the indemnity does not apply to of its own ordinary shares for cancellation or to be held in treasury.
any liability to the extent that it is recovered from another person.
The Company may hold bought back shares in treasury and then: The Company also maintains Directors and Officers liability a sell such shares or any of them for cash or its equivalent under insurance.
the 2006 Act : or Share Capital b cancel such shares or any of them.
Capital Structure Shares will only be re-sold from treasury at or at a premium to the The Companys capital structure as at 31 March 2010 consists of net asset value per ordinary share.
284,346,176 ordinary shares of 25p each, of which 259,519,897 Treasury shares do not receive distributions and the Company will are allotted and fully paid and 24,826,279 are held in treasury.
not be entitled to exercise the voting rights attaching to them.
There are no restrictions concerning the holding or transfer of the Companys ordinary shares and there are no special rights attached The Directors are seeking shareholders approval at the Annual to any of the shares.
General Meeting to renew the authority to purchase up to 14.99% of the Companys ordinary shares in issue at the date of the passing Dividends of the resolution, such authority to expire at the Annual General The ordinary shares carry a right to receive dividends.
Interim Meeting of the Company to be held in 2011.
Any such shares dividends are determined by the Directors, whereas the proposed purchased shall either be cancelled or held in treasury.
Under the final dividend is subject to shareholder approval.
Listing Rules of the UK Listing Authority of the Financial Services Capital Entitlement Authority, the maximum price exclusive of expenses that may be On a winding up, after meeting the liabilities of the Company, the paid on the exercise of the authority shall be an amount equal to surplus assets will be paid to ordinary shareholders in proportion to the higher of i 5 per cent above the average closing price on the their shareholdings.
London Stock Exchange of an ordinary share over the five business days immediately preceding the date of purchase and ii the higher Voting of the price of the last independent trade and the highest current Each ordinary shareholder present in person or by proxy is entitled independent bid as stipulated by Article 5 1 of Commission to one vote on a show of hands and, on a poll, to one vote for Regulation EC 22 December 2003 implementing the Market every share held.
Abuse Directive as regards exemptions for buy back programmes Information on the deadlines for proxy appointments can be found and stabilisation of financial instruments No.
The minimum price again exclusive of expenses that may be paid will be 25p per share.
Purchases of shares will be made Purchase of Shares within guidelines established, from time to time, by the Board.
During the year to 31 March 2010 the Company bought back The Company does not have any warrants or options in issue.
12,570,000 ordinary shares nominal value 3,142,500, on the Your attention is drawn to Special Resolution 8, in the Notice of London Stock Exchange, all of which are held in treasury.
The total Annual General Meeting.
consideration for these shares was 69,684,000.
Between 1 April This authority, if conferred, will be exercised only if to do so would 2010 and the date of this report the Company has bought back a result in an increase in net asset value per ordinary share for the further 1,450,000 shares, which are held in treasury, at a cost of remaining shareholders and if it is in the best interests of shareholders 8,962,000.
At 31 March 2010 the Company held 24,826,279 generally.
The principal reasons for such share buy backs are: i to manage imbalances between the supply of and the demand for the Companys shares which may exacerbate any discount of the quoted market price to the published net asset value per share: and ii to enhance net asset value for continuing shareholders by purchasing shares at a discount to the prevailing net asset value.
26 ANNUAL REPORT 2010 DIRECTORS REPORT Authority to Allot Shares and Disapply Pre-emption Recommendation Rights The Board unanimously recommends you to vote in favour of the Resolution 9, which is being proposed as a special resolution, seeks resolutions to be proposed at the Annual General Meeting.
to give the Directors power to sell ordinary shares held in treasury Creditor Payment Policy see above for cash up to a maximum of 6,451,747 in aggregate It is the Companys payment policy for the forthcoming financial year representing 10% of the issued ordinary share capital of the Company to obtain the best terms for all business.
In general, the Company as at 14 May 2010 without first being required to offer such shares agrees with its suppliers the terms on which business will take place to existing shareholders pro rata to their existing holdings.
and it is its policy to abide by these terms.
The Company had no This power will last until the Annual General Meeting of the trade creditors at 31 March 2010 or 2009.
Disclosure of Information to Auditors The Directors consider that the power proposed to be granted by Resolution 9 is advantageous should the shares trade at a premium The Directors who held office at the date of approval of this Directors Report confirm that, so far as they are each aware, there is no relevant to net asset value and natural liquidity is unable to meet demand.
The Directors do not intend to use this power to sell shares on a non audit information of which the Companys auditors are unaware and the Directors have taken all the steps that they ought to have taken as pre-emptive basis at a discount to net asset value.
Directors in order to make themselves aware of any relevant audit At 14 May 2010 the Company held 26,276,279 treasury shares, information and to establish that the Companys auditors are aware representing 10.2% of the ordinary shares in issue excluding of that information.
Independent Auditors The Directors believe that granting the power to sell treasury shares in the above circumstances is in the best interests of shareholders as a The auditors, KPMG Audit Plc, are willing to continue in office whole and recommend that shareholders vote in favour of the and, in accordance with section 489 and section 491 i of the resolution.
Companies Act 2006, resolutions concerning their reappointment and remuneration will be submitted to the Annual General Meeting.
Articles of Association It is proposed in Resolution 10 to adopt new Articles of Association the New Articles in order to update the Companys current Articles of Association the Articles to take account of the final implementation of the Companies Act 2006 the 2006 Act in respect of, amongst JOHN SCOTT other things, the Companys authorised share capital, its Memorandum Chairman of Association and the ability of the Company to change its name.
17 May 2010 The Companies Act 1985 was, for all practical purposes repealed on 1 October 2009.
A copy of the New Articles will be available for inspection at Royal London House, 2225 Finsbury Square, London EC2A 1DX and at the registered office of the Company during normal business hours on any week day Saturdays, Sundays and public holidays excepted from the date of the notice of the Annual General Meeting the Notice until the conclusion of the Annual General Meeting.
A summary of the material changes proposed to be brought about by the adoption of the New Articles is set out in the Appendix to the Notice of Annual General Meeting on page 57.
SCOTTISH MORTGAGE INVESTMENT TRUST PLC 27
