MANAGERS REVIEW Managers Review The last 12 months have demonstrated the dangers of undue China attention to annual performance data.
Last year we seemed to be It is on this topic that we feel most guilty of feebleness.
This year we appear brilliant.
All this comes about grasped that the mean-reversion of China to a position of global with the same process, the same portfolio shape, overwhelmingly the economic leadership was probable.
Yet we have underestimated same investments and the same people.
We are not conscious that both the awesome pace and scale of this development and the we have become any cleverer this year.
Overall we are happy with conclusions that this should have forced us towards in stock the way that our companies have coped with the tough environment selection.
Whilst we are generally more interested in economic of the last two years with sad but inevitable exceptions but we think exposures than in location of corporate headquarters we feel this that much of their achievement was demonstrated at precisely the is insufficient excuse for this time last year having less than 6% of time that their share prices were under extreme pressure.
our portfolio in Chinese companies.
The total has now risen to close to 9% which still seems modest by any measure apart from that of Frequently markets are simply absurd.
The notion that we should judge ourselves by endlessly benchmarking ourselves against their commonly used indices.
erratic behavior is one that we completely reject.
Our task is to build This is not to say that we have any desire to simply buy exposure wealth for shareholders over long periods of time with indices simply to corporate China in general but it is to point to the single most as a background guide to our basic competence over the decades.
important mental shift that we have gone through in the last year.
Overall we think that we have done quite a reasonable job but this It is that we think that China is now home to an entrepreneurial fury is for other shareholders to judge.
that is leading to the creation of great individual businesses.
In the years ahead we think it probable that individual private Chinese Our principal investment contentions ventures will provide much of the innovation in the world.
There has It may be worth repeating once more the three convictions that have already been a marked structural shift in our portfolio from state dominated our strategy over the last five years.
Despite the fragile owned behemoths such as China Mobile towards youthful and economic times and the frenetic activity in markets these have ambitious companies such as Baidu and Tencent within the same remained solid signposts for us.
They are that: telecom and internet space.
New Oriental Education the leading The rise of China and to a lesser extent other emerging English language school, Ctrip online travel and Belle shoe economies is transforming the global economic scene.
retailing are other examples of companies with open-ended growth opportunities, competitive strengths and focused strategies that would Stock markets underestimate the power of technological change have appealed to us wherever in the world they could be found over in exaggerated revulsion to the bubble of 19982000. the last 100 years.
The Western financial systems are dangerously flawed.
We regularly review threats to continued Chinese progress.
A year It is, of course, dangerously easy to be sucked into seeing evidence ago we thought the immediate challenge was preventing the anti-crisis that confirms the ideas that one is advocating and it is almost equally stimulus from seeping into speculation.
The domestic stock market challenging to spot the point at which concepts that are has shown little sign of this but the coastal housing market has plainly fundamentally valid have simply been pushed too far by overblown become too buoyant.
Fortunately, and in marked contrast to the market sentiment.
Nevertheless we see little reason to retreat from West, the authorities are prepared both to call incipient bubbles these three contentions.
Indeed in each case we appear to have and to counteract them so we are satisfied that common sense is underestimated their importance.
We do not believe that a consequent slowdown in the housing market would undermine the Chinese economy.
08 ANNUAL REPORT 2010 MANAGERS REVIEW 1 New Oriental Education & Technology 2 Ctrip.
com The Headquarters of this leading English language Chinese travel operator that has successfully school and provider of private education.
2 1 Beyond this immediate concern the next stage of Chinas rise would Technological innovation be greatly assisted by the focus of growth shifting from the advanced Where America has remained a land of opportunity in recent years Eastern provinces to encompass the interior as well as from exports has been in technological innovation.
Whilst the British corporate to domestic demand.
We spent a fascinating three weeks touring sector has created little of new shareholder or social value over the China in March to investigate such questions with a particular stress last 30 years this sad state of affairs is far from true of America.
on provinces from Inner Mongolia to Sichuan that do not enjoy the That this is so is principally to the credit of the technology sector historic coastal advantages and prejudices.
We returned more and in geographical terms of a small portion of the North-West optimistic than when we left.
It appears to us that demand has Coast.
All the arrogance of Harvard and greed of Wall Street shifted decisively to domestic demand whilst growth in the rural cannot completely obscure this extraordinary achievement.
interior seems to be both stronger and sounder than we had feared.
On a more mundane but practical level it has also been critical We see no sign as yet that the Chinese Communist Party is either to Scottish Mortgage.
Two years ago we wrote that investing in unpopular or that it has made major policy mistakes that are likely technology companies involves a willingness to accept both volatility to prompt serious discontent.
Both are entirely plausible causes of and diverse returns in the search for a select band of companies that friction in the future.
will prove to be persistent winners but the rewards for doing so can be dramatic.
Whilst we still need to be cautious in declaring that Emerging markets no more?
we have found persistent victors we have certainly had experiences We have always felt that China is of an importance that puts it in a of both diverse returns and apparent victories.
It may be co-incidence category of its own.
We are wary of generalizing about China let but we have had more and greater victories when investing in alone of incorporating it in a category defined as emerging markets.
broadly defined Silicon Valley and so far China than elsewhere Indeed we now feel that the time has come to abandon this phrase.
Amazon has risen to be our largest holding after fine The consequent gain in accuracy and clarity has investment benefits.
This is the first time since The phrase has come to be used to denote economic backwardness 1983 that a US stock has been our largest holding.
Our admiration and high risk.
This makes little current sense.
We find it hard to see for Amazon lies partly in the scale of the business opportunity but still much of urban China as low in wealth private or public.
We think it more in the attitudes inculcated by management.
This is a company unwise to think of China and Brazil as high risk when their balance with contempt for the quarterly earnings game, a commitment to sheets, trade positions and financial structures appear so much more continuous innovation however disruptive and an intolerance of solid than our own.
It is a pleasing irony that one of the few countries internal agendas and bureaucracies that makes future success more in recent years to have been reclassified as developed from emerging than normally likely.
Our own preference would be to assess individual companies, cities and regions at best and individual countries at most.
One of the most challenging issues for us is that the success of If the investment world demands generalizations then we would Amazon, Apple, Google, Nintendo and Baidu has been such that suggest a line running from rising super powers to declining these giants are increasingly clashing with each other as there are empires as the most helpful in our work.
Where the USA proves comparatively few other pools of profit left to destroy.
We are wary to be on this continuum will be critical in the years ahead.
of coming to definitive views as to the likely course and consequences of these internecine struggles as we have great respect for the abilities of all involved.
The combination of the increasing pace and complexity of technological change, the almost instant geographical reach of innovation and the highly appealing returns that the winning companies earn mean that we are willing to accept such clashes as an inevitable drawback of businesses with great growth opportunities.
SCOTTISH MORTGAGE INVESTMENT TRUST PLC 09 MANAGERS REVIEW 1 Garanti Bankasi 2 America Latina Logistica A leading retail bank in a country, Turkey, Brazilian railway operator which is improving with exciting long term prospects.
efficiency and taking share from road traffic.
1 2 As already noted we have seen our technology investments spread Conclusion and Outlook into China but we also believe that we need to widen our interest We are all aware of the shocks that the global economy has been beyond traditional sector boundaries.
We suspect that the combination prey to in recent years.
We doubt, however, that there has been of scientific progress, venture capital interest, demographic demands sufficient rethinking of the investment landscape as a consequence and financial imperatives mean that healthcare will be a prime focus of what we have seen and should have learnt.
Our attitudes to and of future technological innovation.
We do not believe that that the understanding of risk needs to be rethought.
This has transforming traditional big pharmaceutical companies will lead this sweeping consequences.
The idea that risk should be defined as volatility change.
A good, if thus far rare, example of what we are looking around an index and that it can be measured has always seemed for comes in our purchase of Intuitive Surgical which is the world exceedingly presumptuous.
Nevertheless from heavily leveraged leader in robotic surgery.
It has thrived on scientific collaboration investment banks to the most staid of investment trusts this has from Stanford, research support from the US armed forces, better generally been the default position of risk managers and hence asset clinical outcomes and a claim to reduce healthcare costs.
This has led most equity portfolios to a concentration on has 90% of the world market for such systems.
We hope that we large Western companies as the perceived safe default choice will be able to report on more holdings of this type in future years.
without much thought as to the underlying exposures of these entities rather similar to the automatic trust in AAA rated mortgage debt that Western finance: still rotten?
has so haunted the bond markets.
We doubt that Western or The machinations of the Western financial sector continue to trouble large will prove synonyms for either safe or wealth-creating in the us.
Last year we remarked that we saw no evidence of less decades ahead.
We are convinced though that the world offers a complexity or reduced avarice.
Sadly this still appears to be the wealth of opportunities.
We think that the global economy is more case in the investment banking world.
What improvements there solidly based, indeed more exciting, and more capable of dragging have been seem to be coming from outside pressures.
Capital untold millions out of poverty than at any stage in history.
Naturally requirements are somewhat less indulgent than in the past, the events and accidents can occur and stock markets will always be intellectual mood does appear to have shifted against extreme prone to vigorous oscillations but we tend to see such occurrences as market fundamentalism and governmental and legal activism is distractions from a fundamentally optimistic picture.
If this is right and at least plausible.
We regard it is inevitable that any process of if the Managers carry out their task competently then the prospects re-regulation will have flaws but we still believe that this is a small for Scottish Mortgage shareholders ought to be bright indeed.
price to pay if the systemic risks to the world economy posed by excessive gearing, ill-considered risk analysis and untrammelled greed in the financial sector can be brought under control.
It is necessary for the proper functioning of our financial system.
We will continue to have limited holdings in the Western financial system until this occurs and what we do have will be concentrated in those rare institutions notably Banco Santander, JAMES ANDERSON Progressive Insurance and Berkshire Hathaway in which we have faith in the ethics and seriousness of the management.
We feel no Manager of Scottish Mortgage 6 May 2010 need to be tempted by the morass of unreformed financial institutions.
10 ANNUAL REPORT 2010 MANAGERS REVIEW 1 Belle International 2 PPR Operates over 6,000 shoe shops throughout PPR owns luxury brands with excellent potential in China giving it a market share of around 20%.
newer markets including Gucci and Bottega Veneta.
2 1 University of Science and Technology in Hefei highlighted that funding China Trip Note is also flowing into research on the development of the electricity James and I recently returned from overlapping trips to China with grid to cope with greater participation from renewable sources.
We were trying to increase our Perhaps even more importantly, a trip to one of the countrys fifty four understanding of the huge changes that are occurring in the region high technology zones showed that there is a clear understanding through meetings with companies, government officials, academics within government that Chinese companies have to increase research and entrepreneurs.
We spent time in the megacities of Beijing and and development spending and move into higher value sectors of Shanghai as well as travelling to the western centres of Chongqing the economy.
Given the growth opportunity in their domestic market, and Chengdu, the plains of Inner Mongolia and the provincial they see green energy as an area in which they can be world leaders.
capitals of Anhui, Liaoning and Zhejiang.
The desire to shift economic focus from commodity industries was There is a lot of concern in financial markets that the Chinese economy articulated by many of the people we met.
This was most noticeable is experiencing an unsustainable boom at present.
We do not share in the financial sector where the pace of change seems to be these misgivings.
We believe the pace of fixed asset investment is not accelerating.
We were struck by the thoughtful and open manner the result of a housing bubble but a necessary consequence of the of the government officials responsible for this.
Perhaps one big process of urbanisation.
In Beijing, for example, there is a requirement difference from Western countries is that the brightest graduates are for huge further investment to ease congestion.
Car ownership in as likely to be attracted to a career in government as they are to Beijing is less than 20% of the level seen in the United States but it private sector employment.
Therefore those responsible for financial is quite clear to anyone who has spent a day there that the road regulation may be better placed to identify and prevent industry network can barely support current usage.
The subway system is to excess.
One of the lessons that the Chinese have taken from the be expanded from the current six lines which serve a municipal recent crisis is that the financial sector has to serve the real economy population of twenty two million people to nineteen lines by 2020. and that the connection between the two must be maintained as they This necessary investment in mass transit is mirrored in at least ten grow.
Therefore they are happy to encourage the development of other major Chinese cities.
new financial products but only if they support the development of As we drove along the expressway from Shanghai to Hangzhou, new and strategically important industries.
Perhaps this is a lesson we could see the pillars that are being erected for the new high which we have not yet fully understood here in the UK.
speed rail link between the two cities.
The scale of this infrastructure Whilst consumption remains a relatively small part of the Chinas investment is astonishing, with concrete pillars standing fifteen meters economy, there is little evidence that as Chinese society becomes tall supporting a concrete base for the track and stretching for wealthier, the propensity to spend will be lower than anywhere else.
In fact, seventeen thousand kilometres of Because the overall population is large, even having a small high speed rail links are currently under construction.
Such investment proportion of people with meaningful disposable incomes already projects underpin our confidence in prospective demand for many translates into huge spending power.
We had an interesting meeting of our global industrial holdings such as iron ore producer, Vale or with Gucci China a subsidiary of the funds holding in Pinaultengineering company, Atlas Copco.
Printemps Redoute and the development of their business illustrates It is a popular misconception that the Chinese authorities are not this well.
Gucci now generates 15% of global revenues in China concerned about climate change.
It was quite clear from meetings having entered the market in 1997.
One of the interesting facets with state controlled companies such as Shanghai Electric which of the market is that consumers appear to be much more loyal to has been funding a rapidly growing wind turbine manufacturer or individual brands and the corollary of this may well be that successful Longyuan Power Chinas largest windfarm operator that the Chinese brands have a larger opportunity in China.
The scale of demand for government is taking this issue seriously.
The tariff structure and luxury products appears to be leading to higher prices than elsewhere investment incentives are being put in place to support a huge in the world.
construction programme in green energy generation.
A visit to the SCOTTISH MORTGAGE INVESTMENT TRUST PLC 11 MANAGERS REVIEW 1 The view from the foot of Huangshan 2 James Anderson, Tom Slater and their in Anhui Province, China.
colleague Wanyi Yao in China this year.
1 2 Whilst in Beijing, we met the former leader of Google China, who With questions about rural reform in mind, we travelled westwards to left to start up an incubator fund focused on technology companies.
one of the largest and most populous agricultural provinces Sichuan.
In some areas, such as Internet gaming, the Chinese are the Whilst rural development has been ongoing since the 1970s, this pioneers of new business models and this was an opportunity to time the direction is quite different and the success or otherwise of see whether this reflects a growing culture of innovation and start-up the policy will have far-reaching consequences.
State sponsored investment in technology.
It quickly became clear that there is no land privatisation in selected villages in Sichuan is underway which shortage of new ideas and the interest that this particular venture should create wealth for rural inhabitants as well as increasing has generated suggests great potential enthusiasm.
For example, agricultural productivity through a move to large-scale farming.
the fund has had over one hundred thousand CVs over the few One consequence of this may be an increase in the number of months since its formation, suggesting that many potential employees migrant workers relocating to urban areas, which has positive have been looking for a way into this industry.
As the entrepreneurial implications for productivity growth.
Sichuan already exports over ecosystem starts to build and capital becomes more readily available, twenty million migrant workers to the coastal provinces of eastern we think the creativity that is unleashed will form the foundation of China.
However, as further urbanisation takes place, megacities are many exciting new businesses.
reaching saturation point and therefore the strategic development of smaller cities and towns is of increasing importance.
From an After visiting a local hospital and health bureau in north eastern investment point of view we are questioning whether large banks China, we met the senior researcher of the State Council who drafted with existing rural networks are the best way to facilitate rural reform Chinas Healthcare Reform White Paper.
Over the next three years, and benefit from these changes.
There are implications for a wide the government will invest the equivalent of 85bn in healthcare, range of businesses from the domestic real estate developers to our aiming to provide basic health insurance to all it was interesting to holding in John Deere, the farm machinery business.
discover that healthcare insurance coverage is already over 90% in urban China.
These headline figures are likely to understate the true In summary, we remain very enthusiastic about the prospects for level of investment as they do not capture the spending of local growth in Chinese infrastructure investment and domestic consumption.
Whilst we have yet to find attractive potential investments A great deal of progress is being made in fields as disparate as in this area, a visit to an unlisted pharmaceutical company in renewable energy, financial services, healthcare, agricultural reform Chengdu, which is seeing explosive volume growth in the drugs it and early stage technology investment.
We believe markets continue sells, was illustrative of the opportunities which are being created.
to underestimate the importance of the changes that are taking place The huge commitment to healthcare and the associated increase in and this is throwing up many exciting opportunities for us as long spending levels will be an important new driving force for the Chinese term investors.
The increase in healthcare infrastructure investment will directly promote economic growth and the implementation of reform TOM SLATER will improve the health of citizens and social security, thereby Deputy Manager of Scottish Mortgage stimulating consumption and sustaining economic growth in the 6 May 2010 long-run.
