What we do Our operations Public Private Partnership projects We are a leader in Public Private Partnership PPP projects, both in the UK and in Canada.
PPP projects use private sector fi finance to deliver a wide range of asset-based services for central and local government.
Our specialist private fi finance team arranges Secure accommodation Underlying operating profi t fi finance for these projects in which we make In the UK, we have delivered four prisons equity investments on which we target a and secure training centres and sold our 15 per cent internal rate of return over the life equity investments in all of these projects.
23.4m of the concession contract, which is typically Carillion also built the landmark Government between 25 and 35 years.
To date, Carillion Communications Headquarters at 1 2009 : 30.7m has won concession contracts for over Cheltenham, one of the largest, technically 50 PPP projects.
complex and secure accommodation PPP projects to be delivered in the UK to date.
Percentage of total 2 Once the construction phase is complete and underlying operating profi t the project has moved successfully into the Education operational phase, we have the option of We have built a strong track record in the selling our equity investments and reinvesting education sector, where we have delivered, 10 % the proceeds in new projects.
To date we or are in the process of delivering, over have sold investments in 30 projects, 140 new schools and academies, some 50 2009: 13% generating proceeds of some 326 million of which have been funded by private fi finance.
and a pre-tax profi t of 122 million.
We have sold our equity investments in fi five of these schools, for which we continue to As a leader in the development of PPP provide support services.
projects since their inception in the early 1990s, we delivered the UKs fi first PPP hospital Roads in 1997, the Darent Valley Hospital, in Kent, We have delivered a total of six PPP road the fi first prison, HMP Altcourse in Liverpool projects and sold our equity investments and one of the fi first road projects, the M40 in three of these, including the M40 widening in Buckinghamshire.
We continue to provide we have built strong positions in a number of management and maintenance services for sectors of the UK PPP market, together with a two of these projects.
leading position in the PPP market in Canada.
Canada Health The UK PPP procurement model has been In the UK, we are in the process of delivering adopted in Canada, where Carillion is a Key: our fi fteenth PPP healthcare facility, the new market leader, especially in the health sector.
Support services Southmead Hospital in Bristol.
We have sold We delivered two of the fi first PPP hospitals Public Private Partnership projects our equity investments in 10 hospital projects, in Canada, the Royal Ottawa and the new Middle East construction services but continue to provide facilities management William Osler Hospital in Ontario, for which Construction services excluding the Middle East services for these projects.
we also have long-term facilities management contracts.
Currently, we have a further four 1 Restated on adoption of International Financial Defence PPP projects under construction in Ontario, Reporting Interpretations Committee IFRIC 12.
Carillion has three major PPP defence projects including three major hospitals.
2 Before Group eliminations and unallocated items, intangible amortisation, non-recurring operating for the UK Ministry of Defence.
The largest items and share of Joint Ventures net fi financial of these is Allenby Connaught, a 35-year expense and taxation.
concession contract that commenced in 2006 to rebuild Army accommodation across the South of England and to provide support services for the estate over the life of the concession.
During 2009 and 2010, we have sold a proportion of our equity interest in this project, reducing it from 50 per cent to 12.5 per cent.
Main image: The new Queen Alexandra Hospital, Portsmouth, a Carillion Public Private Partnership project, completed in 2010.
08 Carillion plc Annual Report and Accounts 2010 Carillion can deliver fully integrated solutions for Public Private Partnership PPP projects that minimise whole-life costs.
Having the capabilities to deliver fully footprint well below the UK Governments 1 integrated solutions for PPP projects, target of 3.43 Tonnes of CO e a year 2 2 including project fi finance, design, and a BREEAM rating of excellent.
construction, maintenance and lifetime asset management services, helps to 2.
Forensic Services and differentiate Carillion from its competitors.
Coroners Complex It enables us to optimise the whole-life cost In June 2010, a Carillion Joint Venture of providing, maintaining and operating achieved fi financial close on the Forensic buildings and infrastructure, and offer Services and Coroners Complex in Toronto.
The new complex will include forensic laboratories, autopsy suites, courtrooms and 1.
Carillion will invest 11.8 million of In February 2010, a Carillion Joint Venture equity in this project as well as providing achieved fi financial close on the new construction, facilities management and Southmead Hospital project in Bristol, one life-cycle maintenance services worth some of the largest ever PPP hospital projects to 306 million over the 30-year concession be undertaken in the UK.
acute hospital is being built by Carillion at a 1 Equivalent tonnes of CO 2 capital cost of 430 million.
Carillion will 2 BRE Environmental Assessment Method also invest 50 million of equity in this project and provide facilities management and life-cycle maintenance services worth approximately 170 million over the 30-year life of the contract.
Carillion is also using its sector leading capability for sustainable solutions to design a state-of-the-art building which will be the most sustainable major hospital in the UK, Find out more about what we can do at with low energy utilisation and a carbon www.
Carillion plc Annual Report and Accounts 2010 09
