What we do Our operations Middle East construction services We have 40 years experience in the Middle East and delivered some of the regions most prestigious buildings and infrastructure projects.
Over the last fi five years we have increased Dubai Underlying operating profi t our revenue in the Middle East at a compound In Dubai, Al Futtaim Carillion has an annual growth rate of 25 per cent.
This outstanding track record for delivering high growth has been driven by our strategy quality projects, including Dubai Festival 47.5m of building strong relationships with a City, Motor City, infrastructure works for small number of selected, fi nancially robust the Downtown Dubai development and 2009: 47.0m customers with long-term investment infrastructure works for Dubai Aluminium.
programmes, for whom quality and value Activity levels have continued to reduce and for money are paramount.
Geographical in 2010 Dubai contributed some fi five per Percentage of total 1 diversifi cation, notably the extension of cent of our Middle East construction revenue.
underlying operating profi t our operations into Abu Dhabi in 2008, has However, we continue to target new work also enabled us to deliver growth over this selectively and in 2010 Al Futtaim Carillion period, despite the downturn in Dubai.
was awarded a major contract for two 21 % residential towers, which form part of the Abu Dhabi Downtown Dubai development, and for 2009: 21% Since extending the operations of Al Futtaim which funding is secure.
Carillion to Abu Dhabi in 2008, our business there has grown substantially and contributed Egypt 55 per cent of our total Middle East Al Futtaim Carillion extended its operations construction services revenue in 2010.
Our to Egypt in 2008 specifi cally to build the fi first project in Abu Dhabi was the prestigious 2 billion Cairo Festival City development for 500-bedroom Yas Hotel, which forms the our Joint Venture partner, Al Futtaim.
In 2010, centrepiece of Abu Dhabis Formula 1 Grand this project contributed some nine per cent of Prix circuit, which hosted its fi first F1 race in our Middle East construction services revenue November 2009.
Current major projects in and we expect this to grow steadily over the Abu Dhabi include the new headquarters for next few years, as work on the Cairo Festival the Abu Dhabi Investment Authority, the Al City development is scheduled to increase.
Muneera development, infrastructure works for a new aluminium smelter, New York Qatar University and Stage 3 of the UAE University, In 2010, we continued to diversify the latter two having been won in 2010. geographically by establishing a new Key: business in Qatar where we are bidding for Support services Oman our fi first projects.
Qatar has major investment Public Private Partnership projects Our business in Oman, Carillion Alawi, has a programmes in a number of key sectors Middle East construction services long history of delivering high-profi le projects for Carillion, including heritage, health, Construction services excluding the Middle East to exacting standards, including the Guest education and infrastructure.
Palace Qasr Al Alam, the Grand Mosque and, 1 Before Group eliminations and unallocated items, currently the Royal Opera House, the Majlis, intangible amortisation, non-recurring operating a new parliament building, the National items and share of Joint Ventures net fi financial expense and taxation.
Museum and Muscat Court Complex.
In 2010, Carillion Alawi grew strongly to contribute some 31 per cent of our total construction services revenue in the Middle East.
A number of new contracts were secured in 2010, the largest of which involves the construction of a new control tower and ancillary facilities at Muscat Airport.
Main image: The spectacular Al Bahr Towers in Abu Dhabi are being built by Al Futtaim Carillion for the Abu Dhabi Investment Council.
10 Carillion plc Annual Report and Accounts 2010 Carillion can deliver projects to the highest standards of design and quality of fi nish.
Our businesses in the Middle East use their 1,000 seat concert hall to accommodate the highly skilled people to deliver projects to full range of performing arts, including music exacting quality standards and delivery times.
and drama productions as well as opera.
A reputation for quality and delivery, together With high-grade internal fi nishes, together with strong customer relationships, continue with landscaped gardens, The Royal Opera to help us win prestigious projects that House in Oman will be a wonderful facility require the skills and resources that very and the fi first of its kind in the Middle East.
New York University Abu Dhabi Investment In April 2010, Al Futtaim Carillion was Council headquarters awarded a 570 million contract by Mubadla Construction of this project by Al Futtaim to design and build the New York University Carillion, which began early in 2010, will campus on Saadiyat Island in Abu Dhabi.
deliver a new 150 million state-of-the-art The campus will include a wide range of headquarters for the Abu Dhabi Investment leading-edge facilities for 2,500 students, Council and one of its holdings, the Al Hilal including lecture theatres, information Bank.
A two-level basement and podium will technology facilities, laboratories, athletic support twin 27-storey towers.
The iconic and performance facilities, together with design includes a dynamic Mashrabiya student, faculty and staff housing.
solar shading system on the exterior of the building that will open and close during the day, according to the position of the sun, making the building highly effi cient in terms of heat gain and cooling.
Royal Opera House In Oman, Carillion Alawi is nearing completion of the 120 million Royal Opera House for the Find out more about what we can do at Oman Royal Court Affairs.
Carillion plc Annual Report and Accounts 2010 11
