Governance Report of the Directors The Directors report should be read in conjunction with the Directors Chairmans statement, the Group Chief Executives review, the The Directors of the Company who served during 2010 are shown on Operating and fi financial review, the Corporate Governance report page 47 of the Remuneration report.
Biographical details for each and the Remuneration report which are incorporated by reference Director at 31 December 2010 are given on pages 36 and 37. in and shall be deemed to form part of this report.
In accordance with the requirements of the UK Corporate Governance Principal activities and business review Code, all continuing Directors will offer themselves for re-election at Carillion is a leading UK integrated support services company the Annual General Meeting on 4 May 2011.
Richard Adam, Richard with a substantial portfolio of Public Private Partnership projects Howson and John McDonough have contracts of service all of which and extensive construction capabilities.
The Group has operations are subject to one years notice of termination by the Company.
in the UK, the Middle East and North Africa and in Canada and the Caribbean.
Don Kenny served as an Executive Director until he stood down from the Board in August 2010.
Don was appointed to the Board of Carillion A review of the Groups businesses, fi financial performance and future plc in September 2006 and was responsible for much of Carillions developments is contained in the Chairmans statement, Group Support services business.
Chief Executives review and the Operating and fi financial review.
The interests of the Directors and their families in the share capital of The following specifi c issues are discussed in the sections shown the Company are shown in the Directors report on page 40. in brackets Indemnity achievements in respect of the Groups Key Performance Indicators To the extent permitted by the Companies Acts, the Company may KPI in 2010 and the KPIs set for 2011 Group Chief Executives indemnify any Director, Secretary or other offi cer of the Company review see pages 16 to 21 against any liability and may purchase and maintain insurance against fi financial performance in 2010 Operating and fi financial review any liability.
The Company purchased and maintained throughout see pages 22 to 31 2010, Directors and Offi cers liability insurance.
principal operational risks and risk management Group Chief Executives review see page 17 Confl icts of interest treasury policy and fi financial risk management Operating and The Companys Articles of Association permit the Board to consider fi financial review see pages 30 and 31 and, if it sees fi t, to authorise situations where a Director has an social, community and environmental issues Sustainability review interest that confl icts, or may possibly confl ict, with the interests see pages 32 to 35 of the Company.
The Board considers that the procedures it has in resources and employees Group Chief Executives review see place for reporting and considering confl icts of interest are effective.
page 18 and Report of the Directors see pages 38 and 39.
Key contractual arrangements Analysis of revenue and net assets by business segment and There are no persons with whom the Group or Company has geographical location are given in note 2 on pages 63 to 66. contractual or other arrangements, who are deemed to be essential to the business of the Group or Company.
Share capital Carillion has only one class of shares, with one vote for every share.
Employees Information relating to employee numbers and remuneration is given Profi ts and dividends in note 6 on page 68.
The consolidated income statement is shown on page 54.
Profi t before tax was 167.9 million 2009 restated: 135.9 million.
Employees are key to achieving Carillions business strategy and the Group is committed to improving their skills through training and A 2010 interim dividend of 4.8 pence per ordinary share 2009: development and through nurturing a culture in which employees 4.6 pence was paid in November 2010.
It is proposed to pay a feel valued for the contributions they make to the Company and fi final dividend of 10.7 pence per ordinary share 2009: 10.0 pence on motivated to achieve their full potential.
17 June 2011 to shareholders on the register at the close of business on 17 May 2011.
The record date and the payment date for the fi final Carillions core values of openness, collaboration, mutual dependency, dividend are subject to change due to the timing of the effective sustainable profi table growth, professional delivery and innovation completion of the proposed acquisition of Eaga plc.
Any change help to differentiate Carillion from its competitors by creating a culture to the aforementioned dates will be notifi ed to shareholders via a in which everyone in Carillion is encouraged to understand the needs regulatory announcement.
The payment of these 2010 interim and of their customers and to work in partnership with customers and fi final dividends amounts to 62.0 million 2009: 57.9 million.
suppliers to deliver high-quality, value for money services.
A dividend reinvestment plan DRIP will also be offered allowing shareholders a convenient means of reinvesting their dividends in the Company by buying further shares.
A DRIP application form is available from the share registrar, Equiniti see page 106 for contact details.
38 Carillion plc Annual Report and Accounts 2010 It is Carillions aim to foster a working environment in which all Carillion also involves, engages and consults with employees through employees are treated with courtesy, dignity and respect.
Carillion People Forums, which give employees an opportunity to express strives continually to eliminate all bias and unlawful discrimination in their views on business issues.
The main objectives of the People relation to job applicants, employees, business partners and members Forums are to of the public.
Employees who become disabled are, wherever possible, retrained or provided with equipment that enables them to continue improve employee information and consultation their employment.
help employees feel more involved and valued support the continued education and development of employees The objectives of Carillions Equal Opportunity and Diversity Policy improve business performance by improving the awareness of are to employees to the business climate in which they operate help employees to be responsive and better prepared for change.
have a workforce that represents and responds to the diversity of customers and todays society Team Talks, which are held monthly, provide Carillion employees with improve safety and quality delivered through a balanced and a face-to-face communication with their line managers and facilitates productive workforce two-way communication, discussion and feedback.
It focuses on local reduce employee turnover, absenteeism and sickness levels and issues and key corporate messages and information.
thereby reduce costs and improve effi ciency provide a fair working environment in which discrimination is One-to-one meetings between individual employees and their line not tolerated managers are also held to discuss performance and progress in order create a working environment free from discrimination, harassment, to help all employees to develop and reach their full potential.
victimisation and bullying work towards fi nding ways in which under-represented groups Employees can also exchange best practice information via can fully realise their potential within the Group and to take BusinessXchange on the Group intranet.
reasonable steps to help such groups ensure that all employees are aware of the Group Equal Carillion seeks to involve all employees in its leading edge programmes Opportunities and Diversity Policy and to provide any necessary to integrate safety into every aspect of the Groups operations and to ongoing training to enable them to comply with it improve its environmental performance, including the understanding be an organisation that understands and values employee and application of the principles of sustainability.
Further information diversity and recognises the merits of having a workforce that on Health & Safety is given in the Group Chief Executives review on refl ects the diverse backgrounds and skills available within the page 18 and on Sustainability in the Sustainability review on pages 32 total population and accordingly provides all employees with to 35. opportunities to develop and reach their full potential ensure that all applicants are treated fairly during recruitment Capital and shareholders processes and in accordance with relevant legislation and Codes As at 31 December 2010, the issued share capital of the Company of Practice comprised a single class of ordinary shares of 50pence each.
Details regularly review procedures and selection criteria for promotion of shares issued during the year and outstanding options are given in to ensure that individuals are selected and treated according to Notes 22 and 24 on pages 80 and 81 to the consolidated fi financial their individual abilities and merits.
statements which form part of this report.
Details of the share schemes in place are also provided on pages 49 to 51 of the Carillion places great importance on open and regular communication Remuneration Report.
with employees through both formal and informal processes.
As part of this commitment, a Group newspaper, Spectrum, is produced on On a show of hands at a general meeting of the Company, every a regular basis for all employees.
holder of ordinary shares present in person or by proxy and entitled to vote shall have one vote and, on a poll, every holder of ordinary The views of employees on matters affecting their interests and shares present in person or by proxy and entitled to vote, shall have the success of Carillion are also sought through The Great Debate, one vote for every ordinary share held.
People Forums, Team Talks, and one-to-one meetings between employees and their line managers.
The notice of Annual General Meeting specifi es deadlines for exercising voting rights and appointing a proxy or proxies to vote The Great Debate is a major exercise, which has been undertaken by in relation to resolutions to be put to the Annual General Meeting.
the Group in each of the last seven years, involving a wide range of All proxy votes are counted and the numbers for, against or withheld employees that form a statistically signifi cant sample.
The results of in relation to each resolution are announced and published on the each Great Debate are used to inform and guide the development Companys website after the meeting.
of work related initiatives as part of Carillions strategy to be an employer of choice.
The Great Debate forms part of the Groups There are no restrictions on the transfer of ordinary shares in the ongoing programme to Company other than in relation to certain restrictions that are imposed from time to time by laws and regulations for example insider trading engage with employees to improve motivation and morale laws.
In addition, pursuant to the Listing Rules of the Financial empower employees to contribute to the Groups development Services Authority, Directors and certain offi cers and employees of both as an employer and as a business the Group require the approval of the Company to deal in ordinary demonstrate Carillions commitment to listening to, and responding shares of the Company.
to, the views of its employees.
The Company is not aware of any agreements between shareholders that restrict the transfer of shares or voting rights attached to the shares.
Carillion plc Annual Report and Accounts 2010 39 Governance Report of the Directors continued Substantial share interests Directors share interests As at 2 March 2011, the Company had received formal notifi cation Ordinary shares under the Disclosure and Transparency Rules, of the following material The benefi cial interests of the Directors, their immediate families and holdings in its shares: connected persons in the ordinary share capital of the Company as at 31 December 2010 are shown below.
Number of shares held Percentage Fully paid 50p As at 1 January 2010 As at 31 December 2010 Schroders plc 43,868,272 10.98 ordinary shares owned: Number Number Standard Life Investments Ltd 27,932,723 6.99 Executive Director Ameriprise Financial Inc. and its Group 20,084,340 5.03 Richard Adam 16,419 138,019 Richard Howson 2,435 2,533 F&C Asset Management plc 19,246,558 4.82 John McDonough 992,211 635,093 Legal & General Group Plc 15,783,867 3.95 Non-Executive Directors HBOS plc 14,036,048 3.51 David Garman 14,300 14,300 UBS Investment Bank 13,424,716 3.36 David Maloney 10,000 10,000 Steve Mogford Vanda Murray 12,300 12,300 Policy for payment of suppliers Philip Rogerson 39,630 39,630 The Groups policy is that its individual businesses should agree terms and conditions for transactions with its suppliers and for payment to be made on these terms providing suppliers meet their obligations to There has been no change in Directors interests in the period the businesses satisfaction.
The Group as a whole does not apply a 1 January to 2 March 2011. general payment policy as this would not be practicable or appropriate, given the diverse nature of the transactions undertaken by its business Additional information for shareholders units.
The Company does not have any trade creditors.
With regard to the appointment and replacement of Directors, the Company is governed by its Articles of Association, the Combined The number of days credit outstanding for the Group averaged Code, the Companies Act 2006 and related legislation.
The Articles of 60 days at 31 December 2010 58 days at 31 December 2009.
Association may be amended by special resolution of the shareholders.
The powers of the Board are described in the Corporate Governance Change of control report on pages 41 to 43.
A number of agreements take effect, alter or terminate upon a change of control of the Company following a takeover bid, such as loan Annual General Meeting agreements and employee share plans.
The Annual General Meeting will be held at 12 noon on Wednesday 4 May 2011 at Austin Court, 80 Cambridge Street, Birmingham Carillions main credit facilities, including the 737.5 million Syndicated B1 2NP.
The notice of the Annual General Meeting accompanies this Multicurrency Revolving Credit Facility dated 4 February 2011, contain Annual Report and Accounts.
a provision such that in the event of a change of control any lender may, within a 30 day consultation period and if it so requires, notify Included in the AGM business is the proposal to renew the authority that Company that it wishes to cancel its commitment.
Any such for the Company to purchase its own shares.
As at 31 December 2010, cancellation of commitment and the repayment of any outstanding the Company had authority from shareholders for the purchase of borrowings will occur on the date falling 31 days after the expiry of 39,948,133 of its own shares.
Recommended Cash Acquisition of Eaga plc Charitable and political contributions On 11 February 2011 it was announced that the Boards of Carillion plc Payments for charitable purposes made by the Group during the and Eaga plc had reached agreement on the terms of the recommended year ended 31 December 2010 amounted to 200,000 2009: cash acquisition by Carillion of Eaga plc, a leading provider of energy 200,000.
The primary benefi ciaries of these charitable donations effi ciency solutions in the UK.
The terms of the offer values Eaga plc were The Transformation Trust, The Wildlife Trust, the British at approximately 306.5 million.
Subject to the necessary approvals, Occupational Health Research Foundation, Business in the the acquisition will be effected by scheme of arrangement pursuant to Community, CRASH, RedR and Walking with Wounded.
Part 26 of the Companies Act 2006.
The Carillion Group also contributes more than one per cent of Auditor profi ts per annum in cash or in-kind staff time on community Resolutions to reappoint KPMG Audit Plc as auditor and to authorise projects to community activities and is a corporate member of the Directors to determine its remuneration will be proposed at the Business in the Community.
The Company and its subsidiaries made no political donations Approved by order of the Board.
during the period under review.
Property There are differences between market and book values of interest in land held as fi xed assets, however, the differences are not material R F Tapp in relation to the affairs of the Group.
Secretary 2 March 2011 Financial Instruments Information on the Carillion Groups use of fi financial instruments, fi financial risk management objectives and policies and exposure is given in note 26 on pages 83 to 87 of the consolidated fi financial statements.
40 Carillion plc Annual Report and Accounts 2010
