What we do Our operations Construction services excluding the Middle East We have a strong and selective construction capability in the UK and in Canada, focused on large, higher added value contracts for long-term customers.
Having a strong construction capability, Engineering.
We are also a leading supplier Underlying operating profi t which, together with our capabilities in to the schools building programme, some private fi finance, design, support services of which are being delivered as PPP projects, and sustainability, enables us to offer fully and to the health sector, having delivered 41.
13PPP hospitals and healthcare facilities, with two more PPP hospitals under construction, 2009: 30.9m This gives us a competitive advantage in notably the new Southmead Hospital in optimising the whole-life cost of providing, Bristol.
We also provide construction maintaining and operating assets such as services for other long-term customers, for Percentage of total 1 schools, hospitals, military accommodation, example, where quality, delivery and our underlying operating profi t prisons, roads and railways an essential sector-leading sustainability credentials requirement for Public Private Partnership differentiate our offering.
19 % Our largest sectors of the UK infrastructure In the UK, we began re-scaling our market are roads and railways.
In 2010, with 2009: 14% construction business in 2010, through a joint venture partner we completed the East being even more selective in respect of the London Line and we are currently upgrading contracts for which we bid, in order to base the A1 in Yorkshire to motorway standards.
its capabilities primarily around delivering Our construction capabilities in these sectors integrated solutions for PPP projects and are also key to our success in winning and support services customers.
As a result, we delivering PPP road and rail projects, expect to reduce our UK construction revenue long-term maintenance contracts for roads from its 2009 level of 1.8 billion to some and railways and contracts for the Highways 1.2 billion over the next three years, and Agencys managed motorways programme.
reinforce our position as a leader in delivering integrated solutions.
Canada and the Caribbean In Canada and the Caribbean, where our In Canada, our construction capability is businesses were established over 40 years also playing a key role in our success in ago, we have strong capabilities in both the the growing PPP market, where we have buildings and infrastructure markets.
We established a leading market position.
We delivered two of the fi first PPP hospitals to Key: expect planned investment in PPP projects be built in Canada, both of which are fully Support services to be a key driver of our growth in Canada, operational, and for which Carillion has Public Private Partnership projects where our objective is to double revenue long-term support services contracts.
We Middle East construction services over the next three to fi five years to around have since won three more PPP hospital Construction services excluding the Middle East 1 billion per annum.
projects, together with a PPP contract to provide a new Forensic Science and Coroners 1 Before Group eliminations and unallocated items, UK construction Complex in Toronto, all of which are currently intangible amortisation, non-recurring operating A signifi cant proportion of our UK under construction.
Carillion is also delivering items and share of Joint Ventures net fi financial expense and taxation.
construction revenue already comes from other high-profi le construction projects, for PPP projects.
For example, currently we are example, the refurbishment and extension of building two major PPP projects for the Torontos Union Station.
Ministry of Defence Allenby Connaught, which involves building and refurbishing Army accommodation across the South of England, and the Royal School of Military Main image: To date, Carillion has delivered some 50 new and refurbished schools as Public Private Partnership projects.
12 Carillion plc Annual Report and Accounts 2010 Carillion can provide construction services a capability we are using increasingly to deliver integrated solutions for PPP and other projects.
Union Station, Toronto Carillion is a leading supplier to the school In addition to a substantial portfolio of building programme in England and Wales.
construction contracts for PPP projects, in We have built, or we are in the process of Canada we are using our ability to provide building, over 140 new or refurbished schools integrated solutions and our reputation for and academies, many of which have been quality and delivery, to win other major Public Private Partnership PPP projects in contracts.
The most recent is a 5-year, 360 which Carillion has invested equity and for million contract to revitalise Torontos Union which Carillion provides long-term support Station, for which we will provide professional services.
For example, Carillion is currently services, contract management and supervision delivering major school building programmes to co-ordinate and control all construction for South Tyneside and Gateshead, activities.
The 5-year programme includes Nottingham, Tameside, Durham, Rochdale the restoration of heritage features in the and Wolverhampton, which together have a existing station and the construction of a new construction value of some 1.5 billion.
upper-level transport concourse and a new retail concourse beneath the station, to create 2.
Royal School of Military Engineering a world-class transport and retail facility.
Carillion is a partner in the Joint Venture that is delivering the 3 billion, Royal School of Military Engineering PPP project for the UK Ministry of Defence.
In addition to investing 5.5 million of equity in this project, Carillion is delivering a 7-year, 300 million construction programme, including new and refurbished soldier accommodation, providing some 1,700 bed spaces, together with greatly improved training facilities and retail, catering Find out more about what we can do at and leisure facilities, which will create a www.
Carillion plc Annual Report and Accounts 2010 13
