What we do Our operations Support services We are one of the UKs largest support services companies with the skills and resources to provide all the services needed to manage, maintain and operate buildings and infrastructure.
Having the ability to combine our services As one of the top three suppliers of Underlying operating profi t capabilities and use leading-edge technology mechanical and electrical engineering M&E to provide customers with fully integrated, services in the UK, Carillion provides M&E nationwide solutions is a key strength that services direct to an extensive customer base 110.4m helps to differentiate Carillion from many of and also uses this capability to support the our competitors.
It is also fundamental to our delivery of integrated facilities management 2009: 117.7m success in delivering Public Private Partnership solutions for public and private sector PPP projects.
Percentage of total 1 The long-term contracts we have some of Infrastructure underlying operating profi t them for more than 30 years to deliver We have long-term asset management and services for over 100,000 buildings, over maintenance contracts for roads, railways and 17,000 km of roads and substantial sections public utility services networks.
In the UK, we 50 % of the UK rail and utility networks, provide are a key supplier to the Highways Agency, good visibility of future revenues and make providing integrated management and 2009: 52% a major contribution to the resilience of our maintenance services for motorways and business mix.
trunk roads, and we provide similar services for a number of Local Highway Authorities.
Property In Canada, we have leading positions in the We provide an extensive range of support Ontario and Alberta road maintenance services for property, notably integrated markets.
In the rail sector, our main customers facilities management solutions for public are Network Rail and Transport for London.
and private sector customers with large, complex property estates.
We have strong We also provide a wide range of asset positions in a number of market sectors, management and maintenance services to the particularly for customers in the fi financial telecommunications, water, gas and electricity services, commercial, utilities, media and supply industries.
We are particularly strong telecommunications sectors.
For example, in the telecommunications sector, where a we provide integrated facilities management Carillion-led Joint Venture has a seven-year services for over 7,000 BT properties in the contract, worth in the region of 1.0 billion UK, for Virgin Media, Siemens, Centrica, to Carillion, to provide nationwide asset Key: Bank of Ireland and the Nationwide management and maintenance services Support services Building Society.
for Openreach, BTs local access network Public Private Partnership projects business.
Middle East construction services In the UK public sector, we are a major Construction services excluding the Middle East supplier of integrated facilities management Our consultancy business provides services to central and local government.
For engineering and architectural design and 1 Before Group eliminations and unallocated items, example, we are a leading supplier to Defence project management services.
These intangible amortisation, non-recurring operating Estates and to acute NHS hospitals.
We also capabilities also play an important role in items and share of jointly controlled entities net fi financial expense and taxation.
provide facilities management services for the supporting the delivery of integrated solutions HM Revenue and Customs estate and we have for buildings and infrastructure, particularly a growing presence in the education sector.
for Public Private Partnership projects.
In Canada, we have a growing business, driven by our success in winning PPP projects, especially in the health sector, for which we provide facilities management services.
Main image: Carillion is one of the UKs leading suppliers of mechanical and electrical engineering maintenance services.
06 Carillion plc Annual Report and Accounts 2010 Carillion can deliver support services solutions that improve quality and reliability, while reducing customer costs.
BT widespread property portfolio, Carillion uses For Openreach, BTs local network business, a mobile workforce, backed by our National a Carillion-led Joint Venture provides Operations Centre, which coordinates our nationwide asset management and activities 24 hours a day, 365 days a year.
These include the installation, repair and maintenance of cables, 3.
Centrica joint boxes, street cabinets, telegraph poles For Centrica, Carillion manages the delivery and associated infrastructure.
Service delivery of all the services needed to operate is being transformed through a single Centricas property portfolio and also directly nationwide delivery model, which replaced delivers many of these services, particularly seven regional suppliers.
This has enabled the facilities management services.
We use our Joint Venture to improve service quality and market-leading technology platform to effi ciency at a signifi cantly reduced cost to supports the delivery of these services and Openreach, through consolidating the supply this provides Centrica with real-time access chain and improving workfl ow planning and to our performance.
This, together with the the management of up to 1,000 jobs a day.
strong partnership that has been developed between Centrica and Carillion, has played a 2.
Virgin Media key role in enabling Carillion to deliver an For Virgin Media, Carillion provides a wide award winning, best-in-class service.
range of support services, including mechanical and electrical engineering services for some 750 properties, including offi ces, call centres, switching centres and data centres, which involves managing environments critical to Virgin Medias own customer service.
To provide the wide range of services and skills needed to meet the exacting requirements of mission critical Find out more about what we can do at environments, across a geographically www.
3 Carillion plc Annual Report and Accounts 2010 07
