Directors Report The Directors present their Report and the Annual Report and Principal Activities Accounts and the audited consolidated Financial Statements of The Company is a financial services holding company, with the Company for the year ended 31 December 2010. principal interests in the provision of wealth management advice and services to the clients of the Group.
A full review of the Business Review activities of the Group and the basis on which the Company The information that fulfils the Companies Act requirements of generates or preserves value over the longer term is given in the the Business Review can be found in the following sections: Chief Executives Statement on pages 6 to 8.
Principal risks and uncertainties The Risk and Risk Management Substantial Shareholders section on pages 24 to 30.
The Company is aware of the interests of the following companies in 3% or more of the ordinary issued share capital of Performance and development of Chief Executives Statement the Company as at 22 February 2011: the business during the year and on pages 6 to 8 and the Financial position at the end of the year Commentary on pages 10 to 23.
Lloyds Banking Group LBG 288,641,058 58.92% Information on likely future Chief Executives Statement Newton Investment Management 19,121,165 3.99% developments on page 8 and the Financial BlackRock 19,038,332 3.96% Commentary on pages 14, 21 Prudential 17,421,205 3.57% and 22.
Directors and Officers The Corporate Governance Details of the relationship agreement between Lloyds Banking Indemnity and Insurance Report on page 50.
Group plc and the Company are set out on page 51.
Financial and non-financial KPIs Key Performance Indicators on pages 2 and 3.
The interests of the Directors, their families and any connected persons in the issued share capital of the Company are shown on Environmental, employee and The Corporate Social page 66. social community matters Responsibility Report on pages 31 to 40.
Share Capital Contractual or other Page 46.
Structure of the Companys Capital arrangements essential to the As at 31 December 2010, the Companys issued and fully paid business of the Company up share capital was 486,149,186 ordinary shares of 15p each.
All ordinary shares are quoted on the London Stock Exchange Results and Dividends and can be held in uncertificated form via CREST.
Details of the The consolidated statement of comprehensive income is on movement in the issued share capital during the year are page 70 and profit for the financial year attributable to equity provided in Note 28 to the financial statements on page 106. shareholders amounted to 55.0 million.
An interim dividend of 2.025 pence per share, which equates to 9.8 million, was paid The full rights and obligations attaching to the ordinary shares on 15 September 2010 2009: 1.84 pence per share or of the Company are set out in the Articles of Association.
The Directors recommend that shareholders Articles can be amended by a Special Resolution of the members approve a final dividend of 3.975 pence per share, which equates of the Company and copies can be obtained from Companies to 19.3 million 2009: final dividend of 2.66 pence per share or House.
Holders of ordinary shares are entitled to receive the 12.8 million to be paid on 18 May 2011 to shareholders on the Companys Reports and Accounts: attend, speak and exercise register at the close of business on 4 March 2011. voting rights and appoint proxies to attend General Meetings.
A resolution to renew the Directors authority to offer a scrip Voting Rights dividend will be put to shareholders at the forthcoming Annual At any General Meeting, on a show of hands, each member who General Meeting.
is present in person has one vote and every proxy present who has been duly appointed by a member entitled to vote on a Status of Company resolution has one vote.
On a poll, every member who is present The Company is registered as a public limited company under in person or by proxy shall have one vote for every share of the Companies Act 2006. which he is the holder.
St. Jamess Place plc 44 Registered No.
3183415 Corporate Governance Forms appointing a proxy sent by the Company to shareholders, power to borrow money.
They also provide that Directors have in relation to any General Meeting, must be received by the the power to allot unissued shares, up to pre-determined levels Company not less than 48 hours before the time appointed for set and approved by shareholders in General Meetings.
This also holding of the meeting or adjourned meeting.
applies to the Directors allotting equity securities otherwise than in accordance with statutory pre-emption rules.
Restrictions on Voting Rights If any shareholder has been sent a notice by the Company under Directors Section 793 of the Companies Act 2006 and failed to supply the Details of the Directors as at 22 February 2011 and their relevant information for a period of 14 days, then the biographies are shown on pages 42 and 43.
Brief particulars of shareholder may not for so long as the default continues be the Directors membership of the Board Committees are entitled to attend or vote either personally or by proxy at a contained in the Corporate Governance Report on pages 51 shareholders meeting, or to exercise any other right conferred to 53. by membership in relation to shareholders meetings.
As reported in last years Report and Accounts, Charles Gregson If those default shares represent at least 0.25% of their class, any was appointed to the Board on 1 January 2010, as an dividend payable in respect of the shares will be withheld by the independent Non-executive Director and was elected at the Company and subject to certain limited exceptions no transfer, Annual General Meeting in May 2010 and Jo Dawson other than an excepted transfer, of any shares held by the member resigned as a non-independent Non-executive Director on in certificated form will be registered.
Restrictions on Share Transfers The Companys Articles of Association require that any Director There are restrictions on share transfers, all of which are set out appointed during the year to fill a casual vacancy must stand for in the Articles of Association.
Restrictions include transfers reappointment at the next Annual General Meeting and that, at made in favour of more than four joint holders and transfers held each Annual General Meeting, all those Directors who were in certificated form.
Directors may decline to recognise a elected or last re-elected at or before the Annual General transfer, unless it is in respect of only one class of share and Meeting held in the third calendar year before the current year, lodged and duly stamped with the Transfer Office.
The shall retire from office by rotation.
Directors may also refuse to register any transfer of shares held in certificated form which are not fully paid.
Directors may also However, in accordance with the requirements of the UK choose to decline requests for share transfers from a US Person Corporate Governance Code, the whole Board of Directors will as defined under Regulation S of the United States Securities retire by rotation at the AGM in 2011.
The Chairman is pleased Act 1933 that would cause the aggregate number of beneficial to confirm that the Non-executive Directors seeking re-election owners of issued shares who are US Persons to exceed 70. continue to be effective in their roles on the Board and its Committees and have demonstrated their continued The registration of transfers may be suspended at such times and commitment to these roles.
Further details on the Directors are for such periods not exceeding 30 days in any year as the set out in the Directors biographies on pages 42 and 43 and in Directors may from time to time determine in respect of any the Notice of Meeting.
Except as stated in the Remuneration Report, no Director has, The Company is not aware of any agreements between or has had during the year under review, any material interest in shareholders that restrict the transfer of shares or voting rights any contract or arrangement with the Company or any of its attached to the shares.
Details of all executive Directors Service Contracts are set out in the Remuneration Report on pages 60 Power of the Directors and 61.
The Directors are responsible for managing the business of the Company and their powers are subject to any regulations of the The Company does not have agreements with any Director or Articles, to the provisions of the Statutes and to such regulations employee that would provide compensation for loss of office or as may be prescribed by Special Resolution of the Company.
employment resulting from a takeover, except that provisions in the Companys share schemes may, in certain circumstances, The Companys Articles of Association contain, for example, cause share awards granted to employees under such schemes to specific provisions and restrictions concerning the Companys vest on a takeover.
Annual Report and Accounts 2010 45 Directors Report continued Creditors Payment Policy where appropriate to the satisfaction of any performance The payment of supplier invoices is made on the Companys conditions at that time and pro-rating of awards.
behalf by St. Jamess Place Management Services Limited SJPMS, a subsidiary company.
It is SJPMSs policy to pay Annual General Meeting creditors in accordance with the Confederation of British The Companys Annual General Meeting will be held on 12 May Industry Better Practice Payment Code on supplier payments.
2011 at The Royal Aeronautical Society, 4 Hamilton Place, SJPMSs average number of days purchases outstanding in London W1J 7BQ at 11.00am.
respect of trade creditors at 31 December 2010 was 18 days 2009: 17 days.
Authority to Purchase Own Shares At the Annual General Meeting in 2010, shareholders granted Charitable and Political Donations authority to the Directors for the purchase by the Company of Charitable contributions made by the Group to the St. Jamess its own shares.
The authority will expire at the end of the Place Foundation during the year totalled 1,200,000 2009: Annual General Meeting to be held in 2011, or 18 months from 1,330,000.
Contributions during the year to other charitable the date granted, whichever is earlier.
During the year, the organisations totalled 7,100 2009: 3,000.
A list of Company did not purchase any of its own ordinary shares.
The charitable donations made by the Foundation is available on Directors will propose the renewal of the authority to purchase request.
Further details on the Foundation are included in the own shares at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting.
Corporate Social Responsibility Report on pages 31 to 33.
Going Concern It is the Groups policy not to make any donations to political The Companys business activities, together with the factors parties within the meaning of the definitions set out in the likely to affect its future development, performance and position Political Parties, Elections and Referendums Act 2000 and are set out in the Business Review, as referred to on page 44. sections 362 to 379 of the Companies Act 2006.
The Group did The financial position of the Company, its cash flows, liquidity not make any political donations during the year 2009: nil.
position and borrowing facilities are described in the Financial Commentary on pages 10 to 23.
In addition, the Notes on pages Employees 92 and 97 and the Risk and Risk Management section on pages Full details of the Groups approach to employee involvement, 24 to 30 include: the Companys objectives: policies and training, development and communication can be found in the processes for managing its capital: its financial risk management Corporate Social Responsibility Report on pages 33 to 36. objectives: details of its financial instruments and its exposures to credit risk and liquidity.
Significant Contracts and Change of Control The Company has a number of contractual arrangements As shown on page 21 of the Financial Commentary, the Groups which it considers essential to the business of the Company.
capital position is strong and well in excess of regulatory Specifically, these are committed loan facilities totalling requirements.
The long-term nature of the business results in 45 million and arrangements with third party providers of considerable positive cash flows, arising from existing business.
As a consequence, the Directors believe that the Company is well placed to manage its business risks successfully.
A change of control of the Company may cause some agreements to which the Company is party to alter or terminate.
These The Directors confirm that they are satisfied that the Company include bank facility agreements and employee share plans.
and the Group have adequate resources to continue in business for the foreseeable future.
For this reason, they continue to The Group had committed facilities totalling 45 million as at adopt the going concern basis in preparing the accounts.
Further 23 February 2011 which contain clauses which require lender information on the basis of preparation of these accounts can be consent for any change of control.
Should consent not be given, seen in Note 1 to both the Consolidated Accounts under a change of control would trigger mandatory prepayment of International Financial Reporting Standards and Parent the facilities.
Company Accounts on UK GAAP basis.
All of the Companys employee share plans contain provisions Statement of Directors Responsibilities relating to a change of control.
Outstanding awards and options This statement is set out in the Corporate Governance Report may vest and become exercisable on a change of control, subject on pages 54 and 55.
St. Jamess Place plc 46 Registered No.
3183415 Corporate Governance Disclosure of Information to Auditors Each of the Directors, at the date of approval of this report, confirms that: So far as the Directors are aware, there is no relevant audit information of which the auditors are unaware: and The Directors have taken all reasonable steps to ascertain relevant audit information and ensure that the auditors are aware of such information.
This confirmation is given and should be interpreted in accordance with the provisions of section 418 of the Companies Act 2006.
Independent Auditors The auditors  LLP, have indicated their willingness to continue in office and a Resolution that they be reappointed until the end of the 2012 Annual General Meeting will be put to shareholders at the Annual General Meeting on 12 May 2011.
On behalf of the Board D Bellamy A Croft Chief Executive Finance Director 22 February 2011 Annual Report and Accounts 2010 47
