President and Board of Directors 1 4 13 5 2 3 11 1.
Steve Colsell 46 President Non-executive Director Non-executive Director Sir Mark founded the St. Jamess Place Group Sarah joined the Board as an independent Steve was appointed to the Board as a with Mike Wilson in 1991 and was Chairman Non-executive Director in 2004 and is a non-independent Non-executive Director in of the Company until September 2004, when member of the Investment and Risk 2009 to represent Lloyds Banking Group plc.
he resigned from the Board and was Committees.
She is a Non-executive Director He is Finance and Strategy Director of Wealth appointed President of the Company.
Sir of Development Securities plc and of three and International at Lloyds Banking Group.
Mark originally practised as a barrister and listed investment trusts and has been elected Steve has held a number of senior finance and was formerly Deputy Chairman of the Chairman of the Association of Investment strategy roles in the life, general insurance, Securities and Investments Board, the Companies.
She is also Chairman of Stena banking and consumer finance sectors.
He is forerunner to the Financial Services Line UK Pension Fund Trustees and the a Non-executive Director of Invista Real Authority.
He is Chairman of the Pension Cancer Research UK Pension Fund Estate Investment Management Holdings plc, Corporation and of Synergy Insurance Investment Committee.
Sarah is also an a Fellow of the Institute of Actuaries and a Services.
Sir Mark chairs the Companys adviser to, or member of, various other graduate of Imperial College, London.
investment committees including the Investment Committee of the Daily Mail & 6.
Andrew Croft 46 I The Current Directors of the General Trust pension schemes and of the Finance Director Company are: National Heritage Memorial Fund.
Sarah Andrew joined the Company in 1993 and was graduated in Philosophy and Law from appointed as Finance Director in 2004.
Mike Wilson 67 N Trinity Hall, Cambridge and has an MBA qualified as a Chartered Accountant at Chairman from the London Business School.
 in 1988, has a degree Mike has worked in the financial services in Accounting and Economics from industry since 1963 and founded St. Jamess 4.
David Bellamy 57 Southampton University and is a member of Place Group with Sir Mark Weinberg in Chief Executive the Companys Investment Committee.
He was Chief Executive until 2004, David joined the Company in 1991 and was Andrew is also a Trustee of the St. Jamess when he became Chairman.
Mike is a appointed to the Board in 1997, before Place Foundation.
member of the Nomination Committee.
He becoming Chief Executive in 2007.
He was formerly Chairman of the Mental Health previously fulfilled a number of roles at 7.
Charles Gregson 63 Rem A Foundation and a Non-executive Director of St. Jamess Place including Group Operations Non-executive Director Vendme Luxury Group plc between 1993 Director and Managing Director.
David has Charles joined the Board in January 2010 as and 1998.
Mike is a Trustee of the St. Jamess worked in the financial services industry an independent Non-executive Director.
since 1973 and is a Trustee of the St. Jamess is a member of the Audit and Remuneration Place Foundation.
Charles is Chairman of ICAP plc and a Non-executive Director of International Personal Finance plc.
He is also Chairman of St. Jamess Place plc Registered No.
3183415 42 Corporate Governance 6 9 12 7 10 8 CPP Group plc and a Director of Caledonia member of the Remuneration and Nomination 1999 to 2001.
He is Vice Chairman of Investments plc.
He has extensive board and Committees.
Derek is Chairman of Greggs Investment Banking at N M Rothschild senior management experience in the UK and plc and Chairman of Opera North and is a Corporate Finance Limited and Director of overseas and served on the boards of United former Non-executive Director of Next plc Almar plc and Leucadia National Business Media plc, Provident Financial plc and and Hiscox plc.
He was formerly a Fellow of Corporation.
Michael is a former NonMAI plc.
Charles graduated in History and the Institute of Actuaries and a Director of executive Director of J z Equity Partners plc.
Law from Trinity Hall, Cambridge and has an J. Henry Schroder Wagg & Co Limited.
He qualified as a solicitor in 1972.
Ian Gascoigne 54 Non-executive Director Roger was appointed to the Board as an Partnership Director Mike joined the Board as an independent independent Non-executive Director in Ian has worked in the financial services Non-executive Director in 2005.
He is a member of the Risk and industry since 1986 and joined the Company the Risk Committee and is Deputy Chairman Remuneration Committees.
He was appointed to the Board in of the Audit Committee.
He is Professor of years in the financial services industry, Roger 2003.
He has a degree from Lancaster Accounting at the London School of Economics graduated in Law from Southampton University and an MA from Leicester and Political Science and Director of the University and qualified as a solicitor in 1980 University.
Ian is also a Trustee of the Centre for Analysis of Risk and Regulation.
He became a partner at St. Jamess Place Foundation.
He is a Fellow of the Institute of Chartered Ashurst, a leading City law firm, in 1988, Accountants in England and Wales and an specialising in the financial services industry.
David Lamb 54 I Associate of the UK Chartered Institute of He retired as a partner in 2005 although Business Development Director Taxation.
Mike lectures and writes on risk continues as a Director of an Ashurst David joined the Company in 1992.
He was management, regulation and compliance company.
He is also a Non-executive appointed to the position of Business issues.
Director of Invesco Income Growth Trust plc Development Director in 2001 and to the and the Miller Insurance Broking Group.
Michael Sorkin 67 I Rem N was formerly a Non-executive Director of the University, London and a Fellow of the Senior Independent Director Pensions Regulator.
David is also a member Michael was appointed to the Board as an of the Companys Investment Committee and independent Non-executive Director in 2002 Trustee of the St. Jamess Place Foundation.
and became Senior Independent Director in Ages correct as at 22 February 2011 2005.
He chairs the Remuneration and I Member of Investment Committee 10.
Derek Netherton 66 Rem A N Nomination Committees and is a member of N Member of Nominations Committee Non-executive Director the Companys Investment Committee.
He R Member of Risk Committee Derek joined the Board in 1996 and is an joined Hambros Bank in 1968, was a Director Rem Member of Remuneration independent Non-executive Director.
He is of Hambros plc between 1986 and 1999, and Committee Chairman of the Audit Committee and a Managing Director of S G Hambros from A Member of Audit Committee Annual Report and Accounts 2010 43
