Business Review Our Business Strategy We provide face-to-face advice to clients based on their individual needs and circumstances, adapting the advice as requirements change over time to ensure that recommendations remain appropriate.
This relationship-based approach has proved to be very We believe that our approach to investment resilient, no more so than in the volatile period following management addresses these challenges.
We do not the credit crunch.
There is an increasing demand for place clients money in the hands of our own team trusted face-to-face advice from experienced advisers of investment managers: indeed, we have no backed by a strong organisation and brand.
investment managers of our own.
Instead, we are free to choose any investment manager from any We believe we remain uniquely positioned to fund management firm anywhere in the world.
continue to succeed in our market because of the two fundamental principles that have underpinned The responsibility of selecting the range of funds our business from day one: the strength of the and fund managers that are made available to St. relationship between our advisers and their clients: Jamess Place clients at any one time falls upon the and our approach to investment management.
St. Jamess Place Investment Committee, advised by the respected independent investment research The St. Jamess Place Partnership consultancy, Stamford Associates.
The members of the St. Jamess Place Partnership play the leading part in delivering our wealth Stamford Associates share their extensive research management service.
The Partnership so called of the global investment markets with a small number because of the way they work in partnership with of companies.
We are particularly proud to have them their clients work from a network of offices across on our team, as St. Jamess Place is the only company the UK.
On average, they have 17 years experience they work with that provides wealth management in their field and include some of the most advice to private individuals or Trustees.
experienced, able and highly-regarded professionals working in wealth management today.
The Committee meets regularly to review performance and consider detailed reports from All our Partners are experienced advisers: some each investment manager.
If a change in the have particular expertise in specific and often highly marketplace calls for the addition of another technical areas.
If a clients circumstances require manager, the Committee will select one.
Equally, specific expertise, the Partner will consult and if if the Committee loses confidence in the ability of necessary introduce a colleague who can provide an existing manager it will replace them.
Partners often work alongside clients other professional advisers, providing a complementary We remain committed to monitoring and reviewing service and a fresh perspective.
We believe advice all of our fund managers to ensure we generate the is best given face-to-face and focused on the optimum return for our clients investments.
personal needs of each individual client.
New Fund Managers Our Partners recognise that no one clients objectives During 2010, the Investment Committee in or circumstances are the same as another.
The conjunction with Stamford Associates made seven relationships between Partners and clients endure new fund manager appointments.
The new managers because they are founded on mutual respect and trust, and mandates appointed were: with the emphasis on building and maintaining a long-term relationship.
The large majority of clients Jonathan Asante of First State Investments choose to continue the working relationship with their Global Emerging Markets.
Partner indefinitely, appreciating a source of trusted Jill Fields and zak Summerscale of Babson Capital advice as their financial needs evolve over the years.
Nick Osborne and Mark Lyttleton of BlackRock The success of our approach can be seen from the Absolute Return Fund.
fact that an estimated 92% of new investments came Adrian Frost and Adrian Gosden of Artemis UK from existing clients or from referrals from them & International Income.
and once invested, clients tend to stay invested with Dan OKeefe and David Samra of Artisan a retention figure of 95%.
Nick Purves of RWC UK & Equity Income.
Our Approach to Investment Management Nick Kirrage and Kevin Murphy of Schroders Successful investment is critical to future financial UK Equities.
wellbeing, but it is a field which presents a unique problem: future performance is unpredictable.
As a We remain committed to monitoring and reviewing result, when clients choose an investment manager, all of our fund managers to ensure we generate the no matter how successful, they can never be sure optimum return for our clients investment and that they have made the right choice.
And even if expect to make further new appointments, of both they have, it may not continue to be the right choice managers and mandates in 2011. over the years to come.
