Our performance in our markets Delivering strong broad-based growth in dynamic markets Our strategy Key highlights Focus on Asia, Africa and the Middle East.
These markets profit before taxation by region 2010 offer growth and we know them intimately.
18% Hong Kong 12% Singapore 6% Korea 18% Other Asia Pacic 20% India Our performance 14% Middle East and Other South Asia 9% Africa Our income stream is highly diversied, with five of our 3% Americas, markets delivering over $1 billion in income UK and Europe All geographies, with the exception of Americas, UK and Europe, delivered positive income growth with Africa, India and Other Asia Pacic delivering double-digit income growth Wholesale Banking revenues in Singapore crossed $1 billion for the first time Two geographies now generate over $1 billion in profit, and India became our most profitable market with profits of $1.2 billion Our markets Operating Operating income income $million growth % Hong Kong 2,500 5 Singapore 1,738 9 Korea 1,698 9 Other Asia Pacic 3,165 10 India 2,028 12 Middle East and Other South Asia 2,167 4 Africa 1,246 14 Americas, UK and Europe 1,520 16 Total 16,062 6 18 Standard Chartered Annual Report 2010 www.
com Business review Our performance in our markets Singapore exchanges, raising over $500 million with Singapore is the headquarters of our global an issue of Indian Depository Receipts.
We Wholesale Banking and Consumer Banking were also involved in a number of landmark businesses and has 8 per cent of our corporate finance deals during the year, headcount.
During the year, we continued which contributed to the strong income to invest in new property and opened the growth in Wholesale Banking.
Across India, largest trading oor in Asia in the Marina we also have a distribution network of 94 Bay Financial Centre.
2010 saw record branches and 317 ATMs.
Between banking income for Consumer Banking, supported operations and Scope, our shared service by double-digit increases in income in a centre in Chennai, accounts for over a number of products, in particular Wealth quarter of our headcount.
Wholesale Banking revenues crossed $1 billion for the first time, as it MESA continued to build on its people and Although the UAE remains our largest product capabilities and deepening market within this region, Oman and customer relationships.
Bangladesh in particular have seen strong income growth over the year, as Wholesale Korea Banking volumes increased reecting more Korea houses one of our largest competitive pricing.
Within this region, distribution networks, with 418 branches Islamic Banking continues to be an area of and 1,667 ATMs.
We continue to enhance significant focus with revenues up strongly and reshape our distribution infrastructure across both businesses, with Consumer through a series of branch relocation and Banking following a Saddiq First strategy refurbishments.
The margin environment and Wholesale Banking delivering a remained difficult on both sides of the number of significant corporate finance balance sheet throughout the year.
All markets benefited However, robust volume growth and from the improved economic outlook and market share gains in a number of fide-risking of the Consumer Banking products has seen materially higher portfolios, with loan impairment reduced second-half profits and profits for the full signicantly across both businesses.
In 2010, for the first time, India became our largest geography by profits year, on a dollar basis, rose by 20 per cent.
On a constant currency basis, the increase Africa was 10 per cent.
The Group is present in 14 sub-Saharan markets and is a highly respected, well Other Asia Pacic established household name, with Our presence in this region spreads across deep-rooted local knowledge and 11 markets, including China, Indonesia, experience.
During the year, we acquired Malaysia and Taiwan.
Income is diversied the African custody business from Barclays We are headquartered in London and across both businesses, with all major Bank PLC, which enables us to now offer have operated for over 150 years in markets delivering positive income custody products across all of our footprint some of the worlds most dynamic momentum in Consumer Banking.
Although Nigeria continues to be markets, leading the way in Asia, the region we continue to maintain a strong our largest market in the region, the strong Africaand the Middle East.
We distribution network, particularly in China growth in income and profits has been offertheknowledge of a local 61 outlets and 124 ATMs and Taiwan 89 spread over a number of key markets, bankwiththe capabilities of an outlets and 412 ATMs and in Indonesia including Kenya, Ghana and Zambia.
through our joint venture investment in businesses across the region delivered Permata Bank over 270 branches.
Our income stream is highly diversied with Wholesale Banking revenues performed five of our individual markets delivering over well as we benefited from the geopolitical Americas, UK and Europe $1 billion of income.
importance of the region and leveraged on The Group is headquartered in London in the mainland China-Taiwan trade ows, close proximity to our lead regulator, the Hong Kong with Taiwan being a significant contributor Financial Services Authority.
This region With a network of 77 branches and 240 to profits.
During 2010, we also established continues to be strategically important for ATMs, Hong Kong continues to be one of a strategic partnership with Agricultural the Group, both from a corporate our largest geographies in terms of Bank of China ABC, underpinned by governance and business generation operating income and profits, which rose becoming a cornerstone investor in its perspective.
Wholesale Banking activities 4 per cent to $1.1 billion.
As Hong Kong is IPO, which enables both ABC and the dominate this region, which originates our most liquid market, the low interest rate Group to leverage their complementary cross-border business with clients into our environment in 2010 has been challenging.
strengths across different markets broad international network.
Following the Income streams continue to be diversied and businesses.
acquisition of American Express Bank in across both businesses and income in the 2008, Private Banking is also an important second half was signicantly higher than India business across the region and continued the first half of 2010.
Consumer Banking India, where we have had a presence for to be impacted by challenging conditions.
experienced strong balance sheet growth over 150 years, had a very good year profit in 2009 included gains from the across multiple products and we gained joining Hong Kong as the second market to buyback of subordinated debt: excluding market share in mortgages and cards with deliver over $2 billion of income.
India these, profits increased by $122 million in a strong recovery in Wealth Management.
Wholesale Banking continued to build on became the largest individual geography 2010 as impairments reduced.
its strong client base, with client income up by profits, generating $1.2 billion in 2010, 19 per cent.
During the year, we became with both businesses showing strong the first ever bank to launch a RMB performance.
During the year, the Group corporate bond for a foreign also became the first international company multinational corporate in Hong Kong.
to list on the Bombay and National stock www.
com Standard Chartered Annual Report 2010 19
