Report of the directors The issued nominal value of the ordinary The directors have pleasure in the 2011 Annual General Meeting AGM, will shares represent 79.4 per cent of the total submitting their report and the financial be paid in either sterling, Hong Kong dollars issued nominal value of all share capital.
statements of the Company and its or US dollars on 11 May 2011 to shareholders There are no specic restrictions on the size subsidiaries for the year ended 31 on the UK register of members at the close of of a holding nor on the transfer of shares, December 2010. business in the UK 10.00pm London time which are both governed by the general on 11 March 2011, and to shareholders on provisions of the articles of association and Business review the Hong Kong branch register of members prevailing legislation.
The directors are not We are required to present a fair review of at the opening of business in Hong Kong aware of any agreements between holders our business during the financial year 9.00am Hong Kong time on 11 March 2011. of the Companys shares that may result in ended 31 December 2010, our position at The final dividend will be paid in Indian restrictions on the transfer of securities or year-end and a description of the principal Rupees on 11 May 2011 to Indian Depository on voting rights.
No person has any special risks and uncertainties that we face.
Receipt holders on the Indian register at the rights of control over the Companys share close of business in India on 11 March 2011 capital and all issued shares are fully paid.
This review enables shareholders to assess in accordance with the Deposit Agreement.
how the directors have performed their duty Authority to purchase own shares under the Companies Act 2006, to promote It is intended that shareholders on the UK At the AGM held in May 2010, our the success of the Company.
register and Hong Kong branch register will shareholders renewed the Companys be able to elect to receive shares credited as authority to make market purchases of up The information that fulls the requirements fully paid instead of all or part of the final cash to 202,747,588 ordinary shares, equivalent of the Business Review can be found in the dividend.
Details of the dividend to approximately 10 per cent of issued Chairmans statement on pages 4 and 5, arrangements will be sent to shareholders on ordinary shares as at 19 March 2010, and the Group Chief Executives review on or around 25 March 2011.
Indian Depository up to all of the issued preference share pages 6 to 11, the Risk review on pages 48 Receipt holders will receive their dividend in capital.
These authorities were not used to 77 and the Key performance indicators Indian rupees only.
during the year and remained in force at on pages 14 and 15, all of whichare 31 December 2010.
In accordance with the incorporated into this report byreference.
Share capital The issued ordinary share capital of the terms of a waiver granted by the Hong Company was increased by 322,956,045 Kong Stock Exchange on 16 April 2008, the Principal activities ordinary shares during the year.
24,000,000 Company will comply with the applicable The Company is the holding company for ordinary shares were issued in connection law and regulation in the UK in relation to the Group.
The Group operates globally with the listing of Indian Depository Receipts holding of any shares in treasury and with and is principally engaged in the business in India, and 260,525,763 ordinary shares the conditions of the waiver, in connection of retail and commercial banking and the were issued under the Companys rights with any shares it may hold in treasury.
provision of other financial services.
Shareholders will be asked to renew these 10,550,826 ordinary shares were issued authorities at the forthcoming AGM, and will Areas of operation Our Group comprises a network of 1,700 under the Companys employee share plans receive details within the Notice of AGM.
Further details on the at prices between nil and 1,146 pence.
treasury shares were held during the year.
branches can be found on our website 27,879,456 ordinary shares were issued www.
under the Companys share dividend Relevant audit information scheme.
Further details can be found in note As far as the directors are aware, there is Results and dividends 36 to the financial statements.
no relevant audit information of which the We recommend a final dividend of 46.65 Group statutory auditor KPMG Audit Plc 1 cents 2009: 43.16 The Company has one class of ordinary is unaware.
The directors have taken all cents on 2 March 2010 shares which carries no rights to xed reasonable steps to ascertain any relevant for the year ended 31 December 2010.
On a show of hands, each member audit information and ensure that the together with the interim dividend already present has the right to one vote at our Group statutory auditor is aware of paid, makes a total dividend for 2010 of 1 general meetings.
On a poll, each member is such information.
The impact entitled to one vote for every $2 nominal of the rights issue in 2010 has been value of share capital held.
explained in note 13 to the financial statements.
The final dividend, if approved at 1 Restated as explained in note 47 to the financial statements 126 Standard Chartered Annual Report 2010 www.
com Corporate governance Report of the directors Loan capital Directors induction and ongoing Going concern Details of the loan capital of the Company development Having made appropriate enquiries, we and its subsidiaries are set out in note 33 to To ensure that directors have the requisite consider that the Company and the Group the financial statements.
knowledge and understanding to enable as a whole have adequate resources to them to challenge effectively, we provide continue as operational businesses for the Board members them a personalised approach to induction, foreseeable future and therefore continued The present members of the Board, training and development.
Further details to adopt the going-concern basis in together with their biographical details, can be found in the Corporate governance preparing the financial statements.
are shown on pages 84 to 86. report on pages 90 and 91.
Sufciency of public oat Jaspal Bindra joined the Board as an Rudy Markham is the Senior Independent As at the date of this report, the Company executive director on 1 January 2010.
Shareholders may discuss any has maintained the prescribed public oat Dr Han Seung-soo, KBE, and Richard issues or concerns with the Senior under the Hong Kong Listing Rules based Delbridge joined the Board as Independent Director where they have been on the information publicly available to the non-executive directors on 1 January 2010 unable to resolve them through existing Company and within the knowledge of and Simon Lowth joined the Board as channels for investor communications.
a non-executive director with effect from 1 May 2010.
Directors interests Fixed assets The directors beneficial interests in the Details of additions to xed assets Gareth Bullock stepped down from the ordinary shares of the Company as at are presented in note 26 to the Board on 1 May 2010.
31December 2010 are shown in the financial statements.
Directors remuneration report on Re-election of directors pages106 to 125.
Major interests in shares and voting At our AGM to be held on Thursday 5 May rights 2011, all of our directors will stand for Conrmation of independence As far as the directors are aware as at re-election.
We do not believe that standing The Company has received from each of 2 March 2011, Temasek Holdings Private for annual re-election will have anyadverse the independent non-executive directors an Limited Temasek is the only shareholder impact for our directors in terms of their annual conrmation of independence that had an interest of more than 10 per focus on the long-term interests of pursuant to Rule 1.13 of the Hong Kong cent in the Companys issued ordinary shareholders.
share capital carrying a right to vote at anygeneral meeting.
Compensation for loss of ofce Details concerning the provisions for The Company has been notied by the providing compensation to directors for following companies oftheir interests in the total voting rights ofthe Company: loss of ofce or employment can be found on pages 118 and 119 of the Directors Number of Percentage Percentage remuneration report.
ordinary of voting of voting Shareholder shares rights direct rights indirect Qualifying third-party indemnities Temasek Holdings Private Limited 430,345,996 18.328 The Company has granted indemnities to all BlackRock, Inc 158,547,553 6.752 of its directors on terms consistent with the applicable statutory provisions.
Qualifying Aberdeen Asset Management PLCs Fund Management Operating third-party indemnity provisions for the Subsidiaries 126,686,193 5.395 purposes of section 234 of the Companies Act 2006 were accordingly in force during Legal & General Group Plc L&G 87,956,658 3.746 the course of the financial year ended Temasek Holdings Private Limiteds interest is held indirectly through Dover Investments Pte Ltd. and Cavanagh 31 December 2010, and remain in force at Investments Pte Ltd the date of this report.
com Standard Chartered Annual Report 2010 127 Report of the directors One of the most significant recent changes transaction with Temasek or its associates, Risk management to the Rules Governing the Listing of the Company will continue to comply with An ongoing process for identifying, Securities on The Stock Exchange of Hong the applicable announcement, reporting, evaluating and managing the significant Kong Limited the Hong Kong Listing Rules annual review and independent risks that we face is in place.
Its objectives, from the Companys perspective was the shareholders approval requirements.
policies and procedures, including the introduction on 3 June 2010 of a new policy for hedging risk: our exposure to exemption the Passive Investor Exemption In relation to the Companys 1 for 8 rights credit risk: liquidity risk and market risk, from the connected transaction and issue that was announced on 13 October are covered in the Risk review on pages continuing transaction requirements for 2010, the Company was informed by the 48 to 77 of this report.
Company-only transactions with associates of a passive underwriting banks J. P. Morgan risks are managed as a part of overall investor Rules 14A.
Cazenove, Goldman Sachs International, Group risks.
We consider that Temasek meets the UBS Investment Bank, Barclays Capital, criteria for a passive investor under Rule BNP Paribas, Credit Agricole Corporate significant contracts and agreements 14A.
Therefore, any connected and Investment Bank and Deutsche Bank At no time during the year did any director transactions or continuing connected AG, London Branch the underwriting hold a material interest in any contracts transactions of a revenue nature in the Banks that Temasek was participating in of signicance with the Company or any ordinary and usual course of business and the rights issue as a sub-underwriter.
In of its subsidiary undertakings.
The on normal commercial terms with an this capacity, Temasek received a Company is not party to any significant associate of Temasek are exempt from the commission of 1.50 per cent on the agreements that would take effect, alter announcement, reporting, annual review aggregate value at the Issue Price of the or terminate following a change of control and independent shareholders approval New Shares sub-underwritten by it.
requirements of the Hong Kong Listing sub-underwriting commission was paid out Rules.
In respect of the reporting and of the underwriting commission the Banks Related party transactions annual review requirements, The Stock received from the Company.
Details of transactions with directors and Exchange of Hong Kong Limited claried ofcers and other related parties are set out that the Passive Investor Exemption applies On 10 January 2008, the Company and in note 48 to the financial statements.
to revenue transactions for the whole HSBC International Trust Services financial year 2010.
Singapore Limited, as trustee of Connected continuing connected CapitaCommercial Trust being an transactions In addition, in 2010 The Stock Exchange of associate of Temasek, entered into a By virtue of its shareholding of more than Hong Kong Limited granted the Company a Framework Agreement in relation to 10 per cent in the Company, Temasek and its associates are related parties and number of waivers from strict compliance continuing connected transactions for the connected persons of the Company for the with the reporting and annual review leasing of premises.
The Framework purposes of the UK Listing Rules and the requirements in respect of Ongoing Agreement expired on 11 January 2011.
In Listing Rules of The Stock Exchange of Banking Transactions with Temasek light of the Passive Investor Exemption, a Hong Kong Limited respectively together associates that the Company has not been framework agreement is no longer required known as the Rules.
Neither Temasek nor able to identify and the requirements to in relation to continuing connected its associates are related parties for the enter into a xed-term written agreement transactions for the leasing of premises with purposes of IAS 24. and set a maximum aggregate annual value a Temasek associate.
in relation to the Ongoing Banking The Rules are intended to ensure that there Transactions with Temasek or any of its The Group has internal systems, processes is no favourable treatment to Temasek or its associates the Ongoing Banking and procedures in place to identify and associates as dened under the Rules as a Transactions Waivers.
The independent monitor the non-exempt connected and result of such shareholding to the detriment shareholders approved the Ongoing continuing connected transactions.
These of other shareholders in the Company.
Banking Transactions Waivers at the 2010 are reviewed and updated periodically and Unless transactions which the Company AGM for a period of three years until 7 May their adequacy and effectiveness is and its subsidiaries undertake with 2013. assessed by Group Internal Audit.
Temasek or its associates are specifically exempt under the Rules or are subject to a If none of the exemptions under the Hong In accordance with the Hong Kong Listing specic waiver, they may require a Kong Listing Rules or the waivers obtained Rules, each year the independent noncombination of announcements, reporting from The Stock Exchange of Hong Kong executive directors of the Company carry and independent shareholders approval.
Limited is applicable in relation to a out a review of the non-exempt continuing 128 Standard Chartered Annual Report 2010 www.
com Corporate governance Report of the directors Continuing connected transactions connected transactions.
On the basis of On 1 October 2010 the Group purchased The Group is requiredto include in this this review, the independent non-executive the remaining 25.1 per cent interest in Annual Report information regarding certain directors of the Company confirm that the Standard Chartered STCI Capital Markets transactions with Temasek.
continuing connected transactions have STCI for $18 million.
By virtue of this been entered into by members of the Group transaction STCI became a subsidiary of During the year ended 31 December 2010, with Temasek or its associates: the Group.
members of the Group have entered In the ordinary and usual course of into certain foreign exchange transactions On 13 October 2010, we announced a 1 for business of the Group with Temasek in the ordinary and 8 Rights Issue which resulted in a take up of usual course of business and on Either on normal commercial terms or, if 98.528 per cent of New Ordinary Shares normal commercial terms and with there are not sufficient comparable offered to Qualifying Shareholders on reference to prevailing market rates 7 November 2010. transactions to judge whether they are on as applicable or in accordance with normal commercial terms, on terms that the practice commonly adopted in the Between 31 October 2010 and 5 December are no less favourable to the Group than market where applicable which are 2010 the Group acquired the custody terms available to or from as appropriate not exempt under the Hong Kong Listing business of Barclays Bank PLC across independent third parties Rules.
These transactions are detailed in various locations in Africa.
The business In accordance with the relevant the table below.
agreement governing them on terms that are fair and reasonable and in the Year to 31 December 2010 interests of the shareholders of the Company as a whole Notional value of outstanding Fair value of Aggregate transactions outstanding For the purposes of Rule 14A.
38 of the notional value or principal transactions Hong Kong Listing Rules, our auditor principal amounts as at as at KPMG Audit Plc and its associated rms amounts during the 31 December 31 December Total number of year 2010 2010 transactions during together known as KPMG have performed Transaction Category $million $million $million the year certain agreed-upon procedures on the Foreign exchange 834 36 aforementioned continuing connected transactions for the year ended Rights Issue Underwriting Agreement 31 December 2010, in accordance with Compliance and regulatory matters On 13 October 2010, the Company entered International Federation of Accountants On 12 April 2010, the Group acquired into an Underwriting Agreement the Related Service 4400 Engagement to 100per cent of the consumer finance Agreement with J. P. Morgan Securities Ltd, Perform Agree-Upon Procedures business of GE Capital Hong Kong Regarding Financial Information.
Goldman Sachs International, UBS Limited Limited, a Hong Kong restricted licence and Standard Chartered Securities Hong banking company.
The Group purchased KPMG has reported its factual findings on Kong Limited the Joint Bookrunners.
On this interest for $144 million.
these procedures to the Board of directors 14 October 2010, Barclays Bank PLC, BNP and confirmed that for the year for those Paribas, Crdit Agricole Corporate and On 13 May 2010, the Company launched continuing connected transactions Investment Bank and Deutsche Bank AG, the first-ever Indian Depository Receipt selected: i they have received approval of London Branch signed deeds of adherence IDR offer.
the Board of directors: ii they have been to the Agreement.
Pursuant to the entered into in accordance with the pricing Agreement the Joint Bookrunners agreed On 30 June 2010, the Company announced policies of the Group and iii the Company to use reasonable endeavours to procure an investment of $500 million as a has received a waiver from The Stock acquirers for rights not taken up and the cornerstone investor in Agricultural Bank of Exchange of Hong Kong Limited from the underwriting banks agreed to underwrite China Limiteds H-share Initial Public requirements of entering into written the rights issue and take-up any remaining Offering IPO in Hong Kong.
agreements and setting annual caps under shares.
Rules 14A 35 1 and 2 in relation to On 2 August 2010, the Group acquired 100 Ongoing Bank Transactions with Temasek per cent of the consumer finance business and its associates.
of GE Commercial Financing Singapore Limited in Singapore.
The businesses were acquired for $70 million.
com Standard Chartered Annual Report 2010 129 Report of the directors Internal control The Risk review on pages 48 to 77 In consideration of the banks agreement to The effectiveness of our internal control describes the Groups risk management underwrite the rights issue, the Company system is reviewed regularly by the Board, structure.
Our business is conducted within agreed to pay to the banks a commission of its committees, the Group Management a developed control framework, 2.15 per cent on the aggregate value at the Committee, and Group Internal Audit.
underpinned by policy statements, written Issue Price of the total number of New The Audit Committee has reviewed the procedures and control manuals.
This Ordinary Shares, except that in relation to effectiveness of the Groups system of ensures that there are written policies and the number of New Ordinary Shares internal control during the year ended procedures to identify and manage risk, acquired by Temasek, the Company agreed 31December 2010 and reported on its including operational risk, country risk, to pay to the banks a commission of 1.50 review to the Board.
The Committees liquidity risk, regulatory risk, legal risk, per cent on the aggregate value at the Issue review was supported by an annual reputational risk, market risk and credit risk.
Price of the number of such New Ordinary business self-certication process, which The Board has established a management Shares and no commission would be was managed by Group Internal Audit.
structure that clearly defines roles, payable to the banks in relation to New responsibilities and reporting lines.
Ordinary Shares to which the directors are Group Internal Audit monitors compliance Delegated authorities are documented and entitled under the rights issue.
Such with policies and standards and the communicated.
Executive risk committees commission would be shared between the effectiveness of internal control structures regularly review the Groups risk prole.
The underwriting commissions were across the Group through its programme of determined in accordance with market business audits.
The work of Group Internal The performance of the Groups businesses rates.
Out of such underwriting Audit is focused on the areas of greatest is reported regularly to senior line commissions payable to the banks, the risk as determined by a risk-based management and the Board.
Performance banks paid sub-underwriting commissions.
trends and forecasts, as well as actual The Company also agreed to pay all costs performance against budgets and prior and expenses of, or in connection with, the Group Internal Audit reports regularly to the periods, are monitored closely.
Financial Rights Issue, the allotment and issue of the Audit Committee, the Chairman and to the information is prepared using appropriate New Ordinary Shares and the Underwriting Agreement.
The directors considered that Group Chief Executive.
The findings of all accounting policies, which are applied the terms of the Agreement were fair and adverse audits are reported to the Audit consistently.
Operational procedures and reasonable and that the Agreement was Committee, the Chairman and to the Group controls have been established to facilitate in the best interests of shareholders as Chief Executive where immediate corrective complete, accurate and timely processing a whole.
of transactions and the safeguarding of assets.
These controls include appropriate Conicts of interest With effect from 1 March 2010, as a result segregation of duties, the regular In accordance with the Companies Act of the internal governance review conducted reconciliation of accounts and the valuation 2006, we have established a robust in 2009, the Audit and Risk Committee was of assets and positions.
process requiring directors to disclose separated into two Committees.
proposed outside business interests before Employee policies and engagement any are entered into.
This enables prior The Board Risk Committee has We are committed to open, honest and assessment of any conict or potential responsibility for overseeing the productive relationships with our conict of interest and any impact on time management of the Companys employees.
They receive clear and timely commitment.
The Nomination Committee fundamental prudential risks as well as communications from senior management reviews actual or potential conicts of reviewing the effectiveness of the to ensure that they understand the financial interest, and recommendations on Companys risk management framework.
and economic factors that affect our authorisation are made to the Board.
The Audit Committee monitors the performance.
Authorisations are reviewed twice a year integrity of the Companys financial by the Nomination Committee to consider reporting, compliance and internal We employ more than 85,000 people from if they continue to be appropriate, and control environment.
As part also to revisit the terms upon which they of our approach to employee engagement, were provided.
130 Standard Chartered Annual Report 2010 www.
com Corporate governance Report of the directors Creditor payment policy supported by the Groups core values.
we operate Group share plans.
All Operating businesses are responsible for TheGroup code of conduct has been employees are invited to participate in our agreeing, and then bringing attention to, communicated to all directors and all-employee sharesave schemes and share terms and conditions with their suppliers in employees, all of whom are expected to in our success.
Further details of the the economies in which they operate.
Our observe high standards of integrity and fair sharesave schemes are given in the policy is to pay creditors in accordance with dealing in relation to customers, staff and Directors remuneration report on page 115 these agreed terms and conditions, regulators in the communities in which the and in note 38 to the financial statements.
provided the supplier has complied Group operates.
Our employment policies are designed to Environmental, social and governance accommodate the relevant social, statutory The Company is a holding company and responsibilities and market conditions and practices does not trade.
Therefore, it is not The Group complies with the guidelines prevailing in each country in which we considered meaningful to give a number issued by the Association of British Insurers operate.
We are committed to equality of ofdays purchases outstanding for the on responsible investment disclosure and is opportunities and diversity for all regardless Company as at 31 December 2010.
For our committed to the communities and of gender, race, age, physical ability, religion operation in the UK, there were 41 days environments in which it operates.
This applies equally to purchases outstanding as at 31 December Board is responsible for ensuring that high recruitment and to the promotion, 2010. standards of responsible business are development and training of people whom maintained and that an effective control we already employ.
Code for Financial Reporting Disclosure framework is in place.
We have established In September 2010, the British Bankers and maintained policies and procedures in We recognise our social and statutory duty Association nalised a Code for Financial relation to environmental, social and to employ disabled people and have Reporting Disclosure Code.
The Code sets governance ESG risks.
Details of these followed a policy in the UK by providing, out five disclosure principles together with procedures can be found on our website.
wherever possible, the same employment supporting guidance.
The principles are Through our risk management structure opportunities for disabled people as for that UK banks will: provide high quality, and control framework, the Board receives others.
If employees become disabled, meaningful and decision-useful disclosures: regular and adequate information to identify every effort is made to ensure their review and enhance their financial and assess significant risks and employment continues, with appropriate instrument disclosures for key areas of opportunities arising from ESG matters.
interest: assess the applicability and specifically, the Brand and Values relevance of good practice recommendations Committee, which is appointed by the We have measured employee engagement for the last ten years using the annual to their disclosures acknowledging the Board and comprises the Chairman of the employee engagement survey.
This annual importance of such guidance: seek to Board and Group Chief Executive, reviews employee engagement survey provides enhance the comparability of financial the Groups sustainable business priorities important feedback to managers and statement disclosures across the UK assuring the Group has policies in place to teams and internal research has banking sector: and clearly differentiate in respond to issues arising from environment demonstrated a strong relationship their annual reports between information and climate change, and oversees the between high engagement and increased that is audited and information that Groups development of and delivery business performance.
against public commitments regarding employees participated in the survey during which activities and or businesses it will and 2010 and this reects strong commitment The Group and other major UK banks have will not encourage in line with the Here for of our employees to voice their opinions adopted the Code in their 2010 financial good brand promise.
and demonstrate trust in the process.
The Groups 2010 financial statements have therefore been prepared in The Brand and Values Committee is Major customers compliance with the Codes principles.
informed by the Group Risk Committee and Our five largest customers together Group Head of Corporate Affairs, who is accounted for 3.6 per cent of our total Group code of conduct the risk control owner for reputational risk, interest income and other operating income The Board has adopted a refreshed Group including those associated with ESG in the year ended 31 December 2010. code of conduct relating to the lawful and matters.
At the country level, the Country ethical conduct of business and this is Head of Corporate Affairs is the risk control www.
com Standard Chartered Annual Report 2010 131 Report of the directors Community investment manner consistent with existing medical owner and the Risk Committee RC or, We are committed to building a sustainable cover.
We have exceeded our commitment where there is no RC, the Management business and a more sustainable society, to the Clinton Global Initiative to educate Committee is the governance oversight and recognise our responsibility to invest in one million people on HIV and AIDS.
All employees are responsible the communities in which we operate.
We have educated over 1.6 million people and for day-to-day identication and made a total investment of $47.4 million secured partnerships reaching 2.366 million management of reputational risk.
Quarterly 2009: $38.3 million to charities, people.
A copy of our HIV AIDS policy is reviews of risks and reporting are carried community organisations and causes available on our website.
out at country, regional and Group levels.
across our footprint during the year.
This Where a reputational risk is identied, the sum included direct financial support of Environment and climate change policy risk is escalated in accordance with clearly $19.4 million 2009: $20.3 million, and As part of our commitment to sustainability, documented internal reporting procedures.
indirect contributions, such as employees we take a long-term view of the time, the donation of non-monetary goods environmental and social consequences of Key areas of risk are those associated with and donations worth $23.4 million 2009: our actions, either directly from operations customers activities, potential impacts on $13.3 million raised by our employees.
In or indirectly through client and partner the environment and local communities.
order to further increase our transparency relationships.
Our Environment and Climate The Board recognises its responsibility to around this data, in 2010 we introduced an Change ECC Policy was developed in manage these risks and that failure to online data collection tool, along with some 2009 to support this commitment, and manage them adequately would have an standard charity on-boarding guidelines focuses on four central themes: adverse impact on our business.
These across all markets in order to collate risks are recognised in reaching lending Operational impacts minimising the quality-assured data about the types of decisions explicitly identied in our credit direct impact of our operations, initiatives we are involved in.
policies, and in the provision of advisory includingair travel, paper use, water and other financial services.
We have andenergy consumption Community investment activity focuses on developed a series of position statements a number of major programmes Seeing is Commercial opportunities and covering high-impact sectors and key Believing, Living with HIV, Nets for Life and Sustainable Finance managing issues, outlining the ESG standards we Goal Womens Empowerment as well as environmental and social risks, encourage our clients to observe.
We have adopted the revised Equator Principles that a range of local initiatives.
These are integrating climate change considerations set procedures, based on the International underpinned by employee volunteering into our products and services, and Finance Corporation guidelines, for activities.
Further details of community developing new business in renewable recognising and mitigating the projects can be found in the Business energy and environmental finance environmental and social impacts review on page 47.
Engagement ensuring that internal and associated with Project Finance and Project external stakeholders are fully engaged Advisory.
The principles have been HIV AIDS policy to embed our strategy embedded in the Groups policy and We are committed to addressing the social, procedures on Environmental And Social health and human rights issues that Reporting ensuring the continual Risk In Project And Export confront our employees, their families and efcacy of the ECC policy and strategy Finance Application Of The Equator the communities in which we operate.
We through providing delivery assurance Principles.
recognise that the principal competitive advantage of any business comes through Further details of our policies can be found We continue to review and, where its employees, but that this requires them to on our website.
appropriate, strengthen our money be healthy, skilled and motivated.
laundering prevention policies, procedures Electronic communication and training.
HIV AIDS directly and indirectly impacts our The Board recognises the importance of staff and, therefore, our business.
Our good communications with all The Board is not aware of any material HIV AIDS policy has been adopted across shareholders.
Our directors are in regular exceptions to its policies.
all the countries in which we operate and contact with our institutional shareholders applies to all staff and their families in a 132 Standard Chartered Annual Report 2010 www.
com Corporate governance Report of the directors of the auditors for non-audit services and and general presentations are made when the balance of audit and non-audit fees we announce our financial results.
Following a review of the AGM presents an opportunity to independence and effectiveness of our communicate with all shareholders.
Group statutory auditor, a resolution will be proposed at the 2011 AGM to reappoint Our shareholders are encouraged to KPMG Audit Plc.
Each director believes that receive our corporate documents there is no relevant information of which our electronically.
The annual and interim Group statutory auditor is unaware.
Each financial statements, notice of AGM and has taken all steps necessary as a director dividend circulars are all available to be aware of any relevant audit electronically.
If you do not already receive information and to establish that KPMG your corporate documents electronically Audit Plc is made aware of any pertinent and would like to do so in future please information.
contact our registrars at the address on page 243.
By order of the Board Shareholders are also able to vote electronically on the resolutions being put to the AGM through our registrars website at www.
com Annemarie Durbin Group Company Secretary Annual General Meeting 2 March 2011 Our AGM will be held at 12.00pm London time 7.00pm Hong Kong time on Thursday 5 May 2011 at The Honourable Artillery Company, Armoury House, City Road, London, EC1Y 2BQ.
Details of the business to be conducted are contained in the notice of meeting.
Auditor The Audit Committee reviews the appointment of the Group statutory auditor, its effectiveness and its relationship with the Group, which includes monitoring our use www.
com Standard Chartered Annual Report 2010 133 Statement of directors responsibilities Directors responsibility statement The directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Report and We confirm that to the best of our knowledge: the Group and Parent Company financial statements in accordance with applicable law and regulations.
The financial statements, prepared in accordance with the applicable set of accounting standards, give a true and fair view Company law requires the directors to prepare Group and Parent of the assets, liabilities, financial position and profit or loss of the Company financial statements for each financial year.
Under that Company and the undertakings included in the consolidation law they are required to prepare the group financial statements taken as a whole in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards The Report of the directors includes a fair review of the IFRS as adopted by the EU and applicable law and have development and performance of the business and the position elected to prepare the parent company financial statements of the issuer and the undertakings included in the consolidation on the same basis.
taken as a whole, together with a description of the principal risks and uncertainties that they face Under company law the directors must not approve the financial statements unless they are satisfied that they give a true and fair By order of the Board view of the state of affairs of the group and parent company and of their profit or loss for that period.
In preparing each of the Group and Parent Company financial statements, the directors are required to: Select suitable accounting policies and then apply themconsistently R H Meddings Group Finance Director Make judgments and estimates that are reasonable 2 March 2011 andprudent State whether they have been prepared in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the EU Prepare the financial statements on the going concern basis unless it is inappropriate to presume that the Group and the Parent Company will continue in business The directors are responsible for keeping adequate accounting records that are sufficient to show and explain the parent companys transactions and disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the financial position of the parent company and enable them to ensure that its financial statements comply with the Companies Act 2006.
They have general responsibility for taking such steps as are reasonably open to them to safeguard the assets of the Group and to prevent and detect fraud and otherirregularities.
Under applicable law and regulations, the directors are also responsible for preparing a Report of the directors, Directors remuneration report and Corporate governance statement that comply with that law and those regulations.
The directors are responsible for the maintenance and integrity of the corporate and financial information included on the companys website.
Legislation in the UK governing the preparation and dissemination of financial statements may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
134 Standard Chartered Annual Report 2010 www.
com Standard Chartered Annual Report 2010 135 136 S St ta an nd da ar rd d C Ch ha ar rte ter re ed A d An nn nu ua all R Re ep po or rt 2 t 20 01 10 0 w ww ww w.. standar standardchar dchartter ered ed.. c com om Financial statements and notes 138 Independent auditors report 139 Consolidated income statement 140 Consolidated statement of comprehensive income 141 Consolidated balance sheet 142 Consolidated statement of changes in equity 143 Cash ow statement 144 Company balance sheet 145 Company statement of changes in equity 146 Notes to the financial statements Supplementary information 224 Supplementary financial information 240 Shareholder information 242 Glossary 246 Major awards 2010 250 Index w ww ww w.. standar standardchar dchartter ered ed.. c com om Standard Chartered Annual Report 2010 137
