Corporate governance Senior management 12 34 Group Management Committee 3.
Tim Miller Tim joined Standard Chartered in 2000.
The Group Management Committee He is Director, Property, Research and as at 2 March 2011 comprises the Assurance and has responsibility for executive directors of Standard corporate real estate, compliance and Chartered PLC and the following regulatory risk, legal and global research.
senior executives: He also has functional responsibility for internal audit and the corporate secretariat.
Tracy Clarke 5 He was previously Group Head of Human Tracy joined Standard Chartered in Resources.
He is Chairman of Standard 1985.
She is Group Head of Human Chartered First Bank Korea Limited and Resources and Communications.
She Standard Chartered Korea Limited.
He has previously held the positions of is also a non-executive director of Michael Group Head of Corporate Affairs, Head Page International plc and chairman of the of the Group Chief Executives Ofce and Governing Body of the School of Oriental and other banking roles in the UK and Hong African Studies.
She is a non-executive director of eaga plc.
V Shankar Joined Standard Chartered in 2001.
Richard Goulding is CEO, Europe, Middle East, Africa and Joined Standard Chartered in 2002.
Americas and Chairman of The Standard Richard is Group Chief Risk officer.
He has previously was previously the Chief Operating officer held the position of Group Head, Origination of Wholesale Banking.
Prior to joining the and Client Coverage and Group Head, Group he was chief operating officer of Corporate Finance.
He is a member of the Old Mutual Group Financial Services and board of the Inland Revenue Authority of before that was a member of the global Singapore and a member of the National executive board of UBS investment Integration Council and the board of banking division.
Age 51. trustees of Sinda, Singapore.
Jan Verplancke Jan joined Standard Chartered in 2004.
He is Chief Information officer and Group Head of Technology and Operations and is responsible for all systems development, technology support and banking operations.
He is a non-executive director of Scope International Private Limited and Standard Chartered Bank China Limited, and a non-executive director of Monitise Plc.
Prior to joining the Group he was chief information officer EMEA at Dell.
com Standard Chartered Annual Report 2010 87
