Risk review Managing risk responsibly Standard Chartered has a diversied portfolio.
We have a robust risk governance structure and an experienced risk team.
Our balance sheet and liquidity remain strong Risk prole Principal uncertainties Deteriorating macroeconomic conditions Diversied portfolio infootprintcountries No individual market accounts for more than 20 per cent of our loans and advances to customers or operating income Changes in regulations and laws Our exposure to asset backed securities ABS, commercial Financial markets dislocation real estate, and leveraged loans is non-material from a Geopolitical events Group perspective, and we have low exposure to sovereigns and banks in Portugal, Italy, Ireland, Greece Fraud and Spain Exchange rate movements More than 75 per cent of Consumer Banking assets are secured and more than 65 per cent of Wholesale Banking loans and advances are short-term Strong liquidity position We have a strong advances-to-deposits ratio We remain a net provider of liquidity to interbank markets Our customer deposit base is diversied by type andmaturity We have a substantial portfolio of liquid assets that can be realised if a liquidity stress occurs Robust risk governance structure andexperienced senior team We have a clear statement of risk appetite that is approved by the Board and sets the risk parameters within which our businesses operate We have a very experienced senior risk team and our risk committees are staffed by the Groups most senior leaders We have a robust risk management framework that assigns accountability and responsibility for the management and control of risk 48 Standard Chartered Annual Report 2010 www.
com Business review Risk review The following parts of the Risk Review less than half the 2009 charge.
The loans and to asset backed securities ABS form part of the audited financial improvement in impairment was also each account for approximately 0.5 per statements: from the start of the Risk supported by a disciplined approach to cent of our total assets.
management section on page 52 to the risk management, pre-emptive actions end of the Operational risk section on taken to reduce the risk in certain parts Market risk is tightly monitored using page 77, with the exception of the Asset of the portfolio and continued investment Valueat Risk VaR methodologies backed securities section on page 69. in collections infrastructure to minimise complemented by sensitivity measures, account delinquency.
While there was gross nominal limits and management Risk overview improvement across all our markets and action triggers at a detailed portfolio level.
2010 has seen an upturn in the global products, Taiwan, India and the UAE, in This is supplemented with extensive stress economy but the pace of recovery has particular, signicantly reduced their testing, which takes account of more been uneven.
Growth in our footprint impairment provision charges.
markets has been buoyant and although there has been a slowdown in the second In Wholesale Banking there was a Our liquidity in 2010 benefited from half of the year, Asia, Africa and the Middle substantial reduction in the level of continued good inows of customer East are still strongly outperforming provisions in 2010 after the increase deposits, which helped us to maintain a the West.
Liquidity indicators trended positively throughout will continue to be deployed to support Our proactive approach to risk the year in the Wholesale Banking book, growth opportunities in our chosen management enabled us to take steps early reecting the improved credit environment markets.
We manage multi-currency on in the global financial crisis of 2008-09 in our footprint.
However a number of liquidity in each of our geographical to reshape our portfolios and tighten provisions were taken against corporate locations, ensuring that we can meet all underwriting standards, which helped to customers in a range of industries in the short-term funding requirements and that mitigate the impact of market turbulence on Middle East and Korea.
our balance sheet remains structurally our performance.
We are a net provider of liquidity to maintained our cautious stance but have Total average VaR declined in 2010 the interbank money markets.
selectively increased our exposures in compared with 2009.
This decline was certain markets to capitalise on improved primarily due to lower non-trading book We have a well-established risk governance market conditions.
Our balance sheet and VaR, and reected a decrease in the structure and an experienced senior team.
liquidity have remained strong throughout Members of our Group Management volatility of credit spreads that had the year, and we are well positioned Committee sit on our principal risk increased sharply after the collapse of for 2011. committees, which ensure that risk Lehman Brothers in September 2008. oversight is a critical focus for all our Standard Chartered has a dened risk directors, while common membership appetite, approved by the Board, which is between these committees helps us an expression of the amount of risk we are address the inter-relationships between prepared to take and plays a central role in risk types.
the development of our strategic plans and policy.
We also regularly conduct stress In March 2010, the Audit and Risk tests to ensure that we are operating within Committee was split into a Board Risk our approved risk appetite.
Committee BRC and Audit Committee, to align with the recommendations of the Our lending portfolio is diversied across Walker Review.
Also as of March 2010, the awide range of products, industries and Group Chief Risk officer GCRO reports to customer segments, which serves to the Group Finance Director and to the BRC.
We operate in 71markets and there is no single market that accounts for Since 1 January 2008, Standard Chartered more than 20 per cent of loans and has used the advanced Internal Ratings advances to customers, or operating Based IRB approach under the Basel II income.
Our cross-border asset exposure regulatory framework to calculate credit risk is diversied and reects our strategic focus capital.
The UKs Financial Services on our core markets and customer Authority FSA has granted Standard segments.
Approximately 50 per cent of our Chartered CAD2 internal model approval loans and advances to customers are of covering the majority of interest rate and short maturity, and within Wholesale foreign exchange risk as well as market risk Banking more than 65 per cent of loans arising from precious and base metals, and advances have a tenor of one year or energy and agricultural trading.
More than 75 per cent of Consumer outside the CAD2 scope are assessed Banking assets are secured.
according to standard FSA rules.
We also have low exposure to asset classes Risk performance review and segments outside of our core markets During 2010, credit conditions continued and target customer base.
Both businesses saw Portugal, Italy, Ireland, Greece and Spain is signicantreductions in total impairment less than 0.5 per cent of our total assets, provisions compared with 2009 as and our exposure to sovereign debt in macroeconomic conditions strengthened these countries is negligible.
Our commercial real estate exposure In Consumer Banking the total loan accounts for less than two per cent of our impairment in 2010, as a percentage of total assets.
Our exposure to leveraged loans and advances to customers, was www.
com Standard Chartered Annual Report 2010 49 Risk review Risk Description Mitigants Deteriorating macroeconomic conditions We balance risk and return taking account of Deteriorating can have an impact on our performance changing conditions through the economic cycle macroeconomic via their influence on personal expenditure We monitor economic trends in our markets very and consumption patterns: demand for conditions in closely and continuously review the suitability of our business products and services: the debt risk policies and controls footprint countries service burden of consumers and businesses: the general availability of credit for retail and corporate borrowers: and the availability of capital and liquidity funding for our business Changes in The nature and impact of future changes in We keep a close watch on key regulatory economic policies, laws and regulations developments in order to anticipate changes and regulations are not predictable and may run counter to their potential impact on our performance and laws our strategic interests.
These changes Both unilaterally and through our participation in could also affect the volatility and liquidity industry forums, we respond to consultation papers of financial markets, and more generally and discussions initiated by regulators and the way we conduct business and manage governments.
The focus of these is to develop the capital and liquidity framework for a stable and sustainable financial sector and global economy Financial Financial market volatility or a sudden We assess carefully the performance of our financial dislocation could affect our performance, institution counterparties, rate them internally markets through its impact on the mark-to-market according to their systemic importance, adjusting dislocation valuations of assets in our available-for-sale our exposure accordingly and trading portfolios or the availability of We maintain robust suitability and appropriateness capital or liquidity processes Financial market instability also increasesthe likelihood of default by ourcorporate customers and financial institution counterparties Geopolitical We face a risk that geopolitical tensions We actively monitor the political situation in all of our orconict in our footprint could impact principal markets, and conduct regular stress tests of events trade ows, our customers ability to pay, the impact of such events on our portfolios, which and our ability to manage capital inform assessments of risk appetite and any need to acrossborders take mitigating action Fraud The risk of fraud and other criminal We have a broad range of measures in place activities is growing as criminals become to monitor and mitigate this risk more sophisticated and as they take Controls are embedded in our policies advantage of the increasing use of and procedures across a wide range of technology in society the Groups activities such as origination, recruitment, physical and information security Exchange rate Changes in exchange rates affect the value We actively monitor exchange rate movements and of our assets and liabilities denominated in adjust our exposure accordingly movements foreign currencies, as well as the earnings Under certain circumstances, we may take the reported by our non-US dollar decision to hedge our foreign exchange exposures in denominated branches and subsidiaries order to protect our capital ratios from the effects of Sharp currency movements can also changes in exchange rates impact trade ows and the wealth of clients, both of which could have an impact on our performance 50 Standard Chartered Annual Report 2010 www.
com Business review Risk review Regulatory changes and compliance when this review and these discussions will Principal uncertainties Our business as an international bank is be completed or what the outcome will be.
We are in the business of taking selected subject to a complex regulatory framework risks to generate shareholder value, and we comprising legislation, regulation and codes On 29 February 2008, the Group seek to contain and mitigate these risks to of practice, in each of the countries in which completed the acquisition of American ensure they remain within our risk appetite we operate.
Prior to the and are adequately compensated.
However, acquisition, subsidiaries of AEB located in risks are by their nature uncertain and the A key uncertainty relates to the way in New York and Miami had entered management of risk relies on judgments which governments and regulators adjust separately into a Written Agreement with and predictions about the future.
laws and regulations and economic policies the New York State Banking Department in response to macroeconomic and other and a Cease and Desist Order with the The key uncertainties we face in the coming systemic conditions.
The financial crisis has Federal Reserve Bank of Atlanta to address year are set out below.
This should not be spurred unprecedented levels of proposals deficiencies relating to compliance with regarded as a complete and comprehensive to change the regulations governing applicable federal and state laws and statement of all potential risks and financial institutions and further changes to regulations governing anti-money uncertainties that we may experience.
regulations remain under consideration in laundering.
All the requirements of the many jurisdictions.
Cease and Desist Order have been satisfied Deteriorating macroeconomic in the first half of 2010 and we are now in conditions in footprint countries The nature and impact of future changes in full compliance.
Macroeconomic conditions have an impact laws, regulations and economic policies are on personal expenditure and consumption, not predictable and could run counter to Financial markets dislocation demand for business products and our strategic interests.
We support changes There is a risk that a sudden financial services, the debt service burden of to laws, regulations or codes of practice market dislocation, perhaps as a result of consumers and businesses, the general that will improve the overall stability of the a sharp slowdown in economic activity or availability of credit for retail and corporate financial system.
However, we also have debt crisis in the West, could signicantly borrowers and the availability of capital and concerns that certain proposals may not increase general financial market volatility liquidity funding for our business.
All these achieve this desired objective and may have which could affect our performance or factors may impact our performance.
unintended consequences, either the availability of capital or liquidity.
individually or in terms of aggregate impact.
These factors may have an impact on the During 2010, the world economy continued Proposed changes could affect the volatility mark-to-market valuations of assets in our to emerge from the crisis, but the pace of and liquidity of the financial markets and, available-for-sale and trading portfolios.
recovery diverged signicantly between East and West.
Accelerated scal consequently, the way we conduct The potential losses incurred by certain retrenchment in Europe, combined with the business and manage capital and liquidity.
customers holding derivative contracts risk aversion created by recent volatility in These effects may directly or indirectly during periods of financial market volatility the Euro area, mean the possibility of a impact our financial performance.
could also lead to an increase in customer return to negative growth is still a significant disputes and corporate defaults.
risk in some economies in the West.
We Both unilaterally and through our operate primarily in the countries that have participation in industry forums, we respond At the same time, financial market instability led the global recovery in 2010, and our to consultation papers and discussions could cause some financial institution major markets in Asia, Africa and the Middle initiated by regulators and governments.
We counterparties to experience tighter liquidity East appear well positioned to grow also keep a close watch on key regulatory conditions or even fail.
Government action strongly, albeit at a slower pace than in developments in order to anticipate since the global financial crisis of 2010.
Our exposure to leveraged loans and changes and their potential impact.
A 2008-2009 has reduced the systemic risk, European sovereign debt is very low.
number of changes have been proposed but the impact on the financial services However, we remain alert to the risk of under Basel III but significant uncertainty industry of ongoing uncertainty in the secondary impacts from events in the West remains around the specic application and broader economic environment means that on financial institutions, other counterparties the combined impact of these proposals.
We have a commitment to maintaining We maintain robust appropriateness and Commodity price-driven ination is a strong relationships with governments and suitability processes to mitigate the risk of growing concern in a number of our regulators in the countries in which we customer disputes.
We closely monitor the footprint markets, as are rising asset prices operate.
At any time the Group may be in performance of our financial institution caused by rising capital inows.
We expect discussion with a range of authorities and counterparties and adjust our exposure to further monetary tightening and the use of regulatory bodies in different countries on these counterparties as necessary.
other macro-prudential measures and matters that relate to its past or current selective capital controls, especially in Asia business activities.
We operate in a large number of markets The UK government has established the around the world, and our performance is While we believe them to be less likely, Independent Commission on Banking to inpart reliant on the openness of other risks we are monitoring include a consider structural and non-structural cross-border trade and capital ows.
We sharp slowdown or another debt crisis in reforms to the UK banking sector to face arisk that geopolitical tensions or the West, triggered by a surge in oil prices promote financial stability and competition.
conict inour footprint could impact trade or policy mistakes such as premature The Commission is set to publish its final ows, our customers ability to pay, and our tightening, regulatory over-reaction or recommendations in September 2011. abilityto manage capital or operations tradeprotectionism.
The Commissions conclusions may have across borders.
We balance risk and return taking account We actively monitor the political situation of changing conditions through the As reported previously, the Group is in all our principal markets, such as the economic cycle, and monitor economic conducting a review of its historical US recent upheaval in the Middle East and trends in our markets very closely.
We also sanctions compliance and is discussing North Africa.
We conduct stress tests continuously review the suitability of our risk that review with US enforcement agencies of the impact of extreme but plausible policies and controls.
The Group cannot predict geopolitical events on our performance www.
com Standard Chartered Annual Report 2010 51 Risk review oversight and review of prudential risks and the potential for such events to As a result of our normal business including credit, market, capital and liquidity jeopardise our ability to operate within operations, Standard Chartered is exposed and operational.
It reviews the Groups our stated risk appetite.
to a broader range of risks than those overall risk appetite and makes principal uncertainties mentioned above, recommendations thereon to the Board.
Its Fraud and our approach to managing risk is responsibilities also include reviewing the The banking industry has long been a detailed on the following pages.
appropriateness and effectiveness of the target for third parties seeking to defraud, Groups risk management systems and disrupt legitimate economic activity, or Risk management controls, considering the implications of facilitate other illegal activities.
The risk The management of risk lies at the heart of material regulatory change proposals, posed by such criminal activity is growing Standard Chartereds business.
One of the ensuring effective due diligence on material as criminals become more sophisticated main risks we incur arises from extending acquisitions and disposals, and monitoring and as they take advantage of the credit to customers through our trading and the activities of the Group Risk Committee increasing use of technology in society.
Beyond credit risk, we GRC and Group Asset and Liability are also exposed to a range of other risk Committee GALCO.
We seek to be vigilant to the risk of internal types such as country cross-border, and external crime in our management of market, liquidity, operational, pension, The BRC receives regular reports on risk people, processes, systems and in our reputational and other risks that are management, including our portfolio trends, dealings with customers and other inherent to our strategy, product range and policies and standards, stress testing, stakeholders.
We have a broad range of geographical coverage.
liquidity and capital adequacy, and is measures in place to monitor and mitigate authorised to investigate or seek any this risk.
Controls are embedded in our Risk management framework information relating to an activity within its policies and procedures across a wide Effective risk management is fundamental terms of reference.
range of the Groups activities, such as to being able to generate profits origination, recruitment, physical and consistently and sustainably and is thus a Overall accountability for risk management information security.
central part of the financial and operational is held by the Standard Chartered Bank management of the Group.
Court the Court which comprises the Exchange rate movements group executive directors and other senior Changes in exchange rates affect, among Through our risk management framework executives of Standard Chartered Bank.
other things, the value of our assets and we manage enterprise-wide risks, with the liabilities denominated in foreign currencies, objective of maximising risk-adjusted returns as well as the earnings reported by our The Court delegates authority for the while remaining within our risk appetite.
non-US dollar denominated branches and management of risk to several committees.
Sharp currency movements As part of this framework, we use a set of can also impact trade ows and the wealth principles that describe the risk The GRC is responsible for the of clients both of which could have an management culture we wish to sustain: management of all risks other than impact on our performance.
those delegated by the Court to the Balancing risk and return: risk is taken in GALCO and the Group Pensions Executive support of the requirements of our We monitor exchange rate movements Committee PEC.
The GRC is responsible stakeholders, in line with our strategy and closely and adjust our exposures for the establishment of, and compliance within our risk appetite accordingly.
Under certain circumstances, with, policies relating to credit risk, we may take the decision to hedge our Responsibility: it is the responsibility of all countrycross-border risk, market risk, foreign exchange exposures in order to employees to ensure that risk-taking is operational risk, and reputational risk.
protect our capital ratios from the effects of disciplined and focused.
We take TheGRC also defines our overall risk changes in exchange rates.
The effect of account of our social responsibilities and management framework.
exchange rate movements on the capital our commitments to customers in taking adequacy ratio is mitigated to the extent risk to produce a return The GALCO is responsible for the there are proportionate movements in risk management of capital and the Accountability: risk is taken only within weighted assets.
establishment of, and compliance with, agreed authorities and where there is policies relating to balance sheet appropriate infrastructure and resource.
The table below sets out the period end management, including management of our All risk-taking must be transparent, and average currency exchange rates per liquidity, capital adequacy and structural controlled and reported US dollar for India, Korea and Singapore for foreign exchange and interest rate risk.
the periods ending 31 December 2010 and Anticipation: We seek to anticipate 31 December 2009. futurerisks and ensure awareness of all The PEC is responsible for the management known risks of pension risk.
2010 2009 Indian rupee Competitive advantage: We seek to Members of the Court are also members achieve competitive advantage through Average 45.72 48.35 ofboth the GRC and GALCO.
The GRC is efficient and effective risk management Period end 44.68 46.54 chaired by the GCRO.
The GALCO is and control Korean won chaired by the Group Finance Director.
Average 1,156.34 1,276.62 Risk governance Risk limits and risk exposure approval Period end 1,134.61 1,164.47 Ultimate responsibility for setting our risk authority frameworks are set by the GRC in Singapore dollar appetite and for the effective management respect of credit risk, country cross-border Average 1.36 1.45 of risk rests with the Board.
The GALCO sets the Period end 1.28 1.40 approval authority framework in respect of Acting within an authority delegated by liquidity risk.
Risk approval authorities may the Board, the BRC, whose membership be exercised by risk committees or is comprised exclusively of non-executive authorised individuals.
directors of the Group, has responsibility for 52 Standard Chartered Annual Report 2010 www.
com Business review Risk review 1 Group risk committee structure Standard Chartered PLC Board Standard Chartered Bank Court Board Committees Group Pensions Group Asset Liability Committee Group Risk Committee Executive Committee Liquidity Management Consumer Banking Wholesale Banking Committee Risk Committee Risk Committee Capital Management Group Market Group Credit Committee Committee Risk Committee Tax Management Group Operational Other Risk Committees Committee Risk Committee 1 More information on Board committees can be found under Corporate governance on page 95. risk types are described individually in To uphold the overall integrity of the The committee governance structure following sections.
Groups risk return decisions, and in ensures that risk-taking authority and risk particular for ensuring that risks are management policies are cascaded down The third line of defence is the independent properly assessed, that risk return from the Board through to the appropriate assurance provided by the Group Internal decisions are made transparently on the functional, divisional and country-level Audit GIA function.
Its role is dened and basis of this proper assessment, and are committees.
Information regarding material overseen by the Audit Committee.
controlled in accordance with the risk issues and compliance with policies Groups standards and standards is communicated to the The findings from GIAs audits are reported country, business, functional committees To exercise direct Risk Control to all relevant management and governance and Group-level committees.
Ownership for Credit, Market, Country bodies, accountable line managers, Cross-Border, Short-term Liquidity and relevant oversight function or committee Roles and responsibilities for risk Operational risk types and committees of the Board.
management are dened under a Three Lines of Defence model.
Each line The Group appoints Chief Risk Ofcers GIA provides independent assurance of the of defence describes a specic set of CROs for its two business divisions and effectiveness of managements control of responsibilities for risk management principal countries and regions.
CROs at all its own business activities the first line and and control.
levels of the organisation full the same role of the processes maintained by the Risk as the GCRO, in respect of the business, Control Functions the second line.
As a The first line of defence is that all employees geography or legal entity for which they are result, GIA provides assurance that the are required to ensure the effective responsible.
The roles of CROs are aligned overall system of control effectiveness is management of risks within the scope of at each level.
working as required within the Risk their direct organisational responsibilities.
Business, function and geographic The Risk function is independent of the governance heads are accountable for risk origination, trading and sales functions to The Risk function management in their respective businesses ensure that the necessary balance in risk The GCRO directly manages a Risk and functions and for countries where they return decisions is not compromised by function that is separate from the have governance responsibilities.
short-term pressures to generate revenues.
origination, trading and sales functions of This is particularly important given that the businesses.
The GCRO also chairs the The second line of defence comprises the the significant majority of revenues are GRC and is a member of the Group Risk Control Owners, supported by their recognised immediately while losses Management Committee.
Risk Control arising from risk positions only manifest Owners are responsible for ensuring that themselves over time.
the risks within the scope of their The role of the Risk function is: responsibilities remain within appetite.
The To maintain the Risk Management In addition, the Risk function is a scope of a Risk Control Owners Framework, ensuring it remains centre of excellence that provides responsibilities is dened by a given Risk appropriate to the Groups activities, specialist capabilities of relevance to Type and the risk management processes is effectively communicated and risk management processes in the that relate to that Risk Type.
These implemented across the Group and wider organisation.
responsibilities cut across the Group and for administering related governance are not constrained by functional, business and reporting processes and geographic boundaries.
com Standard Chartered Annual Report 2010 53 Risk review Effective risk management is fundamental to being able togenerate profits consistently and sustainably and is thus acentralpart of the financial and operational management oftheGroup.
potential border conicts are co-ordinated Risk policy framework Stress testing by the Stress Testing Committee to ensure Stress testing and scenario analysis are used to assess the financial and consistency of impacts on different risk Risk types e. g. Credit, Market, Operational, management capability of Standard types or countries.
Stress tests for country Liquidity and Reputational Chartered to continue operating effectively or risk type are also performed.
Examples under extreme but plausible trading of risk type stress testing are covered in the conditions.
Such conditions may arise from section on Market risk.
Global Policies and Procedures economic, legal, political, environmental and social factors.
Credit risk Credit risk is the potential for loss due to the Wholesale and Consumer Banking Our stress testing framework is failure of a counterparty to meet its Policies and Procedures designed to: obligations to pay the Group in accordance with agreed terms.
Credit exposures may Contribute to the setting and monitoring arise from both the banking and Countries of risk appetite Local Policy Addenda and Procedures trading books.
Identify key risks to our strategy, financial position and reputation Credit risk is managed through a framework that sets out policies and procedures Risk appetite Examine the nature and dynamics of the covering the measurement and We manage our risks to build a sustainable risk prole and assess the impact of management of credit risk.
There is a clear franchise in the interests of all our stresses on our profitability and segregation of duties between transaction stakeholders.
business plans originators in the businesses and approvers Ensure effective governance, processes in the Risk function.
All credit exposure Risk appetite is an expression of the and systems are in place to co-ordinate limits are approved within a dened credit amount of risk we are willing to take in and integrate stress testing approval authority framework.
pursuit of our strategic objectives, reecting our capacity to sustain losses and continue Inform senior management Credit policies to meet our obligations arising from a range Ensure adherence to regulatory Group-wide credit policies and standards of different stress trading conditions.
requirements are considered and approved by the GRC, which also oversees the delegation of We define our risk appetite in terms of both A Stress Testing Committee, led by the Risk credit approval and loan impairment volatility of earnings and the maintenance of function with participation from the provisioning authorities.
minimum regulatory capital requirements businesses, Group Finance, Global Research under stress scenarios.
We also define a and Group Treasury, aims to ensure that the Policies and procedures specic to each risk appetite with respect to liquidity risk earnings and capital implications of specic business are established by authorised risk and reputational risk.
stress scenarios are fully understood.
The committees within Wholesale and Stress Testing Committee generates and Consumer Banking.
These are consistent Our quantitative risk prole is assessed considers pertinent and plausible scenarios with our Group-wide credit policies, but through a bottom-up analytical approach that have the potential to adversely affect aremore detailed and adapted to reect covering all of our major businesses, our business.
thedifferent risk environments and countries and products.
approved by the Board and forms the basis Our stress testing activity in 2010 focused on for establishing the risk parameters within specic asset classes, customer segments Credit rating and measurement which the businesses must operate, and the potential impact of macroeconomic Risk measurement plays a central role, including policies, concentration limits and factors.
Stress tests have taken into along with judgment and experience, in business mix.
consideration possible future scenarios that informing risk taking and portfolio could arise as a result of the development of management decisions.
It is a primary area The GRC and GALCO are responsible for prevailing market conditions.
for sustained investment and senior ensuring that our risk prole is managed in management attention.
compliance with the risk appetite set by Stress testing themes such as currency theBoard.
market disruptions, ination, US dollar For IRB portfolios, a standard alphanumeric depreciation, declines in asset values or credit risk grade CG system is used in both Wholesale and Consumer Banking.
54 Standard Chartered Annual Report 2010 www.
com Assurance Business review Risk review Concentration risk independently by the Risk function.
The grading is based on our internal Credit concentration risk is managed within Charged-off accounts are managed by estimate of probability of default over a concentration caps set by counterparty or specialist recovery teams.
In some one-year horizon, with customers or groups of connected counterparties, by countries, aspects of collections and portfolios assessed against a range of country and industry in Wholesale Banking, recovery functions are outsourced.
The and tracked by product and country in numeric grades run from 1 to 14 and some Consumer Banking.
Additional targets are The small and medium-sized enterprise of the grades are further sub-classied A, B set and monitored for concentrations by SME business is managed within or C. Lower credit grades are indicative of a credit rating.
Consumer Banking in two distinct customer lower likelihood of default.
Credit grades 1A sub-segments: small businesses and to 12C are assigned to performing Credit concentrations are monitored by the medium enterprises, differentiated by the customers or accounts, while credit grades responsible risk committees in each of the annual turnover of the counterparty.
The 13 and 14 are assigned to non-performing businesses and concentration limits that are credit processes are further rened based or defaulted customers.
material to the Group are reviewed and on exposure at risk.
Larger exposures are approved at least annually by the GCC.
managed through the Discretionary Our credit grades in Wholesale Banking are Lending approach, in line with Wholesale not intended to replicate external credit Credit monitoring Banking procedures, and smaller grades, and ratings assigned by external We regularly monitor credit exposures, exposures are managed through ratings agencies are not used in determining portfolio performance and external trends Programmed Lending, in line with our internal credit grades.
Nonetheless, as that may impact risk management Consumer Banking procedures.
the factors used to grade a borrower may outcomes.
Discretionary Lending and private banking be similar, a borrower rated poorly by an past due accounts are managed by GSAM.
external rating agency is typically assigned Internal risk management reports are a worse internal credit grade.
presented to risk committees, containing Credit mitigation information on key environmental, political Potential credit losses from any given Advanced IRB models cover a substantial and economic trends across major account, customer or portfolio are mitigated majority of our exposures and are used portfolios and countries: portfolio using a range of tools such as collateral, extensively in assessing risks at a customer delinquency and loan impairment netting agreements, credit insurance, credit and portfolio level, setting strategy and performance: and IRB portfolio metrics derivatives and other guarantees.
The optimising our risk-return decisions.
reliance that can be placed on these mitigants is carefully assessed in light of IRB risk measurement models are approved by the responsible risk The Wholesale Banking Credit Issues issues such as legal certainty and committee, on the recommendation of the Forum WBCIF is a sub-committee of the enforceability, market valuation correlation Group Model Assessment Committee Wholesale Banking Risk Committee, which and counterparty risk of the guarantor.
The MAC supports risk committees in turn is a sub-committee of and derives its in ensuring risk identication and authority from the GRC.
The WBCIF meets Risk mitigation policies determine the measurement capabilities are objective and regularly to assess the impact of external eligibility of collateral types.
Collateral types consistent, so that risk control and risk events and trends on the Wholesale that are eligible for risk mitigation include: origination decisions are properly informed.
Banking credit risk portfolio and to define cash: residential, commercial and industrial Prior to review by the MAC, all IRB models and implement our response in terms of property: xed assets such as motor are validated in detail by a model validation appropriate changes to portfolio shape, vehicles, aircraft, plant and machinery: team, which is separate from the teams that portfolio and underwriting standards, risk marketable securities: commodities: bank develop and maintain the models.
guarantees: and letters of credit.
Standard undergo a detailed annual review.
Reviews Chartered also enters into collateralised are also triggered if the performance of a Corporate accounts or portfolios are placed reverse repurchase agreements.
model deteriorates materially against on early alert when they display signs of predetermined thresholds during the weakness or financial deterioration, for Collateral is valued in accordance with our ongoing model performance monitoring example, where there is a decline in the risk mitigation policy, which prescribes the process.
customers position within the industry, a frequency of valuation for different collateral breach of covenants, non-performance of types, based on the level of price volatility of Credit approval an obligation, or there are issues relating to each type of collateral and the nature of the Major credit exposures to individual ownership or management.
underlying product or risk exposure.
counterparties, groups of connected Collateral held against impaired loans is counterparties and portfolios of retail Such accounts and portfolios are subjected maintained at fair value.
exposures are reviewed and approved by to a dedicated process overseen by Early the Group Credit Committee GCC.
The Alert Committees in each country.
Account Where appropriate, credit derivatives are GCC derives its authority from the GRC.
plans are re-evaluated and remedial actions used to reduce credit risks in the portfolio.
Remedial Due to their potential impact on income All other credit approval authorities are actions include, but are not limited to, volatility, such derivatives are used in a delegated by the GRC to individuals based exposure reduction, security enhancement, controlled manner with reference to their both on their judgment and experience and exiting the account or immediate movement expected volatility.
a risk-adjusted scale that takes account of of the account into the control of Group the estimated maximum potential loss from Special Assets Management GSAM, our Traded products a given customer or portfolio.
Credit risk from traded products is managed origination and approval roles are within the overall credit risk appetite for segregated in all but a very few authorised In Consumer Banking, portfolio delinquency corporates and financial institutions.
In those very few exceptions where trends are monitored continuously at a they are not, originators can only approve detailed level.
Individual customer behaviour The credit risk exposure from traded limited exposures within dened risk is also tracked and is considered for lending products is derived from the positive parameters.
Accounts that are past due are mark-to-market value of the underlying subject to a collections process, managed instruments and an additional component to cater for potential market movements.
com Standard Chartered Annual Report 2010 55 Risk review The Groups exposure to credit risk is 2010 2009 For derivative contracts, we limit our $million $million spread across our markets, in particular exposure to credit losses in the event of Financial assets Hong Kong, Korea, Singapore, Other Asia default by entering into master netting held at fair value Pacic region, and Americas, UK and agreements with certain counterparties.
As through profit or Europe.
The Group is affected by the required by IAS 32, exposures are not 1 loss 25,267 21,229 general economic conditions in the presented net in the financial statements.
Derivative financial territories in which it operates.
The Group In addition, we enter into Credit Support instruments 47,859 38,193 sets limits on the exposure to any Annexes CSAs with counterparties where Loans and counterparty and credit risk is spread over collateral is deemed a necessary or advances to banks a variety of different personal and desirable mitigant to the exposure.
Under a and customers 292,416 249,177 commercial customers.
variation margin process, additional Investment collateral is called from the counterparty if 1 The Group has transferred to third parties securities 73,279 74,079 total uncollateralised mark-to-market by way of securitisation the rights to any exposure exceeds the threshold and Contingent liabilities 41,804 38,658 collections of principal and interest on minimum transfer amount specified in the Undrawn customer loan assets with a face value CSA.
With certain counterparties, the CSA irrevocable standby of$3,072 million 2009: $3,601 million.
is bilateral and requires us to post collateral facilities, credit lines TheGroup continues to be exposed to if the overall mark-to-market value of and other related credit and foreign exchange risk positions is in the counterpartys favour and commitments onthese assets.
The Group continues exceeds an agreed threshold.
to lend 45,624 41,345 torecognise these assets in addition 526,249 462,681 totheproceeds and related liability of 1 $2,385 million 2009: $3,063 million Securities Excludes equity shares arisingfrom the securitisations.
Within Wholesale Banking, the Underwriting Committee approves the portfolio limits and The Group has entered into synthetic credit parameters by business unit for the default swaps for portfolio management underwriting and purchase of all prepurposes, referencing loan assets with a dened securities assets to be held for sale.
notional value of $18.7 billion 2009: The Underwriting Committee is established under the authority of the GRC.
The Group continues to hold Banking operates within set limits, which the underlying assets referenced in the include country, single issuer, holding synthetic credit default swaps.
period and credit grade limits.
In respect of derivative financial Day-to-day credit risk management instruments, $26,789 million 2009: activities for traded securities are carried $30,539 million is available for offset as a out by Traded Credit Risk Management, result of master netting agreements that do whose activities include oversight and not, however, meet the criteria under IAS 32 approval of temporary excesses within to enable these balances to be presented the levels delegated by the Underwriting on a net basis in the financial statements as Committee.
Issuer credit risk, including in the ordinary course of business they are settlement and pre-settlement risk, is not intended to be settled net.
controlled by Wholesale Banking Risk, while price risk is controlled by Group Collateral is held to mitigate the credit risk Market Risk.
exposures primarily in respect of loans and advances, and consisting of residential, The Underwriting Committee approves commercial and industrial properties, individual proposals to underwrite new securities and other assets such as plant corporate security issues.
underwritten security is held for a period longer than the target sell-down period, the The Groups maximum exposure to credit final decision on whether to sell the position risk has increased by $63.6 billion rests with the Risk function.
Exposure to loans and advances to banks and customers has Maximum exposure to credit risk increased by $43.2 billion due to growth in The table above right: presents the Groups the mortgage portfolio and broad-based maximum exposure to credit risk of growth across several industry sectors in itson-balance sheet and off-balance Wholesale Banking.
Further details of the sheetnancial instruments at 31 December loan portfolio are set out on page 66.
2010, before taking into account any Improving customer appetite for derivatives collateral held or other credit has increased the Groups exposure by enhancements.
For on-balance sheet $9.7 billion when compared with 2009. instruments, the maximum exposure to credit risk is the carrying amount reported on the balance sheet.
For off-balance sheet instruments, the maximum exposure to credit risk represents the contractual nominal amounts.
56 Standard Chartered Annual Report 2010 www.
com Business review Risk review Loan portfolio Wholesale Banking liquid and a net lender to the interbank Loans and advances to customers have Compared with 2009, growth in the money market.
grown by $44.6 billion to $246.4 billion.
Wholesale Banking portfolio was $21.9 billion, or 20 per cent.
Whilst spread The Wholesale Banking portfolio remains Consumer Banking across geographies and customer diversied across both geography and Compared with 2009, the Consumer segments, the majority of the increase was industry.
There are no significant Banking portfolio in 2010 has grown by concentrated in Americas, UK and Europe concentrations within the broad industry $22.6 billion, or 24 per cent, mainly due to $10.2 billion, Hong Kong $8.2 billion and classications of Manufacturing: Financing, increased mortgage lending.
The increase in insurance and business services: Americas, UK and Europe was due to Commerce: or Transport, storage The proportion of mortgages in the growth in the syndications and andcommunication.
Consumer Banking portfolio is maintained commodities businesses with customers in at 60 per cent.
As property markets have our footprint countries booked within our Single borrower concentration risk has strengthened across geographies in the offshore banking unit.
The growth in been mitigated by active distribution of Groups footprint we have been able to Hong Kong and Singapore has been broadassets to banks and institutional investors, capture market share and grow the based across industry segments driven some of which is achieved through secured portfolio.
mainly by strong demand in trade finance credit-default swaps and synthetic risk and corporate term loans.
SME lending has grown by $4.3 billion, or 32 per cent.
Exposure to bank counterparties was largely at at $53.3 billion.
Total loans and advances to banks include $1,206 million held at fair value through profit or loss.
Total loans and advances to banks include $2,048 million held at fair value through profit or loss.
58 Standard Chartered Annual Report 2010 www.
com Business review Risk review Maturity analysis InConsumer Banking, 60 per cent of the The following tables show the contractual Approximately half of our loans and portfolio is in the mortgage book, which is maturity of loans and advances to advances to customers are short-term, traditionally longer term in nature and well customers by each principal category having a contractual maturity of one year secured.
Whilst the Other and SME loans in ofborrowers business or industry.
The Wholesale Banking portfolio Consumer Banking have short contractual remains predominantly short-term, with maturities, typically they may be renewed 67per cent of loans and advances having and repaid over longer terms in the normal acontractual maturity of one year or less.
com Standard Chartered Annual Report 2010 59 Risk review finance loans are similarly written off at 90 of economic conditions, regulatory changes Problem credit management and days past due.
For secured loans other and portfolio characteristics such as provisioning than those secured by automobiles delinquency trends and early alert trends.
Consumer Banking individual impairment provisions IIPs are The methodology applies a larger provision In Consumer Banking, where there generally raised at either 150 days against accounts that are delinquent but are large numbers of small-value loans, mortgages or 90 days wealth not yet considered impaired.
a primary indicator of potential management past due.
A loan is The procedures for managing problem considered delinquent past due when the The provisions are based on the estimated credits for the Private Bank and the counterparty has failed to make a principal present values of future cash-ows, in medium-sized enterprises in the SME or interest payment when contractually due.
particular those resulting from the segment of Consumer Banking are similar However, not all delinquent loans realisation of security.
Following such to those adopted in Wholesale Banking particularly those in the early stage of realisation any remaining loan will be written described on page 62. delinquency will be impaired.
The days past due used to trigger delinquency reporting purposes we follow write-offs and IIPs are broadly driven by Consumer Banking has seen improvements industry standards, measuring delinquency past experience, which shows that once an in the level of non-performing loans in 2010, as of 1, 30, 60, 90, 120 and 150 days past account reaches the relevant number of particularly in Taiwan, Korea, and Hong due.
Accounts that are overdue by more days past due, the probability of recovery Kong, due to strengthening than 30 days are more closely monitored other than by realising security where macroeconomic conditions in those and subject to specic collections appropriate is low.
For all products there markets, as well as fide-risking actions taken processes.
are certain situations where the individual and intensied collections activities.
This impairment provisioning or write-off has been partially offset by an increase in A non-performing loan is any loan that is process is accelerated, such as in cases the Middle East.
more than 90 days past due or is otherwise involving bankruptcy, customer fraud and individually impaired, and excludes: death.
Write-off and IIPs are accelerated for The cover ratio is a common metric used in Loans renegotiated before 90 days past all restructured accounts to 90 days past considering trends in provisioning and due, and on which no default in interest due unsecured and automobile finance non-performing loans.
It should be noted, payments or loss of principal is expected and 120 days past due secured however, that, as explained above, a respectively.
significant proportion of the PIP is intended Loans renegotiated at or after 90 days to reect losses inherent in the loan past due, but on which there has been Individually impaired loans for Consumer portfolio that is less than 90 days no default in interest or principal Banking will therefore not equate to those delinquent and hence recorded as payments for more than 180 days since reported as non-performing on page 61, performing.
This metric should be renegotiation, and against which no loss because non-performing loans include all considered in conjunction with other credit of principal is expected those over 90 days past due.
This risk and collateral information including that difference reects the fact that, while contained in page 67.
Individually impaired loans are those loans experience shows that an element of against which individual impairment delinquent loans are impaired it is not The total net impairment charge in provisions have been raised.
Provisioning possible to identify which individual loans Consumer Banking in 2010 improved by within Consumer Banking reects the fact the impairment relates to until the $474 million, or 45 per cent, over 31 that the product portfolios excluding delinquency is sufciently prolonged that December 2009.
The lower individual medium-sized enterprises among SME loss is almost certain, which, in the Groups impairment in 2010 compared with 2009 is customers and private banking customers experience, is generally around 150 days in visible across all of our major markets, consist of a large number of comparatively Consumer Banking.
Up to that point the particularly in India, Hong Kong and Other small exposures.
Mortgages are assessed inherent impairment is captured in portfolio Asia Pacic.
for individual impairment on an impairment provision PIP.
account-by-account basis, but for other There was a portfolio impairment release of products it is impractical to monitor each The PIP methodology provides for accounts $85 million in 2010 compared with a delinquent loan individually and individual for which an individual impairment provision charge of $54 million in 2009 as a direct impairment is therefore assessed has not been raised, either individually or result of the improvement in portfolio collectively.
PIP is raised on a portfolio basis performance indicators as macroeconomic for all products, and is set using expected conditions strengthened in our markets.
For the main unsecured products and loans loss rates, based on past experience secured by automobiles, the entire supplemented by an assessment of specic outstanding amount is generally written off factors affecting the relevant portfolio.
Unsecured consumer These include an assessment of the impact 60 Standard Chartered Annual Report 2010 www.
com Business review Risk review The following tables set out the total non-performing loans for Consumer Banking: 2010 Asia Pacic Middle Other East & Americas Hong Asia Other UK and Kong Singapore Korea Pacic India S Asia Africa Europe Total $million $million $million $million $million $million $million $million $million Loans and advances Gross non-performing 50 47 145 395 76 342 29 89 1,173 Individual impairment provision 20 20 57 160 32 141 16 60 506 Non-performing loans net of individual impairment provision 30 27 88 235 44 201 13 29 667 Portfolio impairment provision 451 Net non-performing loans and advances 216 Cover ratio 82% 2009 Asia Pacic Middle Other East & Americas Hong Asia Other UK and Kong Singapore Korea Pacic India S Asia Africa Europe Total $million $million $million $million $million $million $million $million $million Loans and advances Gross non-performing 80 47 190 482 65 263 28 97 1,252 Individual impairment provision 64 20 63 212 17 91 10 61 538 Non-performing loans net of individual impairment provision 16 27 127 270 48 172 18 36 714 Portfolio impairment provision 519 Net non-performing loans and advances 195 Cover ratio 84% The tables below set out the net impairment charge by geography: 2010 Asia Pacic Middle Other East & Americas Hong Asia Other UK and Kong Singapore Korea Pacic India S Asia Africa Europe Total $million $million $million $million $million $million $million $million $million Gross impairment charge 76 57 171 299 119 237 31 11 1,001 Recoveries provisions no longer required 29 19 29 166 33 45 12 5 338 Net individual impairment charge 47 38 142 133 86 192 19 6 663 Portfolio impairment provision credit 85 Net impairment charge 578 2009 Asia Pacic Middle Other East & Americas Hong Asia Other UK and Kong Singapore Korea Pacic India S Asia Africa Europe Total $million $million $million $million $million $million $million $million $million Gross impairment charge 139 64 200 424 163 256 31 33 1,310 Recoveries provisions no longer required 38 20 21 150 26 39 11 7 312 Net individual impairment charge 101 44 179 274 137 217 20 26 998 Portfolio impairment provision charge 54 Net impairment charge 1,052 www.
com Standard Chartered Annual Report 2010 61 Risk review Where it is considered that there is no gross non-performing loans are covered by Wholesale Banking realistic prospect of recovering a portion of individual and portfolio impairment Loans are classied as impaired and an exposure against which an impairment provisions.
The cover ratio decreased from considered non-performing where analysis provision has been raised, that amount will 65 per cent as at 31 December 2009 to and review indicates that full payment of be written off.
50 per cent as at 31 December 2010 either interest or principal is questionable, largely as a result of the downgrade of the or as soon as payment of interest or As with Consumer Banking, a PIP is held to three accounts referred to above.
The principal is 90 days overdue.
Impaired cover the inherent risk of losses which, balance uncovered by individual accounts are managed by our specialist although not identied, are known through impairment provisions represents the value recovery unit, GSAM, which is separate experience to be present in any loan of collateral held and the Groups estimate from our main businesses.
In Wholesale Banking, this is set of the net outcome of any work-out amount is considered irrecoverable, an with reference to historic loss rates and strategy.
individual impairment provision is raised.
subjective factors such as the economic This provision is the difference between the environment and the trends in key portfolio The total net individual impairment charge loan carrying amount and the present value indicators.
The PIP methodology provides of $350 million in 2010 was signicantly of estimated future cash ows.
for accounts for which an individual lower than the charge in 2009 $806 million impairment provision has not been raised.
reecting the improved credit environment.
The individual circumstances of each customer are taken into account when Gross non-performing loans in Wholesale The PIP balance has reduced by $46 GSAM estimates future cash ow.
All Banking have increased by $698 million or million since December 2009.
This is partly available sources, such as cash ow arising 25 per cent, since December 2009.
This is contributed by an improving portfolio from operations, selling assets or largely due to the downgrade of three quality indicators and macro-economic subsidiaries, realising collateral or payments significant accounts that are under conditions, and partly by a better visibility under guarantees, are considered.
In any restructuring within the MESA region.
around areas of concern in the MESA decision relating to the raising of provisions, Excluding the MESA region gross region, which resulted in the release of we attempt to balance economic non-performing loans have reduced by some of the additional PIP created in 2009. conditions, local knowledge and 8 per cent since December 2009.
The experience, and the results of independent asset reviews.
cover ratio reects the extent to which 62 Standard Chartered Annual Report 2010 www.
com Business review Risk review The following tables set out the total non-performing loans for Wholesale Banking: 2010 Asia Pacic Middle Other East & Americas Hong Asia Other UK and Kong Singapore Korea Pacic India S Asia Africa Europe Total $million $million $million $million $million $million $million $million $million Loans and advances Gross non-performing 111 21 305 817 272 1,707 103 122 3,458 Individual impairment provision 82 5 136 347 80 641 44 76 1,411 Non-performing loans net of individual impairment provision 29 16 169 470 192 1,066 59 46 2,047 Portfolio impairment provision 311 Net non-performing loans and advances 1,736 Cover ratio 50% 2009 Asia Pacic Middle Other East & Americas Hong Asia Other UK and Kong Singapore Korea Pacic India S Asia Africa Europe Total $million $million $million $million $million $million $million $million $million Loans and advances Gross non-performing 207 10 352 780 207 855 160 189 2,760 Individual impairment provision 117 7 204 408 74 469 53 115 1,447 Non-performing loans net of individual impairment provision 90 3 148 372 133 386 107 74 1,313 Portfolio impairment provision 357 Net non-performing loans and advances 956 Cover ratio 65% The tables below set out the net impairment charge by geography: 2010 Asia Pacic Middle Other East & Americas Hong Asia Other UK and Kong Singapore Korea Pacic India S Asia Africa Europe Total $million $million $million $million $million $million $million $million $million Gross impairment charge 12 92 55 26 199 14 30 428 Recoveries provisions no longer required 14 7 23 8 7 4 15 78 Net individual impairment charge 2 85 32 18 192 10 15 350 Portfolio impairment provision credit 45 Net impairment charge 305 2009 Asia Pacic Middle Other East & Americas Hong Asia Other UK and Kong Singapore Korea Pacic India S Asia Africa Europe Total $million $million $million $million $million $million $million $million $million Gross impairment charge 52 3 111 194 55 394 15 58 882 Recoveries provisions no longer required 8 5 18 23 6 6 3 7 76 Net individual impairment charge 44 2 93 171 49 388 12 51 806 Portfolio impairment provision charge 142 Net impairment charge 948 www.
com Standard Chartered Annual Report 2010 63 Risk review Impairment provisions on loans and advances The following table sets out impairment provision on loans and advances by each principal category of borrowers business or industry: 2010 2009 $million $million Loans to individuals Mortgages 128 107 Other 180 201 Small and medium-sized enterprises 198 230 Consumer Banking 506 538 Agriculture, forestry and shing 42 59 Construction 57 36 Commerce 467 425 Electricity, gas and water 7 7 Financing, insurance and business services 120 130 Mining and quarrying 1 6 Manufacturing 558 590 Commercial real estate 23 13 Transport, storage and communication 23 24 Other 20 25 Wholesale Banking 1,318 1,315 Individual impairment provision against loans and advances to customers 1,824 1,853 Individual impairment provision against loans and advances to banks 93 132 Portfolio impairment provision 762 876 Total impairment provisions on loans and advances 2,679 2,861 The following table sets out the movements in individual and portfolio impairment provisions: 2010 2009 Individual Portfolio Individual Portfolio Impairment Impairment Impairment Impairment Provisions Provisions Total Provisions Provisions Total $million $million $million $million $million $million At 1 January 1,985 876 2,861 1,324 657 1,981 Exchange translation differences 36 16 52 49 21 70 Amounts written off 1,252 1,252 1,329 3 1,332 Recoveries of acquisition fair values 27 27 40 1 39 Recoveries of amounts previously written off 236 236 193 2 191 62 62 59 1 58 Discount unwind Other 1 1 48 5 53 New provisions 1,418 110 1,528 2,187 426 2,613 Recoveries provisions no longer required 416 240 656 388 230 618 Net charge release against profit 1,002 130 872 1,799 196 1,995 Provisions held at 31 December 1,917 762 2,679 1,985 876 2,861 64 Standard Chartered Annual Report 2010 www.
com Business review Risk review The following tables set out the movements in our total individual impairment provision against loans and advances: 2010 Asia Pacic Middle Other East Americas Hong Asia & Other UK and Kong Singapore Korea Pacic India S Asia Africa Europe Total $million $million $million $million $million $million $million $million $million Provisions held at 1 January 2010 181 27 267 620 91 560 63 176 1,985 Exchange translation differences 2 5 28 3 4 2 4 36 Amounts written off 151 55 297 391 99 165 27 67 1,252 Recoveries of acquisition fair values 8 16 3 27 Recoveries of amounts previously written off 30 13 16 128 19 26 4 236 Discount unwind 3 13 18 7 17 1 3 62 Other 5 1 1 4 1 New provisions 88 57 259 350 147 436 43 38 1,418 Recoveries provisions no longer required 43 19 36 189 41 52 16 20 416 Net charge against profit 45 38 223 161 106 384 27 18 1,002 Provisions held at 31 December 2010 102 25 193 507 112 782 60 136 1,917 2009 Asia Pacic Middle Other East Americas Hong Asia & Other UK and Kong Singapore Korea Pacic India S Asia Africa Europe Total $million $million $million $million $million $million $million $million $million Provisions held at 1 January 2009 164 20 154 605 44 170 54 113 1,324 Exchange translation differences 21 26 4 6 3 1 49 Amounts written off 154 50 215 501 162 218 24 5 1,329 Recoveries of acquisition fair values 7 29 4 40 Recoveries of amounts previously written off 32 14 6 100 19 19 3 193 Discount unwind 6 1 13 27 2 6 2 2 59 Other 49 1 2 1 3 48 New provisions 191 69 311 618 218 651 46 83 2,187 Recoveries provisions no longer required 46 25 39 173 32 45 14 14 388 Net charge against profit 145 44 272 445 186 606 32 69 1,799 Provisions held at 31 December 2009 181 27 267 620 91 560 63 176 1,985 www.
com Standard Chartered Annual Report 2010 65 Risk review During 2010 total loans to Wholesale In Wholesale Banking and SME Analysis of the loan portfolio Banking customers increased by Discretionary Lending and Private Banking, The table on page 67 sets out an analysis $21.9 billion, or 20 per cent.
As at 31 renegotiated loans continue to be managed of the loan portfolio between those loans December 2010 only 2.9 per cent of the by GSAM until considered to be performing that are neither past due nor impaired, loans are either past due or individually and no longer a problem account.
those that are past due but not impaired, a slight increase on 2009.
The Provisions are taken on a case by case individuallyimpaired and those that are increase in loans has been driven equally by basis if further problems arise.
increases in lending, trade finance and parts of Consumer Banking all renegotiated corporate finance.
The increased exposure loans are managed within a separate Collateral held against past due and in the credit grade 6-8 category is largely a portfolio, and if such loans subsequently impaired loans in Consumer Banking largely consequence of increased activities in become past due, write off and IIP is comprises residential and commercial corporate finance, acquisition finance and accelerated to 90 days past due unsecured property and in Wholesale Banking largely syndicated lending, as Wholesale Banking and automobile finance and 120 days past comprises property and securities.
Where deepens relationships with corporate clients due secured respectively.
The accelerated the fair value of collateral held exceeds the in our key markets.
The level of collateral loss rates applied to this portfolio are outstanding loan, any excess is paid back taken against customers in this credit grade derived from experience with other to customers in the event of its realisation category range is generally higher than for renegotiated loans, rather than the and is not available for offset against customers in the credit grade 1-5 category.
Consumer Banking portfolio as a whole, other loans.
to recognise the greater degree of Consumer Banking loans to customers Inherent risk.
Renegotiated loans that would otherwise be have increased by $22.6 billion since past due or impaired if their terms had not 31 December 2009, with nearly 60 per cent Although total loans to banks have been renegotiated were $1,750 million of this growth being in the mortgage increased by only $0.3 billion between 2009: $2,084 million, $587 million 2009: portfolio, which is well collateralised and December 2009 and December 2010, there $687 million of which related to Consumer has an average loan to value ratio of has been a shift in the credit grade Banking loans to customers and 51 per cent.
Portfolio quality indicators have distribution between the credit grade 1-5 $1,163 million 2009: $1,397 million of improved across all of our major markets category and credit grade 6-8 category.
which related to Wholesale Banking loans and products during the year.
The Loans to banks in the credit grade 1-5 to customers.
Loans whose terms have proportion of past due or individually category have decreased as exposure has been renegotiated to include concessions impaired loans has decreased as a result that the Group would not ordinarily make deliberately been shifted from the interbank of improving economic conditions in our will usually be classied as impaired.
market to highly rated sovereign footprint markets.
Exposure in the credit Loans that were more than 90 days past grade 6-8 category has increased due to due, and consequently reported as an increase in trade finance business with non-performing before renegotiation, financial institutions in our core markets.
continue to be reported as non-performing In the Wholesale Banking corporate until a minimum number of payments have portfolio, the negative credit grade been received under the new terms.
Where migration observed during 2009 largely loans that are past due have been stabilised in 2010, in line with improving renegotiated, such loans are no longer macroeconomic conditions across our considered to be past due immediately footprint.
This is also reected in a after renegotiation.
sustained reduction in the number of accounts on early alert since the end of 2009.
66 Standard Chartered Annual Report 2010 www.
Repossessed equity shares 3 3 2 2 properties are sold in an orderly fashion.
Guarantees 25 25 Where the proceeds are in excess of the Other 2 2 91 42 133 outstanding loan balance they are returned to the borrower.
Certain equity securities 69 3 72 251 51 302 acquired continue to be held by the Group for investment purposes and are classied as available-for-sale and the related loan written off.
com Standard Chartered Annual Report 2010 67 Risk review Debt securities and treasury bills Debt securities and treasury bills are analysed as follows: 2010 2009 Debt Treasury Debt Treasury securities bills Total securities bills Total $million $million $million $million $million $million Net impaired securities: Impaired securities 241 241 231 231 Impairment provisions 180 180 191 191 61 61 40 40 Securities neither past due nor impaired: AAA 10,427 2,791 13,218 10,706 630 11,336 AAto AA 19,689 8,562 28,251 21,246 9,618 30,864 Ato A 18,384 8,378 26,762 17,770 10,757 28,527 BBBto BBB 8,078 2,516 10,594 7,243 1,930 9,173 Lower than BBB- 2,947 1,361 4,308 2,422 1,193 3,615 Unrated 7,615 485 8,100 5,805 389 6,194 67,140 24,093 91,233 65,192 24,517 89,709 67,201 24,093 91,294 65,232 24,517 89,749 Of which: Held at fair value through profit or loss 11,817 6,198 18,015 10,111 5,559 15,670 The impaired debt securities largely include The above table also analyses debt Unrated securities primarily relate to the Groups holdings of asset backed securities and treasury bills that are corporate issues.
Using internal credit securities, on which a $22 million 2009: neither past due nor impaired by external ratings, $6,775 million 2009: $5,674 million $73 million impairment charge was taken in credit rating.
The standard credit ratings of these securities are considered to be 2010.
There has been a marginal decrease used by the Group are those used by equivalent to investment grade and in provisions on impaired securities since Standard & Poors or their equivalent.
Debt $1,325 million 2009: $520 million below December 2009. securities held that have a short-term rating investment grade.
are reported against the long-term rating of the issuer.
For securities that are unrated, the Group applies an internal credit rating as described on page 55.
68 Standard Chartered Annual Report 2010 www.
com Business review Risk review Asset backed securities Total exposures to asset backed securities 31 December 2010 31 December 2009 Percentage Percentage of notional Carrying of notional Carrying 1 1 value of Notional value Fair value value of Notional value Fair value portfolio $million $million $million portfolio $million $million $million Residential Mortgage Backed Securities RMBS US Alt-A 2% 64 32 25 2% 74 42 31 US Prime 1 1 Other 29% 779 740 715 24% 819 767 708 Collateralised Debt Obligations CDOs Asset backed securities 2% 65 10 10 2% 77 13 10 Other CDOs 12% 310 268 261 10% 353 285 273 Commercial Mortgage Backed Securities CMBS US CMBS 5% 131 117 110 4% 139 122 108 Other 22% 586 452 414 19% 664 480 373 Other asset backed securities Other ABS 28% 737 690 697 39% 1,315 1,227 1,204 100% 2,673 2,309 2,232 100% 3,442 2,936 2,707 Of which included within: Financial assets held at fair value through profit or loss 3% 86 85 85 3% 103 97 97 Investment securities available-for-sale 27% 724 499 499 26% 903 608 608 Investment securities loans and receivables 70% 1,863 1,725 1,648 71% 2,436 2,231 2,002 100% 2,673 2,309 2,232 100% 3,442 2,936 2,707 1 Fair value reects the value of the entire portfolio, including assets redesignated to loans and receivables The carrying value of ABS represents The credit quality of the ABS portfolio The Group reclassied some ABS from 0.5 per cent 2009: 0.7 per cent of our remains strong.
With the exception of those trading and available-for-sale to loans and total assets.
securities subject to an impairment charge, receivables with effect from 1 July 2008.
80 per cent of the overall portfolio is rated The securities were reclassied at their The notional value of the ABS portfolio fell A or better, and 30per cent of the overall fair value on the date of reclassication.
by approximately $769 million during 2010 portfolio is rated as AAA.
The portfolio is Note 15 to the financial statements provides details of the remaining balance of those due to natural redemptions in the portfolio broadly diversied across asset classes assets reclassied in 2008.
No assets were and some asset sales.
The difference and geographies, and there is no direct reclassied in 2010 or 2009. between carrying value and fair value exposure to the US sub-prime market.
The oftheremaining portfolio is $77 million at portfolio has an average credit grade of A.
31 December 2010, benefiting from both the redemptions and a recovery in market prices in certain asset classes.
Write-downs of asset backed securities AvailableLoans and for-sale receivables Total $million $million $million 31 December 2010 Credit to available-for-sale reserves 68 68 Charge to the profit and loss account 22 4 26 31 December 2009 Credit to available-for-sale reserves 26 26 Charge to the profit and loss account 70 7 77 www.
com Standard Chartered Annual Report 2010 69 Risk review Cross-border exposure to countries in Country cross-border risk assets are recorded.
Cross-border assets which we do not have a significant Country cross-border risk is the risk that we also include exposures to local residents presence predominantly relates to will be unable to obtain payment from our denominated in currencies other than the local currency.
short-dated money market activity, and customers or third parties on their some global corporate business.
Such contractual obligations as a result of certain Our cross-border exposure to China, India business is originated in our footprint actions taken by foreign governments, and UAE has risen signicantly over the countries with counterparties domiciled chiey relating to convertibility and past year, reecting our focus and outside our footprint.
This explains our transferability of foreign currency.
continued expansion in our core countries.
significant exposure in the US and For China the increase was driven by Switzerland as described in the table below.
The GRC is responsible for our country both onshore and offshore loans to cross-border risk limits and delegates the Chinese corporates and banks making The table below, which is based on our setting and management of country limits increased use of more attractive foreign internal cross-border country risk reporting to the Group Country Risk function.
currency funding for their trading and requirements, shows cross-border business activities.
outstandings where they exceed 1 per cent The business and country chief executive of total assets.
ofcers manage exposures within these Increased cross-border exposure for India limits and policies.
Countries designated reects growth in short term trade business as higher risk are subject to increased and higher Corporate Finance activity.
Cross-border exposure to the UAE has increased as we grew our core business Cross-border assets comprise loans and with particular emphasis on the Abu Dhabi advances, interest-bearing deposits with portfolio.
In Qatar landmark other banks, trade and other bills, government-related transactions acceptances, amounts receivable under signicantly increased our exposure.
finance leases, derivatives, certicates of deposit and other negotiable paper, The decrease in our exposures to Korea investment securities and formal reects less demand for US dollar commitments where the counterparty is borrowings from Korean clients.
com Business review Risk review Group Market Risk GMR approves the In both methods an historical observation Market risk limits within delegated authorities and period of one year is chosen and applied.
We recognise market risk as the potential monitors exposures against these limits.
for loss of earnings or economic value due Additional limits are placed on specic VaR is calculated as our exposure as at the to adverse changes in financial market rates instruments and position concentrations close of business, generally London time.
Our exposure to market risk where appropriate.
Sensitivity measures are Intra-day risk levels may vary from those arises principally from customer-driven used in addition to VaR as risk management reported at the end of the day.
The objective of our market tools.
For example, interest rate sensitivity is risk policies and processes is to obtain the measured in terms of exposure to a one Back testing best balance of risk and return whilst basis point increase in yields, whereas To assess their predictive power, VaR meeting customers requirements.
foreign exchange, commodity and equity models are back tested against actual sensitivities are measured in terms of the results.
In 2010 there was one regulatory The primary categories of market risk for underlying values or amounts involved.
back testing exception, and one in 2009.
Standard Chartered are: Option risks are controlled through This is well within the green zone applied interest rate risk: arising from changes in revaluation limits on underlying price and internationally to internal models by bank yield curves, credit spreads and implied volatility shifts, limits on volatility risk and supervisors and implies that model volatilities on interest rate options other variables that determine the reliability is statistically greater than 95 per optionsvalue.
currency exchange rate risk: arising from changes in exchange rates and implied Value at Risk Stress testing volatilities on foreign exchange options We measure the risk of losses arising from Losses beyond the confidence interval are commodity price risk: arising from future potential adverse movements in not captured by a VaR calculation, which changes in commodity prices and market rates, prices and volatilities using a therefore gives no indication of the size of commodity option implied volatilities: VaR methodology.
VaR, in general, is a unexpected losses in these situations.
covering energy, precious metals, base quantitative measure of market risk that metals and agriculture applies recent historical market conditions GMR complements the VaR measurement to estimate the potential future loss in by weekly stress testing of market risk equity price risk: arising from changes in market value that will not be exceeded in a exposures to highlight the potential risk that the prices of equities, equity indices, set time period at a set statistical may arise from extreme market events that equity baskets and implied volatilities on confidence level.
VaR provides a consistent are rare but plausible.
related options measure that can be applied across trading businesses and products over time and can Stress testing is an integral part of the Market risk governance be set against actual daily trading profit and market risk management framework and The GRC approves our market risk appetite loss outcome.
considers both historical market events taking account of market volatility, the range and forward-looking scenarios.
A of products and asset classes, business VaR is calculated for expected movements consistent stress testing methodology is volumes and transaction sizes.
Market risk over a minimum of one business day and to applied to trading and non-trading books.
exposures have remained broadly stable a confidence level of 97.5 per cent.
This The stress testing methodology assumes in 2010. confidence level suggests that potential that scope for management action would daily losses, in excess of the VaR measure, be limited during a stress event, reecting The Group Market Risk Committee GMRC, under authority delegated by the are likely to be experienced six times the decrease in market liquidity that GRC, is responsible for setting VaR and peryear.
stress loss triggers for market risk within our risk appetite.
The GMRC is also We apply two VaR methodologies: Stress scenarios are regularly updated to responsible for policies and other standards reect changes in risk prole and economic historical simulation: involves the for the control of market risk and overseeing events.
The GMRC has responsibility for revaluation of all existing positions to their effective implementation.
These reviewing stress exposures and where reect the effect of historically observed policies cover both trading and non-trading necessary, enforcing reductions in overall changes in market risk factors on the books of the Group.
The trading book is market risk exposure.
The GRC considers valuation of the current portfolio.
This dened as per the FSA Handbooks the results of stress tests as part of its approach is applied for general market Prudential Sourcebook for Banks, Building supervision of risk appetite.
risk factors Societies and Investment Firms BIPRU.
This is more restrictive than the broader Monte Carlo simulation: this methodology Regular stress test scenarios are applied to denition within IAS 39 Financial is similar to historical simulation but with interest rates, credit spreads, exchange Instruments: Recognition and considerably more input risk factor rates, commodity prices and equity prices.
Measurement, as the FSA only permits observations.
These are generated by This covers all asset classes in the Financial certain types of financial instruments or random sampling techniques, but the Markets banking and trading books.
arrangements to be included within the results retain the essential variability and trading book.
Limits by location and correlations of historically observed risk Ad hoc scenarios are also prepared portfolio are proposed by the businesses factor changes.
This approach is applied reecting specic market conditions and for within the terms of agreed policy.
for credit spread VaR particular concentrations of risk that arise within the businesses.
com Standard Chartered Annual Report 2010 71 Risk review Market risk changes There have been three significant changes Securities classed as loans and receivables or held to maturity were Total average VaR declined in 2010 of VaR coverage during 2009 and 2010, removed from VaR in June 2009.
This which have affected Total VaR as follows: non-traded securities largely comprising stemmed mainly from the non-trading book Group Treasury positions were asset backed securities re-classied in VaR, and reected decreasing volatility of transferred from VaR to net interest 2008 are accounted for on an amortised credit spreads that followed a sharp income sensitivity basis from the start of cost basis and are match funded, so increase after the collapse of Lehman 2010 see details on page 73.
This market price movements have no effect Brothers in September 2008.
The one-year resulted in a $3.6 million reduction in total on either profit and loss or reserves.
historical data window applied as an input VaR in 2010 Thisalignment of VaR with accounting to the VaR model continued to reect this treatment resulted in an $8.6 million period of particularly high credit spread The listed part of the private equities reduction in total VaR at the time volatility throughout most of 2009, but its portfolio was included in non-trading VaR ofimplementation impact tailed off in the second half of 2009. from October 2009 resulting in an Average trading book VaR also declined in increase of $3 million in total VaR 2010 across asset classes.
For the period October to December 2009, non-trading equity risk VaR average was $9.1 million, with a low of $8.7 million Average daily income earned from market risk related activities 2010 2009 $million $million Trading Interest rate risk 4.8 5.0 Foreign exchange risk 4.7 5.3 Commodity risk 1.3 1.0 Equity risk 0.4 0.4 Total 11.2 11.7 Non-Trading Interest rate risk 3.6 4.5 Equity risk 0.5 1.0 Total 4.1 5.5 72 Standard Chartered Annual Report 2010 www.
com Business review Risk review Market risk VaR coverage The increase in NII sensitivity is primarily manage market price risk.
The market risk Interest rate risk from non-trading book due to the placement of the 2010 rights of derivatives is managed in essentially the portfolios is always transferred to Financial issue proceeds at the US Federal Reserve same way as other traded products.
Markets where it is managed by local over the year end.
ALM desks under the supervision of local Our derivative transactions are principally in Asset and Liability Committees ALCO.
Group Treasury also manages the structural instruments where the mark-to-market ALM deals in the market in approved foreign exchange risk that arises from values are readily determinable by reference financial instruments in order to manage the non-US dollar currency net investments in to independent prices and valuation quotes.
net interest rate risk, subject to approved branches and subsidiaries.
The impact of VaR and risk limits.
foreign exchange movements is taken to We enter into derivative contracts in the reserves, which form part of the capital normal course of business to meet VaR and stress tests are therefore applied base.
The effect of exchange rate customer requirements and to manage to these non-trading book exposures movements on the capital ratio is partially ourexposure to uctuations in market pricemovements.
except Group Treasury, see below in the mitigated by the fact that both the value of same way as for the trading book, including these investments and the risk weighted Derivatives are carried at fair value and listed available-for-sale securities.
Securities assets in those currencies follow broadly shown in the balance sheet as separate classed as Loans and receivables or Held the same exchange rate movements.
With totals of assets and liabilities.
Recognition to maturity are not reected in VaR or stress the approval of CMC, Group Treasury may of fair value gains and losses depends on tests since they are accounted on an hedge the net investments if it is anticipated whether the derivatives are classied as amortised cost basis and are match that the capital ratio will be materially trading or held for hedging purposes.
funded, so market price movements affected by exchange rate movements.
At haveno effect on either profit and loss 31 December 2010, the Group had taken The credit risk arising from all financial orreserves.
net investment hedges using a combination derivatives is managed as part of the overall of derivative and non-derivative financial lending limits to financial institutions and Foreign exchange risk on the non-trading investments of $1,112 million 31 December corporate customers.
This is covered in book portfolios is minimised by match 2009: $644 million to partly cover its more detail in the Credit risk section.
funding assets and liabilities in the same exposure to Korean won and $nil million 31 December 2009: $94 million to partly cover currency.
Structural foreign exchange its exposure to Taiwanese dollars.
Hedging currency risks are not included within Group VaR.
Countries within the Group use futures, The table below sets out the principal forwards, swaps and options transactions Equity risk relating to non-listed Private structural foreign exchange exposures net primarily to mitigate interest and foreign Equity and strategic investments is not of investment hedges of the Group: exchange risk arising from their in-country included within the VaR.
The Group also uses futures, managed through delegated limits for forwards and options to hedge foreign 2010 2009 $million $million bothinvestment and divestment, and exchange and interest rate risk.
isalsosubject to regular review by an Hong Kong dollar 5,817 5,852 investment committee.
These are included In accounting terms under IAS 39, hedges Korean won 5,266 5,133 as Level 3 assets as disclosed in note 15 are classied into three types: fair value Indian rupee 3,400 2,828 to the financial statements.
hedges, predominantly where xed rates of Taiwanese dollar 2,606 2,071 interest or foreign exchange are exchanged Thai baht 1,495 1,291 Group Treasury market risk for oating rates: cash ow hedges, UAE dirham 1,343 1,008 Group Treasury raises debt and equity predominantly where variable rates of capital and the proceeds are invested within interest or foreign exchange are exchanged Singapore dollar 841 986 the Group as capital or placed with ALM.
for xed rates: and hedges of net Malaysian ringgit 1,047 834 Interest rate risk arises due to the investments in overseas operations Chinese renminbi 1,420 795 investment of equity and reserves into translated to the parent companys Indonesian rupiah 882 595 rate-sensitive assets, as well as some tenor functional currency, US dollars.
Pakistani rupee 614 562 mismatches between debt issuance and Other 2,838 2,293 placements.
This risk is measured as the The use of interest rate swaps for the impact on net interest income NII of an purposes of fair value and cash ow 27,569 24,248 unexpected and instantaneous adverse hedging increased in 2010 compared with parallel shift in rates and is monitored 2009, as we continued to focus on liquidity An analysis has been performed on these overarolling one-year time horizon see management together with a more active exposures to assess the impact of a table below.
Interest 1 per cent fall in the US dollar exchange rate swaps used for cash ow hedges rates adjusted to incorporate the impacts This risk is monitored and controlled by the increased signicantly compared with 2009, of correlations between different currencies.
Groups Capital Management Committee primarily to hedge oating rate mortgage The impact on the positions above would CMC.
exposures in Taiwan, and the increase in be an increase of $197 million 2009: $176 fair value hedges largely reected the million.
Changes in the valuation of these growth of xed deposits and bonds in Hong Group Treasury positions are taken to reserves.
Currency swaps for fair value NII sensitivity to parallel shifts hedging increased primarily to hedge the in yield curves Derivatives increased level of Medium term note Derivatives are contracts with 2010 2009 $million $million issuances in the UK.
Forward Foreign characteristics and value derived from exchange contracts held for fair value underlying financial instruments, interest 25 basis points 29.9 14.0 hedging increased in line with the strategy and exchange rates or indices.
They include 25 basis points 29.9 14.0 to grow the Credit Trading business.
futures, forwards, swaps and options Currency swaps held for cash ow hedges transactions.
Derivatives are an important increased largely as a result of more active risk management tool for banks and their management of our mortgage book customers because they can be used to exposures in Korea.
com Standard Chartered Annual Report 2010 73 Risk review Policies and procedures trigger points and actions in the event of a We may also, under certain individually Due to the diversied nature of our liquidity crisis to ensure that there is an approved circumstances, enter into business, our policy is that liquidity is more effective response by senior management.
economic hedges that do not qualify for IAS effectively managed locally, in-country.
39 hedge accounting treatment, and which Each ALCO is responsible for ensuring Primary sources of funding are accordingly marked to market through thatthe country is self-sufficient, able to A substantial portion of our assets is funded the profit and loss account, thereby creating meet all its obligations to make payments by customer deposits made up of current an accounting asymmetry.
These are as they fall due, and operates within the and savings accounts and other deposits.
entered into primarily to ensure that residual local regulations and liquidity limits set for These customer deposits, which are widely interest rate and foreign exchange risks are the country.
diversied by type and maturity, represent a being effectively managed.
The ALCO in each Our liquidity risk management framework country monitors trends in the balance Liquidity risk requires limits to be set for prudent liquidity sheet and ensures that any concerns that Liquidity risk is the risk that we either do not management.
There are limits on: might impact the stability of these deposits have sufficient financial resources available are addressed effectively.
The ALCO also to meet our obligations as they fall due, or The mismatch in local and foreign reviews balance sheet plans to ensure that can only access these financial resources currency behavioural cash ows projected asset growth is matched by at excessive cost.
The level of wholesale borrowing to growth in the stable funding base.
ensure that the size of this funding is It is our policy to maintain adequate liquidity proportionate to the local market and our We maintain access to the interbank at all times, in all geographic locations and local operations wholesale funding markets in all major for all currencies, and hence to be in a financial centres and countries in which we position to meet obligations as they fall due.
Commitments, both on and off balance operate as well as to commercial paper We manage liquidity risk both on a sheet, to ensure there are sufficient funds issuance.
This seeks to ensure that we have short-term and medium-term basis.
In the available in the event of drawdown on exibility around maturity transformation, short-term, our focus is on ensuring that the these commitments have market intelligence, maintain stable cash ow demands can be met through The advances to deposits ratio to ensure funding lines and can obtain optimal pricing asset maturities, customer deposits and that commercial advances are funded by when we perform our interest rate risk wholesale funding where required.
In the stable sources and that customer lending management activities.
medium-term, the focus is on ensuring the balance sheet remains structurally sound is funded by customer deposits and aligned to our strategy.
Liquidity metrics The amount of medium-term funding to We also monitor key liquidity metrics on a support the asset portfolio The GALCO is the responsible governing regular basis, both on a country basis and body that approves our liquidity The amount of local currency funding in aggregate across the Group.
The Liquidity sourced from foreign currency sources metrics are: Management Committee LMC receives authority from the GALCO and is In addition, we prescribe a liquidity stress Advances-to-deposits ratio responsible for setting or delegating scenario that assumes accelerated This is dened as the ratio of total loans and authority to set liquidity limits and proposing withdrawal of deposits over a period of advances to customers relative to total liquidity risk policies.
Each country has to ensure that customer deposits.
A low advances-tocountry is managed by the Country ALCO cashinows exceed outows under such deposits ratio demonstrates that customer within the pre-dened liquidity limits set by ascenario.
deposits exceed customer loans resulting the LMC and in compliance with Group from emphasis placed on generating a high liquidity policies and practices and local All limits are reviewed at least annually, and level of stable funding from customers.
GMR and Group more frequently if required, to ensure that Treasury propose and oversee the they remain relevant given market 2010 2009 $million $million implementation of policies and other conditions and business strategy.
controls relating to the above risks.
Compliance with limits is monitored Loans and advances 1 independently on a regular basis by GMR to customers 246,404 201,803 We seek to manage our liquidity prudently and Finance.
Limit excesses are escalated 2 Customer accounts 316,502 256,746 in all geographical locations and for all and approved under a delegated authority % % currencies.
Exceptional market events can structure and reviewed by ALCO.
Excesses impact us adversely, thereby affecting our are also reported monthly to the LMC and Advances-toability to full our obligations as they fall GALCO, which provide further oversight.
The principal uncertainties for liquidity 1 See note 19 to the financial statements on page 178 risk are that customers withdraw their In addition, regular reports to the ALCO 2 See note 29 to the financial statements on page 190 deposits at a substantially faster rate than include the following: expected, or that asset repayments are Liquid asset ratio Information on the concentration and notreceived on the intended maturity date.
This is the ratio of liquid assets to total prole of debt maturities To mitigate these uncertainties, our assets.
The significant level of holdings of customer deposit base is diversied by type Depositor concentration report to monitor liquid assets in the balance sheet reects and maturity.
In addition we have reliance on large individual depositors the application of our liquidity policies and contingency funding plans including a practices.
The following table shows the portfolio of liquid assets that can be realised We have significant levels of marketable ratio of liquid assets to total assets: if a liquidity stress occurs, as well as ready securities, including government securities, access to wholesale funds under normal which can be realised, repod or used as 2010 2009 % % market conditions.
collateral in the event that there is a need 1 for liquidity in a crisis.
In addition, liquidity Liquid assets to crisis management plans are maintained by total assets ratio 26.6 26.2 Group and within each country, and are 1 Liquid assets are the total of cash less restricted reviewed and approved annually.
The balances, net interbank, treasury bills and debt securities less illiquid securities liquidity crisis management plan lays out 74 Standard Chartered Annual Report 2010 www.
com Business review Risk review Liquidity analysis of the Groups balance discounted basis.
Contractual maturities do banks, treasury bills and debt securities sheet not necessarily reect actual repayments or classied as trading, held at fair value or This table analyses assets and liabilities into cash ow.
available for sale included within investment relevant maturity groupings based on the securities are used by the Group principally remaining period to the contractual maturity Within the tables below cash and balances for liquidity management purposes.
com Standard Chartered Annual Report 2010 75 Risk review Behavioural maturity of financial liabilities contractually payable over the residual Groups expectation of when such liabilities As discussed on page 75 the Group seeks maturity of the instruments.
In practice, are likely to become payable is provided in to manage its liabilities both on a however, certain liability instruments the table below.
contractual and behavioural basis primarily behave differently from their contractual by matching the maturity proles of assets terms and typically, for short-term and liabilities.
The cash ows presented on customer accounts, extend to a longer page 75 reect the cash ows that will be period than their contractual maturity.
The 1 2010 2009 Between Between three Between three Between Three months one year Three months one year months and and More than months and and More than or less one year five years five years Total or less one year five years five years Total $million $million $million $million $million $million $million $million $million $million Deposits by banks 25,306 3,124 892 152 29,474 34,764 3,252 812 115 38,943 Customer accounts 130,275 49,199 113,105 23,923 316,502 107,379 35,091 93,543 20,733 256,746 Total 155,581 52,323 113,997 24,075 345,976 142,143 38,343 94,355 20,848 295,689 1 Customer accounts have been reclassied between maturity proles Financial liabilities excluding derivative agree to the balances reported in the ofwhich relate to subordinated debt, on financial instruments on an undiscounted consolidated balance sheet as the table whichinterest payments are not included basis incorporates all contractual cash ows, on as this information would not be meaningful.
The following table analyses the contractual an undiscounted basis, relating to both Interest payments on these instruments cash ows payable for the Groups financial principal and interest payments.
areincluded within the maturities up to liabilities by remaining contractual maturities Within the More than five years maturity veyears.
The financial band are undated financial liabilities of liability balances in the table below will not $3,318 million 2009: $3,583 million, all 2010 2009 Between Between three Between three Between Three months one year Three months one year months and and More than months and and More than or less one year five years five years or less one year five years five years $million $million $million $million $million $million $million $million Deposits by banks 23,924 2,429 398 131 34,548 2,930 982 84 Customer accounts 258,243 36,672 6,023 1,783 219,763 25,469 4,351 536 Financial liabilities at fair value 12,304 2,996 3,038 4,060 8,763 2,644 2,508 1,676 Debt securities in issue 11,044 10,333 11,044 2,158 9,012 6,976 5,893 5,336 Subordinated liabilities and other borrowed funds 242 1,301 4,995 35,921 1,437 985 7,072 22,851 Other liabilities 16,015 2,678 624 9,025 14,838 1,046 387 7,991 Total liabilities 321,772 56,409 26,122 53,078 288,361 40,050 21,193 38,474 Gross loan commitments 61,642 18,746 13,476 1,739 45,910 12,751 18,552 539 Derivative financial instruments net liability position, together with the pay shown in this table and as a result the on an undiscounted basis leg of gross settled contracts regardless of derivative amounts in this table are inated Derivative financial instruments include whether the overall contract is in an asset by their exclusion.
those net settled derivative contracts in a or liability position.
The receiving leg is not 2010 2009 Between Between three Between three Between Three months one year Three months one year months and and More than months and and More than or less one year five years five years or less one year five years five years $million $million $million $million $million $million $million $million Derivative financial instruments 285,164 187,036 126,684 21,961 224,831 119,179 119,009 17,328 76 Standard Chartered Annual Report 2010 www.
com Business review Risk review Reputational risk Pension risk Operational risk Reputational risk is the potential for damage Pension risk is the potential for loss due to Operational risk is the potential for loss to our franchise, resulting in loss of earnings having to meet an actuarially assessed arising from the failure of people, process or or adverse impact on market capitalisation shortfall in the Groups pension schemes.
technology or the impact of external events.
as a result of stakeholders taking a negative Pension risk exposure is not concerned We seek to minimise our exposure to view of the organisation or its actions.
with the financial performance of our operational risk, subject to cost trade-offs.
pension schemes but is focused upon the Operational risk exposures are managed Reputational risk will arise from the failure risk to our financial position arising from our through a consistent set of management toeffectively mitigate one or more of need to meet our pension scheme funding processes that drive risk identication, country, credit, liquidity, market, regulatory, obligations.
The risk assessment is focused assessment, control and monitoring.
operational, environmental or social risk.
on our obligations towards our major Allemployees are responsible for day to pension schemes, ensuring that our funding The Group Operational Risk Committee day identication and management of obligation to these schemes is comfortably oversees the management of operational reputational risk.
Pension risk is risks across the Group, supported by monitored on a quarterly basis, taking business, functional, and country-level The Wholesale Banking Responsibility and account of the actual variations in asset committees.
This formal structure of Reputational Risk Committee and the values and updated expectations regarding governance provides the GRC with Consumer Banking Reputational Risk the progression of the pension fund assets confidence that operational risks Committee have responsibility for managing and liabilities.
are being proactively identied and reputational risk in their respective effectively managed.
businesses, while the GRC provides The PEC is the body responsible for Group-wide oversight, sets policy and governance of pension risk and it receives Group Operational Risk is responsible for monitors any material risk issues.
its authority directly from the Court.
setting and maintaining standards for operational risk management and At country level, the Head of Corporate measurement.
In addition specialist Affairs is the risk control owner and it is their operational risk control owners have responsibility to protect our reputation in responsibility for the management of that market with the support of the country operational risk arising from the following management team.
To achieve this, the activities Group-wide: legal processes, people management, technology Head of Corporate Affairs and Country management, vendor management, Chief Executive officer must actively: property management, security Promote awareness and application of management, accounting and financial our policy and procedures regarding control, tax management, corporate reputational risk authorities and structure and regulatory compliance.
Regulatory compliance risk is Encourage business and functions to set out in more detail under Regulatory take account of our reputation in all changes and compliance on page 51. decision-making, including dealings with customers and suppliers Each risk control owner is responsible for Implement effective in-country reporting identifying risks that are material to the systems to ensure they are aware of all Group and for maintaining an effective potential issues in tandem with control environment, which includes respective business committees dening appropriate policies and procedures for approval by authorised Promote effective, proactive riskcommittees.
com Standard Chartered Annual Report 2010 77
