Peter Sands Senior Independent Chairman Group Chief Executive Non-Executive Director John Peace joined the Board as Deputy Peter was appointed Group Chief Executive Rudy was appointed to the Board on Chairman in August 2007.
He was appointed on 20 November 2006.
He joined the Board 19 February 2001.
He is a non-executive Acting Chairman on 14 January 2009, and on 14 May 2002 as Finance Director, with director of Legal & General Group Plc, Chairman on 2 July 2009.
John is chairman responsibility for finance, risk, strategy AstraZeneca PLC and United Parcel Service, of Experian plc and Burberry Group plc.
He and technology and operations.
He joined Inc. a member of the board of the Financial is also a member of the board of governors Standard Chartered from consultancy McKinsey & Company, where he was Reporting Council and a member of the of Nottingham Trent University, deputy a director working in the banking and Supervisory Board of CSM.
He is also lieutenant for the County of Nottinghamshire technology sectors in a wide range non-executive chairman of Moorelds Eye and a fellow of the Royal Society of Arts.
Hospital and non-executive director of the Between 2000 and 2006, he was chief Operational Board of the Foreign and executive of GUS plc, having joined the board Commonwealth Ofce.
With a strong financial services, financial officer at Unilever from 2000 to 2007, retailing background and chairmanship having joined the board in 1998 as strategy experience, John brings extensive and technology director.
Rudy has international experience and exemplary considerable knowledge of the markets in governance credentials.
He has a thorough which we operate and, through his time at working knowledge of Asia.
Unilever, broad experience in one of the worlds most successful international corporations, gaining multinational financial experience.
Whilst serving on the Board he has demonstrated a detailed understanding of financial, risk and governance issues.
Rudy has demonstrated excellent stewardship as Chairman of the Audit Committee, and as a result of his length of service and commitment, he provides an in-depth knowledge of the Group that is invaluable to the Board, the Audit Committee, the Board Risk Committee and the Nomination Committee.
84 Standard Chartered Annual Report 2010 www.
Steve Bertamini Non-Executive Director Group Finance Director Group Executive Director Steve was appointed Group Executive Richard joined the Board on Richard was appointed Group Finance Director and Chief Executive, Consumer 1 January 2010.
He is a non-executive Director on 20 November 2006, and is Banking on 1 June 2008.
He previously director of University College London responsible for finance, corporate treasury, spent 22 years with GE, most recently as Hospitals Foundation Trust.
In 1976, group strategy, corporate development chairman and chief executive of GE North he joined JPMorgan and was group and risk.
Richard joined the Board on East Asia.
He was appointed president of comptroller and later managing director 16 November 2002 as Group Executive GE Capital Asia in January 2001, and of the London ofces.
In 1989, he was Director with responsibility for risk and assumed responsibility for the appointed director, group finance, Group Special Assets Management.
In conglomerates merger and acquisition at Midland Bank plc, later becoming February 2004 he assumed responsibility business in the Asia-Pacic region from group finance director, HSBC Holdings for legal and compliance, and from 2004.
In 1996, Richard was appointed March 2005, added responsibility for director and group chief financial officer growth and governance across Africa, the 6.
Jaspal Bindra of National Westminster Bank Plc, a Middle East, Pakistan, the UK, Europe and Group Executive Director position he held until April 2000.
He joined Standard Jaspal was appointed as Group Executive previous non-executive directorships Chartered from Barclays PLC, where he Director from 1 January 2010, keeping his include Tate & Lyle PLC, JPMorgan served as chief operating officer Barclays responsibilities for growth and governance Cazenove, Fortis NV, Fortis SA NV, Private Clients, and prior to that as group in Asia.
Jaspal joined the Bank in 1998 and Balfour Beatty plc, Gallaher Group Plc, financial controller.
He was group finance is a director of Standard Chartered Bank.
He was a council director of Woolwich plc.
He is a He has a wide range of international member and treasurer of the Open non-executive director of 3i Group plc and experience, including Global Head of Client University for eight years until 2009. is a member of the Governing Council of Relationships where he played a key role in Richard brings with him banking and the International Chamber of Commerce the introduction of the client-focused financial accounting knowledge.
Age 53. strategy that has served Wholesale Banking so well.
As Chief Executive officer in India, he oversaw the successful acquisition and integration of Grindlays Bank and set India on its path to become the largest profit contributor in the Group today.
com Standard Chartered Annual Report 2010 85 Board of directors 11.
Jamie Dundas Non-Executive Director Non-Executive Director Non-Executive Director Simon was appointed to the Board on Paul was appointed to the Board on Jamie was appointed to the Board on 1 May 2010.
He is an executive director 3 November 2003.
He is chairman of the 15 March 2004.
He is chairman of Jupiter and chief financial officer of AstraZeneca advisory board of Infrastructure UK, a Fund Management plc and deputy PLC.
Previously, he was financial director division of HM Treasury, mandated to bring president and former chairman of of Scottish Power plc and has 15 years a strategic focus to infrastructure Macmillan Cancer Support.
Over his career, experience at McKinsey & Company, development as a driver of economic Jamie has been a non-executive director of latterly as a senior director.
Simon brings growth in the UK.
He is also a non-executive J Sainsbury plc and Drax Group plc, chief to the Board significant financial and risk director of LAir Liquide SA and the Tetra executive of UK-based property company management experience gained from Laval Group and of the public interest body MEPC, finance director of the Airport his time with AstraZeneca PLC and of .
He was Authority Hong Kong and a director of Scottish Power plc.
Age 49. formerly group managing director of Royal Morgan Grenfell & Co Limited.
Jamie brings Dutch Shell and chief executive officer of its to the Board significant high level 12.
Ruth Markland global oil products business.
Following his experience in Hong Kong and a strong Non-Executive Director retirement from Shell in 2003 he was background in banking, including a deep Ruth was appointed to the Board on chairman of Rio Tinto from 2003 to 2009. understanding of the wholesale banking 3 November 2003.
She is chairman of He has also recently served as chair of the marketplace.
Age 60. the board of trustees of charity WRVS Commonwealth Business Council, as a and a non-executive director of The Sage member of the Defence Board of the 9.
Dr Han Seung-soo, KBE Group plc and a member of the supervisory Ministry of Defence and as a board member Non-Executive Director board of Arcadis NV.
She was a partner at of the INSEAD business school.
Paul has Dr Han is a former prime minister of the international law rm Freshelds Bruckhaus extensive experience of customer-facing Republic of Korea and joined the Board Deringer, managing their Asian ofces.
global businesses across our geographical on 1 January 2010.
He has a distinguished Having lived in Singapore and Hong Kong footprint and of managing a large global political, diplomatic and administrative for a total of 16 years, Ruth has significant commodities trading business.
Age 66. career serving as deputy prime minister expertise in Asia and a deep understanding and minister of finance, foreign affairs, and industry and trade before serving as prime of the regulatory environment.
Oliver Stocken minister in 2008 and 2009.
He also served Non-Executive Director as Korean ambassador to the US, chief 13.
John Paynter Oliver was appointed to the Board on of staff to the president, president of Non-Executive Director 1 June 2004.
He is chairman of Home the 56th Session of the United Nations John was appointed to the Board on Retail Group plc, Oval Limited and General Assembly, special envoy of the 1 October 2008.
He is a non-executive Stanhope Group Holdings Limited.
He is UN Secretary-General on Climate Change director of Jardine Lloyd Thompson also chairman of the MCC and chairman of and chairman of the 2009 OECD Ministerial Group plc, a non-executive director of the trustees of the Natural History Museum.
He is currently Standard Life Investments Limited and Previously he was deputy chairman of chairman of the Global Green Growth Standard Life Holdings Limited and is a 3i Group plc and finance director of Institute as well as a member of the UNSGs senior advisor to Greenhill and Co. Barclays PLC.
Olivers financial, banking High-Level Panel on Global Sustainability.
He was previously vice and international experience makes him a Dr Han brings with him valuable knowledge chairman of JPMorgan Cazenove.
He valuable contributor to the Board.
Age 69. of Asia and economics.
Age 74. joined Cazenove in 1979, where he worked for 29 years.
He was appointed partner in 17.
Val Gooding, CBE 1986 and later headed corporate finance, Group Company Secretary Non-Executive Director its largest business.
John brings a wealth Val was appointed to the Board on of experience in the elds of corporate 1 January 2005.
She is a non-executive broking, financial advisory and institutional director of J Sainsbury plc, the Lawn Tennis investor knowledge.
He has a deep Association and the BBC.
She is a member understanding of financial markets and of the advisory board of the Warwick the corporate sector.
Age 56. Business School, a trustee of the British Museum, lead non-executive director of the 14.
Mike Rees departmental board at the Home Ofce and Group Executive Director a member of the advisory committee of Mike was appointed to the Board on Virgin Group.
He joined Standard Val was chief executive officer of healthcare Chartered in 1990 as chief financial officer organisation BUPA, which she joined from for treasury, and was appointed regional British Airways where she held several treasurer in Singapore, responsible for executive positions.
One of Britains most our South East Asia treasury businesses, internationally recognised businesswomen, in October 1994.
He was appointed Head Val has a high level of knowledge of of Global Markets in late 2000, and two financial services and regulation, marketing years later was appointed Chief Executive, and customer service as well as people Wholesale Banking, with responsibility for management and corporate strategy.
all wholesale banking products in addition Age 60. to his responsibilities for global markets products.
86 Standard Chartered Annual Report 2010 www.
