SVG Capital plc Annual Report 2010 10 Business review The Business review provides shareholders with an overview of SVG Capitals: Investment objective and policy Investment portfolio review page10 page 15 Key Performance Indicators 20 largest underlying companies page 10 page20 Strategy page 11 Fund management business page 23 Marketplace page 13 Contractual arrangements page 23 Financial review page 14 Risks and risk management page 24 Introduction SVG Capital is an international private equity investor and fund management business with offices in London, Boston and Singapore.
The Group invests from its own balance sheet as well as on behalf of third-party investors through funds that it manages and or advises.
At 31 December 2010, total assets and commitments under management and or 1 advice were 4.7billion, including 3.0 billion managed or advised on behalf of third-parties.
Investment objective The Companys investment objective is to achieve capital appreciation by investing principally in private equity funds that are managed or advised by Permira, a leading international private equity specialist.
In addition, the Company invests in private equity funds that invest in Japan, North America, Asia and the life sciences sector, and in unquoted and quoted businesses through specialist funds and co-investments alongside these funds.
The Company may also invest in other private equity related assets and alternative asset classes.
The Groups Financial Key Performance Indicators are: To complement this investment objective and create capital and income for the Company, its fund management business structures, markets, manages and advises Shareholder total return products for investment in private equity related asset classes and in public equity using private equity techniques.
66.0% Year to 31 December 2010 Investment policy The Company invests principally in private equity funds managed or advised by 1.2% p. a. Permira, which provide it with exposure to a portfolio of companies that are diversified Since 1996 by vintage year, size, geography and industry sector.
Under current legislation, the Company operates so as to ensure that, at the point of acquiring or adding to its Net asset per share growth investment in any company or group, its holding in that company or group does not exceed 15.0% by value of its overall investments.
41.7% The Company has a desired average level of gearing of approximately 20.0% over time Year to 31 December 2010 and has an absolute maximum limit on borrowings of two times its adjusted capital and reserves, as set out in the Articles of Association of the Company.
Since 1996 Source Bloomberg Including the 31 December 2010 Directors unauditedvaluation of SVG Advisers and SVGInvestment Managers More information on non-financial KPIs are contained inthe Corporate social responsibility report on page 42.
1 This figure excludes SVG Capitals commitments investments in SVG Advisers managed or advised funds.
