SVG Capital plc Annual Report 2010 28 Board of Directors Nicholas Ferguson Chairman Nicholas Ferguson was appointed as a Director on 12 February 1996 and Chairman on 25 April 2005.
He was formerly Chairman of Schroder Ventures and instrumental in its development since 1984.
He is Deputy Chairman of British Sky Broadcasting Group Plc.
Committees: Nominations Chairman Lynn Fordham Chief Executive Lynn Fordham was appointed as a Director on 1 July 2008.
She is the Companys Chief Executive Officer.
She has over 20 years of financial experience and has worked in a number of companies including Mobil Oil, BAA plc, Boots Group plc and MAN Group plc.
She is chairwoman of SVG Advisers.
On 18 January 2011, Lynn joined Fuller, Smith and Turner P. L. C. as a non-executive director.
Francis Finlay Non-Executive Director Francis Finlay was appointed as a Director on 1 October 2004.
His other non-executive directorships of investment companies include the London listed investment trust, Scottish Investment Trust plc, as well as Blakeney Investors, Boyer Allan Holdings Limited and Old Mutual US Holdings Inc.
Committees: Remuneration Chairman Nominations Caroline Goodall Non-Executive Director Caroline Goodall was appointed as a Director of the Company on 4 October 2010.
She is currently a consultant to international law firm Herbert Smith, where she was a partner and held a number of senior management positions.
Caroline is an independent non-executive of accountancy firm Grant Thornton UK LLP.
She is also a non-executive director and trustee of the Woodland Trust and has sat as a non-executive on the Governing Body of Newnham College, Cambridge.
Committees: Remuneration Nominations SVG Capital plc Annual Report 2010 29 Edgar Koning Non-Executive Director Edgar Koning was appointed as a Director on 12 February 1996 and is Executive Vice President with AEGON Nederland NV.
He joined the AEGON Group in 1981 and has held various senior management positions in the AEGON Group.
Committees: Nominations Denis Raeburn Non-Executive Director Denis Raeburn was appointed as a Director on 25 June 2001 and was Managing Director of the asset management company Global Asset Management GAM between 1986 and 1999.
Committees: Audit Remuneration Nominations Charles Sinclair Non-Executive Director Charles Sinclair was appointed as a Director on 1 January 2005.
He is Chairman of Associated British Foods plc.
He retired as Chief Executive of Daily Mail and General Trust plc on 30 September 2008, a post he held since 1989.
Senior Independent Director Committees: Audit Nominations Andrew Sykes Non-Executive Director Andrew Sykes was appointed as a Director on 8 February 2010.
He is deputy chairman of Smith & Williamson Holdings Limited, chairman of Invista Foundation Property Trust Limited, Absolute Return Trust Limited.
He is also a non-executive director of SVG Advisers Limited, Record plc, Gulf International Bank UK Limited and MBIA UK Insurance Limited and chairs the investment committee of the Schroder Retirement Benefits Scheme.
Committees: Audit Chairman Nominations Corporate information
