SVG Capital plc Annual Report 2010 11 Strategy Investing in international private equity The Companys core investment focus is on international private equity.
Diversification The majority of the Companys investments are focused on one manager, Permira, an international private equity specialist.
The current contractual relationship with Permira is governed by the operating agreement of 21 March 2005 as set out in Contractual arrangements on page 23.
Information on the Companys investment portfolio, including the diversification of its underlying assets by vintage year, size, geography and industry sector is contained in the investment portfolio review on pages 15 to 19 and on page 2.
Building a successful fund management business SVG Capitals fund management businesses, SVG Advisers and SVG Investment Managers, structure, market, manage and advise products for investment in private equity and public equity using private equity techniques.
SVG Advisers SVG Advisers Limited SVGA is a specialist private equity fund management and advisory business.
It was established in 2001 to provide investors with innovative ways to access the private equity asset class.
SVGA has a strong track record of delivering private equity solutions for international investors and has funds and commitments under management and advice of 1 3.7billion.
It now advises eight diversified private equity fund of funds and five singlemanager funds, providing investors with tailored access to private equity.
SVGA has three offices in London, Boston and Singapore, offering on the ground access to major private equity markets.
It employs over 50 professionals across a broad range of complementary disciplines.
Investment SVGA has a long, proven track record in selecting private equity funds with high performance potential.
This is delivered through SVGAs robust investment process and expertise in portfolio construction, asset allocation and manager selection.
Over time SVGAs investment professionals have developed deep knowledge of the private equity universe and built extensive relationships, providing clients with discerning access to a global network of managers.
The investment team focuses mainly on US, European and Asian primary and secondary private equity opportunities.
In addition, SVGA also advises the SVG Capital Board on its investment portfolio.
Structuring and risk management SVGAs investment offering is complemented by legal and corporate finance capabilities.
SVGA has structured a number of innovative products to address investors specific investment requirements or constraints.
This has included structuring the first private equity collateralised fund obligation and a number of feeder vehicles which have provided investors with an alternative access route to single manager funds.
Effective risk management is critical to delivering an attractive return at an acceptable level of risk.
SVGAs corporate finance function has extensive experience in optimising investment portfolios with their financing.
This optimisation is incorporated into the design and construction of investment vehicles and in their ongoing management.
Investment and advisory solutions In addition to providing clients with access to private equity investment vehicles, SVGA provides clients with bespoke advice using its private equity, structuring and risk management capabilities.
1 At 31 December 2010 and including subsidiary undertakings.
Business review SVG Capital plc Annual Report 2010 12 Business review SVG Investment Managers SVG Investment Managers SVGIM is a London based specialist fund manager, created with the objective of adopting private equity investment techniques and adapting them for use in the public markets.
Established in 2002, SVGIM is one of Europes longest standing investors in this field.
It has a proven track record of disciplined and 1 responsible investing with assets under management of over 200.0 million.
SVGIM offers two investment strategies that follow the same distinctive investment process and are driven by a single research platform.
These strategies are available to investors via specific funds and to certain types of investors as segregated mandates: Unconstrained mandates These mandates invest in the equity of publicly listed companies where private equity based research indicates they are undervalued and where SVGIM have identified a specific catalyst that should lead to an increase in shareholder value.
These are focused portfolios typically made up of 25-35 holdings, offering full liquidity and transparency.
Strategic mandates For the strategic mandates SVGIM employs a philosophy of constructive corporate engagement.
These mandates invest in publicly listed companies where it has identified strategic, operational or management initiatives to create shareholder value.
Having done so SVGIM aims to increase the value of these companies by working in partnership with management and other stakeholders.
Strategic review In April 2009 the Company announced a strategic review with the objective of improving share price performance and liquidity.
To date there has been no change tothis strategy.
Below is a summary of the review: SVG Capital will remain a long-term investor in private equity, which has historically outperformed other asset classes over the course of the economic cycle.
In the near to medium term, the Board will seek to maximise shareholder value by focusing on maintaining and improving the strength of the balance sheet: and offering investors a choice between reinvestment in the private equity asset class and return of capital, once sufficient distributions are received.
Until the Company is in a position to offer the choice of reinvestment or a return of capital to shareholders, no new commitments to third-party managers will be made.
In this period, any new commitments will be minimal and limited to existing funds toprotect or enhance shareholder value, and commitments to new SVG Advisers funds, which will be capped at amounts required as a general partner or manager ofsuch funds.
The timing, number and size of such offers will be driven by the timing and size of receipt of distributions: by the requirement to comply with the constraints of the Companys senior borrowings: by relevant taxation legislation: and will be subject tothe Companys overall priority of maintaining a prudent level of debt.
A key driver of the pricing of any return of capital will be net asset value.
The mechanism chosen to return capital to shareholders will be decided nearer the time of distributions.
Currently the Board anticipates using pro-rata tender or other share buy-back mechanisms to provide those shareholders who wish to do so, with the ability to receive a return of capital in a simple, equitable, transparent and low cost way.
In accordance with existing contractual agreements, which were approved by shareholders in 2005, based on 31 December 2010 valuations, Permira funds currently represent 80.6% of the Companys investment portfolio, and in the short term this is not expected to change materially.
The world is going through a period of major economic change, and much of the outcome remains unclear.
As it becomes clearer, the Board may adjust this investment strategy, in consultation withshareholders.
SVG Advisers, the 100% owned subsidiary of SVG Capital, is a profitable, stand-alone fund management and advisory business.
It is an important asset for the Company and its shareholders.
