SVG Capital plc Annual Report 2010 13 Marketplace 2010 has marked a year of good, but steady, progress for the private equity industry.
Confidence has increased and helped drive deal and exit activity through the year.
The global economy appears to have improved, upheld in part by the strength of Asia and other emerging economies, but remains sensitive to events in the wider marketplace, suggesting it is still too premature to declare a full recovery.
Through the downturn private equity managers have adapted to the deteriorating environment and acted quickly and decisively to stabilise and maximise cost efficiencies at their underlying portfolio companies.
As a result, earnings at investee companies continue to improve, aided by a recovery in the financial markets.
Maintaining and improving the operating performance and actively monitoring the financing positions of underlying investments remains a continued focus for the managers, while also looking for appropriate exit routes for some of their more mature investments.
Deal activity continues to build momentum.
The fourth quarter of 2010 was particularly strong with US$65 billion of new deals announced the highest since 1 Q22008 and US$72 billion of exits the highest quarterly figure on record.
2011 looks promising, with the pipeline for IPOs and potential listings in the US 2 and Europe said tobe strong, and a robust start to global M&A activity.
A significant amount of unspent capital remains available for deals, keeping the pressure on pricing in the near term.
Private equity managers, keen to put this money to work, should benefit from the emergence of good quality, better capitalised, businesses that are surfacing from the downturn.
Managers are also focused on exiting appropriate investments.
As this dynamic plays out, the pace of calls and distributions should continue to pick up.
Debt markets have begun to ease, though terms are different to the pre-2008 era.
Asaresult, we might expect equity contributions which have been at high levels in the past few years start to fall a little through 2011.
Activity in the high yield bond market has increased as private equity managers, capitalising on renewed risk reward appetite, use this as a viable route to refinance and push out debt maturities at their portfolio companies.
In the short to medium term, private equity fundraising will likely remain challenging.
In light of this environment, limited partners LPs continue to scrutinise private equity managers on their intentions around fund sizes, fees and strategy.
The global private equity industry remains surrounded by a myriad of impending regulation.
While much of this has been approved, the lengthy implementation processof the majority of this legislation means the impact will not be realised for sometime yet.
Confidence in the private equity asset class remains: recent research suggests twice as many LPs are intending to increase their target allocation to private equity than reduce 3 it.
Despite the challenges of the last few years, the private equity asset class has, to-date, withstood the economic downturn well.
Whileprogress is likely to remain measured, the private equity market is beginning to move onto the front foot.
1 Preqin PE Spotlight January 2011 2011: A year of recovery?
2 As reported in Private Equity News 10 January 2011 Industry prepares for IPO surge.
3 Coller Global Private Equity Barometer Winter 2010-2011. Business review
