SVG Capital plc Annual Report 2010 23 Fund management businesses Funds managed or advised by SVG Advisers and SVG Investment Managers remain 1 unchanged at 4.0 billion.
The performance across the investment portfolios advised by SVG Advisers has continued to improve, reporting five consecutive quarters of valuation gains.
This has translated into positive NAV growth across the entire range of funds, in particular the leveraged funds, such as SVG Diamond I and II, which have reported significant rebounds in NAV.
Similarly, funds managed by SVG Investment Managers saw material gains and outperformed their relevant equity benchmarks over the year.
The fundraising environment for private equity and particularly funds of funds remains challenging and recent research has shown a sharp drop in the market share of fundsof funds.
Private equity is a cyclical business and we will continue to invest in people and upgrading the infrastructure of the business in order to ensure the business has a robust platform for growth, over the longer term.
As highlighted in June, this investment will impact profitability.
Total external fee income, all of which is recurring, stood at 25.6 million, which compares to 28.8 million for 2009, with external fee income being impacted by anumber of funds moving from a commitment to NAV based advisory fee.
Includingfees paid by SVG Capital to SVG Advisers, total fees earned by the operating subsidiaries and other income were 31.5 million, contributing 7.7 million to the Groups 2010 profit before tax.
This is an increase on 2009 and has been driven by a reduction in the cost base.
At 31 December 2010, the Directors have placed an unaudited valuation on the businesses of 53.7 million 17.0p per share.
This valuation represents a decline of 23.5million on 2009, a reflection of lower comparable multiples and a slightly reduced maintainable profit after tax being used for the valuation.
Contractual arrangements As was fully reported in a Circular to shareholders dated 24 March 2005, SVG Capital entered into arrangements with Permira which allowed SVG Capital full access to Permira IV and to its successor, Permira V. Concurrent with the arrangements, Permira subscribed for shares in the Company.
The arrangements also included an operating agreement which imposes material limits on the extent to which the Group may have investments which are not in Permira funds or Permira products.
These limits substantially prevent the Group from investing in private equity funds or products managed or advised by general partners or managers other than Permira during the term of the operating agreement.
One of the principal undertakings made by SVGCapital is that the Company will operate with the intention that no more than 20% of the gross assets and uncalled commitments of the Group will be in non-Permira funds or products subject to certain limited exceptions at the time of commitment and subject to a maximum of 25%.
The effect of the operating agreement therefore is to increase the Groups reliance on Permira and increase its concentration risk.
Subject to earlier termination, the operating agreement will terminate on the date on which the first closing of Permira V occurs if none of SVG Capital, any other member of the Group or any SVG product makes any commitment to Permira V or, if SVG Capital, any other member of the Group or any SVG product does so, the date of final closing of that fund.
There can be no assurance as to when Permira V will be raised.
If the first closing of Permira V has not occurred by 30 June 2012, the Company and Permira Holdings are each able to terminate the operating agreement by giving written notice.
A copy of the Circular to shareholders is available on the Companys website: www.
1 At 31 December 2010 and including subsidiary undertakings.
