O Ov five er rv viie ew w D Diir re ec ct to or rs s r re ep po or rt t: : D Diir re ec ct to or rs s r re ep po or rt t: : F Fiin na an nc ciia all S stta atte em me en ntts s B Bu us siin ne es ss s r re ev viie ew w G Go ov five er rn na an nc ce e 5 Directors report: Business review The Directors present their Annual Report to the shareholders together with the audited financial statements for the financial year ended 1 May 2010.
Thisreport, together with the Chairmans Statement describe the results and activity for the period, future plans, trends and factors affecting the development, position andperformanceof the business.
Principal activities Business objective and strategies Carpetright plc is Europes leading specialist floor The primary financial objective of the Group is to covering retailer, selling a wide range of carpets, deliver long-term sustainable growth in earnings per rugs, vinyls and laminates together with associated share and cash flow.
We aim to achieve this through accessories.
In addition, the product offering was the following strategies: extended to selling beds in the UK following the acquisition of Sleepright in December 2008.
Primary focus on floor coverings Ensuring we continually improve and develop our product ranges The Group trades from 703 stores organised toprovide consumers with a market leading product choice which andmanaged in two geographical segments.
offers great value, backed up by excellent customer service.
Theseare the UK & RoI comprising the UK and Develop a competitive bed proposition the Republic of Ireland and the Rest of Europe To grow the sales of beds and associated products, following thesameprinciples of choice, value and service.
comprising The Netherlands and Belgium.
Manage our store portfolio To grow our store base into local markets where we are not represented and to continually exploit opportunities which deliver better overall profitability.
Expansion into European countries To identify and pursue opportunities to grow Group profitability byextending the brand strengths across Europe.
Reaching more customers through additional channels To extend the reach of Carpetrights brand by growing sales through the insurance replacement market, becoming the preferred supplier offloor covering for new homes and developing our online business.
We aim to act responsibly towards all our stakeholders, including customers, suppliers, employees and the communities in which we operate.
Our annual Corporate Responsibility Report is available at www.
uk withasummary of our approach on pages 13 and14of this report.
