Overview Directors report: Directors report: Financial statements Business review Governance 15 Directors report: Governance Board of Directors Lord Harris of Peckham 67 Baroness Noakes 61 Chairman and Chief Executive Non-Executive Director Lord Harris is now in his 53rd year in carpet retailing and is one of Baroness Noakes, a chartered accountant, joined the Board in 2001. the best known names in the business.
He was Chairman and Chief Baroness Noakes is a Non-Executive Director of Severn Trent plc Executive of Harris Queensway plc from 1964 until the company and a trustee of the Thomson-Reuters Founders Share Company.
Lord Harris is a Non-Executive Director of Previously she was with KPMG for 30 years and was the Senior Arsenal Holdings plc and Arsenal Football Club plc.
He was a NonNon-Executive Director of the Bank of England and a Non-Executive Executive Director of Great Universal Stores plc for 18 years until Director of Hanson plc and ICI plc.
Baroness Noakes chairs the Audit July 2004 and was a Non-Executive Director of Matalan Plc for two and Nomination Committees and is the Senior Independent Director.
Simon Metcalf 67 Christian Sollesse 51 Non-Executive Director Managing Director, UK and Republic of Ireland Simon Metcalf joined the Board in 2004.
He is a chartered accountant Christian Sollesse joined Carpetright in 1995 having worked for and worked in corporate finance as a director of County Bank and many years in senior retail management roles in Harris Queensway its successor organisations for over 25 years, latterly as Vice Chairman and Harris Interiors.
Christian was appointed Sales Director in 1997 of Hawkpoint Partners.
He is currently a Non-Executive Director of with responsibility for sales and retail management.
In June 2005 The Collinson Group, Professional Travel Insurance Limited and a Christian was appointed Managing Director, UK and Republic of number of other private companies.
He is a trustee of the Bankside Ireland, taking responsibility for trading operations.
Simon chairs the Remuneration Committee.
Guy Weston 49 Martin Harris 41 Non-Executive Director Group Commercial Director Guy Weston joined the Board in 2005.
Guy began his career as a Martin Harris joined Carpetright in 1991, previously having been an management tutor and business analyst before entering the food Executive Director of Harveys Furnishing Group Limited.
Martin and beverage industry, working for R Twining & Co. Jacksons of became Marketing Director in 1997, resigning to become a NonPiccadilly and The Ryvita Company.
Currently Guy is Chairman Executive Director in 1998.
In November 2002 Martin resumed of Heals PLC and Wittington Investments Ltd, a Director of the Executive Director responsibilities as Buying Director and was Thrombosis Research Institute and a Trustee of the Garfield appointed Commercial Director when he assumed responsibility Weston Foundation.
Martin took on responsibility for supply chain and logistics in June 2005 and was responsible for the move Geoff Brady 56 to Carpetrights new central cutting and distribution centre and Non-Executive Director offices in early 2008.
Geoff Brady joined the Board in March 2008.
He has had a career of Neil Page 47 over 35 years in the retail sector including Chief Executive Officer of Group Finance Director Allied Carpets plc, Managing Director of Daimler Chrysler Retail Neil Page joined Carpetright in July 2008 as Group Finance UK and Commercial Director of Superdrug plc.
Neil began his career with British Rail and Marks and Chairman of Matalan Plc and a Non-Executive Director of Floors-2- Spencer.
He joined Superdrug in 1991, holding a variety of finance Go Plc, prior to both companies return to private ownership.
He is and operational positions before taking up the role of Finance and currently Non-Executive Chairman of both Robert Dyas and Harvey IT Director for AS Watson Health & Beauty UK Ltd in July 2002.
Jones Kitchens and a Non-Executive director of Saul D Harrison Plc.
He is an associate member of the Chartered Institute of Management Accountants.
