Active investment working for you Directors John Reeve June fide Moller John Reeve, Chairman, aged 66, was appointed a director in June fide Moller, aged 63, was appointed a director in 2005.
He was formerly executive chairman of the Willis She is a non-executive director of Derwent London PLC, Group, group managing director of Sun Life Assurance Archant Limited and a former managing director of Carlton Society and a member of the boards of the Association of Communications PLC.
She was previously a non-executive British Insurers and the International Insurance Society.
He director of J Sainsbury PLC, Cookson Group PLC and BT PLC.
is a director of a number of other companies.
Martin Riley Arthur Copple Martin Riley, aged 67, was appointed a director in 2004.
Arthur Copple, aged 56, was appointed a director in February He had 30 years experience in stockbroking and fund 2011.
He has specialised in the investment company sector management in the City and is a former director of for over 30 years.
He was a partner at Kitcat & Aitken, an Henderson Crosthwaite Ltd, Guinness Mahon & Co Ltd and executive director of Smith New Court PLC and a managing Barlows PLC.
He is currently chairman of SR Europe director of Merrill Lynch.
Currently, he acts as an advisor to Investment Trust PLC and Howard Investment Company Ltd investment management groups and is a director of a and a director of various private investment companies.
David Webster Richard Jewson David Webster, aged 66, was appointed a director in 2009.
Richard Jewson, aged 66, was appointed a director in 2001.
His career started in corporate finance at Samuel Montagu He first worked in the timber and building material supply before becoming a founder and subsequently chairman of industry, becoming managing director of Jewson, the Safeway PLC from which he retired in 2004.
He is currently builders merchants, for twelve years from 1974, and then chairman of InterContinental Hotels Group PLC and a nonmanaging director and chairman of its parent company executive director of Amadeus IT Holdings SA.
He has a Meyer International PLC from which he retired in 1993.
He wide range of other business interests including is currently chairman of Raven Russia Limited and Archant membership of the Appeals Committee of the Panel on Limited, and a non-executive director of Grafton Group PLC Takeovers and Mergers.
He was previously a non-executive and other private companies.
director of Reed Elsevier PLC.
All the directors are independent and members of the audit and nomination committees.
Below, left to right: John Reeve, Martin Riley, June fide Moller.
Chairman of the audit committee and Senior Independent Director.
Bottom, left to right: Richard Jewson, David Webster, Arthur Copple.
2 Temple Bar Investment Trust PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2010
