Active investment working for you Report of the directors continued control framework.
The framework begins through Performance narrowing down the universe of stocks by passing those In the year to 31 December 2010 the net asset value total companies with a market capitalisation above 100 million return of the Group was 15.2% compared with a total through a screening process which highlights the weakest return of the Groups benchmark index of 14.5%.
This isolates opportunities with addition, the graph below shows the ungeared investment attractive sentiment characteristics which are then in turn performance over a five year period compared with the scrutinised in greater detail to identify investment FTSE All-Share Index.
The Chairmans Statement on pages 4 opportunities.
to 5 and the Managers Report on pages 7 to 11 include a The process is very much bottom up and can result in review of developments during the year together with large sector positions being taken if enough stocks of information on investment activity within the Groups sufficient interest are found within a single sector.
portfolio and an assessment of future developments.
However, top down risk analysis is undertaken to identify potential concentration of risk and to factor this awareness Ungeared 5 year performance into portfolio construction.
The portfolio comprises stocks which have been purchased for different reasons and at different times.
In general, because of the bottom up approach to stockpicking, each of these reasons is independent of the other and the portfolio, therefore, is not excessively vulnerable to longer term macro trends.
Cash is a residual of the process and normally will not exceed 5% of the portfolio value.
The approach to stock selection and portfolio construction is driven by four core beliefs: 1.
Markets overreact to news on the upside and the downside.
The Manager aims to be sceptical of the crowd and aware of investor psychology, which often causes overvaluation of those stocks that are deemed to have good prospects and an undervaluation of those which are out of favour.
There are few companies which sustain below normal profits over the longer term.
Weaker companies tend to Key performance indicators leave an industry, thus improving the balance of supply The key performance indicators KPIs used to determine and demand, are bid for or management is changed.
the progress and performance of the Group over time, and Similarly, there are few companies which can sustain which are comparable to those reported by other supernormal profits over the longer term.
Such profits investment trusts, are set out below: tend to be competed or regulated away.
Net asset value total return relative to the 3.
Fundamental valuation is the key determinant of stock FTSE All-Share Index prices over the long term.
In other words cheap stocks Performance attribution will outperform expensive stocks.
Discount on net asset value 4.
Diversification is an important control.
Particular Earnings and dividends per share companies or sectors can be out of favour for a Total expense ratio considerable time.
While some elements of performance against KPIs are beyond management control they provide measures of the Groups absolute and relative performance and are, therefore, monitored by the Board on a regular basis.
Net asset value NAV total return In reviewing the performance of the assets of the Groups portfolio the Board monitors the net asset value in relation to the FTSE All-Share Index.
During the year the net asset value total return of the Group was 15.2% compared with a total return of 14.5% by the FTSE All-Share Index.
Temple Bar Investment Trust PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2010 17
