Active investment working for you Report of the directors continued Performance attribution Total expense ratio TER The purpose of performance attribution analysis is to The TER is an expression of the Groups management fees assess how the Group achieved its performance relative to and all other operating expenses including tax relief where its benchmark index.
Details of the attribution analysis for allowable but excluding interest payments as a percentage the year ended 31 December 2010 are given below.
of average month-end net assets over the year.
The TER for the year ended 31 December 2010 was 0.44% 2009: Performance attribution analysis 0.46%.
The Board reviews each year a comparison of the for the year ended 31 December 2010 % Groups TER with those of its peers.
At the present time the Group has one of the lowest TERs in the growth and Change in net asset value excluding retained income sector of investment trust companies.
income per ordinary share 10.21 Income distributed to shareholders 3.83 Principal risks and uncertainties 14.04 The principal risks facing the Group fall under the general Expenses 0.43 categories of strategy, operational and management risks.
Finance costs 0.91 With the assistance of the Manager the Board has drawn Impact of gearing and valuation of debt up a risk matrix which identifies the key risks to the Group excluding retained income on portfolio balance 1.17 under these broad headings.
The Board reviews and agrees Effect of including income in ungeared policies, which have remained unchanged since the net asset value calculation 0.18 beginning of the accounting period, for managing these Change in total return in ungeared risks, as summarised below.
net asset value per ordinary share 14.03 Investment strategy Total return of FTSE All-Share Index 14.51 An inappropriate investment strategy on matters such as as % of opening Total Assets asset allocation or the level of gearing may lead to underperformance against the Groups benchmark index or Discount on net asset value peer companies, resulting in the Groups shares trading on The Board monitors the premium discount at which the a wider discount.
The Board manages such risks by Groups shares trade in relation to the assets.
During the diversification of investments through its investment year the shares traded at an average discount to NAV of restrictions and guidelines, which are monitored and 0.9%.
This compares with an average discount of 1.6% in reported on by the Manager.
The Manager provides the the previous year.
Good relative performance has helped directors with regular and accurate management maintain the discount at a steady level.
The Board and information including absolute and relative performance Manager closely monitor both movements in the Groups data, attribution analysis, revenue estimates, liquidity share price and significant dealings in the shares.
In order reports, risk profile and shareholder analysis.
The Board to avoid substantial overhangs or shortages of shares in the monitors the implementation and results of the investment market the Board asks shareholders to approve resolutions process with the Portfolio Manager, who attends Board which allow for the buy back of shares and their issuance meetings.
Periodically the Board holds a separate meeting which can assist in the management of the discount.
devoted to strategy, the most recent one being in Regular demand generated by monthly investment in the September 2010.
Savings Scheme and the use of marketing and promotional activity also assist in keeping the discount at an acceptable Income risk dividends level.
Generating the necessary level of income from portfolio investments to meet the Groups expenses and to provide Earnings and dividend per share adequate reserves from which to base a sustainable It remains the directors intention to distribute over time by programme of increasing dividend payments to way of dividends substantially all of the Groups net revenue shareholders is subject to the risk that income generation income after expenses and taxation.
The Manager aims to from investments fails to meet the level required.
The maximise total returns from the portfolio and attaches great Board monitors this risk through the receipt of detailed importance to dividends in achieving total return.
income reports and forecasts which are considered at each The portfolio will typically provide a yield premium to meeting.
As at 31 December 2010 the Group had the market.
The final dividend recommended for the year is distributable revenue reserves of 29.943 million before 23.7p per ordinary share which brings the total for the year declaration of the final dividend for 2010 of 13.974 million.
to 34.2p per ordinary share, an increase of 2.1%.
This will be the 27th consecutive year in which the Group has increased the overall level of its dividend payment.
18 Temple Bar Investment Trust PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2010
