Active investment working for you Report of the directors continued On 12 January 2011 Mr Reeve acquired a further 108 MANAGEMENT CONTRACT ordinary shares in the Group through his regular monthly The Group has a management agreement with IAM for the saving in an ISA and on 10 February 2011 he acquired a provision of investment management, secretarial, further 110 ordinary shares.
On 24 January 2011 accounting and administrative services.
The agreement is Mr Jewson and Mrs fide Moller acquired a further 28 and 56 subject to one years notice of termination by either party.
ordinary shares respectively in the Group through their IAM receives an investment management fee of 0.35% regular monthly savings in the Temple Bar Investment per annum, payable quarterly, based on the value of the Trust Savings Scheme.
No other changes in the interests investments including cash of the Group.
Investments in shown above occurred between 31 December 2010 and funds managed by the Investec Group are wholly excluded 23 February 2011. from this charge.
60% 2009: 60% of the investment No other person was a director during any part of the management fee payable to IAM is charged by the Group year.
Mr Arthur Copple was appointed as an additional to capital and the remaining 40% 2009: 40% to the director on 3 February 2011. revenue account on the basis of the expected long-term The directors retiring by rotation and or in compliance division of returns.
with the provisions of the AIC Code are Mr Reeve, The investment management fee charged for the year Mr Jewson and Mr Riley.
Mr Copple will also offer himself ended 31 December 2010 amounted to 1,938,000 2009: for re-election, being the first Annual General Meeting since 1,650,000. his appointment.
Each of these directors being eligible, the IAMs performance under the contract and the contract Board recommends their re-election.
In making these terms are reviewed at least annually.
This covers, inter alia, recommendations the Board has carefully reviewed the the performance of the Manager, their management composition of the Board as a whole and borne in mind the processes, investment style, resources and risk controls.
The need for a proper balance of skills and experience.
The Board endorses the investment approach adopted by the Board does not believe that length of service per se Manager, recognising that while the contrarian style can detracts from the independence of a director, particularly in sometimes lead to short-term periods of underperformance relation to an investment trust, and on that basis considers it usually delivers good investment returns over a longer that the directors standing for re-election are independent.
The Groups performance over three and five year It is confirmed that, following formal evaluation, the periods relative to both its benchmark and its peer group performance of each director continues to be effective and has been excellent.
In addition, the portfolio has produced each continues to demonstrate commitment to the role.
high and growing dividend income to shareholders.
In the There were no contracts subsisting during or at the end opinion of the directors the continued appointment of the of the year in which a director of the Group is or was Manager on the terms set out above is, therefore, in the interested and which are or were significant in relation to best interests of shareholders.
No director has a service contract with the Group.
DONATIONS No political or charitable donations were made during the PAYMENT OF SUPPLIERS year 2009: Nil.
The Groups policy is to obtain the best possible terms of payment from suppliers for all forms of business.
All terms DISCLOSURE OF INFORMATION TO AUDITORS agreed with suppliers have been complied with during the The directors are not aware of any relevant information of year.
There were no trade creditors at the year-end.
which the auditors are unaware and have taken all the steps that they ought to have taken as directors in order to SUBSTANTIAL SHAREHOLDERS make themselves aware of any relevant audit information As at 23 February 2011 the following had indicated an and to establish that the Groups auditors are aware of that interest in 3% or more of the issued ordinary shares of the information.
% AUDITORS A resolution to re-appoint Ernst & Young LLP as auditors to Brewin Dolphin Limited 5.01 the Group will be proposed at the Annual General Meeting Legal & General Group plc 3.98 AGM on 29 March 2011.
AXA SA 3.12 20 Temple Bar Investment Trust PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2010
