Active investment working for you Report of the directors The directors present their report and accounts for the year positions may be sanctioned by the Board and up to 10% ended 31 December 2010. of the portfolio may be held in listed international equities in developed economies.
The Group may continue to hold BUSINESS REVIEW securities that cease to be quoted or listed if the Manager Introduction considers this to be appropriate.
There is an absolute limit This business review forms part of the Report of the of 10% on individual stocks with a maximum exposure to a Directors.
Its function is to provide a balanced and specific industrial or commercial sector of 25%, in each comprehensive review of the Groups performance and case irrespective of their weightings in the benchmark development during the year and its position at the year-end.
The review also covers the principal risks and uncertainties It is the Groups policy to invest no more than 15% of faced by the Group and sets out key performance its gross assets in other listed investment companies indicators used to measure, monitor and manage the including listed investment trusts.
The Group maintains a diversified portfolio of Temple Bar Investment Trust PLC was incorporated in investments, typically comprising 70-80 holdings, but 1926 with the registered number 214601. without restricting the Group from holding a more or less concentrated portfolio from time to time as circumstances Business of the Group require.
The Group carries on business as an investment company The Groups long-term investment strategy emphasises: under Section 833 of the Companies Act 2006 and was Achieving a portfolio yield of between 120-140% of approved by HM Revenue & Customs as an investment that of the FTSE All-Share Index.
trust in accordance with Section 1158 of the Corporation Stocks of companies that are out of favour and whose Tax Act 2010 for the year ended 31 December 2009.
In the share prices do not match the Managers assessment of opinion of the directors the Group has subsequently their longer term value.
conducted its affairs so that it should continue to qualify.
From time to time fixed interest holdings or non equity The Groups principal business activity of investment interests may be held on an opportunistic basis.
management is sub-contracted to Investec Asset Derivative instruments are not normally used but in Management Limited IAM under the ultimate certain circumstances, and with the prior approval of the supervision of the board of directors.
The Group has one Board, their use may be considered either for hedging wholly owned subsidiary company, whose principal purposes or to exploit a specific investment opportunity.
Liquidity and borrowings are managed with the aim of A review of the business is given in the Chairmans increasing returns to shareholders.
The Groups gearing Statement and the Managers Report.
The results of the range total gross assets divided by total net assets may Group are shown on page 28. fluctuate between 75% and 130%, based on the current balance sheet structure, with an absolute limit of 150%.
Going concern Risk is managed through diversification of holdings, The directors have reviewed the going concern basis of investment limits set by the Board and appropriate accounting for the Group.
The Groups assets consist financial and other controls relating to the administration substantially of equity shares in listed companies and in of assets.
most circumstances are realisable within a short timescale.
The use of the going concern basis of accounting is Investment approach appropriate because there are no material uncertainties The investment approach of our Manager is premised on a related to events or conditions that may cast significant contrarian view on the timing of buy and sell decisions, doubt about the ability of the Group to continue as a going buying the shares of companies when sentiment towards concern.
them is thought to be near its worst and selling them as fundamental profit improvement and or re-evaluation of Investment objective and policy their long-term prospects takes place.
The Groups investment objective is to provide growth in The belief is that repeated investor behaviour in driving income and capital to achieve a long-term total return down the prices of out of favour companies to below their greater than the benchmark FTSE All-Share Index, through fair value will offer investment opportunities.
This will investment primarily in UK securities.
The Groups policy is allow the Group to purchase shares at significant discounts to invest in a broad spread of securities with typically the to their fair value and to sell them as they become more majority of the portfolio selected from the constituents of fully valued, principally as a result of predictable patterns in the FTSE 100 Index.
The UK equity element of the portfolio will be mostly The Managers process is designed to produce best invested in the FTSE All-Share Index: however, exceptional ideas to drive active fund management within a rigorous 16 Temple Bar Investment Trust PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2010
