Active investment working for you Managers report concluded that virtually all economic inclined to drop their defences and scenarios were beneficial for equity scout about for almost as good markets.
The bull market fire was assets with similar or better yields stoked further when Ben Bernanke, and of almost equal quality.
Clearly in the Chairman of the US Federal 2009, bonds fitted the bill perfectly.
Reserve, explained in a newspaper Offering a high yield and relative article that one of the main safety, holders of cash did not need objectives of the second bout of to move far from their circle of Quantitative Easing was specifically competence to boost their yield.
to move equity prices higher.
However, as bond yields ground With investors in such gung-ho lower, investors were persuaded that mood, there was little appetite for equities were a more than acceptable anything too dull or boring.
How, they good corporate news was rewarded, asked, could a stock yielding 3, 4 or irrespective of its source.
Apparently sought those companies offering they asked this with a straight face evidence of recovery in western despite the illusorily high yields of markets, those offering thematic various banking shares just three growth prospects or with a strong years ago.
The famous stock market proverb emerging market presence or even It is interesting that the current that bull markets climb a wall of those simply lucky enough to be equity market recovery from the bear worry typically wheeled out by marked out as quality companies.
In market lows has been one of the smug bulls eager to ignore bearish this environment, investors generally strongest on record.
The few bulls commentary was oft-quoted in shied away from larger companies there were at the bottom were 2010.
Negative issues such as the and this was reflected in the certainly not suggesting that by the travails of various European performance of the major indices end of 2010 equity markets would be economies, the disintegrating Irish during the year: the FTSE Small Cap back to levels last reached before the banking industry, increasing Index rose 16.3%, the FTSE Mid Cap bankruptcy of Lehman Brothers.
While commodity prices and the deepening Index rose by 24.2% and the FTSE a number of reasons have been malaise in US housing were shrugged 100 Index by 9.0%.
proffered for this super strength, we off as equities moved relentlessly As it became clear that short-term believe that much of it is due to the higher.
Successive market corrections interest rates were likely to be lower huge bounce in corporate were increasingly benign as investors for longer, investors in cash were profitability.
Many companies cut The current equity market recovery from the bear market lows has been one of the strongest on record.
Temple Bar Investment Trust PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2010 7 Active investment working for you Managers report continued costs aggressively in the downswing Our investment style focuses on out of and avoided replacing them as turnover increased, thus producing a favour companies whose operational significant boost to their bottom lines.
performance is some distance below their The result of this leap in profitability is that, relative to its potential.
Currently, there are relatively few historic trends, corporate profitability as a share of GDP is stretched.
course, it could move further from its long-term average, but our expectation is that it will, at some point, mean revert.
Many strategists buy shares when low levels of highlighted purchases of UK believe current profitability points to profitability are available at low Commercial Property, British Land, SIG the rude health of the body ratings.
Usually this can only be and Qinetiq.
We added to the latter corporate, but an alternative implemented one purchase at a time two in the second half of the year.
explanation is that it illustrates the although sometimes whole swathes Qinetiq had moved lower after our paucity of labour power or a of the market become available at initial acquisition as investors feared significant lack of capital investment these bargain prices.
the impact of large cuts in in recent years.
Higher profits do not government defence spending and come from thin air: they are merely a Portfolio Activity SIG continued to lag behind its transfer of value.
When this transfer is Against this backdrop of strong closest peers in terms of both a positive for companies, investors are profitability and full valuations it will operational and share price prone to excitement, but with many be no great surprise that our activity performance.
We also added to our companies operating at, or near, their has been fairly low.
Our investment holdings in Grafton and Kingspan, peak margin we find it difficult to style focuses on out of favour which appeared to be restrained by enthuse about their prospects.
companies whose operational their Irish status: well discounted in Importantly, it is not just that performance is some distance below the shares of the former and virtually earnings are cyclically high, but that their potential.
Currently, there are irrelevant in the latter.
investors must pay quite a lot for relatively few such companies and, of Three new international holdings those earnings.
This has not those we have investigated, we often were introduced to the portfolio historically proved to be a great point found sufficient barriers to discourage during the year: Pfizer, Medtronic and from which to generate high returns.
any urge to become shareholders.
Pharmaceutical stocks Ideally of course, one would wish to In the interim report we have been in the doldrums for some Portfolio distribution % Temple Bar FTSE All-Share portfolio Index %% Oil & Gas 14.39 16.86 Health Care 12.27 6.91 Industrial Goods & Services 11.97 7.06 Cash & Fixed Interest 10.10 Telecommunications 8.36 6.02 Retail 7.76 4.29 Banks 7.28 12.16 Food & Beverage 6.29 5.17 Personal & Household Goods 5.63 5.96 Real Estate 3.77 1.65 Technology 3.24 1.57 Utilities 3.06 3.69 Travel & Leisure 2.28 2.71 Basic Resources 1.45 13.54 Construction & Materials 1.44 0.23 Media 0.61 2.66 Chemicals 0.10 0.54 Automobiles & Parts 0.19 Insurance 3.69 Financial Services 5.10 100.00 100.00 8 Temple Bar Investment Trust PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2010 Active investment working for you Managers report continued time with pressure coming from many years.
Medtronics products growth more aggressive management of sides: concerns over patent expiries, rates have slowed in recent years and assets is required to optimise the the introduction of competing generic the company has also experienced companys profitability, but we are drugs, worries that pricing power specific problems with product recalls comfortable that the current would continue to be eroded, tighter and regulatory investigations.
valuation provides a good margin of regulatory requirements on new drugs However, the shares now discount a safety against short-term margin and the continuing lack of blockbuster pretty dismal future and one which erosion.
Some of these we think is unlikely given the As we move into a new year, we are indisputable while others may companys many positive attributes.
once again find ourselves defending simply be transient and requiring a Avon Products has been selling our large holdings in a number of the change of luck.
For example, it is cosmetics door-to-door for over biggest stocks in the equity market.
clearly impossible to forecast the one hundred years and currently has Despite offering some of the lowest profile of the development of a 5.8 million representatives in 66 valuations and highest yields, many of successful new blockbuster drug.
Its estimated market share these stocks, such as Royal Dutch shares many of the industrys woes of the global direct selling market is Shell and GlaxoSmithKline, continue and has a particularly unattractive 29%.
Competition in many of Avons to make little headway against the patent cliff as its biggest selling drug markets has impeded its progress in market.
A number of investors seem Lipitor comes off-patent this year.
recent years and necessitated a large convinced that big can never be However, we believe that investors restructuring of the business.
beautiful, but we think there is a risk are generously compensated for the However, to date there has been little that current trends are simply being well-aired negatives with strong of positive note to come from the extrapolated.
We see as many, if not balance sheets, attractive ratings and restructuring and investor patience is more, positives to size as negatives high dividend yields.
The acquisition clearly running out.
We believe that and, therefore, do not believe there is of Pfizer also allows us to diversify the Avon franchise remains strong and any fundamental reason why there our exposure in the sector away from is bruised rather than bust.
Perhaps a should not be a snapback in the UK-listed stocks.
Medtronic is a manufacturer of medical products such as heart As we move into a new year, we once again pacemakers, drug-eluding stents and find ourselves defending our large holdings in defibrillators.
It is the market leader in almost every area in which it a number of the biggest stocks in the equity operates and has generated sector leading margins for the last fifteen market.
Temple Bar Investment Trust PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2010 9 Active investment working for you Managers report continued performance.
There has undoubtedly and Computacenter.
Perhaps than all of its peers we were unable been sizeable selling of these stocks somewhat surprisingly in a year when to obtain sufficient comfort to allay by large institutions over recent years equities performed so well, the our concerns that a dramatic and there has not been sufficient Exchange Traded Fund ETF we held deterioration could significantly affect good news to help supply in gold shares also performed strongly.
Blocks equity value and, consequently, replacement shareholders.
However, The analysis below takes into decided to sell the shares.
we stand by the remarks made in last account the impact of stocks not held years report and believe that when in the portfolio.
It is evident from this Revenue investors return to the more that performance was held back by The major variable on the revenue mundane strategy of getting rich our continued reluctance to invest in generated in 2010 relative to our slowly then the positive characteristics non-gold mining stocks and our original expectations was the of these shares will be highlighted.
large position in mega cap stocks significant reduction in dividends such as GlaxoSmithKline, received from BP.
As we highlighted in Attribution AstraZeneca, HSBC and Unilever.
our interim report, the company As can be seen from the attribution The worst individual stock suspended its dividend after the analysis below the big winner on the performance was H&R Block, Deepwater Horizon rig disaster.
portfolio during 2010 was Signet following its strong performance after However, income received on the rest Jewelers.
This was a double relief we had purchased it in 2009. of the portfolio significantly exceeded because not only was it one of the Although the companys core tax expectations, slightly more than largest holdings, but it was also a return business continued to offsetting the BP shortfall, but still stock about which we have written in disappoint, the main reason for the left a deficit that was made good by detail over the years the closest to a shares underperformance was due to partial use of the revenue reserve.
curse a fund manager can place on a business the company no longer Our original forecast for 2011 one of his holdings.
Option One was a sub-prime showed another, but smaller, revenue Signet is now the third largest on the mortgage lender which Block sold in deficit, although the recently portfolio, but we are reluctant to sell 2007.
However, Block retained a announced reintroduction of a the shares until they move closer to contingent liability guaranteeing the modest dividend by BP should our, reasonably conservative, estimate quality of the mortgages which it had eliminate most of this shortfall.
Other plus points were sold into securitisations.
As the US ever, the revenue account is most BT, which finally showed signs of housing and mortgage market vulnerable to significant changes in improving operational performance unwound, these contingent liabilities the relationship between sterling and and some of our holdings in smaller grew and while Block has experienced the US dollar and to individual companies, Devro, Games Workshop far lower claims in percentage terms dividend cuts.
Attribution analysis by stock % Source: Datastream 10 Temple Bar Investment Trust PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2010 Active investment working for you Managers report continued the situation.
It is, however, rather We are currently in a position where we are likely that the aphorism dont fight more comfortable sticking with the stocks we the Fed does not stand up to much detailed analysis.
own than swapping them for alternatives.
While we enjoy a party as much as the next person, we do however However, we are confident that interesting become a touch nervous when prospects will make themselves known and investors lose their fear of the unknown and confidently assert that we remain ready to pounce.
the future will be bright.
Most perversely, some seem to believe that, even if conditions deteriorate, this Gearing straightforward to ensure a fully would be good news too, as it would As with 2009 we held a significant invested position, but we have catalyse extremely radical, and equity amount of cash, similar liquid assets historically found that this simply positive, monetary policy.
and corporate bonds and ended the encourages the use of fillers.
We We refuse to be seduced by year with 10.1% of the portfolio in believe that the patient investor is market trends or macro-economic such assets.
As we have stated before, ultimately rewarded generously for pronouncements.
Instead, we remain we do not use gearing to fund shorthis inactivity.
focused on individual stock term punts on market direction.
We are currently in a believe this is a foolhardy strategy Outlook position where we are more with a decent chance of ending in The current conventional wisdom is comfortable sticking with the stocks disaster.
Ultimately, hubris invites the that the worlds monetary authorities we own than swapping them for investor to believe he can could not possibly match the mistake alternatives.
However, we are consistently read market runes and that allowed Lehman Brothers to go confident that interesting prospects will encourage a badly timed and bankrupt and created widespread will make themselves known and we over-sized bet.
The view is that equity remain ready to pounce.
Despite its apparent drag on markets point of maximum performance, we enjoy holding shortvulnerability has therefore passed.
The discipline this a rather endearing feature of investors provides, ensures that we purchase that, whatever unexpected events Alastair Mundy only shares in which we have high occur, the majority still believe that For Investec Asset Management Limited conviction.
It would be relatively the powers that be are in control of 23 February 2011 Temple Bar Investment Trust PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2010 11
