DIRECTORS REPORT The Directors submit their Annual Report together with the Financial Statements of the Company for the eleven month period ended 31 March 2010. BUSINESS REVIEW Principal Activity and Investment Status The Company is a public limited company in terms of the Companies Act 2006 and is an investment company under Section 833 of the Companies Act 2006.
In the opinion of the Directors, the Company has directed its affairs so as to be able to continue to seek approval as an investment trust from the HM Revenue & Customs under Section 842 of the Income and Corporation Taxes Act 1988 replaced on 1 April 2010 by Section 1158 of the Corporation Tax Act 2010 each year.
Investment Policy The objective of the Company is to provide long-term capital appreciation for its shareholders through investment in companies operating in emerging markets or whose stocks are listed on the stock markets of such countries.
No material change will be made to this policy without shareholder approval.
The Investment Manager employs a bottom-up, value oriented, long-term approach to investing.
It focuses on the market price of a companys securities relative to the Investment Managers evaluation of the companys long-term earnings, asset value and cash flow potential.
As it looks for investment, it focuses on specific companies and undertakes in-depth research to construct an action list from which it makes its buy decisions.
Before a purchase is made, it looks at the companys potential earnings and growth over a five-year horizon.
During its analysis, it also considers the companys position in its sector, the economic framework and political environment.
Risk is spread by investing in a number of holdings, some of which themselves are diversified companies.
Where possible, investment will generally be made directly in the stock markets of emerging countries.
Where the Investment Manager determines appropriate, for example to gain access to markets closed to foreign portfolio investors, investment may be made in emerging markets through collective investment schemes, although such investment is not likely to be substantial.
In addition, investment in companies listed on more developed countries stock exchanges may also be made where those companies have a significant source of their revenue from emerging countries.
The Investment Manager does not anticipate investing a significant part of the Companys assets in such companies.
In any event, Templeton Asset Management Ltd. TAML or the Investment Manager, as the Investment Manager to the Company, will invest directly only in countries where it is satisfied that acceptable custodial and other arrangements are in place to safeguard TEMITs investments and in companies with perceived satisfactory governance procedures.
It is intended that the Companys funds will normally be invested in equity investments: the Investment Manager may invest in equity-related investments such as convertibles where there are perceived to be advantages to so doing.
The portfolio will frequently be over-weight or under-weight against the index and may be concentrated into a more limited number of sectors or geographical areas countries.
This is consistent with its investment approach of long-term value investing.
The Investment Manager evaluates investment opportunities with updated financial ratios on a daily basis, and adjusts the portfolio to seek optimal exposures to stocks which are assessed to be best bargains in global emerging markets.
The Investment Manager searches for well-managed companies assessed as undervalued, especially those that are out-of-favour among investors.
On the other hand, the Investment Manager sells companies that, in its opinion, are overvalued, typically when the earnings prospects or underlying net asset values are fully recognised by other investors.
TEMPLETON EMERGING MARKETS INVESTMENT TRUST PLC 25 DIRECTORS REPORT CONTINUED The Investment Managers investment research and portfolio construction processes may be summarised in five steps: 1 Identify Opportunities A master list is compiled which is screened for securities that meet certain market capitalisation and liquidity criteria as determined by the Investment Manager: 2 Analyse Companies A detailed analysis of the stocks industry and financial accounts is undertaken along with a visit to the company to interview management, assess its quality of product or services, analyse customers and competitors and ascertain competitive advantage: 3 Construct Action List Each stock on this list has a specified buy and sell target.
This selection list is a dynamic list that is monitored continually: 4 Allocate Portfolio On a weekly basis, the portfolio is reviewed for consistency and to ensure that it complies with the Investment Managers investment committee guidelines: and 5 Evaluate and Monitor Portfolio Once the portfolio has been constructed, each investment within the portfolio is reviewed against price targets set for the securities.
These targets are continually updated, with comparisons made with the sector that the security operates in.
Contact is also maintained with the company and its suppliers and staff.
The general policy of the Board is to be fully invested.
In response to market conditions, the Investment Manager may hold funds temporarily in cash or other appropriate assets.
Key Performance Indicators The following are considered key performance indicators for the Company: the return in net asset value per share compared to its benchmarks: the movement in share price and discount: and the total expense ratio.
Performance The Investment Manager employs a value investing strategy and purchases stocks trading at less than their assessed value.
In the period to 31 March 2010, the Companys net asset value per share produced a total return of 72.8%.
This was well ahead of the Companys benchmark, the MSCI Emerging Markets Index, which returned 52.0%.
Since inception, the Company is well ahead of the benchmark as the net asset value total return for TEMIT is 2,180% 16.3% per annum compared with a total return of 940% 12.0% per annum for the MSCI Emerging Markets Index.
26 TEMPLETON EMERGING MARKETS INVESTMENT TRUST PLC The graph below shows the return of TEMITs NAV and share price relative to the MSCI Emerging Markets Index over the last 5 years: TEMIT's NAV and Share Price relative to the benchmark 200 180 160 140 120 100 80 Mar-05 Mar-06 Mar-07 Mar-08 Mar-09 Mar-10 The graph below shows the relative annual return of TEMITs NAV and share price against the MSCI Emerging Markets Index.
Annual NAV and Share Price total return relative to the benchmark total return 16% 14% 12% 10% 8% 6% 4% 2% 0% -2% -4% 2005 06 2006 07 2007 08 2008 09 2009 10 TEMIT NAV relative return TEMIT Share Price relative return periods are TEMIT reporting periods.
The Chairmans Statement on pages 4 to 6 and the Investment Managers Report on pages 10 to 17 include a review of the main developments during the period and the investment outlook.
TEMPLETON EMERGING MARKETS INVESTMENT TRUST PLC 27 DIRECTORS REPORT CONTINUED Share Capital and Discount The Board is aware that discount volatility is unwelcome to many shareholders and has powers to buy back the Companys shares as a discount control mechanism when it is in the best interests of the Companys shareholders.
The share price of TEMIT increased by 69.5% to 577.0p as at 31 March 2010 from 340.5p as at 30 April 2009.
Over the eleven months, the Companys discount has generally been in the range of 4% to 9%.
As at 31 March 2010, the discount had widened slightly to 7.0% from 6.9% at 30 April 2009.
Share Price Discount to NAV % 5.0 0.0 -5.0 -10.0 -15.0 -20.0 Mar-05 Mar-06 Mar-07 Mar-08 Mar-09 Mar-10 TEMIT Share Price Discount During the period 532,000 shares of 25p each were repurchased and cancelled, representing 0.16% of the issued share capital, at a cost to the Company of 2.2 million.
In the period from 1 April 2010 to 4 June 2010, no shares were bought back and cancelled.
Expense Ratio The Total Expense Ratio has decreased from 1.34% at 30 April 2009 to 1.29% at 31 March 2010.
The decrease is due to the increase in assets over the period, tender expenses incurred during the prior year and further VAT repayments received during the period which related to prior years.
Total Expense Ratio 1.41% 1.34% 1.33% 1.32% 1.29% 2007 08 2008 09 2009 10 2005 06 2006 07 TER periods are TEMIT reporting periods 28 TEMPLETON EMERGING MARKETS INVESTMENT TRUST PLC Results and Dividends The capital profit for the period was 851.5million 2009: loss 487.0 million and the revenue profit was 9.5 million 2009: 28.1 million.
Revenue profits fell as a result of: i a shorter reporting period of eleven months: ii April traditionally being a strong month for TEMITs income: iii the caution of investee companies during the financial crisis, many of which chose to protect their balance sheet and cut dividends: and, iv in 2009 revenue profits being higher due to the larger size of the Company prior to the tender in July 2008.
The full results for the Company are disclosed in the Income Statement on page 46.
The Directors propose an ordinary dividend of 3.75 pence per share 2009: 3.75p.
This is the same as last years ordinary dividend but is for an eleven month period.
The dividend represents an effective increase of 9.1%.
If approved by shareholders at the AGM, to be held on 23 July 2010, the ordinary dividend will be payable on 28 July 2010 to shareholders on the register at close of business on 25 June 2010.
Gearing The Board has agreed that in exceptional circumstances, and for short periods, TEMIT may borrow up to 10% of its net assets.
During the period the Company has not borrowed to fund long term investments.
Principal Risks and Uncertainties The principal risks facing the Company are summarised below.
The number and spread of investments in TEMITs portfolio is intended to reduce the degree of risk, nevertheless, investors should be aware of the risks associated with TEMITs investment objectives.
The Board monitors market, investment and currency risk and information is provided on a quarterly basis as part of the Board papers.
Specific information includes benchmark and performance attribution, risk analysis, contributors and detractors, major overweight and underweights and portfolio information including purchases and sales.
Market risk Many of the companies in which TEMIT does or may invest are, by reason of the locations in which they operate, exposed to the risk of political or economic change.
In addition, exchange control, tax or other regulations introduced in any country in which TEMIT invests may affect its income and the value and marketability of its investments.
Currency fluctuations may also affect the value of its investments and the income derived there from, and investors in emerging markets can face settlement and custodial problems.
Furthermore, companies in emerging markets are not always subject to accounting, auditing and financial standards which are equivalent to those applicable in the United Kingdom and there may also be less government supervision and regulation.
These risks can increase the potential for losses in the Company and affect its share price.
For these reasons, a long-term approach to investing in emerging markets is taken.
Emerging markets have, in the past, been subject to greater price volatility and rapid and severe re-pricing than developed markets.
In periods of pronounced volatility, the differential between emerging market stocks, markets and countries decreases.
In such times, the benefits that diversification generally provides are reduced.
Investment risk In addition, the Company may invest a greater portion of its assets in the securities of one issuer, securities domiciled in a particular country, or securities within one industry group than other types of fund investments.
As a result, it may be more sensitive to economic, business, political or other changes affecting similar issues or securities, which may result in greater fluctuation in the value of the portfolio.
TEMPLETON EMERGING MARKETS INVESTMENT TRUST PLC 29 DIRECTORS REPORT CONTINUED Foreign currency risk It is important to recognise the effect of currency movements on TEMITs performance.
In general, if the value of sterling increases compared with a foreign currency, an investment traded in that foreign currency will decrease in value because it will be worth fewer UK pounds.
This can have a negative effect on fund performance.
Conversely, when, in general, sterling weakens in relation to a foreign currency, investments traded in that foreign currency will increase in value, which can contribute to an improvement in the Companys performance.
Regulatory risk The Company operates in a complex regulatory environment and faces a number of regulatory risks.
A breach of Section 842 of the Income and Corporation Taxes Act 1988 replaced on 1 April 2010 by Section 1158 of the Corporation Tax Act 2010 would result in the Company being subject to capital gains tax on portfolio investments.
Breaches of other regulations such as the UKLA Listing Rules, could lead to a number of detrimental outcomes and reputational damage.
Key personnel The ability of the Company to achieve its investment objective is significantly dependent upon the expertise of the Investment Manager and its ability to attract and retain suitable staff.
The Company is also reliant upon the skills of its Directors and the loss of any of these individuals could reduce its ability to achieve its planned investment objectives.
The Investment Manager has endeavoured to ensure that the principal members of their management teams are suitably incentivised, but the retention of such staff cannot be guaranteed.
Operational risk Like many other investment trust companies, the Company has no employees.
The Company therefore relies upon the services provided by third parties and is dependent upon the control systems of the Investment Manager and the Companys service providers.
The security, for example, of the Companys assets, dealing procedures, accounting records and maintenance of regulatory and legal requirements depend on the effective operation of these systems.
These are regularly tested and monitored and an internal control report, which includes an assessment of risks together with an overview of procedures to mitigate such risks, is prepared by the Secretary and Administrator and reviewed by the Audit Committee annually.
The global custodian JPMorgan Chase Bank produces an annual SAS 70 report which is reviewed by its auditors and gives assurance regarding the effective operation of controls.
The Directors, on an annual basis, receive a risk and control report.
This report identifies the areas of risk and the controls that have been put in place to mitigate these risks.
Additionally, the Directors have sought to ensure that the Companys service providers have adopted an appropriate framework of controls which is designed to monitor the principal risks facing the Company, and to provide a monitoring system to enable the Directors to mitigate these risks.
Further information on the risks that TEMIT is subject to is also detailed in Note 14 of the Notes to the Financial Statements.
FINANCIAL Share Capital Changes in the share capital of the Company are set out in Note 10 of the Notes to the Financial Statements.
Going Concern Having made suitable enquiries, including considerations of expenditure forecasts and the principal risks and uncertainties described within the Annual Report, the Directors are satisfied that the Company has adequate resources to continue in operational existence for the foreseeable future and, as such, a going concern basis is appropriate in preparing the financial statements.
Change of Financial Year End The period for the financial statements is for the eleven months to 31 March 2010.
The change has been initiated by the Directors to allow shareholders to more readily compare the financial performance with that of its peers.
As a result, the 30 TEMPLETON EMERGING MARKETS INVESTMENT TRUST PLC comparative information presented is for the full year to 30 April 2009 and is not entirely comparable with the information presented for the eleven months to 31 March 2010.
Creditor Payment Policy Investment transactions are settled by the Company in accordance with the terms and conditions of the relevant market.
While the Company follows no formal code, its policy is to agree the terms of payment at the start of business and ensure that the supplier is aware of the terms of payment.
Payment is made in accordance with these terms provided that the supplier is also complying with all the relevant terms and conditions.
For the period ended 31 March 2010 the number of trade broker creditor days was 1 day 2009: 1 day.
Auditors Deloitte LLP, who were appointed at last years Annual General Meeting, have expressed their willingness to continue in office as auditors and a resolution proposing their re-appointment will be submitted at the Annual General Meeting.
The Directors who held office at the date of approval of this Directors Report confirm that, so far as they are each aware, there is no relevant audit information of which the Companys auditors were unaware and that each Director had taken all steps that he ought to have taken as a Director to make himself aware of any relevant audit information and to establish that the Companys auditors were aware of that information.
This confirmation is given and should be interpreted in accordance with the provision of Section 418 of the Companies Act 2006.
DIRECTORS Directors The Board currently comprises seven Non-Executive Directors, six of whom are independent from Franklin Templeton Investments, the group of companies associated with the Companys Investment Manager.
The Chairman is Non-Executive and independent from the Investment Manager.
The Directors biographies are set out on pages 7 to 9.
The following were Directors during the eleven month period to 31 March 2010: Peter A Smith Chairman Neil A Collins Christopher D Brady Peter O Harrison Hamish N Buchan Gregory E Johnson Sir Peter Burt Gregory Johnson is President and Chief Executive Officer of Franklin Resources, Inc.
He is also President of Templeton Worldwide Inc, the parent company of the Investment Manager.
He is therefore not an independent Director.
As a non-independent Director, Gregory Johnson offers himself for re-election as required under UK Listing Rules and the AIC Code of Corporate Governance.
The Companys Articles of Association require newly appointed Directors to submit themselves for election by shareholders at the next Annual General Meeting and Directors are then subject to re-election at intervals of no more than three years.
Under the AIC Code of Corporate Governance, Directors serving longer than nine years must offer themselves for annual re-election.
Peter Smith retires by rotation as a Director and offers himself for re-election as required under the Companys Articles of Association.
The Board recommends the re-election of each of Peter Smith and Gregory Johnson, whose biographies are set out in this Annual Report, as they each continue to provide the Company with valuable guidance, experience and support.
The Directors meet quarterly and retain full and effective control over the Company through the monitoring of the management team of the Investment Manager and Franklin Templeton Investment Management Limited FTIML the Secretary and Administrator.
The Board is responsible for investment policy and has a schedule of matters reserved for the resolution of the Directors for safeguarding shareholders investment and the Companys assets.
TEMPLETON EMERGING MARKETS INVESTMENT TRUST PLC 31 DIRECTORS REPORT CONTINUED The primary focus of the Directors at the quarterly board meetings is a review of the investment performance of the Company and associated matters such as liquidity, asset allocation, marketing investor relations, peer group information and industry issues.
The Board also reviews the investment mandate, the long-term investment objectives and the performance of the Company and the appropriate guidelines within which the Investment Manager should operate.
The table below lists the number of scheduled board and committee meetings attended by each Director.
During the period there were 4 Board meetings, 3 Audit Committee meetings and 2 Nomination and Remuneration Committee meetings.
Nomination and Board Meetings Audit Committee Remuneration Committee Director Attended Meetings Attended Meetings Attended Peter A Smith 4 3 2 Christopher D Brady 4 N A N A Hamish N Buchan 4 3 N A Sir Peter Burt 4 3 2 Neil A Collins 4 3 2 Peter O Harrison 4 3 N A Gregory E Johnson 4 N A N A Nomination and Remuneration Committee The Board has a Nomination and Remuneration Committee, which currently comprises Sir Peter Burt Chairman of the Nomination and Remuneration Committee, Peter Smith and Neil Collins.
The role of the Nomination and Remuneration Committee is to review regularly the Board structure, size and composition and make recommendations to the Board with regard to any adjustments that seem appropriate, to consider the rotation and renewal of the Board, approve the candidate specification for all Board appointments, approve the process by which suitable candidates are identified and short listed, and to nominate candidates for consideration by the full Board, whose responsibility it is formally to make appointments.
The Committee also considers the effectiveness of individual Directors and makes recommendations to the Board in respect of re-elections.
In addition, the Committee periodically reviews the level of Directors fees relative to other comparable companies and in the light of the Directors responsibilities.
The Chairman of the Nomination and Remuneration Committee will attend the Companys Annual General Meeting and will be prepared to respond to questions which may be raised by shareholders on matters within the Nomination and Remuneration Committees responsibilities.
A copy of the terms of reference of the Nomination and Remuneration Committee is available to shareholders on the TEMIT website www.
co. uk or on request via Client Dealer Services at Franklin Templeton Investment Management Limited using the contact details provided on the inside back cover of this report.
Performance Evaluation The Board has undertaken a formal evaluation of its own performance and that of its Committees and individual Directors including the Chairman.
The Board has also considered the independence of each Director.
The evaluation of the Board, of its Committees, and the performance of individual Directors, was carried out through questionnaires and discussions between the Chairman and each Director.
The Chairman has been evaluated by his fellow Directors, led by Sir Peter Burt, the Senior Independent Director, and such evaluations shall continue to take place at least annually.
Thereafter the Board meets as a group to review the findings.
The performance and cost of service providers are considered annually by the Board.
32 TEMPLETON EMERGING MARKETS INVESTMENT TRUST PLC Information and Professional Development The Board is supplied, via the Secretary and Administrator, with regular information to enable the Directors to discharge their duties.
The Secretary and Administrator provides the Board with regular updates on regulatory issues and on the latest corporate governance rules and guidelines.
Directors Appointment Letters Each of the Directors has an appointment letter with the Company and such letters are available for inspection at the Companys registered office.
The terms of appointment provide that a Director will be subject to re-election at the first annual general meeting after appointment, and at least every three years after that.
The terms also provide that a Director may be removed without notice and that compensation will not be due on leaving office.
Directors Conflicts of Interest The Companies Act 2006 the 2006 Act sets out directors general duties.
Under the 2006 Act, a Director must avoid a situation where he has, or can have, a direct or indirect interest that conflicts, or possibly may conflict with the Companys interests.
The requirement is very broad and could apply, for example, if a Director becomes a director of another company or a trustee of another organisation.
The 2006 Act allows directors of public companies to authorise conflicts and potential conflicts, where appropriate, where the articles of association contain a provision to this effect.
The Companys Articles give the Directors authority to approve such situations.
There are safeguards which apply when Directors decide whether to authorise a conflict or potential conflict.
Firstly, only Directors who have no interest in the matter being considered are able to make the relevant decision, and secondly, in taking the decision the Directors must act in a way they consider, in good faith, will be most likely to promote the Companys success.
The Directors are able to impose limits or conditions when giving authorisation if they think this is appropriate.
The Company maintains a register of Directors conflicts of interest which have been disclosed and approved by the other Directors.
This register is kept up to date and the Directors annually complete an updated conflicts of interest questionnaire disclosing any conflicts or potential conflicts.
Gregory Johnson is not present when the performance of the Investment Manager and the Secretary and Administrator are considered.
Indemnification and Insurance The Company has entered into deeds of indemnity with each of the Directors.
These are qualifying third party indemnity provisions and are in force as at the date of this report.
This information is disclosed in accordance with Sections 236 2 and 236 3 of the 2006 Act.
The Company maintains appropriate insurance cover in respect of legal action against the Directors.
Remuneration The Companys policy on Directors remuneration, together with details of the remuneration of each Director who served in the period is detailed in the Directors Remuneration Report on page 42.
The Boards policy is that the remuneration of Non-Executive Directors should reflect the experience of the Board as a whole and be fair and comparable to that of other investment trusts similar in size, capital structure and investment objective.
The Non-Executive Directors are not eligible for bonuses, pension benefits, share options, long-term incentive schemes or other benefits in accordance with other long standing investment trusts.
TEMIT has no employees and therefore no retirement or health scheme obligations or policies in respect of employment, including the employment of disabled persons.
TEMPLETON EMERGING MARKETS INVESTMENT TRUST PLC 33 DIRECTORS REPORT CONTINUED No Director had notified the Company of any beneficial interest including any family interest existing either at the beginning or at the end of the eleven month period to 31 March 2010 in the Companys shares save for the following Directors: 31 March 2010 30 April 2009 Peter A Smith 10,000 10,000 Hamish N Buchan 15,000 15,000 Sir Peter Burt 4,000 4,000 Neil A Collins 7,000 7,000 The Company has not received notification of any changes in the above interests as at 4 June 2010.
Substantial Shareholdings As at 4 June 2010 the Company had been notified that the following were interested in 3% or more of the issued share capital of the Company.
Number Name of Shares Percentage City of London Investment Management Group 40,049,578 12.14 Lazard Asset Management LLC Group 18,256,848 5.53 Templeton Investment Plan 15,042,629 4.56 Legal & General Investment Management 12,875,638 3.90 Rensburg Sheppards 11,386,558 3.45 PRINCIPAL SERVICE PROVIDERS Investment Manager During the period, Templeton Asset Management Ltd. TAML acted as Investment Manager to the Company under an investment management agreement and received from the Company a monthly fee at an annual rate of 1.00% of the total net assets of the Company.
The Board have examined the basis on which the Investment Manager is remunerated and considers that this flat rate ad valorem fee is appropriate and that it is not in the interests of shareholders to include a structured performance fee.
The investment management agreement between the Company and TAML is of an unlimited duration and may be terminated by either party but in certain circumstances the Company may be required to pay compensation to TAML of an amount up to one years management fee.
Compensation is not payable if at least one years notice of termination is given.
The Board considers the arrangements for the provision of investment management services to the Company on an ongoing basis and a formal review is conducted annually.
When assessing the performance of the Investment Manager, the Board believes it is appropriate to make this assessment over a medium to long term timeframe which is in accordance with the long term approach taken to investment.
In the opinion of the Directors, the continuing appointment of TAML on the agreed terms is in the best interests of the shareholders as a whole.
The Directors believe that TAML is well positioned to act as Investment Manager to the Company and well resourced to identify attractive investment opportunities and this is evident by the Investment Managers performance to date.
Secretarial and Administration Managers During the period FTIML acted as Secretary and Administrator of the Company.
The fee paid to FTIML for this is an annual rate of 0.20% of the total net assets of the Company, payable monthly.
The agreement between the Company and FTIML may be terminated by either party but in certain circumstances the Company may be required to pay compensation to FTIML of an amount up to one years secretarial and administration fee.
34 TEMPLETON EMERGING MARKETS INVESTMENT TRUST PLC Compensation is not payable if at least one years notice of termination is given.
The Directors also keep under annual review the performance of FTIML as Secretary and Administrator.
Custodian JPMorgan Chase Bank acts as global custodian to the Company and receives a fee for the provision of custody and nominee services to the Company under a custody agreement which contains provision for the exclusion or limitation of liability as set out in the custody agreement.
The custody agreement may be terminated by either party giving the other 60 days notice.
Corporate Stockbroker The Companys corporate stockbroker during the period was Winterflood Securities Limited.
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE The Company is committed to high standards of corporate governance.
The Board is accountable to the shareholders for good governance and this statement describes how the Company applies the principles identified in the Combined Code on Corporate Governance 2008.
It also makes reference to the Companys adherence to the Code of Corporate Governance of the Association of Investment Companies AIC.
Compliance with the Combined Code on Corporate Governance The Board considers that the Company has complied with the relevant provisions of Section 1 of the Combined Code on Corporate Governance 2008 throughout the period ended 31 March 2010.
AIC Code of Corporate Governance the AIC Code The Company is a member of the AIC.
The Board considers that the Company adheres to the principles and follows the recommendations of the AIC Code and where appropriate, it provides explanations why and or details the steps it intends to take to bring the Company into line in the future.
By reporting against the AIC Code and by following the AICs Corporate Governance Guide for Investment Companies the AIC Guide, the Company is meeting its obligations under the Combined Code and paragraph 9.8.
6 of the Listing Rules and as such the Company is not required to report further on issues contained in the Combined Code which are not relevant to the Company as explained in the AIC Guide.
Additional Information for New Zealand Shareholders As a result of a requirement for Overseas Issuers listed on the New Zealand Stock Exchange, the following should be noted by New Zealand Shareholders: a The corporate governance rules and principles in TEMITs home exchange jurisdiction in the United Kingdom may differ from the New Zealand Stock Exchange corporate governance rules and the principles of the Corporate Governance Best Practice Code.
b Investors may find more information about the corporate governance and principles of TEMITs home exchange in the United Kingdom in the above Corporate Governance statement and online at www.
Schedule of Reserved Matters The Board has formally adopted a Schedule of Reserved Matters which details the matters which the Board has agreed are specifically reserved to them for their collective decision.
These matters include, inter alia, approval of the half yearly and annual financial statements, recommendation of the final dividend, approval of any preliminary announcements of the Company, approval of any changes to the Companys investment objective and or policy, appointment or removal of the Companys Investment Manager or its Secretary and Administrator, Board membership and Board committee membership and any major changes to the investment objective, philosophy or policy of the Company, other than any such changes delegated to the Investment Manager under the Investment Management Agreement.
TEMPLETON EMERGING MARKETS INVESTMENT TRUST PLC 35 DIRECTORS REPORT CONTINUED The day to day investment management of the portfolio of the Company is delegated to the Investment Manager who manages the portfolio in accordance with the investment objectives of the Company as set by the Board.
Environmental, Social, Community and Ethical Issues As an investment trust, the Company has no significant direct social, community or environmental responsibilities.
Its ethical policy is focused on ensuring that its funds are properly managed and invested within the guidelines approved by the Board.
The Board receives regular reports on the policies and controls in place.
The Investment Manager invests in companies that it considers to be well managed and subject to appropriate corporate governance.
A well-managed company is considered to be one which complies with all the relevant legislation and which meets the environmental, social, community and ethical requirements of the country in which it operates.
It is important to recognise that local laws and requirements of emerging markets do not necessarily equate with those of developed countries.
Environmental, social, and governance issues have become increasingly important to companies worldwide as they seek to balance organisational goals with the expectations of their stakeholders in an increasingly complex operating environment.
When companies manage these stakeholder relationships effectively, they are more successful at managing risks and capturing opportunities placing them in a better position for long-term success.
As a long-term investor, the Investment Manager performs extensive bottom-up investment analysis, employing rigorous and comprehensive processes to assess both the risk and return potential of the investments it considers for the Company.
The depth of its research provides comprehensive insights into the many factors that affect the value of an investment, which may include environmental, social and governance issues.
The Investment Manager determines the extent to which various research inputs are included and weighted in its investment decisions.
Institutional Shareholder Voting and Engagement As an institutional investor, the Company recognises its responsibility that the companies in which it invests should aspire to appropriate levels of corporate governance.
As a matter of policy, the Company aims to utilise its votes in shares held in the relevant underlying portfolio companies at the annual general meetings of these companies.
The Company has engaged with the Investment Manager in relation to its approach to the Code on the Responsibilities of Institutional Investors issued by the Institutional Shareholders Committee The ISC Code in November 2009.
The Company and the Investment Manager generally support the Principles of the ISC Code and follow the guidance notes where considered appropriate as outlined below.
Ongoing monitoring of investee companies and dialogue with management are fundamental to the Investment Managers investment approach.
The strategy on intervention with investee companies is dealt with on a case by case basis and is usually a judgement made by the portfolio managers based on the research done on each investee company for the investment decision making progress.
In all cases, the Investment Manager holds regular review meetings with the senior management of investee companies.
The Investment Manager considers the key objectives are to seek to obtain value for the Company and to comply with its fiduciary duties.
The level of engagement with investee companies derives from the fiduciary duties of the Investment Manager to the Company.
Thus, for example, in voting shares, the Investment Manager considers what would be in the best interests of the Company.
Similarly, there will be many instances in which actions such as a dialogue between the Investment Manager and the management of investee companies, or with other shareholders, may help to maximize shareholder value.
At the same time, there may be instances in which activism is not consistent with the Investment Managers fiduciary duty.
For example, in the process of company research and monitoring, a significant problem or risk may be identified and the Investment Manager may decide it is better to simply sell a position than seek to undertake a lengthy engagement with management.
Decisions involving when and how to engage with management or carry out collective engagement are matters of judgment.
Consequently, there are no set guidelines adopted on when this should occur.
36 TEMPLETON EMERGING MARKETS INVESTMENT TRUST PLC The Investment Manager has adopted proxy voting policies and procedures which cover voting guidelines, processing and maintenance of proxy records and conflicts of interest.
Summary information on exercise of proxies is reviewed quarterly by the Board.
Voting records for the Company detailing the proxies voted for investee companies are not currently published.
The Company considers that there is limited demand for such detailed disclosure and therefore the administrative burden and expense is not justified.
Contact with Shareholders The Chairman of the Company is available for any shareholder questions and he has periodic meetings with the Companys major shareholders.
Furthermore, the members of the Board are available during the year for any significant matters arising and are usually present in person at the Annual General Meeting.
At each Annual General Meeting of the Company the Investment Manager briefs shareholders on the investment outlook of the Company.
In addition, on behalf of the Board, it has periodic meetings with the Companys major shareholders to discuss aspects of the Companys performance.
Shareholders may contact the members of the Board via Client Dealer Services at FTIML using the contact details provided on the inside back cover of this report.
Accountability and Audit The Board has an Audit Committee, which currently comprises Peter Harrison Chairman of the Audit Committee, Sir Peter Burt, Neil Collins and Hamish Buchan.
The Audit Committee plays an important role in the appraisal and supervision of key aspects of the Companys business including financial reporting and internal controls.
The Chairman of the Audit Committee will attend the Companys Annual General Meeting and will be prepared to respond to questions which may be raised by shareholders on matters within the Audit Committees responsibilities.
The Companys Audit Committee meets representatives of the Investment Manager and Secretary and Administrator, including their internal auditors and its Compliance Officer, who report as to the proper conduct of business in accordance with the regulatory environment in which both the Company and the Investment Manager operate.
The Companys external auditors also attend the Committee at its request, at least twice a year, and report on their work procedures, the quality of the Companys accounting procedures and their findings in relation to the Companys statutory accounts.
The responsibilities of the Audit Committee include review of the internal financial controls, accounting policies, financial statements, the management contract, the auditors appointment, remuneration, independence and policy on supplying non-audit services and ensuring continued independence.
The terms of reference of the Audit Committee reflect the recommendations of the Combined Code on Corporate Governance 2008.
A copy of the terms of reference of the Audit Committee is available to shareholders on the TEMIT website www.
co. uk or on request via Client Dealer Services at Franklin Templeton Investment Management Limited using the contact details provided on page 1.
Deloitte LLP were appointed auditors from 27 August 2009.
Non-audit work undertaken by Deloitte LLP for the period ended 31 March 2010 on behalf of TEMIT includes a review of the October 2009 Half Yearly Report.
An engagement letter is issued for all non-audit work and subsequently reviewed by the Audit Committee to ensure that the independence and objectivity of the Auditors is safeguarded.
Risk Management Objectives and Policy The Company invests in equities and other investments for the long-term to achieve its investment objectives as stated on pages 25 and 26.
This creates potential exposure to the following risks: Market Price, Foreign Currency, Interest Rate, Liquidity, Credit and Fair Value risks.
The Companys policy and objectives in relation to such risks is disclosed in Note 14 of the Notes to the Financial Statements.
Internal Control The Board is ultimately responsible for ensuring that a sound system of internal controls of the Company is maintained to safeguard shareholders investment and the Companys assets.
TEMPLETON EMERGING MARKETS INVESTMENT TRUST PLC 37 DIRECTORS REPORT CONTINUED The Audit Committee undertakes an annual review of the effectiveness of the Companys system of internal controls and the Directors believe that an appropriate framework is in place to meet the requirement of ensuring that a sound system of internal controls is in place by the Company.
The Board has an ongoing process for identifying, evaluating and managing risks to which the Company is exposed.
This process is conducted throughout the period and has been conducted up to the date of signing of this report.
The Board has identified risk management controls in the key areas of business objectives, accounting, compliance, operations and secretarial as areas for the extended review and, if relevant, necessary actions have been or are being taken to remedy any significant failings or weaknesses identified.
It has to be understood that systems of internal control, however carefully designed, operated and supervised, can provide only reasonable and not absolute assurance against material misstatement or loss.
The Company does not have its own internal audit function but places reliance on the internal audit, compliance and other control functions of its service providers.
ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING Ordinary Business It is proposed to receive and adopt the Directors and Auditors Reports and Financial Statements for the period ended 31 March 2010 and to approve the Directors Remuneration Report for the period ended 31 March 2010.
It is proposed to declare an ordinary dividend of 3.75 pence per share, payable on 28 July 2010 to shareholders on the register as close of business on 25 June 2010.
It is proposed to re-elect Peter Smith and Gregory E Johnson as Directors.
It is proposed to re-appoint Deloitte LLP as Auditors and to authorise the Directors to determine the Auditors remuneration.
Special Business The Special Business to be dealt with at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting of the Company relates to i the authority to allot equity securities up to 5% of existing issued share capital and to dis-apply shareholders rights of preemption for such allotment, ii the authority to make market purchases of shares and iii to adopt new Articles of Association to reflect changes in company law and iv to maintain the 14 clear days notice period for general meetings.
Authority for the Allotment of New Shares The resolutions to allot shares are set out in resolutions 8 and 9 in the Notice of Annual General Meeting.
These resolutions, if passed, will give your Directors power to allot for cash equity securities of the Company up to a maximum aggregate nominal amount of 4,123,929 being an amount equal to 5% of the issued share capital of the Company as at 31 March 2010 as if Section 561 of the Companies Act 2006 the 2006 Act did not apply.
This section requires, when shares are to be allotted for cash, such new shares first be offered to existing shareholders in proportion to their existing holdings of shares, this entitlement being known as pre-emption rights.
The authorities contained in resolutions 8 and 9 will continue until the Annual General Meeting of the Company in 2011 and your Directors envisage seeking the renewal of this authority in 2011 and in each succeeding year.
Your Directors will not make any allotment of new shares otherwise than in accordance with pre-emption rights unless the market offer price at the time of the allotment is greater than the net asset value per share.
Authority to Purchase Own Shares At the Annual General Meeting of the Company held on 17 July 2009, a Special Resolution was passed authorising the Company to purchase its shares in the market, a maximum of 14.99 per cent of the shares in issue on 17 July 2009 or 49,533,908 shares, whichever is lower, up to the conclusion of the Annual General Meeting in 2010.
38 TEMPLETON EMERGING MARKETS INVESTMENT TRUST PLC The Directors are seeking renewal of the authority to purchase the Companys shares in the market, being a maximum of 14.99 per cent of the shares in issue on 23 July 2010 or 49,454,161 shares, whichever is the lower, at the 2010 Annual General Meeting.
Purchases will only be made for cash at a cost which is below the prevailing net asset value per share.
Under the rules of the UK Listing Authority, the maximum price which may be paid is the higher of a 5% above the average market value of the shares for the five business days before the purchase is made and b that stipulated by Article 5 1 of the Buy-back and Stabilisation Regulation.
The minimum price payable for the shares will be 25 pence per share.
Purchases will be funded either by using available cash resources, by selling investments in the portfolio or by borrowing.
The authority to purchase shares will only be exercised if to do so would be in the best interests of shareholders generally and would result in an increase in asset value per share for the remaining shareholders.
Other than in accordance with a dispensation from the UK Listing Authority, no shares will be purchased by the Company during periods when the Company would be prohibited from making such purchases by the rules of the UK Listing Authority.
The Directors envisage seeking the renewal of the relevant authority in 2011 and in each succeeding year.
Articles of Association Under Resolution 11, the Company proposes to adopt new Articles of Association the new Articles to reflect the changes in company law brought about by the 2006 Act and changes made to the 2006 Act to implement the EU Shareholders Rights Directive the Directive in the UK, as well as some minor technical or clarifying changes.
The 2006 Act, which replaced the Companies Act 1985 and which has been implemented in stages, came into full effect on 1 October 2009.
In addition, the Companies Shareholders Rights Regulations 2009 Shareholders Rights Regulations, which amend certain provisions of the 2006 Act relating to Meetings of the Company, implements the Directive in the UK and came into force in August 2009.
The Company previously adopted new Articles at its 2008 Annual General Meeting in order to update the then current Articles to take account of changes in UK company law brought about by the provisions of the 2006 Act then in force.
The new Articles update the Articles again to reflect the full implementation of the 2006 Act and the Shareholders Rights Regulations.
The principal changes of substance in the new Articles proposed to be adopted at the 2010 Annual General Meeting are set out in the Appendix at page 67.
The principal changes relate to shareholder meetings and resolutions, the Companys constitution and share capital.
This would allow the Company to take advantage of the greater flexibility afforded by the 2006 Act, simplify the wording of the Articles, and ensure that the Company takes advantage of any modernisation of procedures.
A copy of the current Articles and the proposed new Articles will be available for inspection during normal business hours excluding Saturdays, Sundays and public holidays at the registered office of the Company and at Franklin Templeton Investment Management Limited, The Adelphi, 1-11 John Adam Street, London WC2N 6HT up until the close of the meeting.
Copies will also be available at the location of the Annual General Meeting for 15 minutes prior to the meeting and during the meeting.
Notice period for general meetings This resolution is required to reflect the implementation of the Directive.
One of the requirements of the Directive is that all general meetings must be held on 21 days notice, unless shareholders agree to a shorter notice period.
The Company was previously able to call general meetings other than annual general meetings on 14 days notice and would like to preserve this ability.
Under the Directive, companies are permitted to seek shareholder approval, on an annual basis and by way of special resolution, for general meetings other than annual general meetings to be called on 14 days clear notice.
The Directors only intend to call a general meeting on less than 21 days notice where the proposals are time sensitive and the short notice would clearly be an advantage to shareholders as a whole.
TEMPLETON EMERGING MARKETS INVESTMENT TRUST PLC 39 DIRECTORS REPORT CONTINUED The approval will be effective until the Companys next annual general meeting, when it is intended that a similar resolution will be proposed.
The Company will also need to meet the requirements for electronic voting under the Directive before it can call a general meeting on 14 days notice.
Recommendation The Directors believe all the resolutions proposed are in the best interests of the Company and the shareholders as a whole and recommend all shareholders to vote in favour of all the resolutions.
The results of the votes on the resolutions at the Annual General Meeting will be published on the Companys website www.
By Order of the Board Registered Office 5 Morrison Street Edinburgh EH3 8BH, UK Sara A MacIntosh for and on behalf of Franklin Templeton Investment Management Limited Secretary 15 June 2010 40 TEMPLETON EMERGING MARKETS INVESTMENT TRUST PLC
