MANAGERS REPORT & PORTFOLIO REVIEW 31 MARCH 2010 Mark Mobius and TAMLs Emerging Markets team MANAGEMENT COMPANY The Directors have appointed Templeton Asset Management Ltd. TAML as Investment Manager of the Company.
TAML is part of Franklin Templeton Investments, one of the worlds largest asset management companies.
TAML is a pioneer of emerging market investment, having created one of the first dedicated emerging market mutual funds over 20 years ago.
Today, TAMLs Templeton Emerging Markets Team manages US$37 billion in emerging markets assets for retail, institutional and professional investors across the globe.
The Templeton Emerging Markets Team, headed by Dr Mark Mobius, is one of the largest of its kind.
It includes 39 dedicated emerging markets portfolio managers, analysts and product specialists.
Their on-the-ground presence in 15 locations, and years of relevant industry experience, greatly assists their understanding of the companies researched for inclusion in the TEMIT portfolio.
Many of the senior members of the TEMIT team, including Allan Lam, Tom Wu, Dennis Lim, Carlos Hardenberg, and Grzegorz Konieczny have worked alongside Mark Mobius for a number of years.
TAMLs Emerging Markets Team receives support from the employees of Franklin Resources Inc. its ultimate parent company and its subsidiaries.
10 TEMPLETON EMERGING MARKETS INVESTMENT TRUST PLC TEMPLETON EMERGING MARKETS INVESTMENT TRUST PLC MARK MOBIUS, PH.
D. TOM WU Executive Chairman Senior Executive Vice President & Senior Managing Director Dr. Mobius has spent more than 30 years working in Mr. Wu joined the Templeton organisation in 1987 and his emerging markets all over the world.
He joined Franklin research responsibilities include the banking sector.
Templeton Investments in 1987 as president of the Mr. Wu is also responsible for the financial analysis and Templeton Emerging Markets Fund, Inc.
In 1999, he research of companies in Hong Kong and the Philippines.
was appointed joint chairman of the Global Corporate He began his career at Vickers da Costa in Hong Kong as Governance Forum Investor Responsibility Taskforce of an investment analyst and later as an assistant manager the World Bank and Organisation for Economic before joining the Templeton organisation.
ALLAN LAM, CPA DENNIS LIM Senior Executive Vice President & Senior Managing Director Co-Chief Executive Officer Mr. Lam joined the Templeton organisation in 1987 and Mr. Lim joined Templeton in 1990 and has research his research responsibilities include the real estate and oil responsibilities for Southeast Asian markets.
Mr. Lim is a & gas sectors as well as analysis of companies in the specialist on building regulations and urban planning Philippines.
Mr. Lam manages portfolios dedicated to requirements in Singapore and the ASEAN region.
He global emerging markets and Asia ex Japan.
Mr. Lam specialises in researching companies in the worked for a number of years in the accounting field with telecommunications sector.
He served as a former Deloitte Touche Tohmatsu CPA and KPMG Peat Marwick engineering service officer for the Ministry of National CPA.
His knowledge of accounting practices became an Development in Singapore.
important tool for his equity analysis.
TAML Research Offices Emerging Markets Research Offices 15 Offices 39 Portfolio Managers and Analysts 68 Professionals 26 Nationalities 24 Languages KUALA LUMPUR Gerald Sheah, CFA HO CHI MINH CITY Nguyen Thi Thu Lam Tran Thanh Toan JOHANNESBURG DUBAI SINGAPORE SEOUL VIENNA BUENOS AIRES Matjaz Schroll Sven Richter Ahmed Awny, CFA Mark Mobius, Ph.
D. Steve Chae Johan Meyer David Haglund Dennis Lim Jay Choi, CFA Claus Born, CFA Santiago Petri Tek Khoan Ong, CFA Richard Piliero RIO fide JANEIRO WARSAW ISTANBUL MOSCOW MUMBAI Christine Chua HONG KONG SHANGHAI Gustavo Stenzel, CFA Grzegorz Konieczny Carlos Hardenberg Gennady Zhilyaev Chetan Sehgal, CFA Sri Sari Eddie Chow, CFA Chris Liu, CFA Marcos Mundim, CFA Krzysztof Musialik Erman Kalkandelen Alexey Ilin Rajesh Sehgal, CFA Allan Lam, CPA Jim Zhang, CFA Artem Litvinov Vikas Chiranewal, CFA Tom W. K. Wu Eric Mok, CFA Jordan Pong, CFA Templetons competitive advantage: Global resources supporting Victor Lee, ACCA seasoned local teams to identify opportunities and execute transactions.
Claudius Tsang, CFA Source: Franklin Templeton Investments as at 31 March 2010.
CFA and Chartered Financial Analysts are trademarks owned by CFA Institute.
TEMPLETON EMERGING MARKETS INVESTMENT TRUST PLC 11 MANAGERS REPORT & PORTFOLIO REVIEW MANAGERS REPORT & PORTFOLIO REVIEW CONTINUED CONTINUED MARKET OVERVIEW PERFORMANCE ATTRIBUTION In the last eleven months, emerging market equity prices ANALYSIS surged as markets continued the recovery that began in Period to 31 March 2010 % March 2009.
The MSCI Emerging Markets Index produced NAV total return for the period 72.8 a total return of 52.0% in the period.
The surge in prices MSCI Index total return 52.0 was spearheaded by the rapid increase in liquidity, resulting Relative return 20.8 from expansionary monetary policies and huge stimulus packages implemented by governments and central banks Sector allocation 3.9 globally to pull economies out of recession and return to Stock selection 22.5 sustainable growth.
Higher commodity prices and stronger Total equities 26.4 emerging market currencies also supported markets.
Over the longer-term, we expect this upward trend to continue Currency 5.6 albeit with some corrections along the way.
Buybacks Latin American markets were the strongest performers in Relative performance 20.8 the emerging market asset class during the reporting Source: Factset and Franklin Templeton period.
Higher commodity prices and stronger domestic Geographically, the largest contributor to the Companys currencies supported equity prices in Latin America.
performance, relative to the MSCI Emerging Markets Brazils resilient macroeconomic fundamentals, strong Index, was an overweight position and superior stock fiscal and monetary policies and resilience to the global selection in India.
Overweight exposures to Brazil, financial crisis led stock prices to rebound significantly.
Its Indonesia, Thailand and Turkey and an underweight market returned 65.0% during the reporting period.
position in Taiwan also had a positive impact on relative In Eastern Europe, markets also performed strongly, due to performance.
Good stock selection in China, Brazil and lower interest rates subsiding credit crunch worries and Indonesia further enhanced relative performance.
Hungary was the top performer, Conversely, holdings in South Korea detracted from returning 115.6%.
Equity prices in Turkey also performance.
The Companys relatively higher cash outperformed peers with a return of 78.0%.
Higher position in the earlier part of the reporting period also commodity prices and a stronger rouble also supported had some negative attribution effects in times of rising equity prices in Russia, which ended the period with a markets.
Cash levels were reduced from 2.0% at the 65.6% return.
In Asia, significant fund inflows, relatively beginning of the period to 0.6% as at end March 2010. high growth in major markets such as China and India and stronger regional currencies drove performances in Asian markets.
Top regional performers, with returns in excess of 70%, included India, Indonesia and Thailand.
12 TEMPLETON EMERGING MARKETS INVESTMENT TRUST PLC LARGEST COUNTRY CONTRIBUTORS AND DETRACTORS TO PERFORMANCE % TopContributors Contribution TopDetractors Contribution India 8.1 South Korea 1.4 Hong Kong China 2.9 Russia 0.3 Indonesia 2.7 Austria 0.2 Taiwan 2.6 Colombia 0.1 Brazil 2.3 10 LARGEST COUNTRY WEIGHTINGS VS BENCHMARK % 21.6 Brazil 16.3 19.3 Hong Kong China 17.5 14.3 India 7.7 8.9 Thailand 1.5 6.8 Turkey 1.5 6.6 Indonesia 2.0 6.1 Russia 6.6 5.3 South Korea 12.8 TEMIT 2.8 South Africa 7.0 MSCI 2.0 Mexico 4.5 0 5 10 15 20 25 By sector, good stock selection in materials and information technology sectors and overweight positions in materials and financials supported performance.
An underweight exposure to information technology and telecommunication services providers also had positive attribution effects.
Conversely, stock selection in the consumer staples and industrials sectors hurt the performance.
LARGEST SECTOR CONTRIBUTORS AND DETRACTORS TO PERFORMANCE % Top Contributors Contribution Top Detractors Contribution Materials 8.6 Consumer Staples 0.7 Information Technology 4.2 Industrials 0.6 Financials 3.7 Energy 0.2 Consumer Discretionary 3.1 Telecommunication Services 3.0 SECTOR WEIGHTINGS VS BENCHMARK % 26.2 Financials 24.7 25.6 Energy 14.3 23.2 Materials 15.2 9.1 Consumer Discretionary 5.9 7.1 Information Technology 13.0 4.7 Consumer Staples 5.6 3.5 Industrials 6.8 Telecommunication Services 8.5 TEMIT Utilities 3.5 MSCI Health Care 2.5 10 05 15 20 25 TEMPLETON EMERGING MARKETS INVESTMENT TRUST PLC 13 MANAGERS REPORT & PORTFOLIO REVIEW CONTINUED At the company level, the top three contributors to relative company remains a long term hold as it is a beneficiary of performance were overweight positions in Sesa Goa, Asias economic recovery and higher consumer demand.
Brilliance China and Tata Consultancy.
Sesa Goa is a The company is also exposed to fast growing markets such beneficiary of firm iron ore prices and the ongoing as China, Vietnam and India.
Denway Motors is a major consolidation of the global mining sector.
The company is manufacturer and distributor of passenger cars in China.
In well positioned to benefit from the demand from addition to its own brand, Denway has formed a joint emerging markets as well as the positive long-term trend venture with Honda Motor for the production and selling in commodity prices.
Brilliance China is a major of Honda Accord sedans, Jazz, Fit and Odyssey MPV automobile manufacturer in China with a joint venture models.
The companys share price underperformed with BMW for the production and selling of BMW 3-series because of the lack of new models last year, uncertainties and 5-series in China.
The company is a beneficiary of the surrounding the IPO listing of its parent company and the growth in demand for automobiles and government related group restructuring.
However, over the longer-term, stimulus measures in the sector.
Tata Consultancy is a we are confident that Denway will benefit from the growing major IT consulting company in India.
Its share price was demand for automobiles in China.
buoyed by an improving market and sound fundamentals.
A major performance detractor during the period was Moreover, we believe that it is well positioned to benefit exposure to a weaker US dollar through investments in from the outsourcing trend of services to Indian consulting Brazilian and Russian ADR American Depositary Receipt companies.
Superior stock selection in both markets was Conversely, the three largest detractors were Hyundai largely overshadowed by a weak US dollar.
The Company Development, Dairy Farm and Denway Motors.
Despite held ADRs as opposed to the underlying ordinary shares exhibiting double-digit returns, all three stocks because of the generally better liquidity.
underperformed the wider MSCI Emerging Markets benchmark index.
Hyundai Development is a leading construction firm and residential property developer in South Korea.
Hyundais share price lagged due to sluggish property sales during 2009.
Dairy Farms core businesses consist of supermarkets, hypermarkets as well as health & beauty, convenience and home furnishing stores.
The 14 TEMPLETON EMERGING MARKETS INVESTMENT TRUST PLC Mark Mobius with some of his senior team We continue to remain positive on the long-term outlook for emerging markets.
LARGEST COMPANY CONTRIBUTORS AND DETRACTORS TO PERFORMANCE % TopContributors Contribution TopDetractors Contribution Sesa Goa Ltd. 6.4 Hyundai Development Co. 2.3 Brilliance China Automotive Holdings Ltd. 2.1 Dairy Farm International Holdings Ltd. 1.2 Tata Consultancy Services Ltd. 2.0 Denway Motors Ltd. 0.9 Vale SA 1.6 SK Energy Co. Ltd. 0.7 Astra International 1.6 China Petroleum & Chemical Corp. 0.6 10 LARGEST SECURITIES VS BENCHMARK % 6.87 Sesa Goa Ltd. 0.10 6.55 Vale SA 1.76 6.05 Itau Unibanco Holding SA 1.35 4.69 Banco Bradesco SA 0.93 4.63 Akbank TAS 0.14 4.30 Petroleo Brasileiro SA 1.87 3.35 Tata Consultancy Services Ltd. 0.25 2.94 PetroChina Co. Ltd. 0.74 TEMIT 2.91 VTech Holdings Ltd. MSCI 2.84 SK Energy Co. Ltd. 0.19 678 012345 TEMPLETON EMERGING MARKETS INVESTMENT TRUST PLC 15 MANAGERS REPORT & PORTFOLIO REVIEW CONTINUED Mediatek is the largest integrated circuit design company in PORTFOLIO CHANGES & Taiwan.
Exposure to Mediatek was eliminated due to a INVESTMENT STRATEGIES share price rally ahead of the good quarterly results giving The Companys search for undervalued stocks trading at us the opportunity to switch into cheaper stocks.
Mobile attractive valuations led to selective investments and Telesystems is the dominant mobile services provider in concentrated in the diversified banking, precious metals & Russia.
The Company divested its holdings in the minerals and oil & gas sectors.
Companies in the energy company because of the execution risks associated with and metals sectors remain well-positioned to benefit from the companys penetration into overseas markets.
The the long-term uptrend in commodity prices and continued largest handset manufacturer in Taiwan, Compal demand for oil, gas and metals.
We believe that commodity Communications, was eliminated due to intensive companies should remain profitable and constitute competition and the weakening market position of one of attractive investment opportunities.
Taking a long-term its major customers.
Siam Cement is the largest industrial view, we continue to like these sectors.
The continued conglomerate in Thailand.
Holdings were decreased liberalisation of the financial sector in emerging markets because the pending expansion of petrochemical could unlock hidden value and allow banks to benefit from production in the Middle East may drive product prices the growing financial needs of consumers in these regions.
Selective additions were also made in consumer-related sectors such as food retail, real estate management & development and automobile manufacturing.
The longterm outlook for consumerism remains attractive due to relatively higher per capita income growth and continued demand for consumer goods and services.
Key purchases included Wal-Mart fide Mexico Walmex, MCB and Impala Platinum.
Walmex is the largest retailing chain in Mexico and is in a strong position to benefit from continued demand for its staple products, food and clothing.
The company also has a solid growth potential based on good demographics and market share gains.
MCB is the fourth largest bank in Pakistan.
The Company increased its exposure to the bank because of its attractive valuation and relatively high return on equity.
Impala Platinum is one of the leading platinum producers in the world and is responsible for approximately a quarter of the global platinum production.
As one of the most efficient and lowest cost producers in the world, it is also well positioned to benefit from the longer-term up trend in commodity prices.
The availability of more attractive stocks elsewhere in the investment universe and the attainment of target prices led to selective sales during the reporting period.
This reduced the Companys investments in Taiwan, Turkey and Russia.
These sales also reduced the Companys exposure to wireless telecommunication services, semiconductors and communications equipment companies.
Major sales included Mediatek, Mobile Telesystems, Compal Communications and Siam Cement.
16 TEMPLETON EMERGING MARKETS INVESTMENT TRUST PLC OUTLOOK Emerging markets have rallied over the past eleven months and some investors might be tempted to take profits, which could lead to short-term market corrections.
However, we expect these kinds of corrections in emerging markets and rather than focusing on when a correction might happen, we focus on buying and adding to investments that in our view have dropped to compelling valuations as a result.
Our optimism remains founded on: growing investor confidence in equities, generally and emerging markets specifically: strong fund inflows into emerging markets: the search for higher returns in the face of low bank interest rates: relatively higher GDP growth in emerging markets: the accumulation of foreign exchange reserves which puts emerging economies in a much stronger position to weather external shocks: the relatively lower debt levels of emerging market countries: and, the high level of money supply growth globally.
Overall, we continue to remain positive on the long-term outlook for emerging markets.
D. Templeton Asset Management Ltd. 15 June 2010 All returns are in Sterling terms.
TEMPLETON EMERGING MARKETS INVESTMENT TRUST PLC 17
