COMPANY SUMMARY Introduction Templeton Emerging Markets Investment Trust PLC TEMIT is an investment company whose shares are quoted on both the London and New Zealand Stock Exchanges.
The majority of its shareholders are based in the UK.
Objective The investment objective of TEMIT is to provide long term capital appreciation for its shareholders by investing in companies operating in emerging markets.
Assets TEMIT is the largest emerging markets investment trust in the UK, with total assets of 2 billion as at 31 March 2010.
It invests in the stock markets of emerging countries.
However, investments in companies listed on more developed stock exchanges may also be made where those companies derive a significant source of revenue from emerging markets.
Management The Board of Directors is responsible for the overall strategy of the Company and for monitoring the performance of the Company.
The Board has appointed Templeton Asset Management Ltd. TAML or the Investment Manager as the Investment Manager of the Company.
TAML has over 20 years of investment experience in emerging markets and approximately US$37 billion in assets under management.
TAML is part of the Franklin Templeton Group which had US$587 billion in assets under management on 31 March 2010.
Share Capital At 31 March 2010 the Companys authorised share capital consisted of 1,362,419,566 shares of 25p of which 329,914,352 were issued and fully paid.
During the period the Company bought back 532,000 shares.
AIC The Company is a member of The Association of Investment Companies AIC.
How to Invest There are two ways of purchasing shares in TEMIT: 1.
Through the Templeton Investment Plan.
invest a regular monthly or quarterly amount minimum 50 monthly or 150 quarterly.
make occasional lump sum investments initial minimum 250, minimum subsequent investments 50.
Directly in the stock market through a stockbroker.
For more information contact your financial adviser or call us free on 0800 305 306.
Alternatively, you can visit the website at: www.
co. uk This report does not constitute or form part of any offer for shares or an invitation to apply for shares.
The price of shares and income from them can go down as well as up and you may not get back the full amount that you invested.
Past performance is no guarantee of future performance.
Currency fluctuations will affect the value of overseas investments.
Emerging Markets can be more risky than Developed Markets.
Please consult your professional adviser before deciding to invest.
TEMPLETON EMERGING MARKETS INVESTMENT TRUST PLC 1
