THE GROUP COMPANY Report of the Directors continued Voting Policy the companies in which the Trust invests, is described in the The Board has approved a corporate governance voting Directors Report under Environmental Policy on page 52. policy which, in its opinion, accords with current best practice The Companys objective remains the long-term whilst maintaining a primary focus on financial returns.
maximisation of shareholders total return.
Relations with Shareholders Compliance Statement Shareholder relations are given high priority by both the The directors acknowledge that the Company did not Board and the Investment Manager.
The prime medium comply with the following provisions of the Combined by which the Company communicates with shareholders Code in the year ended 31 March 2010. is through the Interim and Annual Reports which aim to A.
2.1 Due to the nature and structure of the Company the provide shareholders with a clear understanding of the Board of non-executive directors do not feel it is Companys activities and their results.
This information necessary to appoint a chief executive.
is supplemented by the daily calculation and by the A.
4.1 The Board does not have a separate Nominations publication at the London Stock Exchange of the Net Committee.
This function is carried out by the Asset Value of the Companys Ordinary and Sigma shares Board as part of the agenda of regular Board and interim management statements.
2.1 The Board does not have a separate Remuneration This information is also available on the Companys Committee.
The functions of a Remuneration website, www.
co. uk together with a monthly Committee are carried out by the MEC.
C. 3.5 As the Company has no employees and its At each AGM a presentation is made by the Fund operational functions are undertaken by third Managers following the business of the meeting.
parties, the Audit Committee does not consider it Shareholders have the opportunity to address questions necessary for the Company to establish its own to the Chairman and the Chairman of the Audit internal audit function.
All shareholders are encouraged Registered Auditor to attend the AGM.
A resolution to re-appoint Ernst & Young LLP as the It is the intention of the Board that the Annual Report and Companys Auditor will be put to shareholders at the Accounts and Notice of the AGM be issued to shareholders forthcoming AGM.
so as to provide at least twenty working days notice of the Directors statement as to disclosure of information to auditors AGM.
Shareholders wishing to lodge questions in advance The directors who were members of the board at the of the AGM, or to contact the Board at any other time, are time of approving the directors report are listed on page invited to do so by writing to the Company Secretary at the 44.
Having made enquiries of fellow directors and of the registered address given on page 99.
Companys auditors, each of these directors confirms that: General presentations are given to both shareholders and to the best of each directors knowledge and belief, analysts following the publication of the annual results.
All there is no information that is, information needed meetings between the Fund Manager and shareholders by the groups auditors in connection with preparing are reported to the Board.
their report of which the Companys auditors are unaware: and Socially Responsible Investment each director has taken all the steps a director might Good corporate governance extends to a companys reasonably be expected to have taken to be aware of policies on the environment, employment, human rights relevant audit information and to establish that the and community relationships.
Corporations are playing an Companys auditors are aware of that information.
increasingly important role in global economic activity and the adoption of good corporate governance enhances a By order of the Board companys economic prospects by reducing the risk of For and on behalf of government and regulatory intervention and any ensuing Capita Company Secretarial Services Limited damage to its business or reputation.
Secretary Policies relating to physical property either held directly or by 10 June 2010 60 TR Property Investment Trust
