THE GROUP COMPANY Report of the Directors continued Sigma share class 31 March 31 March Resolution 12 Adoption of new Articles of Association 2010 2009 Sigma Sigma The Company proposes to adopt new Articles of shares shares of 12.5p of 12.5p Association.
These incorporate amendments to the current Articles of Association to reflect the provisions of With beneficial interest: the Companies Act 2006 the 2006 Act and the C M Burton 6,600 6,600 Companies Shareholders' Rights Regulations 2009 P L Salsbury 65,000 65,000 which have come into force since the current Articles of R A Stone 60,000 60,000 Association were adopted at the 2008 AGM.
P H Wolton 20,000 20,000 H Seaborn 38,574 38,574 The principal changes in the new Articles of Association P Spencer 25,000 25,000 proposed to be adopted at the 2010 AGM are explained in the explanatory notes on pages 97 and 98 to this On 2 June 2010, Mr Wolton purchased a further 25,000 document.
Other changes, which are of a minor, technical Sigma shares.
There have been no other changes in the or clarifying nature and also some minor changes which directors interests between the end of the financial year merely reflect changes made by the 2006 Act have not and the date of this report.
The new Articles of Association showing all Other Statutory Information the changes to the current Articles of Association are Directors Interests in Shares available for inspection at the Companys registered office The directors interests in the share capital of the at 51 Berkeley Square, London W1J 5BB and at The Company are shown in the tables above.
Royal Automobile Club for at least 15 minutes prior to and during the AGM.
There were no contracts subsisting during or at the end of the year in which a director of the Company is or was Recommendation materially interested and which is or was significant in The directors consider that all the resolutions are in the relation to the Company's business.
No director has a interests of the Company and shareholders taken as a contract of service with the Company.
whole and recommend that all shareholders vote in favour of the resolutions, as the directors intend to, in respect of Payment of Suppliers their own beneficial holdings of Ordinary and Sigma shares It is the Company's payment policy for the current amounting, in aggregate, to 456,860 shares.
financial year to obtain the best possible terms for all business.
The Company agrees with its suppliers the terms on which business will take place and it abides by Ordinary share class 31 March 31 March 2010 2009 these terms.
There were no trade creditors at 31 March Ordinary Ordinary 2010 2009: same.
shares shares of 25p of 25p Donations With beneficial interest: The Company made no political or charitable donations C M Burton 18,700 18,700 during the year 2009: nil P L Salsbury 32,500 32,500 R A Stone 115,000 115,000 Share Capital Changes P H Wolton 10,104 10,104 At 1 April 2010 the Company had 256,725,000 Ordinary H Seaborn 15,486 15,486 shares and 124,922,000 Sigma shares in issue.
P Spencer 15,000 15,000 Since 1 April 2010, and up to the date of this document, the Company has made no market purchases for On 2 June 2010, Mr Wolton purchased a further 9,896 cancellation of Ordinary shares or of Sigma shares.
There have been no other changes in the directors interests between the end of the financial At the AGM in 2009 the directors were given power to year and the date of this report.
Since the AGM the TR Property Investment Trust 53 THE GROUP COMPANY Report of the Directors continued directors have not bought any shares under this authority.
No member shall be entitled to vote at any general This authority will expire at the 2010 AGM.
Also at the meeting or class meeting in respect of any shares held by AGM in 2009, the directors were given power to buy them if any call or other sum then payable by them in back 18,725,808 Sigma shares of 12.5 pence each.
Since respect of that share remains unpaid.
Currently, all issued the AGM the directors have not bought any Sigma shares shares are fully paid.
In addition, no member shall be under this authority.
This authority will also expire at the entitled to vote if he has been served with a restriction 2010 AGM.
The Company will seek to renew the power notice as defined in the Articles after failure to provide to make market purchases of Ordinary and Sigma shares the Company with information concerning interests in at this years AGM.
those shares required to be provided under the Companies Act.
Rights and obligations attaching to shares Subject to applicable statutes and other shareholders rights, Deadlines for voting rights shares may be issued with such rights and restrictions as Votes are exercisable at the general meeting of the the Company may by ordinary resolution decide, or if Company in respect of which the business being voted there is no such resolution or so far as it does not make upon is being heard.
Votes may be exercised in person, specific provision as the Board may decide.
Subject to the by proxy, or in relation to corporate members, by Articles, the Companies Act and other shareholders rights, corporate representatives.
unissued shares are at the disposal of the Board.
The Articles provide a deadline for submission of proxy Voting forms of not less than 48 hours or such shorter time as At a general meeting of the Company, when voting is by the Board may determine before the meeting not a show of hands, each holder of Ordinary shares and excluding non-working days.
each holder of Sigma shares has one vote.
If a poll vote is called for then each holder of Ordinary shares has a Transfer of shares weighted vote in accordance with the underlying Net Any shares in the Company may be held in Asset Value of each Ordinary share and similarly each uncertificated form and, subject to the Articles, title Sigma shareholder has a weighted vote in accordance to uncertificated shares may be transferred by means with the underlying Net Asset Value of each Sigma share.
Subject to the Articles, any The procedure used to determine the relevant weighting member may transfer all or any of his certificated of each share is outlined in the Articles.
The number of shares by an instrument of transfer in any usual form votes given to each shareholder on a poll is determined or in any other form which the Board may approve.
by multiplying the Share Voting Number by the number The instrument of transfer must be executed by or on of shares held by each shareholder.
For each class of behalf of the transferor and in the case of a partlyshare the Share Voting Number is a number equal to paid share the transferee.
the Net Asset Value of the assets attributable to that The Board may, in its absolute discretion and without class, divided by the number of shares in that class in giving any reason, decline to register any transfer of any issue on the Voting Calculation Date a date six weeks share which is not a fully paid share.
The Board may before the general meeting is convened.
The Net Asset also decline to register a transfer of a certificated share Values of the assets attributable to each class of shares is unless the instrument of transfer: i is duly stamped or calculated every day by the Administrator.
certified or otherwise shown to the satisfaction of the Restrictions on voting Board to be exempt from stamp duty and is Holders of Sigma shares do not have the right to vote, at accompanied by the relevant share certificate and such general meetings of the Company, on resolutions which other evidence of the right to transfer as the Board may relate only to the Ordinary shares, other than where the reasonably require: ii is in respect of only one class of Board determines that such a resolution will have a share: and iii if joint transferees, are in favour of not substantial adverse impact on the holders of Sigma more than four such transferees.
shares and or where it is a requirement of the Listing The Board may decline to register a transfer of any of the Rules that all shareholders are entitled to vote.
The same Companys certificated shares by a person with a 0.25% restrictions on voting apply to the holders of Ordinary interest as defined in the Articles if such a person has shares in relation to the Sigma shares.
54 TR Property Investment Trust THE GROUP COMPANY Report of the Directors continued been served with a restriction notice as defined in the ISAs Articles after failure to provide the Company with The Company has conducted its affairs, and will continue information concerning interests in those shares required to conduct its affairs, in such a way as to comply with the to be provided under the Companies Act, unless the Individual Savings Accounts Regulations.
Both Ordinary transfer is shown to the Board to be pursuant to an shares and Sigma shares can be held in Individual arms length sale as defined in the Articles.
Significant Voting Rights Ordinary shares Directors Indemnity % of Ordinary Directors and Officers liability insurance cover is in place share voting in respect of the directors.
The Companys Articles of Shareholder rights Association provide, subject to the provisions of UK Legal & General Investment Management Limited UK 3.83 legislation, an indemnity for directors in respect of costs Declarations of interests in voting rights of the Company, which they may incur relating to the defence of any at 30 April 2010, are set out above.
proceedings brought against them arising out of their positions as directors, in which they are acquitted or In addition, at 30 April 2010 the following shareholders held judgement is given in their favour by the court.
over 3% of the voting rights on a non-discretionary basis: To the extent permitted by law and by the Companys % of Ordinary share voting Articles of Association, the Company has entered into Shareholder rights deeds of indemnity for the benefit of each director of the Rensburg Sheppards Investment Management Limited 7.14 Company in respect of liabilities which may attach to TR Property ISA PEP and Shareplan Schemes 6.50 them in their capacity as directors of the Company.
These Brewin Dolphin Securities Limited 5.96 provisions, which are qualifying third party indemnity HSBC Global Asset Management UK Limited 4.55 provisions as defined by section 234 of the Companies Rathbone Investment Management Limited 3.62 Act 2006, were introduced in January 2007 and currently Quilter 3.45 remain in force.
F&C Investment Management Limited 3.20 Directors Statement as to Disclosure of Information Significant Voting Rights Sigma shares to Auditors % of Sigma The directors who were members of the Board at the share voting Shareholder rights time of approving the Report of the Directors are listed on page 44 of these financial statements.
Each of these Legal & General Investment Management Ltd. UK 3.97 directors confirms that: Declarations of interests in voting rights of the Company at 30 April 2010, are set out above.
to the best of each directors knowledge and belief, there is no information relevant to the preparation of In addition at 30 April 2010 the following shareholders held their report of which the Companys auditors are over 3% of the voting rights on a non-discretionary basis: unaware: and % of Sigma each director has taken all the steps a director might share voting Shareholder rights reasonably be expected to have taken to be aware of Reliance Mutual Insurance Society Ltd. 6.56 relevant audit information and to establish that the Scottish Widows Investment Partnership Ltd 6.47 Companys auditors are aware of that information.
Goldman Sachs Asset Management International 4.53 F&C Asset Management plc 4.30 Shareholder Information Heartwood Wealth Management Limited 3.65 Further information on the Company can be found on Derbyshire County Council Pension Fund 3.40 pages 100 to 102.
Merseyside Pension Fund 3.23 Going Concern JPMorgan Asset Management UK Limited 3.18 The Board has prepared forecasts taking account of the See page 54 for further information on the voting rights of Ordinary current uncertain market conditions which demonstrate and Sigma shares.
