THE GROUP COMPANY Report of the Directors continued The dividends shown in the Group Statement of Changes share classes are exposed to market price risk, foreign in Equity for the year are those dividends which have currency risk and interest rate risk.
The Companys policies actually been paid in the period, i. e the final dividend for managing these risks are outlined in note 11 to relating to the financial year ended 31 March 2009 the financial statements.
Further information on the 1.10p per share and the first interim dividend for this management of risk and internal controls is contained in period 0.90p per share.
At the Balance Sheet date the the Corporate Governance Report on pages 56 to 60. second interim dividend 1.10p per share which replaced Management Arrangements and Fees the final dividend usually paid in August had not been Throughout the period investment management services paid to shareholders.
have been provided by Thames River Capital LLP Thames Capital Return River or the Manager, accounting and administrative 2010 2009 Change services by BNP Paribas Securities Services, and company NAV per Sigma share 98.12p 61.34p 60.0% secretarial services by Capita Company Secretarial Sigma Share Price 70.50p 39.00p 80.8% Services Limited.
Custodial Services were provided by JPMorgan Chase until 30 June 2009 when such services Rises in property equity prices resulted in an increase in were transferred to BNP Paribas Securities Services.
shareholders funds of 60.0% per Sigma share.
Over the same period the price only element of the benchmark The significant terms of the investment management increased by 61.1%.
agreement with Thames River are as follows: Details of the investments held in the Sigma portfolio are Notice Period shown in the Managers Report on pages 36 to 41.
The investment management agreements IMAs provide for termination of the agreements by either Performance Measurement party without compensation on the provision of not The directors consider performance measured against the less than 12 months written notice.
benchmark to be the key performance indicator for the share class.
The benchmark for the share class for the Management Fees period to 31 March 2010 was the FTSE EPRA NAREIT Ordinary share class Small Cap Europe Index in Sterling.
The fee for the Ordinary share class for the period under review was a fixed fee of 2.65m plus an ad valorem This benchmark, provided by FTSE, is FTSE EPRA NAREIT fee of 0.20% pa based on the net asset value Europe Index in Sterling, adjusted to exclude those stocks determined in accordance with the Association of with a market capitalisation exceeding 1bn.
For the year to Investment Companies AIC method of valuation of March 2010 the constituents were adjusted quarterly, the Ordinary share class on the last day of March, June, however, from 1 April 2010 this adjustment will be made September and December, payable quarterly in annually.
On a total return basis the Sigma share class returned The fee arrangements were reviewed at the end of 64.1% against a Benchmark total return of 70.0%.
the financial year, and for the year to March 2011 the fixed fee element will increase to 2.78m.
The fee The performance for the financial year just ended and the arrangements will be reviewed once again at the end outlook for the forthcoming financial year are covered in of the financial year.
detail in the Chairmans Statement, Market Background and Outlook and Sigma Class Managers Report on pages Sigma share class 6 to 14 and 30 to 35.
The fee for the Sigma share class for the period under review was a fixed fee of 0.65m plus an ad Share Buy-back Activity valorem fee of 0.30% pa based on the net asset During the year to 31 March 2010, the Company did not value determined in accordance with the AIC repurchase any Sigma shares.
method of valuation of the Sigma share class on Financial Instruments and the Management of Risk the last day of March, June, September and By its nature as an investment trust, the portfolios of both December, payable quarterly in advance.
