THE GROUP COMPANY Report of the Directors continued that the Trust will be able to operate within available property, assets and uncalled capital and to issue facilities.
The assets of the Company consist mainly of debentures and other securities and to give security for securities which are readily realisable and, accordingly, it any debt, liability or obligation of the Company to any has adequate financial resources to continue in third party.
operational existence for the foreseeable future.
Directors After due consideration, the Board considers that the Trust Directors retirement by rotation and re-election is subject has adequate resources to meet its business needs and it to the Articles of Association, the Combined Code is therefore appropriate to adopt the going concern basis published in June 2008 and the AIC Code of Corporate in preparing these financial statements.
Corporate Governance The Articles of Association require that up to one-third of Corporate Governance Report the directors must retire every year and that every director The Board of Directors is accountable to shareholders for must retire by rotation at least every three years.
They the governance of the Companys affairs.
may then offer themselves for re-election.
The terms of the directors appointments also provide that a director shall be Application of the AIC Codes Principles subject to election at the first AGM after appointment and This statement describes how the principles of the to re-election at least every third year thereafter.
Combined Code on Corporate Governance the Code issued by the Financial Reporting Council in June 2008 The directors retiring by rotation at the forthcoming AGM have been applied to the affairs of the Company.
are Ms Burton and Mr Wolton who, being eligible, offer themselves for re-election.
Mr Salsbury and Mr Stone In applying the principles of the Code, the directors have have served on the Board for more than nine years.
In also taken account of the Code of Corporate Governance accordance with the Combined Code on Corporate published by the AIC, which established the framework of Governance, they will stand for annual re-election by best practice specifically for the Boards of investment trust shareholders and offer themselves for re-election at the companies.
There is some overlap in the principles laid forthcoming AGM.
down by the two Codes and there are some areas where the AIC Code is more flexible for investment trust The Board has considered the continued appointments of companies.
Mr Salsbury, who has served on the Board for twelve years, and Mr Stone, who has served on the Board for The directors believe that during the period under review nine years.
They have no other links to the Investment they have complied with the provisions of the Code, Manager.
The Board subscribes to the AIC Code view that insofar as they apply to the Companys business, and with length of tenure is not necessarily an issue, rather the the provisions of the AIC Code.
The Board is conscious of the need Composition and Independence of the Board to maintain continuity on the Board and believes that The Board currently consists of six directors, all of whom retaining directors with sufficient experience of both the are non-executive and are independent of the Investment Company and the markets is of great benefit to Manager.
None of the directors have any other links to shareholders.
Moreover, long-serving directors are less the Investment Manager: they all have other professional likely to take a short-term view.
The Board has concluded employment.
that both Mr Salsbury and Mr Stone continue to make valuable contributions and, notwithstanding their length of Powers of the Directors service, believes that they remain independent in Subject to the Companys Articles of Association, the character and judgement.
Accordingly, all six directors are Companies Act and any directions given by special regarded as being free of any conflicts of interest and no resolution, the business of the Company is managed by issues in respect of independence arise.
the Board who may exercise all the powers of the Company, whether relating to the management of the The Chairman is Mr Salsbury.
The directors biographies, business of the Company or not.
In particular, the Board on page 44, demonstrate the breadth of investment, may exercise all the powers of the Company to borrow commercial and professional experience relevant to their money and to mortgage or charge any of its undertaking, positions as directors of the Company.
