SIGMA SHARES Managers Report Sigma Share Class Marcus Phayre-Mudge MRICS Fund Manager 10 June 2010 Introduction Revenue section dividend cuts were fewer than expected I reported at the interim stage that small cap real estate as earnings were enhanced by lower short term rates and stocks had outperformed their larger competitors in the thus reduced interest bills.
The sector continued to offer six months to September 2009.
This outperformance not attractive dividend yields and exposure to real assets.
only continued but widened further in the second half of However, set against these positive drivers, the market the year.
FTSE EPRA NAREIT Small Cap Europe Total continued quite rightly in our view to fret about the lack Return Index rose 70.0% in the year to March 2010 of broad tenant demand for space.
The exception to this whilst the FTSE EPRA NAREIT Europe Index which has been a small group of submarkets including the includes all those stocks with a market capitalisation of Central London office and retail markets.
This differential is consistent growth nascent or absent across Europe there is little with the broad trend of smaller companies outperforming justification for anticipating rental growth in the near term.
larger stocks in the initial upward correction following such Another feature of the market worthy of note has been a serious bear market.
Indeed initial upward correction is currency volatility.
Sigmas non Sterling asset exposure is a mild euphemism for what was a very dramatic reversal not hedged as the benchmark is denominated in Sterling.
of investor sentiment towards all equities, particularly The manager therefore needs to monitor closely the seethose viewed as direct beneficiaries of the easing of debt through currency exposure of the portfolio versus the availability and the monetary stimuli put in place by benchmarks currency exposure.
The central theme over central banks.
most of the year was the volatility of Sterling versus all Sigmas benchmark index rose 68.2% between 9 March European currencies.
2009 the low point and 19 October as the correction in Performance real estate equity pricing was reinforced by the underlying In the year to March 2010, the Sigma share class total asset value movement.
The IPD Monthly Index turned return NAV rose 64.1% and this compares with a total positive in July and has delivered capital growth of 13.1% return from the FTSE EPRA NAREIT Small Cap Europe between then and the end of March.
On a price only as opposed to total However, the benchmark index value on 19 October was return basis Sigmas NAV rose by 60.0% whilst the only exceeded again on the last three days of the benchmark price only rose 61.1%.
From mid October to the year end the between the two sets of figures reflects the impact of sector oscillated in a sub 10% trading range as sentiment dividends assumed by the index to be re-invested on ebbed and flowed.
For the bulls the strongest value their ex-dividend date.
With over 40% of the sectors reinforcement was the lack of forced selling by creditors income received in the first quarter of the year the banks have not flooded the market with indebted assumed reinvestment of these dividends helped property.
Investors need income and as detailed in the generate significant additional returns.
Over the two years 30 TR Property Investment Trust SIGMA SHARES Managers Report continued from March 2008 to March 2010 the NAV total return has See-Through Portfolio by Market % been -5.3% while the benchmark total return has been Benchmark Sigma Share 31 March 2010 Class Portfolio -12.6%.
UK City Offices 1.2% 0.5% West End Offices 2.2% 2.1% Sigma still had net cash throughout the first quarter as we West End Retail 2.3% 1.5% still remained cautious about the recovery and this was a Docklands 0.1% 1.4% drag on performance.
My stock selection has always GKC SE Offices 1.1% 1.0% Provincial Offices 0.8% 1.3% focused on the sustainability of asset values and earnings In town Retail 1.1% 3.6% as well as seeking to evaluate the value of individual Supermarkets 0.1% 0.0% Retail Warehouses 0.6% 0.7% company managements strategic contribution.
As a Out of town retail 0.1% 0.1% consequence the portfolio did not own positions in a SE Industrials 1.9% 1.0% number of the higher risk businesses and it was these Other Industrials 1.1% 0.7% Self Storage 2.0% 2.6% highly leveraged companies which enjoyed dramatic Leisure 0.2% 0.6% outperformance in the first half of the year as risk appetite Residential 6.8% 12.8% Other 1.0% 1.6% surged.
The initial rally from early March to May was followed by a short, sharp pullback -6% in June.
Total UK 22.6% 31.5% Indeed fundamentals in the underlying real estate Austria Retail & Offices 1.2% 0.8% markets had shown very few signs of improvement at this Austria Residential 1.9% 2.9% Belgium Retail 0.6% 0.7% stage.
In fact it was to be macroeconomic data which Belgium Offices 4.1% 1.1% drove all markets higher from early July.
Underowned by Belgium Residential 0.3% 0.2% Belgium Logistics 1.1% 0.9% generalist investors and seen as a geared play on Central Europe Retail 0.6% 0.5% recovery, real estate equities surged forward with record Central Europe Offices 0.6% 0.5% breaking returns in Q2 July September of 37.0%.
Central Europe Logistics 0.8% 0.6% Central Europe Other 0.2% 0.9% Denmark 0.1% 0.1% As outlined in the Introduction, the second half of the Finland Retail 2.2% 3.5% year was very different, marked by higher volatility in a Finland Offices 2.8% 1.1% Finland Other 0.9% 0.7% tight trading range.
The introduction of leverage in France Retail 1.8% 3.9% September was clearly beneficial as the sector rose France Offices 2.1% 3.0% France Logistics 1.7% 3.9% 11% in the second half of the year but the vast France Other 0.1% 2.0% majority of the years gains were in the first half.
The Germany Retail 2.7% 1.5% introduction of leverage into the portfolio was triggered by Germany Offices 5.5% 5.2% Germany Logistics 1.4% 1.3% the improvement in the fundamental demand for real Germany Residential 8.6% 4.1% estate as an asset class.
Indeed the leverage remains mild Germany Other 0.8% 0.7% Greece 1.9% 0.8% at 11%.
My reticence to increase it further is based on Italy Retail 2.4% 2.0% the concern that the demand for the asset class is chiefly Italy Offices 1.1% 1.2% from investors and not yet from tenants it is the latter Italy Other 0.4% 0.3% Netherlands Retail 1.8% 1.4% who drive rental growth and ultimately value growth.
Netherlands Offices 1.5% 0.4% Netherlands Industrial 0.7% 1.0% Norway 3.2%2.7% Investment Activity Portugal 0.1%0.1% Purchases exceeded sales in a year in which the early Russia 0.4%1.3% months were dominated by the investment of net cash Spain 0.9%0.9% Sweden Retail 2.5% 3.1% followed by the fund moving to a geared position early in Sweden Offices 11.3% 9.3% the second half.
The level of activity both purchases and Sweden Industrial 3.6% 2.3% sales was also greater than in previous years due to the Sweden Other 1.5% 1.3% Switzerland 1.8%0.1% constituent volatility in the benchmark.
As outlined in the USA 0.1%0.1% Chairmans Statement, the benchmarks quarterly review Other Overseas 0.1% 0.1% of constituents based on a fixed market capitalisation limit Total 100.0% 100.0% of 1bn resulted in a significantly higher amount of turnover as stocks departed or entered the benchmark in TR Property Investment Trust 31 SIGMA SHARES Managers Report continued a period of rapidly increasing and volatile share prices.
In fact as shown on page 38 the relative The Chairman has already commented on the overweight exposure to France and the Netherlands is as improvements that the Board have made to reduce the large as it was a year ago, whilst the fund has reduced its volatility of the constituent movements and I echo the underweight to Scandinavia over the period.
Boards view that this will lead to reduced stock turnover Reviewing the monthly transaction activity illustrates my whilst continuing to allow investors to measure the response to opportunities in the market.
I was a net buyer managers performance appropriately.
An explanation of of equities in April and May with purchases exceeding the amendments is detailed further in the report.
June and July were evenly balanced but mid Investment turnover sales and purchases divided by two August through to October was the period of greatest was 95.4m which equates to 90.8% of the average gross activity purchases of 50.2m and sales of 40.7m as assets over the year of 105.0m.
This is expected to the fund took on gearing.
This period was marked by return to the long run average of 50% following the great volatility and the snapshot monthly statistics often alterations to the benchmark index review procedure.
There do not provide a clear picture.
For example the month of was plenty of opportunity to invest fresh capital into the October was virtually flat -0.3% but intra month real estate equity sector in the period.
The UK companies movements 6.7% to -8.2% indicates the level of volatility.
rescue rights issues which dominated the market in The timing of transactions was of the greatest importance.
February and March 2009 continued in April with Segro and Liberty raisings.
Other UK stocks which followed later in Largest Equity Investments the year with rights issues were St. Modwen, Wichford, The table on page 37 shows the top 20 holdings at the Capital & Regional and Workspace.
Rescue rights issues year end.
Given the activity described above it is useful to were not a purely Anglo Saxon phenomenon and compare these positions with the situation back in March Continental European stocks which required fresh equity 2009.
The portfolio was then in the final stages of the included Sponda Finland, Norwegian Properties Norway transition to entirely small cap stocks and the top 20 and Deutsche Wohnen Germany.
As values in underlying positions included 4 large cap stocks.
Over the following property markets stabilised over the summer months, nine months a further four of those listed, Segro, Derwent a number of companies raised equity to invest London, Silic and Wereldhave became large cap stocks.
In the UK this included Great Portland As we have outlined earlier the most dramatic Estates, Shaftesbury, Big Yellow Group, Primary Health, Hansteen, Development Securities and London & Stamford.
movements in share prices in the first half of the year were those businesses with the greatest leverage as Such opportunistic raisings were less prevalent in Continental Europe and generally restricted to 10% share investors sought additional risk exposure.
My investment strategy is focused on quality businesses with sound placings Vastned Retail, Eurocommercial and Corio.
Rights issues were undertaken by Warehouses fide Pauw and management and portfolios of assets which I believe will make market beating returns over the medium term.
If all of those were not enough to keep us busy the UK market also saw two IPOs of externally managed top 20 positions outlined on pages 39 to 41 does not contain any businesses with a significant development vehicles intending to seek out distressed opportunities.
I believe that development will remain subdued for The table on page 36 shows the changes in our some time to come as tenants hold back from investments over the year.
The apparent significant commitments and banks remain unwilling to fund reduction in the exposure to France from 27.2% to speculatively.
The market which remains the exception to 11.1% and the Netherlands 16.4% down to 11.6% prove the rule is Central London where an international and the respective increase in Scandanavia Sweden from finance community and a lack of new supply is forcing 7.5% to 15.7% and Finland 0.6% to 5.6% is not as rents upwards.
For this reason, Great Portland Estates is extreme as it first appears.
The table on page 31 which now our second largest position.
shows the see-through portfolio by sub-market versus the benchmark provides some clarification.
The significant Alongside Castellum there are now five other significant adjustments in the benchmark constituents over the Scandinavian positions.
This reflects our positive macro period resulted in a dramatic change in the geographic view on these Northern European economies.
Most 32 TR Property Investment Trust SIGMA SHARES Managers Report continued property companies in this region tend to operate with a the former and dramatically reduced the latter.
The combination of greater than average leverage and higher defensive qualities of the Brussels office market with a proportion of floating rate debt.
Over the last twelve high level of sovereign related tenants is not appropriate months this has helped the region outperform the broader as the cycle evolves.
Although offering security of income, market.
Within those six stocks the sector focus has the Brussels market is also entering a period of over remained city centre office markets Fabege, Hufvudstaden supply and, at best, static rents.
and Norwegian Properties as well as retail Citycon.
The Central European exposure was reduced heavily in The expected lack of rental growth in the short term in 2008 and remains limited today.
the traditional commercial property sectors has drawn me Revenue to other markets and this is clearly visible in the top 20 positions.
The exposure to residential has increased In the interim report I stated that I expected our revenue to be in the region of 2.0p per Sigma share.
This estimate considerably from 5.2% to 22.6% on a see through basis with Conwert Austria Germany and Grainger reflected several factors including our anticipation of further dividend cuts as companies sought to preserve UK in our top 10 positions.
Other significant positions include Unite student housing, Big Yellow self storage cash in their business.
The expectation of the continuation of low base rates also minimised the return from any and Foncire des Murs budget hotels predominantly leased to Accor.
In fact our estimates proved too pessimistic with earnings I mentioned earlier that there have been a number of opportunistic vehicles which raised capital and totaling 3.06p.
The core reason behind the improvement in earnings was better than expected dividend receipts expected to acquire assets from distressed sellers.
Sigma has significant exposure to just one company from our underlying holdings.
Cashflows, particularly on the Continent were aided by high levels of floating rate with this business model, Hansteen.
In the last 12 months it has acquired a 330m portfolio of German debt which led to reduced interest bills coupled with fewer tenant delinquencies.
The result was that the industrial properties and an 80m portfolio of UK assets from creditor banks keen to recover some of majority of businesses which had not already announced the temporary suspension of dividends either paid the their capital.
same as last year or actually increased the amount Distribution of Assets versus the previous year.
Allied to this were a number The table on page 31 explains the see-through by of additional factors which require explanation.
country and sub-market and is set against the equivalent As the outlook for European commercial property and for the benchmark.
The UK exposure has remained static property equities improved so did investors appetite for in absolute terms but relative to the benchmark it is now risk.
From late September last year Sigma began to utilise a considerable overweight position.
This reorientation was its RBS loan facility and by mid Autumn the fund had undertaken in the second half of the year and is heavily 10% gearing.
This debt had an average cost of 2.3% concentrated in the Greater London and South East which is below the dividend yield on the portfolio 3.9% markets.
Geographically, France is the other significant and is therefore earnings accretive.
The French assets are also heavily are always prudent and there is no assumption that debt concentrated in the Ile fide France and through high quality will be drawn.
The second factor is the shape of the portfolio.
As noted At the sector level, I have maintained the overweight earlier, one of our key concerns for the sector remains the exposure to retail particularly in France and Scandanavia.
general lack of rental growth opportunities across Europe.
Residential exposure has increased substantially but with a A consequence of this view is that the portfolio remains strong country concentration, Sweden, the UK and Austria.
focused on businesses with standing income producing Last year I commented that I had gravitated to higher portfolios as opposed to developer or other lower yielding office exposure in Paris and Brussels.
I have maintained and opportunistic business models.
As noted last year, the TR Property Investment Trust 33 SIGMA SHARES Managers Report continued overweight to Continental European stocks has once Board is that revenue earnings will be in the order of 2.3p again been positive from an income perspective.
strengthening of the Euro resulted in a greater than Since Sigmas inception the payout ratio has been expected Sterling value for our Euro denominated cautious as the portfolio underwent transition to an dividend receipts.
Importantly, a number of UK property entirely small cap portfolio.
Looking forward it is expected companies chose to pay a second interim dividend in that the payout ratio will increase.
lieu of a final dividend ahead of the new tax year and the change in personal income tax thresholds.
This had My view is that base rates are set to remain low the effect of pulling income from 2010 11 back into throughout 2010 and that this will continue to enhance 2009 10.
In Sigmas case the list of companies included the earnings of those businesses with floating rate debt.
Overall this amounted to However, we remain reluctant to factor in rental growth around 0.20p per share of post tax income.
and many payouts are expected to remain static rather than grow.
Some index linked rents particularly where Also bolstering our income was the successful VAT reclaim tied to the cost of construction have already begun to on management fees and interest and underwriting fall.
There also remains a swathe of Continental European fees.
These non recurring items added just under 0.50p property which enjoyed strong annual rental uplifts in per share to income.
better economic conditions and where the indexation was As anticipated at the interim stage, the tax charge for the greater than open market rental value movements.
This year is considerably lower than in 2009.
The key factor in has resulted in some over rented leases which will revert this is that from 1 July 2009, UK law changed such that to market levels over time.
all overseas dividend receipts are non taxable from this I continue to remind shareholders that Sigma has a total date.
Because a higher proportion of Sigmas income is return objective.
If the economic outlook was to show derived from overseas dividends than the Ordinary share signs of improvement and the fund rotated into a larger class, this has had a greater impact on the tax charge number of non or low income producing development for Sigma.
cycle plays then the earnings forecast could alter.
It may be possible that this treatment of overseas dividends may also be applied for earlier periods and Cash, Gearing and Debentures there are also a number of cases in the European Courts Changes in the net cash position of the share class was, as which have challenged the practice of applying expected for such a dramatic performance period, acute.
These matters are at various stages of At the end of March 2009, Sigma had net cash of 8m either appeal or implementation by the individual tax 11.2% of NAV.
This figure is post any adjustment for authorities across Europe.
If the appeals are unsuccessful debenture debt, the cost of the final dividend and any and the rulings are incorporated into each jurisdictions tax outstanding rights issue commitments.
As noted at the half law, then this will reduce the ongoing tax charge further.
year, the Trust had renewed its 50m loan facility with the However, at this point, the outcome is not certain and the Royal Bank of Scotland of which 10m was Sigmas share.
tax charges in the accounts have been prepared on the Sigma began to draw on this facility in September and by basis of the current legislation.
December this was fully drawn.
Coupled with Sigmas share of the debenture 2.85m by the end of March Revenue Expectations 2010 the gearing was 10.8% of total assets.
A number of the contributing factors to the years earnings noted above are unlikely to reoccur and this is Alongside the gearing figure on the balance sheet we also the rationale behind the cautious payout ratio in the year calculate the see-through loan to value which adds the to March 2010.
The payment of second interims pulling proportionate debt of all our equity investments to our income from 2010 11 back into 2009 10 will have a own balance sheet net debt.
This figure is 58.5% negative impact on our forecasts.
Currencies could also 34.6% last March and reflects not only the drawdown swing the other way and at the time of going to press the of the RBS facility but also the portfolios rotation entirely volatility has increased markedly.
My current advice to the into smaller companies.
Back in March 2009 the portfolio 34 TR Property Investment Trust SIGMA SHARES Managers Report continued still contained 25% large cap stocks which were generally less leveraged than their smaller competitors particularly the UK stocks after the wave of rescue rights issues.
The equivalent figure for the benchmark is 53.8%.
Sigmas see-through positions are then enhanced by its own on balance sheet gearing.
I remain vigilant that this increased see-through leverage may result in greater volatility in both asset values and share prices.
Sigma Share Class Benchmark The Chairman has reported that the Board have introduced new measures to reduce the constituent volatility in the small cap benchmark.
In the year to March 2010, the quarterly index adjustments based on a fixed constituent market cap of 1bn resulted in 52% of the benchmark rotating.
The Board wished to maintain its current constituent limit of 1bn to ensure that the benchmark remains aligned to the share classs objective of investing in smaller companies but with the following additional features: 1 the market cap is adjusted annually in line with the movement in the benchmark over the period ie a 10% capital gain in the index in the year to March 2011 would result in the market cap hurdle rising to 1.1bn.
2 The constituents list is reviewed annually rather than quarterly 3 Only companies which have a market cap 20% ahead of the market cap hurdle will be excluded and only those with a market cap 20% below the hurdle will fall into the index the smoothing band approach.
Marcus Phayre-Mudge Fund Manager Sigma Share Class TR Property Investment Trust 35
