THE GROUP COMPANY Report of the Directors continued Performance Evaluation Appointment of New Directors An independent evaluation of the effectiveness of the The directors have determined that, due to the size of the Board, its committees and the performance of each Board and the independence of each of its members, director was undertaken by the JCA Group JCA.
In there is no requirement for a separate Nominations addition to the Directors, the most Senior members of Committee.
the Fund Management and Investment Management The Board annually reviews its size and structure, and is teams were interviewed.
The Board has an The JCA report was presented and discussed by the open mind regarding the use of external recruitment Board and subsequently the Chairman held individual consultants or internal process, and has, in the past, discussions with each Director to give individual feedback.
chosen to combine both routes to ensure best practice.
The Chairman was interviewed by and had feedback from Directors Training both the Senior Independent Director and JCA.
The When a new director is appointed, he she is offered process is considered by the Board to be constructive in training by the Investment Manager.
Directors are also terms of identifying areas for improving the functioning provided on a regular basis with key information on the and performance of the Board and the Committees, the Companys activities, including regulatory and statutory contribution of individual directors, as well as building on requirements and internal controls.
Changes affecting and developing individual and collective strengths.
directors responsibilities are advised to the Board as they The Chairman confirms that, in the light of the formal arise.
Directors ensure that they are updated on regulatory, statutory and industry matters.
performance evaluation, the performance of each of the directors continues to be effective and to demonstrate Board Meetings commitment to his or her role, including commitment of The number of meetings of the Board and Committees time for Board and Committee meetings and any other held during the year under review, and the attendance of duties.
The Board believes it has a good balance of skills, individual directors, are shown below: experience, ages and length of service to ensure it operates effectively.
Meetings Board Audit MEC The performance of the Company is considered in detail No.
of meetings in the year 6 2 1 at each Board meeting.
Peter Salsbury 6 2 1 In particular, it is considered that each of the directors Caroline Burton 6 2 1 makes a significant contribution to the affairs of the Richard Stone 5 2 1 Company and that directors seeking re-appointment at Peter Wolton 6 2 1 the Companys forthcoming AGM merit re-appointment Hugh Seaborn 5 1 1 by shareholders.
Paul Spencer 6 2 1 Directors Remuneration In addition to formal Board and Committee meetings, Directors remuneration is considered by the MEC.
The directors also attend a number of informal meetings to MEC determines and approves directors fees following represent the interests of the Company.
proper consideration, having regard to the level of fees The Board payable to non-executive directors in the industry The Board is responsible for the effective stewardship of generally, the role that individual directors fulfil in respect the Companys affairs.
Certain strategic issues are of Board and Committee responsibilities and the time monitored by the Board at meetings against a framework committed to the Companys affairs.
In the recent review which has been agreed with the Managers.
Additional external advice was also taken.
meetings may be arranged as required.
The Board has a The Companys Articles of Association limit the aggregate formal schedule of matters specifically reserved for its fees payable to the Board to a total of 250,000 per decision, which are categorised under various headings, annum.
Detailed information on the remuneration including strategy, management, structure, capital, financial arrangements for the directors of the Company can be reporting, internal controls, gearing, asset allocation, share found in the Directors Remuneration Report.
price discount, contracts, investment policy, finance, risk, 58 TR Property Investment Trust
