THE GROUP COMPANY Report of the Directors The directors present the audited accounts of the Group and The results and performance of the two share classes are their report for the year ended 31 March 2010.
Full details of each portfolio and the comprises TR Property Investment Trust plc the Company Managers views on the outlook for the coming financial and its subsidiaries.
The Company has two share classes, the year for each share class are covered in the Managers Ordinary share class and the Sigma share class.
The review Report for the Ordinary share class on pages 16 to 20 of the business of the Company, recent events and outlook and for the Sigma share class on pages 30 to 35. are contained within the Chairmans Statement, on pages 6 Ordinary share class to 9, which forms part of this Report of the Directors by Objective and Strategy reference.
The objective of the Ordinary share class of TR Property Status Investment Trust plc is to maximise the shareholders total The Company is an investment company, as defined in returns by investing in property shares and property on an Section 833 of the Companies Act 2006, and operates as international basis.
an investment trust in accordance with Section 842 of the As at 31 March 2010, 90.1% of the Ordinary share class Income and Corporation Taxes Act 1988.
It is required to net assets were invested in Pan-European listed property seek HM Revenue & Customs approval of its status as an securities and 9.9% in directly owned UK real estate.
investment trust under the above-mentioned Section 842 every year, and this approval will continue to be sought.
The Ordinary share class portfolio is total return focused HM Revenue & Customs approval of the Companys status and future growth and capital appreciation potential is as an investment trust has been received in respect of the generally regarded more highly than immediate initial year ended 31 March 2009.
The directors are of the yield or discount to asset value.
The investment selection opinion that the Company has subsequently conducted its process seeks to identify well managed companies of all affairs in a manner which will enable it to continue to gain sizes, especially those with a focus on a particular type of such approval.
The Company has no employees and the real estate business.
The investment policies are close company provisions do not apply.
Share capital The Ordinary share class is a dedicated investor in real At 31 March 2010, the Company has two classes of share: estate and real estate securities and will continue to Ordinary shares of 25 pence each and Sigma shares of adhere to this strategy.
The Ordinary shares represent 80.5% Revenue and Dividends and the Sigma shares represent 19.5% of the total issued 2010 2009 Change share capital.
The shares are in registered form.
Revenue earnings Business Review per share 5.18p 6.49p -20.2% The following review is designed to provide information Dividends per share 5.75p 5.75p 0.0% primarily about the Groups business and results for the Total returns per Ordinary share, which include capital year ended 31 March 2010 and covers: gains on investments, amounted to 64.89p per share.
Objective and Strategy The capital return of 59.71p per share was reflective of the Revenue and Dividends performance of the property equity market through the Capital Return period which is covered in detail in the Managers Report.
Property Valuation Performance Measurement KPI Revenue earnings declined by 20.2%.
This was largely Share Buy-back Activity due to a significant number of companies suspending or Financial Instruments and Management of Risk reducing dividend payments through the period while Management Arrangements and Fees they re-built their balance sheets, or changes in timing of Basis of Accounting and IFRS dividend payments.
Environmental Policy 48 TR Property Investment Trust
