THE GROUP COMPANY Report of the Directors continued The fee arrangements were reviewed at the end of outperforms the hurdle rate, after taking into account the financial year, and for the year to March 2011 the any accumulated percentage underperformance for fixed fee element will increase to 0.68m.
The fee previous periods to the extent it is not offset by the arrangements will be reviewed once again at the end overperformance offsets described above.
At 31 March of the financial year.
2010, 2.39% of underperformance is being carried forward.
For both share classes the management fee includes fund accounting and administrative services, safe Sigma share class custody and company secretarial services which are all A performance fee is payable if the total return of provided by third parties.
The Company has a direct adjusted net assets attributable to Sigma shareholders, contractual relationship with the parties providing as defined in the IMA with Thames River, at 31 March these services and the fees incurred are deducted each year outperforms the total return of the from the gross fees due to Thames River.
This affords Companys Benchmark plus 2% the hurdle rate : the Company a high degree of transparency and this outperformance expressed as a percentage is control in respect of these services.
known as the percentage outperformance.
Any fee payable is the amount equivalent to the adjusted net Performance Fees assets attributable to Sigma shareholders at 31 March In addition to the management fees, the Board has each year multiplied by the percentage outperformance, agreed to pay the Investment Manager performance then multiplied by 20%.
related fees in respect of an accounting period if certain performance objectives are achieved.
The maximum performance fee payable in any period is capped at 5% of the adjusted net assets attributable to Ordinary share class Sigma shareholders unless the adjusted net assets at the A performance fee is payable if the total return of end of the period are less than at the beginning of the adjusted net assets attributable to Ordinary period when the maximum performance fee payable will shareholders, as defined in the IMA with Thames River, be limited to 1% of the adjusted net assets attributable at 31 March each year outperforms the total return of to the Sigma shareholders.
If any fee exceeds the the Companys Benchmark plus 2% the hurdle rate : relevant cap 5% or 1% as applicable, such excess will this outperformance expressed as a percentage is be carried forward and applied to reduce any percentage known as the percentage outperformance.
Any fee underperformance in future periods.
payable will be the amount equivalent to the adjusted net assets attributable to Ordinary shareholders at If the total return of Sigma equity shareholders 31 March each year multiplied by the percentage funds for any performance period is less than the outperformance, then multiplied by 15%.
hurdle rate for the relevant performance periods, such underperformance expressed as a percentage The maximum performance fee payable for the will be carried forward.
No fee will be payable unless period is capped at 2% of the adjusted net assets the Group equity shareholders funds for the attributable to Ordinary shareholders.
However, if the particular share class outperforms the hurdle rate, adjusted net assets at the end of the period are less after taking into account any accumulated than at the beginning of the period, the maximum percentage underperformance for previous periods performance fee payable will be limited to1% of the to the extent it is not offset by the overperformance adjusted net assets attributable to the Ordinary offsets described above.
If any fee exceeds the relevant cap 2% of underperformance is being carried forward.
or 1% as applicable, such excess will be carried forward and applied to reduce any percentage Basis of Accounting and IFRS underperformance in future periods.
On the basis of the Boards expected long term split of If the total return of Ordinary equity shareholders funds returns, in the form of capital gains and income in equal for any performance period is less than the hurdle rate proportions, the Group charges 50% of finance costs to for the relevant performance periods, such capital.
One-third of the management fee is deemed to underperformance expressed as a percentage will be relate to the administration of the Company and is carried forward.
No fee will be payable unless the Group charged to revenue.
The remainder is split on the same equity shareholders funds for the particular share class basis as finance costs and 50% charged to capital.
The TR Property Investment Trust 51
