THE GROUP COMPANY Chairmans Statement continued Board and Management Financial performance has been outstanding.
Average The Board has noted the announcement by F&C Asset annualised growth figures include a Share Price total Management regarding the acquisition of Thames River return of 15.1%: NAV total returns of 14.8%: and Capital.
The Board is assured that the team managing the Dividends 12.8%.
These compare with annualised Trust will be unchanged and looks forward to continuing increases of 9.1% for the EPRA Benchmark: 7.4% for to work with the team as part of the enlarged group.
the FTSE 100 index, and 2.7% for the Retail Price Index.
Under his leadership investment has been focused on Outlook those Companies judged to have superior management, Late April and early May have brought sharp reminders high quality assets and good prospects for growth.
that markets are still willing to respond violently when faced with political or economic uncertainty.
Despite the The policy of managing directly owned commercial gradual return of relative normality in the economies and property is a source of market credibility and develops high streets across Europe, severe structural problems expertise in the team.
Both Marcus and James were remain.
The Euro currency is being pressure tested, while responsible for this area in their early years under Chris.
in both the UK and across Europe we have to factor into property demand the outlook for higher taxation and He has backed his judgement with significant investment lower government spending.
The prospect of rising decisions, consistently maintaining positions well away interest rates, which preoccupied our thoughts earlier in from the benchmark ratios.
He led the fund from a UK the year, seems to have taken a backstage position for base to becoming Pan European: he supported the the moment, but at some stage it will return.
launch of Sigma and was instrumental in joining forces with Thames River Capital.
Demand for property as an investment has re-emerged strongly, both in the residential and commercial markets, He has grown a very strong reputation with shareholders most particularly from retail investors.
A substantial part of putting in much effort to ensure that they are this is down to the search for income, but, despite the appropriately informed.
This has expanded the retail base assurances of many economists, there is a widespread to over 70% in respect of the Ordinary shares.
His views view that the problem of the public debt mountains will are highly respected by company managers throughout eventually lead to higher inflation and that real estate, the property industry.
held either directly or indirectly, will prove a better medium term investment than conventional bonds.
However, I believe that the building of a strong team with the ability to analyse companies and economic trends then As noted, both the Ordinary and Sigma share class have to have the courage to make significant decisions which returned to a lightly geared position.
However both benefit shareholders will be his most important legacy.
portfolios continue to be dominated by holdings in companies which the managers consider have both Comprehensive details on Marcus and James are set below average risk in terms of their balance sheets and out in the Management section on page 45 of the also which offer decent relative liquidity.
Like an Icelandic Annual Report.
volcano, the global economy keeps reminding us that it is not settled, but somehow the alarm created by these later eruptions are never as frightening or disruptive as Peter Salsbury that first explosion.
Chairman My thanks to Chris Turner Chris Turner has transformed the Company since he took over as Senior Fund Manager in May 1995.
The share price was 34p and the Net Assets were 162m.
