THE GROUP COMPANY Report of the Directors continued investment restrictions, performance, corporate the business and for publication is reliable.
Control of governance and Board membership and appointments.
the risks identified, covering financial, operational, compliance and risk management, is embedded in the In order to enable them to discharge their responsibilities, controls of the Group by a series of regular investment all directors have full and timely access to relevant performance and attribution statements, financial and information.
At each meeting, the Board reviews the risk analyses, fund manager reports and quarterly control Companys investment performance and considers reports.
Key risks have been identified and controls put financial analyses and other reports of an operational in place to mitigate them, including those not directly nature.
The Board monitors compliance with the the responsibility of the Investment Manager.
Companys objectives and is responsible for setting asset allocation, investment and gearing limits within which the The effectiveness of the internal controls is assessed on a Fund Manager has discretion to act and thus supervises continuing basis by the Compliance and Risk departments of the management of the investment portfolio, which is the Investment Manager, the Administrator and the Company contractually delegated to the Investment Manager.
Each maintains its own system of internal controls, and the Board and Audit Committee receive regular reports The Board has responsibility for the approval of unquoted from them.
The control systems are designed to provide investments and any investments in in-house funds reasonable, but not absolute, assurance against material managed or advised by the Investment Manager.
It has misstatement or loss and to manage, rather than eliminate, also adopted a procedure for directors, in the furtherance risk of failure to achieve objectives.
of their duties, to take independent professional advice at the expense of the Company.
As the Company has no employees and its operational functions are undertaken by third parties, the Audit Further details of the Boards consideration of key Committee does not consider it necessary for the operational matters is contained in the Business Review Company to establish its own internal audit function.
section of the Report of the Directors on pages 48 to 52.
Instead, the Audit Committee relies on internal control reports and other internal control reports received from its Conflicts of Interest principal service providers, particularly the Manager, to In line with the Companies Act 2006, the Board has the satisfy itself as to the controls in place.
power to authorise any potential conflicts of interest that may arise and impose such limits or conditions as it The Board has established a process for identifying, thinks fit.
A comprehensive exercise was undertaken to evaluating and managing any major risks faced by the identify the potential and actual conflicts of interest of Group.
The process is subject to regular review by the the Directors and their connected persons.
The Board Board and accords with the Internal Control Guidance for then reviewed these conflicts and approved them Directors on the Combined Code published in September excluding the Director to whom the potential conflict 1999 the Turnbull Guidance.
A register of conflicts is maintained and will be reviewed at least annually to ensure all details are kept The Board undertakes an annual review of the Groups up-to-date.
In the future, appropriate authorisation will system of internal controls, and the business risks have be sought prior to the appointment of any new director been analysed and recorded in a risk map that is or if any new conflicts arise.
The Board receives each quarter a formal report from each of the Investment Manager, the Internal Controls Administrator and the Company Secretary detailing the The Board has overall responsibility for the Groups steps taken to monitor the areas of risk, including those systems of internal controls and for reviewing their that are not directly their responsibility, and which report effectiveness.
The Investment Manager is responsible for the details of any known internal control failures.
The the day to day investment management decisions on Board also has direct access to company secretarial behalf of the Group.
Accounting and company secretarial advice and services provided by Capita Company services have both been outsourced.
Secretarial Services Limited, which, through its nominated representative, is responsible for ensuring that the Board The internal controls aim to ensure that assets of the Group are safeguarded, proper accounting records are and Committee procedures are followed and that applicable regulations are complied with.
maintained, and the financial information used within TR Property Investment Trust 59
