THE GROUP COMPANY Managers Report Ordinary Share Class & Sigma Share Class Market Background and Outlook Chris Turner MRICS Marcus Phayre-Mudge MRICS Fund Manager Fund Manager Ordinary share class Sigma share class Clich or not, we have to say that, for property shares and Property Investment Markets After an average value decline of 44% from their March for the direct property market, March 2009 to March 2007 peak, the UK commercial property capital values 2010 has clearly been a year of two very distinct and reached their nadir in July 2009, some two months after contrasting halves.
In the first six months, property share the huge rally in the corporate bond market.
Judicious prices flew forwards with record speed and volatility.
At buying of top quality income streams had already been the interim stage we reported this extraordinary happening for some months, motivated primarily by yield, turnaround in sentiment which saw the Pan European and, for overseas investors, also by the decline in Sterling.
real estate sector rise by an average of 47% over the six What completed the turn of the market was the drying up month period.
Since September volatility has moderated of distressed selling by property companies and openand the sector has traded in a very narrow range ending ended property funds.
Once values were clearly moving with a modest gain of 3.9%.
The annual price upwards again, buying interest turned into a virtual frenzy appreciation for the sector of 53.0% was slightly ahead and this, in turn, further reduced selling activity.
Over the of that for the All Share Index of 46.7% and the Stoxx autumn, initial yields for the most sought after income 600 Index in Euros of 49.4%.
streams typically well let Central London property and In the direct property market the pattern has been exactly supermarkets nationwide dropped by 200 basis points the same, with a time lag.
Values continued to fall in the and some values rose by 25%.
Unable to secure the best UK until July 2009, and in Europe until December 2009. stock, many buyers moved up the risk curve to acquire Having turned, UK values surged forward at shorter leases or properties let to medium-risk tenants.
This unprecedented pace rising by 12.8% between August imbalance between buyers and sellers continued through 2009 and March 2010 and are only now settling down to the last quarter of 2009 and the first quarter of 2010. a normal, much more sluggish, pace.
In Europe, six By the end of this March, average commercial property months behind the UK, which now seems to be the values had appreciated by 13% in 8 months.
Today the pattern in the direct market, values are also now moving market is better balanced and buying interest, whilst still forward though much more gradually, having much less strong for the right product, appears more judicious and lost ground to make up.
Central and inner London property is in high Of course all is not sweetness and light.
Macro events demand from both domestic and overseas buyers.
The continue to haunt the global and the European London economy seems to have suffered more sharply economies.
Nevertheless on the four key problems facing than the rest of the UK early in the recession, and UK and European commercial property markets appears now to be recovering faster without a high economic growth, unemployment, interest rates and reliance on public sector employment.
Buyers are still leverage within the industry investors are less hazy cautious of offices outside London unless there is a long about the scale of the problems and have, or think they lease in place to a quality covenant.
Investor demand for have, some greater notion about the possible course and shopping centres, which was extremely poor in 2009, has timescale for the solutions.
That is a positive which we revived, and yields have declined even for secondary think definitely puts markets on a sounder footing than centres.
Out of London, the sharpest appreciation in they were even six months ago.
values has come in the retail warehouse market where 10 TR Property Investment Trust THE GROUP COMPANY Market Background and Outlook continued the covenant and rental value worries which concerned London office market and the UK retail warehouse investors a year ago seem to have evaporated.
Prime UK sectors are expected to show continued value growth industrial yields have fallen by 150 basis points to under in 2010 and 2011, while capital values are expected to 7%, but to be classified as prime a shed must have a decline for South East offices and industrial property lease with over 10 years to run to a good covenant.
Thirdly, as yield contraction slows, so the Elsewhere in this market, high vacancy rates are often a prime mover of a propertys valuation is now reverting to considerable barrier to value growth.
the length of the lease and the level of the rent passing relative to rental values.
Whatever its location, an over-let In a similar pattern to the UK, investment activity in property with an approaching lease expiry and a tenant Continental Europe has gathered pace reflecting the no longer in occupation is a depreciating asset.
growing optimism of the investors that the nadir in values Meanwhile, an empty building for which a tenant is has passed.
The record shows that, on average, Continental found for a decent certain lease term and rent will see values fell far less fast than UK values in the 2007-2009 a sharp, maybe up to 25%, uplift in value.
There is therefore less ground to be made up, and, as such, the Rental Values pace of value growth has been more modest than that With the exception of the best Grade A office buildings seen in the UK.
Nevertheless top quality buildings, in capital cities and units in the very choicest retail pitches, especially in Northern Europes major cities are now fragile is the best description of tenant demand across the commanding multiple bids and often selling at or above whole of the UK and Europe.
In the UK, published rental asking price.
Southern and Eastern Europe are slacker, but indices record a decline of 10.8% in average rental values even in Spain, there is renewed investment activity.
since March 2008, of which 5.9% occurred in the twelve months to March 2010.
These statistics are based on In terms of the outlook for commercial property values, headline rental values rather than net effective figures and the mood of the industry is generally that the recent therefore miss the impact of rent-free periods and other surge in pricing will moderate and come to a halt over the landlords incentives which are in very widespread use.
Derivative market pricing for the IPD annual these are taken into account the true decline in average index futures suggests UK average capital growth will be rental values may be closer to 20%.
Today, the speed of around 4% in 2010.
The IPD monthly index has already decline has slowed in most locations.
In a minority of recorded average capital value growth of 4.5% in the locations rents have found a base and rent-free periods January to April 2010 period, so the implication is that the are declining.
Occupier enquiries are rising, but as yet, rest of 2010 will show a 0.5% decline.
Futures pricing rental growth is only being evidenced in the core Central also implies a 2% annual capital value decline in both London office and retail markets.
In Europe, the German IPD all property In the market for business space as opposed to retail futures market pricing has a very similar profile to the UK space most tenant demand is the result of rationalisation index, pointing to a 3% decline in capital values in 2010 or consolidation.
Businesses are taking the opportunity of and 2011.
The IPD French office futures market indicates lease expiries to move into higher quality space without stable values for the next three years.
increasing their rental outgoings trading up rather than Whilst we do not wish to decry the underlying logic of down.
Agents are reporting higher turnover at the gross these forecasts, three points need to be made.
Firstly, level in almost all areas but net absorption remains derivative market pricing has been a less than perfect neutral to negative, and so vacancy rates remain high guide to the future over the past eighteen months.
However the almost total time last year, UK pricing implied a 24% average value absence of new construction starts means the supply of decline in 2009 outcome -5.6% and a decline of 6% Grade A space is shrinking and thus the vacancy problem in 2010 outcome 4.5% so far.
So recent pricing has is moving down the quality ladder.
This is forcing tended to be ruled by pessimists or banks laying off landlords of older or outmoded space into proper and their liabilities.
Secondly, these numbers are for indices costly refurbishment before they can hope to find an of average commercial property.
There is now some occupier.
At the very bottom of the quality ladder, market pricing available for futures in individual subdemolition, spurred on in the UK, by the inequitable sectors of the UK market and these numbers show the empty rates levy, may be the most practical solution.
expected variations in forecast returns.
The Central This action does, at least, reduce the vacancy rate.
TR Property Investment Trust 11 THE GROUP COMPANY Market Background and Outlook continued Green issues appear to be a factor of increasing Across Europe, GDP is rising anaemically while importance in the office sector.
The operating efficiency of employment growth is at best static.
If, as expected, buildings is of increasing concern to potential occupiers, Governments are now forced by markets to trim their as is the availability of public transport.
That shiny, twenty budget deficits, employment growth may be non-existent year old, out of town office complex surrounded by a full for some considerable time.
The utilisation of commercial car park, alongside a motorway clogged every rush hour floorspace varies from industry to industry.
The service and miles from the shops, no longer seems very user sector is a big user, the construction sector is not.
Towns such as Bracknell, once the epicentre of front line services in the public sector police, hospitals, the dot.
com boom, have seen office rental values decline schools use little commercially rented space, but these by 50% from the high twenties per square foot to the are the services least likely to be cut.
Office markets in low teens.
It is hard to see office property in such regional centres with high levels of public sector locations ever returning to its former value in real terms.
employment may be best avoided by investors for the time being.
As noted, the Central London office market is the brightest area of the leasing market at present.
Contrary to In the retail sector the resilience of consumer expenditure expectations, the financial industry labour force has has been remarkable.
Shopping has become a European started to grow again, and hopefully nothing in the new sport, with some consumers finances looking little better governments proposals for the banking industry will put a than those of the average premier league football team.
A series of major lettings in the City has The problem is to foresee what, if any, will be the impact reduced Grade A availability.
Incentives have declined on retail sales and margins, over the next two years, from markedly and there has been an increase in real higher taxation, or falling job security or rising mortgage underlying rental values and a fall in overall vacancy rates.
rates, or a combination of all three.
The same is true of the West End.
In both locations, the Debt and Credit Markets supply of new space over the next two years will be We commented twelve months ago, and at the interim paltry, so that some tenants may now fear that a lack of stage, that the pile of outstanding bank and Commercial effective action today may prevent their finding Mortgage Backed Security debt against commercial appropriate space when their current leases expire.
We noted that maturing Retail demand is also improving, but from a very low loans were being rolled despite very obvious breaches in base.
Most Pan European suburban high streets now the original loan terms a policy now somewhat cruelly have an unprecedented number of to let boards.
In malls tagged pretend and extendand that very little distressed and major shopping centres, owners have to work very property had come to market.
Today the situation has hard to avoid the dead frontages that shoppers shun.
The changed modestly in terms of the numbers and to a result has been a huge increase in temporary lettings greater extent in terms of the markets knowledge of the often at discounted rents up to 30% below previous problems.
In numbers terms the rally in both pricing and levels.
It appears that tenant failures, administrations and enthusiasm for commercial real estate has created a voluntary arrangements are in decline and that incentives queue of cash rich funds and companies wanting to help have levelled off.
The one bright spot in the retail market the banks shift problem assets.
Meanwhile the extent of has been Central London where rental values have the debt problem both in the UK and across Europe has continued to grow throughout the last two years.
been so extensively researched by agents and commentators, and aired in the press, that few investors Across the UK and Europe, industrial and storage letting buying today will not be fully aware of the implications.
markets are what agents describe as challenging.
In the UK, vacancy has climbed over 15% and visitors to any New bank lending for fresh commercial property shed estate will often find three in ten of the units purchases is still expensive by historic standards, but the unoccupied.
Any letting is a good letting and rental values supply of funds has increased modestly over the last six remain under pressure.
Tenants are using choice to gain months and margins are creeping downwards, especially shorter leases with more frequent options to break.
In Switzerland we have seen a five year fixed Looking ahead, the outlook for business tenant demand is rate loan of CHF250m taken at an all in cost of 2.5%, in probably best assessed by mixing together the outlook for a market where running yields of 4.5% can be had from changes in GDP with the outlook for employment growth.
12 TR Property Investment Trust THE GROUP COMPANY Market Background and Outlook continued Property Shares been adjusted downwards by most of the companies As noted in our introduction, property share prices soared involved.
On the Continent, rights issues were much by 47% in the first half of our financial year and then better judged in terms of time and pricing and traded sideways over the second half.
In the first half the widespread dilution was avoided.
Due to this and to the diversity of performance was very wide, but it was mainly use of some variable rate debt by most non-UK property gearing related rather than stock specific broadly the companies, we have seen 5% to 10% earnings growth faster they fell in 2008, the faster they rose in mid 2009. outside the UK, and dividend increases to match.
For investors who, like us, had fled to safety in the year to Several larger companies have moved their strategy March 2009, it was necessary to make large scale towards greater specialisation.
Corio, the largest Dutch switches into smaller higher risk businesses to REIT is now selling off all its office and industrial property outperform.
Amongst the benchmark constituents, to concentrate solely on retail property.
In the UK, Liberty spectacular gains were seen in prices of the shares of International, already a retail specialist, has split the companies considered closest to receivership.
business into two quoted companies a pure shopping Over the whole year the performance of the UK property centre investment business and a Central London retail shares 55% and Continental real estate stocks and exhibition business.
We 57% was virtually identical in local currency terms.
think that specialist companies are likely to outperform The shares of the big companies tended to underperform over the cycle as they allow management to concentrate either because they had cut their gearing with dilutive their skills on one specific area of the market rather than rights issues, or because they had relatively low gearing to attempt to spread their abilities over different use classes.
At the country level, Greece and Belgium We think that diversification of risk is usually better performed worst with 25% total returns, Switzerland handled by the equity investor than by the managements 42% and Germany 35% were below par, UK, of property companies.
The argument is similar to that France, Netherlands and Italy all had total returns just which raged in the Investment Trust sector thirty years ago ahead of the benchmark while Austria and Finland gained and which eventually resulted in the majority of Trusts over 100% and the only serious listed Norway property becoming specialists in an industry or region including share returned 233%.
It is notable that all the new entrants to the quoted market over the last year were specialist The huge increase in share prices primarily reflected a businesses in terms of geography or property type.
narrowing of discounts to NAV from a 30% 70% range down to a nil 20% range.
In the UK, price changes also Outlook reflected some very positive NAV valuations at December According to a recent survey, the real estate sector is the 2009 and March 2010.
On the Continent, values most under-owned sector of the stock market by UK continued to decline until the first quarter of 2010, but generalist fund managers, and the second most undershares are anticipating a return to NAV growth in 2010. owned by their Continental counterparts.
Perversely we find this rather encouraging, and it allows us to imagine Rights issues and other capital raisings were what might happen to stock prices if the sector suddenly commonplace last summer but much less frequent in the regained any popularity amongst professional investors.
The quoted sector has now almost fact the asset class has recently been popular with retail completely refinanced itself and a few companies are investors as the surge of capital into UK property funds even now in the embarrassing position of having to hold, this spring has proved.
This divergence in outlook might on deposit, cash raised in an issue which was intended to be due to the difference in opinion about the outlook for be invested at the bottom of the market and which inflation.
The professionals, by and large, accept that cannot be yet used to repay term debt.
Takeover bids inflation will not be a problem, so long as capacity have been very scarce and there have been no outright utilisation remains as low as it is today.
They are as bankruptcies which is astonishing and a tribute to both concerned about potential deflation.
Retail investors see the kindness of bankers and the appetite of investors for the UK RPI at over 5% and worry about protecting their refinancing businesses.
income against the possibility of resurgent inflation.
They Recent final results have been broadly in line with are aware that national deficits can be shrunk by austerity forecasts.
In the UK the dilutive effect of the large rights that is severe enough to bring rioters onto the streets or issues last spring has been seen in dividends which have at least the removal of a Government at the next election.
TR Property Investment Trust 13 THE GROUP COMPANY Market Background and Outlook continued They can also remember that the real value of debt can be eroded by turning a blind eye to controlling inflation.
As the foregoing comments allude, the outlook for commercial real estate over the next two years is not all sweetness and light.
The sectors immediate prospects are bound up with the outlook for economic growth, employment and interest rates.
The recent sovereign debt crisis in Europe has highlighted problems that were known but broadly ignored until recently.
If this crisis forces more Governments to concentrate on reducing deficits at the expense of fostering growth, then further recovery will be postponed.
One side effect of such action would probably ensure that interest rates stay lower for longer and this ought to be beneficial for property investment demand.
At least the decline in the Euro is likely to give a boost to exporters within the Euro area.
It does seem as though we may be coming to the end of the first phase of the property market recovery a phase in which equity investment using bottom up stock selection seemed almost pointless in the face of the galeforce winds of macro economics over which we have very little foresight or control.
We have to look forward to a period of quieter markets, unaffected by global noise, in which we can use our stock selection skills to pick the companies which will give us consistently above average returns whatever the strength of the underlying economy may be at the time.
