Tullett Prebon plc Annual Report 2010 Directors Report The directors present their report, together with the audited The Corporate Governance Report includes the information that financial statements of the Company and its subsidiaries for the ful ls the requirements of section 7.2 of The Disclosure and year ended 31 December 2010.
Transparency Rules DTR with the exception of the information referred to in DTR 7.2.
6 which is located in this Directors Report.
Principal activities Tullett Prebon plc operates as an intermediary in wholesale Directors financial markets facilitating the trading activities of its clients, in The directors who served throughout the year, except as noted, particular commercial and investment banks.
The main subsidiary were as follows: undertakings through which the Group conducts its business are set out in Note 37 to the consolidated financial statements.
Keith Hamill Non-executive Chairman Results and dividends The results for the year are set out in the Consolidated Income Terry Smith Statement on page 42.
Chief Executive The directors recommend a final dividend for the year of 10.5p Paul Mainwaring per ordinary share.
The final dividend, if approved, will be paid Finance Director on 19 May 2011 to ordinary shareholders whose names are on the register on 26 April 2011.
David Clark Senior Independent Non-executive Director Tullett Prebon plc paid a final dividend for 2009 of 10.0p per ordinary share and an interim dividend for 2010 of 5.25p per Michael Fallon ordinary share.
Independent Non-executive Director resigned 1 June 2010 Business review re-appointed 28 September 2010 The information that ful ls the requirements of the Business Review can be found on pages 05 to 23.
The Business Review is Richard Kilsby incorporated into this Directors Report by reference.
It includes an Independent Non-executive Director analysis of the development and performance of the Group during the year, the position of the Group at the end of the year, financial Rupert Robson and nonfinancial performance indicators, and information on Independent Non-executive Director the main trends and factors likely to affect the development, performance, key performance indicators and position of the Biographical details of the directors are set out on page 25. business.
A description of the principal risks and uncertainties facing the Group is included in the Risk Management section of the The Company has made qualifying third party indemnity provisions Business Review.
Information on environmental, employee, social for the bene t of its directors which remain in place at the date of and community issues and information about persons with whom this report.
the Group has contractual or other arrangements which are essential to the business, is included in the Corporate Social Directors interests Responsibility section of the Business Review.
The interests all bene cial of those persons who were directors at the end of the year in the ordinary share capital of the Company, This Annual Report has been prepared for, and only for, the together with comparatives for the previous year or the date of members of the Company as a body, and no other persons.
appointment, were as follows: The Company, its directors, employees, agents or advisers do not 2010 2009 accept or assume responsibility to any other person to whom Number Number this document is shown or into whose hands it may come and Keith Hamill 80,299 80,299 such responsibility is expressly disclaimed.
By their nature, the statements concerning the risks and uncertainties facing the Terry Smith 9,645,510 9,245,510 Group in this Annual Report involve uncertainty since future events Paul Mainwaring 221,339 123,683 and circumstances can cause results and developments to differ David Clark materially from those anticipated.
The forward-looking statements Michael Fallon 2,000 2,000 re ect knowledge and information available at the date of preparation of this Annual Report and the Company undertakes no Richard Kilsby obligation to update these forward-looking statements.
Nothing in Rupert Robson 7,000 7,000 this Annual Report should be construed as a pro t forecast.
There were no changes in the interests of the directors in the A separate Corporate Governance Report is included within this ordinary share capital of the Company from the end of the year Annual Report on pages 28 to 31 and which is, where relevant, to the date of this report.
incorporated into this Directors Report by reference.
26 Tullett Prebon plc Annual Report 2010 The Tullett Prebon plc Employee Share Ownership Trust held 1,196 Further powers of the directors are described in the Schedule of shares at 31 December 2010 2009: 555,631 and the Tullett Prebon matters reserved for the Board, which is available on the Companys plc Employee Bene t Trust 2007 held 200,833 shares 2009: website, and in the Corporate Governance Report on pages 28 to 31.
The bene ciaries of the trusts are the employees of the The Schedule of matters reserved for the Board is incorporated into Group, including the executive directors.
Under Schedule 1 of the this Directors Report by reference.
Companies Act 2006 the executive directors are deemed to be interested in these shares.
Substantial interests At 7 March 2011, being the latest practicable date before signing of Directors share options are set out in the Report on Directors this document, the following not being directors, their families or Remuneration, including changes which have occurred since the persons connected, within section 252 of the Companies Act 2006 end of the financial year.
had noti ed the Company that they were interested in 3% or more of the voting rights of the issued ordinary share capital of the Company: Share capital and control % Details of the authorised and issued share capital, together with details of the movements in the Companys issued share capital Lloyds Banking Group plc 12.02 during the year are shown in Note 26 which is incorporated into this Jupiter Asset Management Limited 5.09 Directors Report by reference.
JP Morgan Asset Management Holdings Inc. 4.89 Legal & General Group Plc 3.94 The Company has one class of ordinary shares, which carry no right to xed income.
Each share carries the right to one vote at general Norges Bank 3.11 meetings of the Company.
Policy of payment to suppliers No person has any special rights of control over the Companys It is the Groups policy that all transactions are settled in accordance share capital and all issued shares are fully paid.
with relevant terms and conditions of business agreed with the supplier, provided all such terms and conditions have been The voting rights of the ordinary shares held by the Tullett Prebon complied with.
The Company does not have any trade creditors.
plc Employee Share Ownership Trust and the Tullett Prebon plc Employee Bene t Trust 2007 are exercisable by the trustees in Annual General Meeting accordance with their duciary duties.
The right to receive The AGM of the Company will be held at 2.30pm on 12 May 2011. dividends on these shares has been waived.
Details of the resolutions to be proposed at the AGM are set out in a separate Notice of Meeting sent to all shareholders entitled to There are no speci c restrictions on the size of a holding nor on the receive such Notice.
transfer of shares, which are both governed by the provisions of the Articles of Association the Articles and prevailing legislation.
The Political and charitable donations directors are not aware of any agreements between holders of the During 2010 no political donations were made by the Group 2009: Companys shares that may result in restrictions on the transfer of nil.
No charitable donations were made during 2010 2009: nil.
securities or on voting rights, nor are there any arrangements by which, with the Companys co-operation, financial rights carried by Auditor securities are held by a person other than the holder of those A resolution to re-appoint Deloitte LLP as the auditor will be securities.
proposed at the forthcoming AGM.
Details of employee share schemes are set out in Note 28 which Disclosure of information to the auditor is incorporated into this Directors Report by reference.
Each of the persons who is a director at the date of approval of this Annual Report con rms that: With regard to the appointment and replacement of directors, the Company is governed by its Articles, the UK Corporate Governance so far as the director is aware, there is no relevant audit Code which applies to the Company with effect from 1 January information of which the Companys auditor is unaware: and 2011, the Companies Act 2006 and related legislation.
the director has taken all the steps that he ought to have taken The Articles may be amended by special resolution of the as a director in order to make himself aware of any relevant shareholders.
audit information and to establish that the Companys auditor is aware of that information.
The powers of the directors include the authorities to allot shares and to buy the Companys shares in the market as granted by This con rmation is given and should be interpreted in accordance shareholders at the Annual General Meeting AGM.
At the last with the provisions of section 418 of the Companies Act 2006.
AGM a resolution was passed granting authority to the directors to purchase up to 21,531,358 ordinary shares.
This authority will By order of the Board expire at the conclusion of the next AGM or, if earlier, on 1 July 2011, unless renewed before that time.
Paul Mainwaring Company Secretary 8 March 2011 27 SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION FINANCIAL STATEMENTS GOVERNANCE CHAIRMANS STATEMENT & BUSINESS REVIEW
