Tullett Prebon plc Annual Report 2010 Business Review continued the increased use of CCPs transfers rather than eliminates risk, Regulatory developments and as acknowledged by the proposals, the decision as to which trades are suitable for CCP clearing needs to be made in There have been signi cant developments during 2010 in the conjunction with the CCP in the context of their ability to process of agreeing and introducing reforms designed to manage the risk: strengthen the financial system and to improve the operation of the financial markets.
the increased use of CCPs is likely to increase the number of counterparties able to be served by the business: In the United States the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act was enacted on 21 July 2010 and includes access to clearing should be open to all execution venues in legislation governing the regulation and operation of OTC order to maintain ef ciency and market exibility, and this is derivatives markets.
The Act requires the CFTC and SEC to establish recognised by the proposals: detailed rules and regulations to apply the principles of the legislation by July 2011.
Most pertinently for the inter-dealer broker the provision of trade information to central repositories would industry the CFTC published its proposed rules on the Core be useful for regulators to understand total market and Principles and Other Requirements for Swap Execution Facilities individual participant exposures, but too much pre and post SEFs in early January 2011.
The CFTC rules governing SEFs are due trade transparency can be harmful to liquidity, reduce market to come into force in the final quarter of 2011 although this could ef ciency and undermine the ef cacy of regulation: and be delayed pending the outcome of the comment process.
there are only a very few highly liquid products that are suitable In Europe, the European Commission tabled proposals on the for execution solely on pure electronic platforms without regulation of OTC derivatives markets, commonly known as the intervention and support from brokers.
The proposed European Markets Infrastructure Regulation EMIR, in September requirements for execution venues include the increased use 2010, and in December published a consultation on the review of of electronic facilitation, but we believe that given the nature the Markets in Financial Instruments Directive, commonly known of the markets, broker support in providing liquidity will remain as MiFID II.
It is envisaged that the EMIR and MiFID II reforms will essential to the effective operation of those markets.
We believe come into force during 2013. that our hybrid electronic broking model means that we are well positioned to continue to provide a valuable service to clients, We continue to be engaged both directly and through our trade and that our offering can be developed to meet the associations in responding to these consultation and discussion requirements being proposed.
documents, and with assisting the rule setters in understanding how the OTC markets currently operate, to help ensure that the final regulations achieve their stated objectives and avoid Overview unintended negative consequences.
Although financial markets have remained unsettled and risk appetite has started to return, market activity was more subdued Although the final rules are still to be agreed, focusing on the overall in 2010 than in 2009.
There were only a few limited periods impact on the OTC markets, there are four general themes that of sustained higher volatility during the year, most notably in May, emerge in these proposals: and in November and the first two weeks in December.
the requirement for market participants to use central Underlying revenue in 2010 was unchanged compared with the counterparties CCPs to clear certain contracts to be prior year which was a good performance in these market determined by a central authority, with exemptions for conditions.
The net effect of the broker defections in North nonfinancial counterparties: America, following the raid by BGC in the second half of 2009, reduced revenue by 5%.
In addition the action taken during the the requirement for trades to be reported to trade repositories: year to close six satellite of ces in North America that made only a limited contribution to operating pro t reduced revenue by 1%.
enhanced pre and post trade transparency: and The impact of currency movements on the translation of our non-UK operations was slightly favourable.
Overall, revenue of the requirement for trades which are settled through a central 908.5m was 4% lower than reported for 2009.
Operating pro t counterparty to be traded through regulated execution venues for the year was 152.4m, 11% lower than 2009, with an operating that meet particular criteria in how they operate and how they margin of 16.8%.
are governed termed SEFs in the US and qualifying organised trading facilities in Europe.
Excellent progress has been made in re-establishing our presence in all of the major product areas in North America affected by the We agree with the objectives and support the direction of these broker defections.
Including the 26-strong credit broking team who proposals.
We believe that their introduction will be positive started with the business in early January 2011, broker headcount for our business as the proposals formalise the role of the on the affected desks is now largely back to the levels before intermediary in the OTC markets.
Speci cally, we would make the defections.
the following observations: 06 Tullett Prebon plc Annual Report 2010 In addition to the hiring programme, action has been taken to There have been signi cant developments during 2010 in the reduce costs and complexity in North America including reductions process of agreeing and introducing reforms designed to in broking support staff and the closure of six satellite of ces in the strengthen the financial system and to improve the operation of region.
The of ces that have been closed accounted for around 2% the financial markets.
In the United States the Dodd-Frank Wall of Group revenue in 2010, mainly in cash equities and energy Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act has passed into law, products, and their closure allows management to focus on the and the European Commission has published proposals on the two main of ces in New Jersey and New York.
regulation of OTC derivatives markets and on the review of the Markets in Financial Instruments Directive.
We support the general The presidential election in Brazil has delayed the final approval direction of these developments, and more detailed comments on of our acquisition of Conveno, one of the leading and most well them and their potential impact on the business are set out below.
respected brokers in Brazil, which will facilitate our expansion both Whilst these developments will introduce increased regulation of in the market in Brazil and in other Latin American markets, and OTC derivatives markets and changes in the way in which some will complement our existing emerging markets activities in trades are executed, they reinforce and formalise the role of the North America.
intermediary in the wholesale markets for financial instruments.
There are only a very few highly liquid products that are suitable for We have continued to develop our electronic broking capabilities, execution solely on pure electronic platforms without intervention focused on the hybrid electronic broking model, developing and support from brokers.
We believe that our investments in electronic platforms which complement and support existing electronic platforms and associated infrastructure, and our hybrid voice broker liquidity.
This approach is preferred by both clients electronic broking model, means we are well positioned to respond and brokers as it is better suited to the majority of OTC products to, and to bene t from, changes in the way in which OTC markets for which liquidity will continue to depend on the support of voice and our customers operate.
brokers, and it facilitates the development and introduction of trade execution methods and other capabilities as necessary to The enduring strength of our business is the valuable service it meet regulatory requirements and market demands.
We have a provides to clients through its ability to create liquidity through well established development process with access to market price and volume discovery to facilitate trading in a wide range of leading technology and we are well placed to launch new platforms financial instruments.
Our strategy is to continue to focus on as and when they are required.
providing services as an intermediary in wholesale OTC markets, and to continue to build a business with the scale and breadth to The Information Sales business has continued to expand its deliver superior performance and returns, whilst maintaining customer base and investment is being made to increase the strong financial management disciplines.
breadth of the data it offers to customers.
The post trade Risk Management Services business has established a signi cant Our key financial and performance indicators for 2010 compared market share in electronic LIBOR reset matching through the with those for 2009 are summarised in the table below.
tpMATCH platform that was launched at the end of 2009.
Reported revenue in 2010 of 908.5m was 5% lower than 2009 at Revenue from products supported by electronic platforms, constant exchange rates.
Year end broker headcount was 1% lower together with Information Sales and Risk Management Services at 1,601 but this re ects the closure of the six satellite of ces in revenue, continues to account for one-sixth of total revenue, as North America.
Adjusting for that action, year end broker no new platforms were launched in 2010.
The proportion of that headcount was 3% higher than last year.
Average revenue per revenue derived from voice-only execution continues to reduce, broker at 540k was 5% lower at constant exchange rates with an increasing proportion derived from trades conducted re ecting the generally lower level of activity in the market and through the platforms.
the impact of new hires building up to their full run rate of revenue.
Change Constant Exchange Key financial and performance indicators 2010 2009 Reported Rates Revenue 908.5m 947.7m -4% -5% Operating pro t 152.4m 170.8m -11% -11% Operating margin 16.8% 18.0% -1.2% points Broker headcount year end 1,601 1,612 -1% Average revenue per broker 000 540 565 -4% -5% Broker employment costs : broking revenue 58.5% 58.0% 0.
5% points Broking support headcount year end 679 712 -5% 07 SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION FINANCIAL STATEMENTS GOVERNANCE BUSINESS REVIEW
