T Tullett ullett Pr Prebon plc ebon plc Annual R Annual Repor eport t 2010 2010 The balance of the revenue is derived from Matched Principal Objectives, strategy and risk pro le activities, where we are the counterparty to both sides of a matching trade.
To mitigate settlement risk the business The Companys objective is to maximise returns to shareholders undertakes transactions on a strict  basis.
over the medium to long term with an acceptable level of risk.
In the event of a client default in a Matched Principal trade, our exposure is not to the principal amount but to the movement in The strategy to achieve this objective is to continue to build a the market value of the underlying instrument, and so our exposure business, operating as an intermediary in the wholesale OTC becomes a market risk.
This risk is mitigated by use of central financial markets internationally, with the scale and breadth to counterparty services and other default risk transfer agreements deliver superior performance and returns, whilst maintaining wherever possible, and where such services are not available, by strong financial management disciplines.
taking swift action to close out any position that arises as a result of a client default.
Once a Matched Principal transaction has The key actions to deliver this strategy are: settled usually 1-3 days after trade date, there is no ongoing risk for the business.
Develop and maintain strong pools of liquidity in all major financial products and all major financial centres: Discussion of our risk management governance structure and the Groups risk pro le is included on pages 15 to 19.
Attract and retain key revenue producers: D evelopment of electronic broking capabilities to support our voice broking expertise: Focus on improving contribution rates: and Focus on maintaining an appropriately sized support cost base.
As an intermediary, the business does not take trading risk and does not hold principal trading positions.
The key day to day risks faced by the business are counterparty credit risk which in the event of a counterparty default becomes a market risk and settlement risk.
Around three-quarters of the revenue is derived from Name Give-Up activities, where the business is not at any time counterparty to the trade, and where its exposure to a client is limited to outstanding invoices for commission.
All activity relating to derivatives is undertaken Name Give-Up.
The level of invoiced receivables is monitored closely, by individual client and in aggregate, and there have been very few instances in the past few years when invoiced receivables have not been collected.
05 05 SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION FINANCIAL STATEMENTS GOVERNANCE BUSINESS REVIEW
