Tullett Prebon plc Annual Report 2010 Board of Directors Keith Hamill aged 58 Michael Fallon MP aged 58 Chairman Independent Non-executive Director Keith Hamill became Chairman of Tullett Prebon plc in December Michael Fallon was re-appointed as a Director of Tullett Prebon plc 2006.
He served as Chairman of Collins Stewart plc and in September 2010.
He is a member of the Remuneration, Audit subsequently Collins Stewart Tullett plc from 2000 to 2006.
He is and Nominations Committees.
He had previously served as a also Non-executive Chairman of Alterian plc, Deputy Chairman of Director of the Company from December 2006 to May 2010 and Travelodge, a Non-executive Director of easyJet plc and Samsonite as a Director of Collins Stewart Tullett plc from September 2004 and Pro-Chancellor of Nottingham University.
He is also a partner to December 2006.
He is the Conservative MP for Sevenoaks and in Fundsmith LLP.
He is a chartered accountant and was previously is a member of the Treasury Select Committee of the House of Finance Director of WH Smith, Forte and United Distillers, Director Commons.
He was Opposition spokesman on Trade and City matters of Financial Control at Guinness and a partner in Price Waterhouse.
He is a Director of Attendo AB, a provider of long He was also a member of the Urgent Issues Task Force of the term care in Scandinavia and was previously a Director of Just Accounting Standards Board and Chairman of the CBI Financial Learning Ltd, Quality Care Homes PLC and Bannatyne Fitness Ltd.
He is Chairman of the Nominations Committee.
Richard Kilsby aged 59 Terry Smith aged 57 Independent Non-executive Director Chief Executive Richard Kilsby joined the Board in December 2006 and is Chairman Terry Smith started his career with Barclays Bank and became a of the Audit Committee and a member of the Remuneration and stockbroker in 1984 with W Greenwell & Co.
He was top rated bank Nominations Committees.
He had previously been a Director of analyst in London from 1984 to 1989, during which period he also Collins Stewart Tullett plc since June 2005.
He is Non-executive worked at BZW and James Capel.
In 1990 he became head of UK Chairman of 888 Holdings plc.
He has formerly held many positions Company Research at UBS Phillips & Drew, a position he left in in finance and the City including: Vice Chairman of the virt-x stock 1992 following the publication of his best selling book, Accounting exchange created by the merger of the Swiss Exchange with for Growth.
He joined Collins Stewart subsequently Collins Tradepoint, Chief Executive of Tradepoint an AIM quoted electronic Stewart Tullett plc shortly after and became a Director in 1996. exchange, Non-executive Director of Collins Stewart plc and He is an Associate of the Chartered Institute of Bankers, has an MBA an Executive Director of the London Stock Exchange responsible from The Management College, Henley and is quali ed as a Series 7 for listing, secondary regulation and the introduction of the SETS Registered Representative and a Series 24 General Securities trading system.
He is a chartered accountant and was previously Principal with FINRA.
He has been Chief Executive of Tullett Prebon an audit partner at Price Waterhouse.
plc since December 2006, and until December 2010, when he resigned from the Board, he was also Deputy Chairman of Collins Rupert Robson aged 50 Stewart plc.
In November 2010 Terry Smith launched Fundsmith, Independent Non-executive Director a fund management company, of which he is Chief Executive.
Rupert Robson was appointed to the Board in January 2007.
He is Chairman of the Remuneration Committee and a member of the Paul Mainwaring aged 47 Audit and Nominations Committees.
He has held a number of Finance Director senior roles in City institutions, most recently Non-executive Paul Mainwaring quali ed as a chartered accountant with Price Director of London Metal Exchange Holdings Ltd, Global Head, Waterhouse in 1987, and obtained an MBA from Cran eld School Financial Institutions Group, Corporate Investment Banking and of Management in 1991.
From 1993 to 2000, he worked for Markets at HSBC between 2003 and 2006 and, prior to that, Head Caradon plc in a number of financial roles, including three years as of European Insurance, Investment Banking at Citigroup Global Finance Director of MK Electric.
In 2000, he was appointed as Group Markets.
He is Chairman of Charles Taylor Consulting plc and Finance Director of TDG plc.
He was appointed as Group Finance Silkroute financial Group Ltd and a Non-executive Director of OJSC Director of Mowlem plc in 2005.
He was appointed to the Collins Nomos-Bank.
Stewart Tullett plc Board in October 2006, and has been Finance Director of Tullett Prebon plc since December 2006.
David Clark aged 63 Senior Independent Non-executive Director David Clark worked for Bankers Trust, Commerzbank and Midland Bank before being appointed Treasurer, Europe of HSBC Holdings in 1992.
In 1995 he joined Bankgesellschaft Berlin AG becoming Managing Director of Bankgesellschaft Berlin UK plc until June 1999.
He was Senior Adviser to the Major Financial Groups Division of the Financial Services Authority until March 2003.
He is a Non-executive Director of Westpac Europe Limited.
He was appointed as a Non-executive Director of Tullett Liberty in September 2000 and to the Collins Stewart Tullett plc Board in March 2003, and subsequently became a Director of Tullett Prebon plc in December 2006.
He is a member of the Audit, Remuneration and Nominations Committees.
25 SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION FINANCIAL STATEMENTS GOVERNANCE CHAIRMANS STATEMENT & BUSINESS REVIEW
