Directors Report Business Review 4 Directors Report Governance 37 Financial Statements 65 Shareholder Information 151 Other Statutory Information support are described in the Corporate Responsibility Review on Management Report pages 24 to 29.
In line with Group policy, no donations were made The Directors Report for the year can be found on pages 4 to 63. for political purposes during the year 2009: nil.
The management report for the year, as required by the Disclosure and Transparency Rules, is incorporated by reference within the Share capital Directors Report.
The Companies Act 2006 abolishes the requirement for a company to have an authorised share capital and the Articles of Association Major acquisitions and disposals as approved and adopted by the Companys shareholders at the Full details of acquisitions and disposals are disclosed in the 2010 AGM reflect this.
The Company was also authorised at the Business Review on pages 4 to 36 and notes 37 and 38 to the 2010 AGM to allot shares within certain limits and as permitted by Financial Statements on pages 131 to 136. the Companies Act.
A renewal of this authority will be proposed at the 2011 AGM.
The Companys issued share capital as at Events after the balance sheet date 31 December 2010, together with details of shares issued during Events after the balance sheet date are disclosed in note 42 the year, is set out in note 30 to the Financial Statements on pages to the Financial Statements on page 140.
Related party transactions Each ordinary share of the Company carries one vote.
Further information on the voting and other rights of shareholders are set Related party transactions are set out in note 40 to the Financial out in the Articles of Association the Articles and in the explanatory Statements on pages 138 and 139. notes which accompany notices of general meetings, all of which Creditor payment policy are available on the Companys website at www.
It is the Groups policy to: Authority to purchase shares agree the terms of payment in advance with the supplier: The Company was authorised at the 2010 AGM to purchase its own shares, within certain limits and as permitted by the Articles.
ensure that suppliers are aware of the terms of payment: and A renewal of this authority will be proposed at the 2011 AGM.
Shares pay in accordance with contractual and other legal obligations.
repurchased may be cancelled or retained as treasury shares to accommodate requirements for shares under the Groups share The number of days purchases outstanding as at 31 December incentive schemes.
No shares were purchased under this authority 2010 was 34 2009: 33 for the Group excluding Centrica Energy during 2010.
Limited formerly known as Accord Energy Limited and 28 2009: 20 for the Company.
Material shareholdings Essential contractual arrangements At 24 February 2011, Centrica had received notification of the following material shareholdings pursuant to the Disclosure and The Group has contractual and other arrangements with various Transparency Rules: third parties.
Whilst the loss of or disruption to certain of these arrangements could temporarily affect the operations of the Group, % of share Ordinary shares capital Nature of holding this Annual Report does not contain information about these third parties as none of the arrangements with them are considered to be essential to the Groups business.
Invesco Limited 259,495,719 5.03 Indirect Legal & General Group 201,705,927 3.91 Direct Significant agreements change of control Petronas 199,375,000 3.87 Direct The following are significant agreements to which the Company is party which take effect, alter or terminate upon the change of Independent Auditors control in the Company following a takeover bid:  LLP have expressed their willingness to as part of the demerger in 1997, BG Group plc which is a be reappointed as auditors of the Company.
Upon the separately listed company and not a part of Centrica assigned recommendation of the Audit Committee, separate resolutions to ownership of the British Gas trade marks and related logos to reappoint them as the Companys auditors and to authorise the Centrica for use in Great Britain.
BG Group plc has the right to Directors to determine their remuneration will be proposed at the call for a re-assignment of this intellectual property if control of forthcoming AGM.
Centrica is acquired by a third party: and This Directors Report comprising pages 4 to 63 has been approved in 2009, Centrica entered into certain transactions with EDF by the Board and signed on its behalf by: Group in relation to an investment in British Energy, an owner and operator of nuclear power stations in the UK.
The transactions include rights for EDF Group and Centrica to offtake power from existing and new build British Energy nuclear power stations and to invest in new build nuclear power stations.
As part of these Grant Dawson arrangements, on a change of control of Centrica, Centrica loses General Counsel & Company Secretary its rights to participate on the Boards of the companies in which it 24 February 2011 has invested and on Technical Committees for new nuclear development.
Furthermore, on a change of control of Centrica, Registered office: where the acquirer is not located in certain specified countries, Millstream EDF Group is able to require Centrica to sell out its investments.
Maidenhead Road Windsor Charitable and political donations Berkshire SL4 5GD During the year, the Group made cash charitable donations to Company registered in England and Wales No.
3033654 support the community of 21.1 million 2009: 4.8 million.
Total community contributions and related activities on community Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2010 49 BOL10723 centrica.
