Governance Board of Directors and Executive Team Board of Directors and Executive Team 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 Key to membership 13 14 15 of committees A Audit Committee C Corporate Responsibility Committee D Disclosure Committee E Executive Committee N Nominations Committee R Remuneration Committee 38 D Diir re ect ctor ors s R Re epor port t B Bu usi sine ne ss ss R R ev eiv eie w w 4 4 D Diir re ect ctor ors s R Re epor port t G Go ov five er rna na nn cc e e 37 37 F Fiina nan ncia ciall S St ta at te em me en nt ts s 65 65 Sha Shar re eh ho olld fide er r I In nf for orma mat tiion on 1 151 51 1.
Ian Meakins Chairman 64 N, R Non-Executive Director 45 A, N, R Non-Executive Director 54 A, N, R Sir Roger Carr joined the Board as a Margherita Della Valle joined the Board in Ian Meakins joined the Board in October Non-Executive Director in 2001.
In July 2009 he joined the Wolseley appointed Chairman of the Board in May appointed group financial controller of Group as chief executive.
He was previously 2004 and is Chairman of the Nominations Vodafone Group Plc, prior to which she was chief executive of Travelex Holdings Limited Committee.
He has been nominated to be chief financial officer for the groups European and for two years prior to that he was CEO the next president of the CBI from June 2011 region from April 2007 to October 2010 and of Alliance Unichem plc until their merger and from January 2011 was appointed chief financial officer of Vodafone Italy from with Boots in 2006.
He spent 12 years with deputy president.
Previously she joined Omnitel Diageo including four years as president Court of the Bank of England and he is also Pronto Italia in Italy in 1994 and held various European major markets and global supply, a senior adviser to Kohlberg Kravis Roberts.
consumer marketing positions in business his early career was with Procter and Gamble.
He has previously held a number of senior analytics and customer base management 11.
Paul Rayner appointments including chief executive of prior to moving to finance.
Omnitel was Non-Executive Director 56 A, N, R Williams plc and chairman of Chubb plc, acquired by Vodafone Group in 2000.
Paul Rayner joined the Board in Thames Water plc, Mitchells & Butlers plc 6.
Mary Francis CBE September 2004 and is Chairman of the and Cadbury plc.
He is a fellow of the Royal Senior Independent Director 62 A, C, N, R Audit Committee.
In July 2008, he was also Society for the encouragement of the Arts, Mary Francis joined the Board in June 2004 appointed as a non-executive director of Manufacturers and Commerce, a visiting and is Senior Independent Director and Qantas Airways Limited and in September fellow to the Said Business School, Oxford Chairman of the Corporate Responsibility 2008, he was appointed as a non-executive and is a companion of the Institute of Committee.
She is a non-executive director director of Boral Limited.
Throughout his career he has of Aviva plc and Cable & Wireless director of British American Tobacco plc served on a number of external committees Communications Plc, a trustee and treasurer from 2002 until April 2008.
In 1991 he joined including the Manufacturing Council of the of the Almeida Theatre and chair of governors Rothmans Holdings Limited in Australia, CBI, Higgs Committee on Corporate of James Allens Girls School.
She is a former holding senior executive appointments, Governance and Business for New Europe.
director general of the Association of British and became chief operating officer of British 2.
Sam Laidlaw Insurers, a former non-executive director of American Tobacco Australasia Limited in Chief Executive 55 C, D, E, N the Bank of England, Alliance & Leicester plc September 1999.
Sam Laidlaw joined Centrica as Chief and St. Modwen Properties plc, and was a 12.
Chris Weston Executive in July 2006.
He is Chairman of senior civil servant in the Treasury and the Managing Director, North America 47 C, E the Executive Committee and the Disclosure Prime Ministers Office.
Chris Weston was appointed to the Board Committee.
Mark Hanafin in July 2009 upon his appointment as appointed a non-executive director of HSBC Managing Director, Centrica Energy 51 E Managing Director, North America.
He was Holdings plc and in December 2010 he was Mark Hanafin joined Centrica as Managing previously Managing Director, British Gas appointed as the lead non-executive director Director, Centrica Energy in July 2008.
Prior to this, he on the board of the Department for Transport.
was appointed as a non-executive director He is also a member of the UK Prime was Managing Director, British Gas of British Energy Group plc in November Ministers Business Advisory Group.
Previously he spent 21 years with Royal Previously he was executive vice president Centrica in November 2001, following the Dutch Shell, most recently as CEO of Shell of the Chevron Corporation, chief executive acquisition of One Tel where he was the Energy North America in Houston.
Prior to officer at Enterprise Oil and president and Managing Director of Europe.
Previously, joining Shell, he worked for General Electric chief operating officer at Amerada Hess.
Until he worked for Cable & Wireless and also Company GEC having qualified as a August 2007, he was a non-executive director spent seven years in the army with the chartered engineer.
He is a trustee of the medical Royal Artillery.
Nick Luff Executive Team Group Finance Director 43 D, E 3.
Helen Alexander CBE Nick Luff joined Centrica as Group Finance 13.
Grant Dawson Non-Executive Director 54 A, N, R Director in March 2007.
He was previously chief General Counsel & Company Secretary Helen Alexander joined the Board in January financial officer of The Peninsular & Oriental 2003 and is Chairman of the Remuneration 51 D, E Steam Navigation Company P&O and has held Committee.
She is president of the CBI, Grant Dawson has been General Counsel a number of other senior financial roles at P&O, chairman of Incisive Media and the Port of & Company Secretary of Centrica since the having qualified as a chartered accountant at London Authority, a senior adviser of Bain demerger from British Gas plc in February KPMG.
Until December 2010 he was a Capital and a non-executive director of 1997, having joined British Gas in non-executive director of QinetiQ Group plc.
She is chair of the Business October 1996.
Advisory Council of the Said Business 9.
Catherine May School, Oxford and an honorary fellow of Non-Executive Director 54 A, C, N, R Group Director, Corporate Affairs 46 C, E Hertford College, Oxford.
Until July 2008, she Andrew Mackenzie joined the Board in Catherine May joined Centrica as Group was chief executive of the Economist Group.
In November 2007, he Director, Corporate Affairs in September was appointed group executive and chief 4.
Phil Bentley 2006, having previously been group executive Non Ferrous at BHP Billiton, a Managing Director, British Gas 52 C, E director of corporate relations for position he took up in November 2008.
From Phil Bentley joined Centrica as Group Reed Elsevier.
2004, he was with Rio Tinto, latterly as chief Finance Director in 2000, a position he held executive Diamonds and Minerals.
Previously, until the end of February 2007 when he was 15.
Anne Minto OBE he spent 22 years with BP plc in a range of appointed Managing Director, British Gas.
Group Director, Human Resources 57 E senior technical and engineering positions He was also Managing Director, Europe Anne Minto was appointed Group Director, and ultimately as group vice president, between July 2004 and September 2006.
Formerly, he was finance director of UDV to that she was director, human resources Guinness from 1999 and group treasurer and for Smiths Group plc, a position which director of risk management of Diageo plc she held since early 1998.
Previously, he spent 15 years with Chairman of the Centrica Pension BP plc in various international oil and gas Schemes until September 2010.
Until March 2010, he was a non-executive director of Shire plc.
also a non-executive director and the chairman of the audit committee of Kingfisher plc.
Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2010 39
