REPORT OF THE DIRECTORS REPORT ON DIRECTORS REMUNERATION Non-executive directors remuneration Overview Directors service agreements and contracts of appointment The Remuneration Committee endorsed the Chief Executives Directors interests proposal that directors and senior executives should receive no Performance graph salary increase in 2009 10, in line with the pay freeze for all Remuneration review audited employees.
Directors emoluments In view of our executive teams strong performance, the Former directors Committee decided to increase salaries to directors and senior Loans executives from June 2010.
Executive directors salaries are set Pensions to be below the median level for directors of comparable Share options companies.
The salary increases proposed for 2010 11 are in line Share awards under long-term incentive plans with that principle.
Vesting of outstanding share awards and options The demanding conditions set for the 2009 10 annual bonus were Deferred Bonus Plan awards largely met.
In particular, BT exceeded the targets for free cash Share awards under the Employee Share Investment Plan ow and earnings per share EPS.
The Chief Executive was therefore awarded a bonus of 142% of target: 71% of his Shareholders will be asked to vote on this Report at the maximum bonus opportunity.
In 2008, shareholders supported a two-stage change in executive remuneration, designed to simplify the structure and bring total Remuneration policy remuneration closer to our comparators.
As we reported last year, This part of the Report on directors remuneration is not subject however, the second stage was postponed in view of the companys to audit.
The second stage will now be implemented in 2010 11, but with lower maximum long-term incentive opportunities than originally proposed, and lower than i Role of the Remuneration Committee awards granted in previous years.
The Remuneration Committee is a formal committee of the Board Following consultation with major shareholders, we and has powers delegated to it under the Articles of Association.
Its strengthened the performance measures for our long-term remit is set out in the terms of reference formally adopted by the Incentive Share Plan.
For awards granted from 2009 10, half of Board, which were last reviewed in December 2009. each award is linked to total shareholder return and half to a new The terms of reference of the Committee are available on the three-year cumulative free cash ow measure.
com committees The Remuneration Committee agrees the framework for the The Committee introduced a clawback mechanism into all remuneration of the Chairman, the executive directors and certain executive share plans, making BT one of the first companies to senior executives.
This includes the policy for all cash remuneration, take such action.
executive share plans, service contracts and termination Having considered the impact of personal income tax changes arrangements.
The Committee approves salaries, bonuses and share from April 2010, the Committee endorsed the Chief Executives awards for executive directors and senior executives.
The recommendation that no changes be made in order to either Committee approves changes to the executive share plans and avoid or to compensate for the higher top tax rate.
recommends to the Board any changes which require shareholder Hanif Lalani, Chief Executive of BT Global Services and formerly approval.
The Committee also determines the basis on which Group Finance Director, resigned as a director on 7 January 2010. awards are granted under the executive share plans to executives Details of his leaving arrangements are disclosed in this report.
reporting to the senior management team.
The Board has reviewed compliance with the Combined Code on reward-related matters, and confirms that the company has Introduction complied with all aspects.
The Chairman, Sir Michael Rake, is a This report sets out the details of the remuneration policy for the member of the Committee, in accordance with the provision of the companys directors and senior executives and the amounts paid to Combined Code permitting a company chairman to be a member of, the directors in 2009 10.
As well as meeting statutory requirements, but not chair, the remuneration committee.
the Committee aims to comply with best practice guidelines in The Committee met five times during 2009 10.
In addition to the producing this report.
Relevant sections of this report have been Chairman, the members of the Committee are all independent nonaudited in accordance with the Large and Medium-sized Companies executive directors.
Maarten van den Bergh, who had been and Groups Accounts and Reports Regulations 2008. chairman of the Committee since October 2006, stood down at the This report covers the following: AGM in July 2009 and was succeeded by Patricia Hewitt, the Senior Independent Director.
The other members who served during Remuneration policy not subject to audit 2009 10 were: i Role of the Remuneration Committee ii Remuneration principles Matti Alahuhta retired 31 May 2009 iii Remuneration in 2009 10 and 2010 11 Eric Daniels iv Other matters Deborah Lathen retired 31 January 2010 Executive share ownership Carl Symon Pensions Other benets In addition, the Chief Executive is invited to attend meetings, Director who has left the Board except when it would be inappropriate for him to be there, for Service agreements example, when his own remuneration is discussed.
Non-executive Outside appointments directors who are not members of the Committee are entitled to Non-executive directors letters of appointment receive the papers discussed at meetings and the minutes.
66 BT GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT & FORM 20-F REPORT OF THE DIRECTORS REPORT ON DIRECTORS REMUNERATION The Committee has received advice during the year from executives are required to build up a significant shareholding independent remuneration consultants, Kepler Associates, who themselves, they are directly exposed to the same gains or losses as were appointed by the company.
Kepler advised both the all other shareholders.
Committee and the company and attended Committee meetings In setting directors remuneration, the Committee also takes into when major remuneration issues were discussed.
They provided no account the pay and employment conditions of all our employees.
other services to the company.
In March 2010 Kepler Associates For instance, following the general pay freeze including the senior were replaced by Towers Watson, who were appointed by the team in 2009 10, the overall increase in senior managers pay for Committee.
Towers Watson also provide the company with 2010 11 is comparable with the cost of the pay settlement offered consultancy services on general HR and pensions issues.
The to our employees generally, with some senior managers receiving Committee also regularly consults the Chief Executive, the Group no increase.
Although the pay rise for the Chief Executive is higher Finance Director, the Group HR Director, the Director Reward and reecting his performance and commitments made upon his Employee Relations, and the Company Secretary.
appointment, the Committee welcomed Ian Livingstons decision The chair of the Committee met several major shareholders, the to donate any salary increase above the average percentage salary Association of British Insurers and Pensions Investment Research award made to employees to the BT Benevolent Fund and other Consultants Limited PIRC to discuss remuneration issues, charities.
including the recommendations of Sir David Walkers review and The Committee has considered carefully the relationship of risk to the Financial Reporting Councils review of the Combined Code.
The largest single driver of on-target remuneration The Committee reviewed its own performance and has taken is cash ow 28% of the Chief Executives remuneration, reecting steps to improve its effectiveness further, for instance by holding a the importance of cash ow to invest in the business, support the private session for members and the independent remuneration pension fund, reduce net debt and pay progressive dividends.
The consultants advising the Committee before each meeting.
other performance drivers are EPS, total shareholder return and customer service.
The Committee is satisfied that this spread of measurement criteria does not drive inappropriate and risky ii Remuneration principles behaviour and that they are aligned to shareholders interests.
During 2009 10, the Committee reviewed the principles upon which The Committee is also satisfied that the incentive structure for we base senior executive pay.
Our goal remains to maintain a senior executives does not raise environmental, social or competitive remuneration package that will attract, retain and governance risks by inadvertently motivating irresponsible motivate a high quality top team and align their interests with those behaviour.
Part of the annual bonus depends upon an individual of shareholders.
assessment of each senior executives personal contribution to We believe in pay for performance.
We aim to set base salaries environmental, social and governance measures, including results below the median for our comparator group, while setting of the regular employee surveys.
stretching goals for the annual bonus including deferred shares Annual bonuses are not pensionable.
and the long-term incentive share plan.
It is only in return for The Committee will be conducting a further review of the sustained and excellent performance that the remuneration executive pay structure in 2010 11, to ensure that we continue to package as a whole will deliver upper quartile rewards.
strengthen the alignment of executive interests with those of A significant proportion of the total remuneration package is shareholders, simplifying the system where possible.
We will consult therefore variable and linked to corporate performance.
The major shareholders and representative bodies during the review, Committee reviews the performance targets regularly to ensure while any proposed changes will be the subject of a shareholder vote that they are both challenging and closely linked to the groups on the 2011 Directors remuneration report.
Furthermore, because a large part of the remuneration package is delivered in shares and senior iii Remuneration in 2009 10 and 2010 11 Remuneration structure 2008 09 2009 10 2010 11 Base salary increases to align no increases increases to align with the market with the market Annual bonus Chief Executive target 100% salary target 100% salary target 125% salary maximum 200% salary maximum 200% salary maximum 200% salary Executive directors target 80% salary target 80% salary target 100% salary maximum 120% salary maximum 120% salary maximum 150% salary Deferred bonus in shares Chief Executive 1x cash bonus 1x cash bonus 1x cash bonus Executive directors 75% of cash bonus 75% of cash bonus 75% of cash bonus Incentive shares a Chief Executive 3x salary 3x salary 2.5x salary a Executive directors 2.5x salary 2.5x salary 2x salary Retention shares none none none Share options none none none a Although shareholders agreed a maximum award of incentive shares of 3x salary for the Chief Executive 2.5x for executive directors, the Remuneration Committee approved a proposal from the Chairman and Chief Executive to reduce this to 2.5x salary for the Chief Executive 2x salary for executive directors, in view of the wider economic conditions and the base salary increases.
BT GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT & FORM 20-F 67 ADDITIONAL INFORMATION FINANCIAL STATEMENTS REPORT OF THE DIRECTORS REVIEW OF THE YEAR OVERVIEW REPORT OF THE DIRECTORS REPORT ON DIRECTORS REMUNERATION Remuneration in 2009 10 a retention measure and contributes to the alignment of management Salaries with the long-term interests of the shareholders.
Salaries are reviewed annually but increases are made only where The DBP awards for previous years for Ian Livingston, Tony the Committee believes the adjustments are appropriate to reect Chanmugam, Gavin Patterson and Hanif Lalani at the end of the contribution of the individual, increased responsibilities and 2009 10 are contained in the table on page 77. market conditions.
In 2009 10 salaries of the executive directors Remuneration in 2010 11 were not increased.
In early 2010, the Remuneration Committee reviewed the senior Annual bonus executive remuneration package, taking into account the challenges to The annual bonus is linked to corporate performance targets set at the business, the significant improvement in performance and the the beginning of the financial year.
For 2009 10, the weighting of need to incentivise and, if appropriate, reward management for the bonus targets were set as follows: success.
In particular, we considered whether to implement the second stage of the two-stage change in remuneration agreed by % of total bonus opportunity shareholders in 2008 but not implemented in 2009 because of the Earnings per share EPS 30% companys unacceptable performance.
We also took into account the Free cash ow 30% views of institutional shareholders and representative bodies.
The Customer service 25% Committee agreed that the on-target and maximum levels for the Environmental, social and annual bonus should be increased as originally agreed, but that the governance objectives 15% maximum opportunities for awards granted under the long-term The scores for corporate performance targets for 2009 10 were Incentive Share Plan should be reduced as a multiple of salary.
as follows: Base salaries have also been reviewed and, where appropriate, increased to bring them more closely towards, but still typically Measure weighting Threshold Target Stretch Actual below or around, mid-market levels in comparable companies.
In making these decisions, the Committee took account of the position Financial measures 60% of all BTs employees who will benefit from pay increases and annual EPS 30% 15% 30% 60% 43% bonuses based on the companys performance in 2010 11.
Free cash ow 30% 15% 30% 60% 60% No retention awards or share options will be granted.
Customer service 25% 12.5% 25% 50% 18% Details of the remuneration structure are set out in the table on Sub-total 121% page 67.
Environment, social and a governance 15% 7.5% 15% 30% Annual bonus a Performance is assessed on an individual basis.
The Committee considered carefully the structure of the corporate scorecard for 2010 11.
We have retained the EPS and free cash ow The two financial targets which together represent 60% of the bonus measures at 30% each, reecting their importance as measures of have a direct impact on shareholder value, while customer service and corporate performance.
In order to ensure that senior executives are broader objectives are vital to the companys long-term health and also focused on the need for sustained profitable growth, we have growth.
We do not publish details of the EPS and cash ow targets, added a new measure worth 10% of individual performance since these are market sensitive and commercially condential.
The against personal objectives based on the companys strategic priorities.
Committee is, however, satisfied that the measures are appropriate and Customer service measures will be 20% and the environmental, social that the targets are properly stretching.
and governance objectives 10% of the weighting.
In calculating EPS for purposes of the annual bonus, volatile items The Committee believes that the group performance targets for which would be reported under IFRS are excluded.
The impact of market the financial year 2010 11 are very challenging.
movements in foreign exchange and financial instruments, plus the net finance expense or income relating to the groups pension liabilities, were Proportion of xed and variable remuneration excluded from the target.
The composition of each executive directors performance-related Customer service is measured by rigorous and challenging right remuneration, excluding pension, is as follows: first time metrics across each line of business.
Although we will Fixed Variable Variable keep this measure under review, right first time is directly linked to base pay cash shares Total cost reductions as well as to customer satisfaction and is measured Ian Livingston objectively.
2010 11 target 22% 28% 50% 100% The environmental, social and governance measure is assessed by the a composition Chief Executive for each senior executive, and by the Chairman for the 2009 10 actual 38% 53% 9% 100% Chief Executive himself.
Assessment is based upon BTs regular employee b composition survey as well as health and safety and sustainability measures.
Tony Chanmugam Annual bonuses are paid in cash.
Details of the bonuses for Ian Livingston, Tony Chanmugam, Gavin Patterson and Hanif Lalani are 2010 11target 28% 28% 44%100% a set out in the table on page 73. composition 2009 10actual 48% 46% 6%100% Deferred Bonus Plan b composition In addition to the annual cash bonus, directors receive an award of Gavin Patterson shares under the Deferred Bonus Plan DBP.
For the Chief Executive, the award has a value of 100% of his cash bonus and for the other 2010 11target 28% 28% 44%100% a composition executive directors, the value of the awards is 75% of their cash bonus.
The shares vest and are transferred to the executive after three 2009 10actual 46% 45% 9%100% b years if they remain employed by the company.
There are currently no composition additional performance measures for the vesting of DBP awards.
The a Target remuneration comprises current base salary, on-target annual bonus and the expected value Committee considers that awarding shares on a deferred basis acts as of awards under the deferred bonus and incentive share plans, excluding retention shares.
b Actual remuneration comprises base salary, actual cash bonus and the value received from deferred 68 BT GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT & FORM 20-F shares and incentive shares awards granted in 2006 and vested in 2009 during the financial year, excluding retention shares.
REPORT OF THE DIRECTORS REPORT ON DIRECTORS REMUNERATION Long-term share-based incentives 2009 10, performance is assessed against a range of cumulative cash Incentive shares ow measures.
25% of the relevant part of the award will vest for BT operates a long-term Incentive Share Plan ISP, based on performance at the lower end of the range, increasing on a straight performance over three years.
Shares only vest if the participant is line basis, such that 100% of the relevant part of the award will vest still employed by BT and challenging performance measures have for performance at the upper end of the range.
In 2007 8 and 2008 9, the vesting of awards was the performance for the awards granted in 2009 10 was at the entirely based on Total Shareholder Return TSR relative to a upper end of the range.
comparable group of companies: for 2009 10 and 2010 11, 50% The threshold level for vesting for the free cash ow measure for of awards are based on relative TSR with the balance based on a awards to be made in 2010 11 has been set above market three-year cumulative free cash ow measure.
The use of a free expectations prevailing when the performance conditions were set: cash ow measure for the long-term incentive plan as well as the the range between threshold and maximum vesting is 1bn.
annual bonus reects the importance of cash generation.
The details of ISP awards held by Ian Livingston, Tony TSR for these purposes was calculated by J. P. Morgan Cazenove.
Chanmugam, Gavin Patterson and Hanif Lalani at the end of the TSR links the reward given to directors with the performance of BT 2009 10 financial year are contained in the table on page 76. against other major companies.
TSR is measured against a comparator group which contains European telecommunications Clawback companies and companies which are either similar in size or market The rules of each of the executive share plans provide for a capitalisation and or have a similar business mix and spread to BT.
clawback of unvested awards in circumstances where it becomes The TSR comparator group for 2010 11 is the same as last year apparent that there was a misjudgement of the basis on which the with the substitution of Cable & Wireless Worldwide for Cable & award was made.
Wireless and TalkTalk for Carphone Warehouse and comprises the following companies: In addition to the ISP, the BT Equity Incentive Portfolio includes the Retention Share Plan RSP and the Global Share Option Plan GSOP.
Accenture France Telecom Telecom Italia AT & T Hellenic Telecom Telefnica Retention shares Belgacom IBM Telekom Austria RSP awards are used by exception only and principally as a recruitment BSkyB National Grid Telenor or retention tool.
As a result, shares currently under award are not BT Group Portugal Telecom TeliaSonera generally linked to a corporate performance target.
The length of the Cable & Wireless Worldwide Royal KPN Verizon retention period before awards vest is exible, although this would normally be three years unless the Committee agrees otherwise.
The Cap Gemini Swisscom Virgin Media shares are transferred at the end of the specified period if the individual Centrica TalkTalk Vodafone is still employed by BT and any performance conditions are met.
No RSP Deutsche Telekom awards were made to executive directors, but three awards were granted to other senior executives, in 2009 10.
The TSR for a company is calculated by comparing the return index RI at the beginning of the performance period with the RI at the Share options end of the period.
The RI is the TSR value of a company measured No share options were awarded under the GSOP in 2009 10 and on a daily basis, as tracked by independent analysts, Datastream.
It none have been awarded since 2004 05. uses the ofcial closing prices for a companys shares, adjusted for Details of options held by directors at the end of 2009 10 are all capital actions and dividends paid.
The initial RI is determined by contained in the table on page 75. calculating the average RI value taken daily over the three months prior to the beginning of the performance period: and the end Other share plans value is determined by calculating the average RI over the three The Chairman and executive directors may participate in BTs months up to the end of the performance period.
This mitigates the all-employee share plans, the Employee Sharesave Scheme, effects of share price volatility.
A positive change between the Employee Share Investment Plan and Allshare International, on the initial and end values indicates growth in TSR.
same basis as other employees.
Details of these plans are disclosed At 31 March 2010, the TSR for the 2007 08 awards was at in note 30 to the consolidated financial statements.
14th position against the comparator group of 15 companies.
As a result, none of the shares will vest and all of the share awards have Openreach lapsed.
In the Undertakings given to Ofcom on 22 September 2005, BT agreed that the incentive elements of the remuneration of TSR vesting schedule for ISP awards granted in 2009 10 and executives within Openreach should be linked to Openreach 2010 11 performance rather than BT targets or share price.
These incentives Relative TSR over 3 years % of share award vesting cannot be provided by way of BT shares.
Below median Nil As a result, separate arrangements were put in place for Median 12.5% Openreach executives in 2005 06.
The annual bonus is linked solely Between median and upper quartile Between 12.5% and 50% on to Openreach targets, and long-term incentives are paid in cash straight line basis instead of shares.
However, payment of bonuses in Openreach is Upper quartile 50% subject to overall affordability within BT Group.
Openreach executives participate in the BT all-employee share The remaining 50% of the ISP awards are based on a three-year plans on the same terms as other BT employees.
cumulative free cash ow, set at a level considered by the None of the executive directors participates in the Openreach Committee, and confirmed by its independent adviser, to be at least incentive plans.
as challenging as the previous measure.
For awards granted in BT GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT & FORM 20-F 69 ADDITIONAL INFORMATION FINANCIAL STATEMENTS REPORT OF THE DIRECTORS REVIEW OF THE YEAR OVERVIEW REPORT OF THE DIRECTORS REPORT ON DIRECTORS REMUNERATION Dilution and 124,691 shares will vest in August 2010 and 105,374 shares Treasury shares are generally used to satisfy the exercise of share will vest in August 2011.
A total of 52,679 shares under the options, the grant of share awards and for the all-employee share Deferred Bonus Plan lapsed.
As such awards over a total of plans.
At the end of the 2009 10 financial year, treasury shares 2,043,204 shares 90% under the executive share plans lapsed.
equivalent to 9% of the issued share capital would be required for Hanif Lalanis options over a total of 195,889 shares at option these purposes.
It is estimated that treasury shares equivalent to prices of 192p and 199.5p under the GSOP were preserved, at the approximately 1% of the issued share capital will be required for all discretion of the Remuneration Committee, until 31 March 2011. the employee share plans in 2010 11.
Service agreements It is group policy for the Chairman and executive directors to have iv Other matters service agreements providing for one years notice.
It may be Executive share ownership necessary on recruitment to offer longer initial periods to new The Committee believes that the interests of the executive directors directors from outside BT, or circumstances may make it appropriate should be closely aligned with those of shareholders.
The DBP and to offer a longer xed term.
All of the service agreements contain ISP provide considerable alignment.
The directors are encouraged provisions dealing with the removal of a director for poor to build up a shareholding in the company over time by retaining performance, including in the event of early termination of the shares which they have received under an executive share plan contract by BT.
The contracts of the Chairman, Ian Livingston, Tony other than shares sold to meet a National Insurance or income tax Chanmugam and Gavin Patterson entitle them on termination of liability or from a purchase in the market.
The Chief Executive is their contract by BT to payment of salary and the value of benets required to build up a shareholding of 2x salary and the remaining pension benets including life cover, health cover, dental cover directors 1.5x salary.
Progress towards meeting these targets has and car until the earlier of 12 months from notice of termination or been made in 2009 10. the director obtaining full-time employment.
No director will Current shareholdings are set out on page 72. receive a bonus or other payments on a change of control.
Pensions Outside appointments The BT Pension Scheme BTPS closed to new entrants on 31 March The Committee believes that there are significant benets, to both 2001.
None of the executive directors participates in future service the company and the individual, from executive directors accepting accrual in the BTPS.
Executive directors who are members of the non-executive directorships of companies outside BT.
The BTPS also benefit from a death in service lump sum of four times Committee will consider up to two external appointments of which salary.
only one may be to the Board of a major company, for which a All new employees are eligible to join the dened contribution BT director may retain the fees.
Ian Livingston receives an annual fee of Retirement Saving Scheme BTRSS, the successor to the dened 25,000 as a non-executive director of Celtic and an additional contribution BT Retirement Plan BTRP.
The BTRSS is a group annual fee of 5,000 for chairing the audit committee.
For executive directors the company agrees Patterson was a non-executive director of Johnston Press from to pay a xed percentage of the executives salary each year which 7 July 2008 until 24 April 2009, for which he received a fee at the can be put towards the provision of retirement benets.
Executive rate of 40,000 per annum.
Tony Chanmugam was appointed as a directors who are not members of BTPS benefit from a death in non-executive director and chairman of the audit committee of service lump sum of four times salary and a dependants pension of Barnet and Chase Farm Hospital Trust on 1 April 2010, for which he 30% of capped salary.
receives a fee of 6,000 per annum and which is donated to charity.
Pension provision for all executives is based on salary alone bonuses, other elements of pay and long-term incentives are excluded.
Non-executive directors letters of appointment Non-executive directors have letters of appointment.
They are Other benets appointed for an initial period of three years.
During that period, Other benets for the Chairman and the senior management team either party can give the other at least three months notice.
At the include some or all of the following: company car, fuel or driver, end of the period, the appointment may be continued by mutual personal telecommunications facilities and home security, medical agreement.
Further details of appointment arrangements for and dental cover for the director and immediate family, special life non-executive directors are set out in Governance and role of the cover, professional subscriptions, and personal tax advice and Board on page 60.
The letters of appointment of non-executive financial counselling.
The company has a permanent health directors are terminable on notice by the company without insurance policy to provide cover for the Chairman and certain compensation.
executive directors who may become permanently incapacitated.
Non-executive directors remuneration Director who has left the Board Six of the directors on the Board are non-executive directors who, Hanif Lalani resigned as a director on 7 January 2010 and left BT in accordance with BTs articles of association, cannot individually on 31 March 2010.
In accordance with the terms of his directors vote on their own remuneration.
Non-executive remuneration is service contract, which was terminated on 11 January 2010, and, reviewed by the Chairman and the Chief Executive, and discussed following the cessation of his employment, his salary of 585,000 and agreed by the Board.
Non-executive directors may attend the per annum and the value of all of the benets to which he was Board discussion but may not participate in it.
entitled, amounting to 195,000 per annum, continue to be The most recent review by the Board of the fees for the provided until the earlier of nine months from 31 March 2010 or non-executive directors was in January 2008, having not his obtaining full-time employment.
A bonus for the year ended previously been reviewed since 2004.
Increases in the fees were 31 March 2010 of 503,290 was also paid.
made in order to align them with the market.
Hanif Lalani held awards over a total of 1,990,525 shares under The basic fee for non-executive directors is 60,000 per annum.
the ISP all of which lapsed on the date of termination.
At the There are additional fees for membership and chairing a Board discretion of the Remuneration Committee, his awards over a total committee, details of which are given in the table below: of 282,744 shares under the Deferred Bonus Plan were pro-rated 70 BT GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT & FORM 20-F REPORT OF THE DIRECTORS REPORT ON DIRECTORS REMUNERATION An additional fee of 2,000 per trip is paid to those non-executive Additional directors travelling regularly from overseas to Board and Board Committee Members fee Chairmans fee committee meetings on an inter-continental basis.
Audit 10,000 15,000 To align further the interests of the non-executive directors with Remuneration 10,000 10,000 those of shareholders, the companys policy is to encourage these Nominating 5,000 5,000 directors to purchase, on a voluntary basis, 5,000 of BT shares Other Board committees 5,000 5,000 each year.
The directors are asked to hold these shares until they retire from the Board.
This policy is not mandatory.
Current Patricia Hewitt, as Senior Independent Director, chairman of the shareholdings are shown on page 72.
Remuneration Committee and chairman of the Pension Scheme No element of non-executive remuneration is  Review Group, receives total fees of 150,000 per related.
Non-executive directors do not participate in BTs bonus or annum.
Carl Symon receives an additional annual fee of 70,000 as employee share plans and are not members of any of the company chairman of the Equality of Access Board a Board committee, pension schemes.
which was established on 1 November 2005.
Directors service agreements and contracts of appointment The dates on which directors initial service agreements letters of appointment commenced and the current expiry dates are as follows: Chairman and executive directors Commencement date Expiry date of current service agreement or letter of appointment Sir Michael Rake 26 September 2007 I Livingston 1 June 2008 The contract is terminable by the company on 12 months notice and by the T Chanmugam 1 December 2008 director on six months notice.
G Patterson 1 June 2008 Non-executive directors C Brendish 1 September 2002 Letters of appointment were for an initial period of three years.
The C G Symon 14 January 2002 appointments were extended for three years in 2005 and by a further three years in 2008.
The appointments are terminable by the company or the director on three months notice.
P Hodkinson 1 February 2006 Letter of appointment was for an initial period of three years.
The appointment was extended for three years in 2009.
The appointment is terminable by the company or the director on three months notice.
J E Daniels 1 April 2008 Letters of appointment are for an initial period of three years and are P Hewitt 24 March 2008 terminable by the company or the director on three months notice.
T Ball 16 July 2009 Former directors H Lalani 7 February 2005 The contract was terminable by the company on 12 months notice and by the director on six months notice.
The contract was terminated on 11 January 2010.
M van den Bergh 1 September 2000 Letter of appointment was for an initial period of three years.
The appointment was extended for three years in 2003 and extended for a further three years in 2006.
The appointment was terminable by the company or director on three months notice.
The appointment terminated at the conclusion of the Annual General Meeting on 15 July 2009.
M Alahuhta 1 February 2006 Letter of appointment was for an initial period of three years.
The appointment was extended for three months in February 2009.
The appointment terminated on 31 May 2009.
D Lathen 1 February 2007 Letter of appointment was for an initial period of three years and was terminable by the company or the director on three months notice.
There are no other service agreements or material contracts, existing or proposed, between the company and the directors.
There are no arrangements or understandings between any director or executive officer and any other person pursuant to which any director or executive officer was selected to serve.
There are no family relationships between the directors.
BT GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT & FORM 20-F 71 ADDITIONAL INFORMATION FINANCIAL STATEMENTS REPORT OF THE DIRECTORS REVIEW OF THE YEAR OVERVIEW REPORT OF THE DIRECTORS REPORT ON DIRECTORS REMUNERATION Directors interests The interests of directors holding ofce at the end of the year, and their families, in the companys shares at 31 March 2010 and 1 April 2009, or at date of appointment if later, are shown below: Number of shares beneficial holdings 2010 2009 Sir Michael Rake 108,362 102,056 a, b I Livingston 1,084,513 759,108 a, b T Chanmugam 205,629 49,249 a, b G Patterson 409,181 252,769 c T Ball 15,000 C Brendish 41,920 36,920 J E Daniels 12,647 12,647 P Hewitt 10,554 6,534 P Hodkinson 16,683 9,261 C G Symon 20,056 20,056 Total 1,924,545 1,248,600 a Includes free shares awarded under the BT Group Employee Share Investment Plan.
b The executive directors decided to receive their annual bonuses for 2008 09 in shares.
On 1 June 2009, 224,385 shares were purchased for Ian Livingston, 67,097 shares were purchased for Tony Chanmugam and 105,592 shares were purchased for Gavin Patterson.
c Tony Ball was appointed as a director on 16 July 2009.
During the period from 1 April 2010 to 7 May 2010, there were no movements in directors beneficial holdings.
The directors, as a group, beneficially own less than 1% of the companys shares.
Performance graph This graph illustrates, as required by the Large and Medium-sized BTs total shareholder return TSR performance Companies and Groups Accounts and Reports Regulations 2008, over the five financial years to 31 March 2010 the performance of BT Group plc measured by TSR relative to a 200 BT broad equity market index over the past five years.
We consider the FTSE 100 FTSE 100 to be the most appropriate index against which to 150 measure performance for these purposes, as BT has been a constituent of the FTSE 100 throughout the five-year period, and 100 the index is widely used.
TSR is the measure of the returns that a company has provided for its shareholders, reecting share price 50 movements and assuming reinvestment of dividends.
