REVIEW OF THE YEAR OUR BUSINESS AND STRATEGY end across the group to remove unnecessary steps.
These actions capabilities are provided as a service to customers using internet have allowed us to operate more efficiently and consequently technologies.
There will be faster back-up of computer systems, reduce our input costs.
and wider use of high-quality videoconferencing within By reviewing procurement arrangements with our largest organisations, and between them and their customers.
suppliers on a group-wide basis, we have improved supply terms As part of our plans for the future, we are making additional and service delivery.
We expect further benets to be achieved in investments, mainly in the areas of enhancing our TV offering: 2011. introducing other new consumer propositions: and building on As a result of increased efficiency across our operations, we have opportunities in BT Global Services, particularly in the Asia Pacic also been able to reduce our total labour resource, delivering region.
In the past year, we have reduced the number of full time employees by around 9,000.
In addition, the Our strategic priorities number of indirect employees working through agencies or third-party contractors was reduced by around 11,000, giving a We will build a better future for BT through our five strategic reduction in our total labour resource of around 20,000.
possible, we have sought to retain our permanent workforce through redeployment, training and insourcing work which had Broadband-based consumer services been previously performed by subcontractors, and we will continue We recognise that competition is intense and that customers to do so.
As we drive efficiency, we expect to be able to make demands are evolving, but we are confident we can continue to win further reductions in total labour costs.
We already provide the UKs most comprehensive broadband service, offering more features than our Investing for the future competitors.
This has helped us maintain our retail share of the broadband digital subscriber line DSL and local loop unbundling BT continues to invest to bring faster and more feature-rich services LLU market at around 35% over the past three years.
We plan to to our customers, including higher speed Ethernet and faster build on this position in a number of ways.
Our Ethernet footprint in the UK market is extensive, Following the conclusion of the Ofce of Communications while ADSL2 broadband delivered over copper lines is currently Ofcom narrowband market review in 2010 we are able to benefit available to 55% of UK premises, with plans to increase to up to from our new regulatory freedom to launch bundled services 75% by spring 2011. targeted at different customer groups.
We will also use the Plusnet We are investing 1.5bn and aim to make super-fast bre-based brand to offer lower-priced services for more price-conscious broadband services available to at least 40% of UK premises in customers.
2012 one of the largest investments in bre-based broadband We will provide high-speed broadband services by exploiting the ever undertaken in Europe.
We aim to make our bre services roll out of up to 20Mb s broadband services and by taking full available to 4m UK premises by the end of 2010.
Assuming an advantage of the roll out of our up to 100Mb s super-fast breacceptable environment for investment, we see potential to expand based services.
our bre roll out to around two-thirds of the UK by 2015 for an We will build on our existing BT Vision service.
It will be incremental investment of around 1bn.
This will take our total expanded to include free to air high-denition HD programming, bre investment to 2.5bn which will be managed within our more interactive services that will transform the TV experience, a current levels of capital expenditure.
wider choice of on-demand programming, and we will also provide We are responding to market demand by providing a range of greater access to premium sports.
broadband access technologies and options a mixed economy model providing customer choice and exibility.
We are increasing access speeds over the existing copper infrastructure, The Brand for Business for UK SMEs over a mix of bre and copper, and over bre direct to premises.
We are already the leading provider of xed communications for UK This mixed approach maximises use of the existing copper small and medium enterprises SMEs, and we are well placed to infrastructure, helping us be more efficient while also accelerating grow our mobility and IT activities.
The market is fragmented and the speed of bre roll out.
no other supplier can match our channels or breadth of portfolio.
Fibre to the cabinet FTTC will, on current plans, be the most We continue to build sales and service channels that can offer our widely deployed bre-based broadband technology, delivering smaller business customers a one-stop shop for communications download speeds of up to 40Mb s and upload speeds of up to and IT providing good value for money in these challenging 10Mb s and rising to up to 15Mb s. economic times.
We aim to continue to win market share and to Fibre to the premises FTTP which delivers speeds initially of stem revenue decline by developing innovative products such as BT up to 100Mb s is being deployed in new build sites and in Business One Plan Plus, the first unlimited calls, lines, broadband existing premises where it is economically viable to do so.
and mobile option available to small businesses in the UK.
Super-fast speeds allow users to run multiple bandwidth-hungry applications at the same time.
For example, some members of a BT Global Services a global leader family could be watching different high-denition lms, while others play online games or work on complex graphics or video BT Global Services is a global leader in the provision of networked IT projects.
However, during 2009 the level of profitability in BT For businesses, the new network will underpin the introduction Global Services fell signicantly.
This was caused by a combination of many new services and applications.
Computer processing and of higher costs, cost reductions being delivered more slowly than storage of les will become more sophisticated and secure using expected and worsening economic conditions.
This led the Board to cloud computing technology, where scalable IT-related 12 BT GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT & FORM 20-F
