REVIEW OF THE YEAR OUR LINES OF BUSINESS contract and financial reviews, charges of 1.6bn were recognised in 2009, which included 1.2bn relating to two major contracts.
Our lines of business These charges reected a more cautious view of the recognition of the expected and future cost efficiencies and revenues and other changes in underlying assumptions and estimates, particularly in BT Global Services the light of the economic outlook.
The new management team implemented a number of process improvements in 2009 and further enhancements have been made BT Retail in 2010, as noted below.
The operational review was completed towards the end of 2009 and resulted in a revised operating model and restructuring plan to BT Wholesale reshape and refocus the business, in order to further enhance BT Global Services ability to serve customers and establish a Openreach signicantly lower cost base.
In 2009 we said that we expected to incur restructuring charges of around 420m in 2010 and 2011.
In 2010, we have recognised restructuring charges of 301m 2009: 280m, predominately BT Innovate & Design comprising network, products and supplier rationalisation charges and people and property costs.
Further restructuring charges of around 175m are expected to be incurred in 2011, giving a total BT Operate charge of around 475m, above our original estimate of 420m.
This increase reects the complexities of our restructuring programme.
An analysis of these charges is provided in the Specic Our customer-facing lines of business are BT Global Services, items section of the Financial review on pages 45 to 46.
BT Retail, BT Wholesale and Openreach.
They meet the needs of our In 2010 we implemented the new operating model in BT Global different customer groups, supported by two internal service units, Services, which focuses on three customer segments: BT Innovate & Design and BT Operate.
seamless global connectivity and networked IT services to The financial performance of each of our customer-facing lines multinational corporations of business for 2010, 2009 and 2008 is discussed in this section.
We measure the financial performance of BT Global Services, BT networked IT services to customers in the UK corporate and Retail, BT Wholesale and Openreach on an adjusted basis, being public sectors revenue, EBITDA and operating profit: all stated before specic networked IT services to corporate and public sector customers items.
For BT Global Services adjusted EBITDA also excludes the outside the UK.
impact of the contract and financial review charges recognised in Other structural improvements have been made to improve the 2009.
For further discussion of these items, see pages 54 to 56.
During 2010 we signicantly improved contract reconciliation of adjusted EBITDA to group operating profit loss by management, risk management and performance.
We have customer-facing line of business, and for the group, is provided in changed the way we bid for major contracts and also carry out the Segment information, note 1 to the consolidated financial regular in-life contract reviews to assess commercial risks and statements on page 102.
The financial performance commentaries opportunities and to improve contract performance, creating for each customer-facing line of business also discuss movements independent review teams to provide additional assurance on our in operating cash ow.
Operating cash ow is dened as adjusted most significant contracts.
EBITDA less direct and allocated capital expenditure, working Sales teams have been realigned to focus on the key customer capital movements and other non cash items.
segments, and service units have been restructured.
We have brought together all design, programme and technical delivery BT Global Services people across the wider design organisation to standardise and create replicable solutions.
This has helped us to manage and more How BT Global Services is changing accurately forecast demand and costs.
We have continued to rationalise systems and networks.
Strategy, marketing, In 2009 a combination of higher costs, the slow delivery of cost propositions, commercial, legal and regulatory functions have also reduction initiatives and worsening economic conditions caused been realigned.
the level of profitability in BT Global Services to fall signicantly.
We have made progress this year but we still have more to do.
The Board took action as a result of this, including changing the BT Global Services senior management team.
The new teams brief was to address the cost base, bring greater Business overview focus to the profitability of new contract wins and reduce shortfalls BT Global Services is a global leader in the provision of networked IT in delivery performance on existing contracts.
services to multinational corporations, domestic businesses, The management team undertook an extensive review of BT government departments and other CPs in more than 170 Global Services financial position, contracts and operations.
We have a strong customer base, global reach, and a financial review covered the financial performance of BT Global powerful combination of networked IT and professional services Services and its balance sheet position.
covered the largest and most complex contracts and were We aim to be the global partner of choice for multinational conducted jointly with external advisors.
Having completed the corporations, the number one provider to business and public 22 BT GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT & FORM 20-F
