OVERVIEW OUR BUSINESS BT is one of the worlds leading communications services companies, serving the needs of customers in the UK and in more than 170 countries worldwide.
What we do Our aim Our main activities are the provision of xed lines, We aim to drive shareholder value by making BT a broadband, mobile and TV products and services better business with a better future.
We are as well as networked IT services.
making BT a better business by focusing on three In the UK we are the largest communications areas: services provider, serving the consumer, business Customer service delivery and public sector markets.
Globally, we supply Cost transformation networked IT services to multinational Investing for the future corporations, domestic businesses and government departments.
We also provide access to our network and services to more than 1,000 communications providers in the UK and others worldwide.
Our customers benefit from a range of products and services: Customer service delivery Our goal is to provide excellent customer service in every Multinational corporations market in which we operate by putting our customers at the Global networked IT services heart of everything we do.
Worldwide virtual private network via our multi-protocol label More on page 11 switching service State-of-the-art videoconferencing and telepresence services Cost transformation Small and medium enterprises We continue our drive to reduce costs across our business Fixed line and mobile call and broadband packages and deliver absolute levels of cost reduction.
IT and communications solutions More on page 11 UK consumer Investing for the future Fixed line calls and broadband packages We are investing in our networks, systems and services to Largest video-on-demand service in the UK ensure they enable our customers to take advantage of the Biggest winetwork, with more than 1.5m hotspots digital revolution.
A new bre-based access network More on page 12 Wholesale and carrier Local loop unbundling, allowing communications providers to install their equipment in BT exchanges, and use these lines to connect to end users White label managed services for customers who want to enter the communications market without the need to invest Managed network solutions for communications providers More on page 11 6 BT GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT & FORM 20-F OVERVIEW OUR BUSINESS Our strategic priorities We will build a better future for BT through our five strategic priorities: Broadband-based consumer services The wholesaler of choice More on page 12 More on page 13 The Brand for Business for UK small and The best network provider medium enterprises More on page 13 More on page 12 BT Global Services a global leader More on page 12 How we measure our progress We measure our progress through three key performance indicators: earnings per share, free cash ow and customer service.
b Adjusted earnings per share and free cash ow are non-GAAP measures provided in addition to the disclosure requirements of IFRS.
The rationale for using non-GAAP measures is explained on pages 54 to 56.
A reconciliation of adjusted earnings per share and free cash ow, to the most directly comparable IFRS measure, is provided on pages 42 and 51, respectively.
BT GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT & FORM 20-F 7 ADDITIONAL INFORMATION FINANCIAL STATEMENTS REPORT OF THE DIRECTORS REVIEW OF THE YEAR OVERVIEW OVERVIEW OUR BUSINESS How we are structured We meet the needs of our different customer BT Group groups in more than 170 countries around the world through four customer-facing lines of BT Global BT Retail BT Wholesale Openreach Services business BT Global Services, BT Retail, BT Wholesale and Openreach.
These are supported by BT Innovate & Design BT Operate two internal service units BT Innovate & Design and BT Operate.
a 2010 Adjusted external revenue by line of business BT Global Services BT Global Services is a global leader in the provision of networked IT services, serving multinational corporations, domestic businesses, BT Global Services 41% government departments and other communications providers in BT Retail 38% more than 170 countries.
BT Wholesale 15% More on page 22 Openreach 6% BT Retail BT Retail is the UKs leading provider of telecommunications products and services to the consumer market, and provides IT services and communications solutions to the small and medium enterprises market.
More on page 25 a Adjusted revenue is dened on page 55. a 2010 Adjusted EBITDA by line of business BT Wholesale BT Wholesale provides products and solutions to communications providers in the UK and worldwide.
BT Global Services 8% More on page 28 BT Retail 33% BT Wholesale 23% Openreach Openreach 36% Openreach is responsible for the crucial first mile of the UK telecommunications network the copper wires and bre connecting homes and businesses to their local telephone exchange.
More on page 31 a Adjusted EBITDA is dened on page 55.
BT Innovate & Design BT Operate BT Innovate & Design is responsible for the innovation, design, BT Operate manages BTs IT and network infrastructure platforms.
development and delivery of the processes, networks and It also runs parts of other communications providers networks on platforms on behalf of the customer-facing lines of business and behalf of the customer-facing lines of business.
More on page 33 More on page 33 How we maintain a sustainable business We aim to carry out our business in a responsible and sustainable way as increasingly our customers, shareholders, suppliers and CR INDEX our people expect this from BT.
The innovative solutions we PLATINUM PLUS develop will benefit both society and our long-term development.
More on page 34 8 BT GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT & FORM 20-F OVERVIEW OUR BUSINESS Where we operate Key MPLS point of access Telehousing facilities Satellite Global service centre Ethernet access Security operation centre DSL access Innovation centre Countries where BT, directly or working with partners, has an MPLS network service that offers IP virtual private networking We serve the needs of customers in the UK and in more than 170 countries worldwide.
More on page 16 Our products and services and who we sell them to We have a portfolio of around 1,800 products and services.
We sell them to consumers, small and medium enterprises and the public sector in the UK, and globally to multinational corporations, domestic businesses, government departments and other communications providers.
Some of our customers are shown below.
More on page 16 Department for Transport MEDIA-SATURN BT GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT & FORM 20-F 9 ADDITIONAL INFORMATION FINANCIAL STATEMENTS REPORT OF THE DIRECTORS REVIEW OF THE YEAR OVERVIEW
