REVIEW OF THE YEAR FINANCIAL REVIEW cumulative total pension contributions over the three-year Off-balance sheet arrangements period to 31 December 2011, then BT will make additional As disclosed in the consolidated financial statements, there are no matching contributions to the scheme.
Total pension off-balance sheet arrangements that have or are reasonably likely contributions including regular contributions are expected to to have a current or future material effect on the groups financial be approximately 2.4bn over the three years.
condition, changes in financial condition, revenues or expenses, In the event that BT generates net cash proceeds greater than results of operations, liquidity, capital expenditure or capital 1bn from disposals and acquisitions in any 12-month period to resources, with the exception of financial commitments and 31 December 2011, then BT will make additional contributions contingent liabilities disclosed in note 27. to the scheme equal to one third of those net cash proceeds.
A negative pledge that provides comfort to the scheme that Quantitative and qualitative disclosures about future creditors will not be granted superior security to the interest, foreign exchange, credit and liquidity scheme in excess of a 1.5bn threshold.
risks Whilst the valuation and the recovery plan have been agreed with A discussion of the groups financial risk management objectives the Trustee, they are currently under review by the Pensions and policies and the exposure of the group to interest rate, foreign Regulator.
However, the Pensions Regulators initial view is that they exchange, credit and liquidity risk is included in note 32 to the have substantial concerns with certain features of the agreement.
The Pensions Regulator has indicated it will discuss its position with us once they have completed their review.
Accordingly, as matters stand, it is uncertain as to whether the Pensions Regulator will take Going concern any further action.
This uncertainty is outside of our control.
The Review of the year section on pages 10 to 40 includes The number of retired members and other current beneciaries in information on the group structure, the performance of each of the the BTPS has been increasing in recent years.
Consequently, our lines of business, the impact of regulation and competition, future pension costs and contributions will principally depend on the principal risks and uncertainties and the groups outlook.
The investment returns of the pension fund, mortality of members and Financial review within this section includes information on our ination, all of which could uctuate in the medium to long-term.
financial position and resources, financial results, liquidity and To ensure that the scheme remains exible, fair and sustainable in funding and capital management.
Notes 10, 11, 14, 18, 19 and 32 the long-term there have been changes to future benefit accruals of the consolidated financial statements include information on the under BTPS, as discussed in more detail on page 19. groups investments, derivatives, cash and cash equivalents, The BTPS was closed to new entrants on 31 March 2001 and borrowings, financial risk management objectives, hedging policies people joining BT after that date can participate in a dened and exposures to credit, liquidity and market risks.
contribution pension arrangement which provides benets based Alongside the factors noted above, the directors have considered on the employees and the employing companys contributions.
the groups cash ow forecast for the period to the end of May 2011.
The directors are satisfied that this cash ow forecast, taking Contractual obligations and commitments into account reasonably possible risk sensitivities associated with this forecast and the groups current funding and facilities, A summary of the groups principal contractual financial obligations alongside the groups funding strategy, shows that the group will and commitments at 31 March 2010 is shown below.
Further continue to operate for the foreseeable future.
The directors details on the items can be found in the notes to the consolidated therefore continue to have a reasonable expectation that the group financial statements.
Details of the groups contingent liabilities are has adequate resources to continue in operational existence for the included in note 27 to the consolidated financial statements.
foreseeable future and continue to adopt a going concern basis in Payments due by period accordance with the guidance Going Concern and Liquidity Risk: Less Between Between More Guidance for Directors of UK Companies 2009 issued by the than 1 1 and 3 3 and 5 than 5 Contractual obligations Total year years years years Financial Reporting Council in preparing the consolidated financial and commitments m m m m m statements.
There has been no significant change in the financial or trading a Loans and other borrowings 12,493 3,253 1,753 1,204 6,283 position of the group since 31 March 2010.
Finance lease obligations 304 16 28 20 240 Operating lease obligations 7,687 494 891 775 5,527 Capital commitments 383 330 28 23 2 Alternative performance measures Pension deficit obligations 11,012 525 1,108 1,219 8,160 We assess the performance of the group using a variety of Total 31,879 4,618 3,808 3,241 20,212 measures, some of which are not dened under IFRS, and are a therefore termed non-GAAP measures.
These measures are in Excludes fair value adjustments for hedged risks.
addition to, and supplement, those prepared in accordance with IFRS.
The alternative performance measures we use include At 31 March 2010 the group had cash, cash equivalents and adjusted EBITDA: adjusted operating profit: adjusted profit before current asset investments of 1,858m.
The group also had unused taxation: adjusted earnings per share: underlying revenue: committed borrowing facilities amounting to 1,500m.
At underlying operating costs and underlying capital expenditure: free 31 March 2010, 2,532m of debt principal at hedged rates fell cash ow: and net debt.
Free cash ow and adjusted earnings per due for repayment in the 2011 financial year.
In May 2010 the share are also the groups key financial performance indicators as group also entered into a 650m two-year facility.
These resources disclosed in How we measure our progress on page 7. will allow the group to settle its obligations as they fall due.
54 BT GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT & FORM 20-F REVIEW OF THE YEAR FINANCIAL REVIEW An explanation of each of these alternative performance measures Contract and financial review charges is set out below.
Reconciliations to the nearest measure prepared in Adjusted revenue, adjusted EBITDA and adjusted operating profit accordance with IFRS are included within the body of the Financial are stated before specic items and the BT Global Services contract review and in the Consolidated financial statements.
The and financial review charges of 1,639m recognised in 2009 due to alternative performance measures we use may not be directly the size and nature of these charges.
comparable to similarly titled measures used by other companies.
Net interest on pensions EBITDA Adjusted profit before taxation and adjusted earnings per share are In addition to measuring financial performance of the lines of also presented before net interest on pensions, as disclosed in business based on operating profit, we also measure performance note 29 to the consolidated financial statements, due to the based on adjusted EBITDA.
EBITDA is dened as the group profit or volatile nature of this item.
loss before depreciation, amortisation, net finance expense and taxation.
Since this is a non-GAAP measure, it may not be directly Underlying revenue, operating costs and capital expenditure comparable to the EBITDA of other companies, as they may define it Underlying revenue, operating costs and capital expenditure refers differently.
EBITDA is a common measure used by investors and to the amounts excluding 1 the contribution in the current year analysts to evaluate the operating financial performance of from acquisitions that are not reected in the comparable period in companies, particularly in the telecommunications sector.
the prior year due to the date the acquisition was completed, and We consider EBITDA to be a useful measure of our operating 2 the impact of rebasing the prior year to be on a constant performance because it reects the underlying operating cash costs, currency basis compared with the current year.
No adjustment is by eliminating depreciation and amortisation.
EBITDA is not a direct made to the prior year reported revenue, operating costs or capital measure of our liquidity, which is shown by our cash ow statement, expenditure in determining the year on year movement in and it needs to be considered in the context of our financial underlying revenue, operating costs and capital expenditure.
A reconciliation from adjusted EBITDA to operating directors believe that presentation of the groups revenue, profit, the most directly comparable IFRS measure, is given on operating costs and capital expenditure in this way is relevant to an page 102. understanding of the groups financial performance.
Both acquisitions and foreign exchange rate movements can Adjusted performance measures have significant impacts on the groups reported revenue, Performance measures presented as adjusted are stated before operating costs and capital expenditure and therefore can impact specic items, contract and financial review charges of 1,639m year on year comparisons.
Presentation of the groups revenue, recognised within BT Global Services in 2009 and net interest on operating costs and capital expenditure excluding the year on year pensions.
impact of acquisitions and on a constant currency basis allows the The directors believe that the presentation of the groups results groups revenue, operating costs and capital expenditure to be in this way is relevant to an understanding of the groups financial presented on a consistent basis for the purpose of year on year performance.
A reconciliation from adjusted EBITDA to operating comparisons.
A reconciliation of reported operating costs and profit, the most directly comparable IFRS measure is included in the capital expenditure to underlying operating costs and capital segment information note on page 102.
A reconciliation from expenditure is presented below: adjusted operating profit to the reported profit is included on page 42.
A reconciliation from adjusted earnings per share to Operating Capital reported earnings per share is included on page 110. costs expenditure Total Year ended 31 March 2010 m m m Specic items Reported 19,116 2,533 21,649 In our income statement and segmental analysis we separately Less: identify specic items and present our results both before and after Specic items 427 427 these items.
This is consistent with the way that financial Depreciation and amortisation 3,039 3,039 performance is measured by management and is reported to the Leaver costs 142 142 Board and the Operating Committee and assists in providing a 15,508 2,533 18,041 meaningful analysis of the trading results of the group.
The Less: directors believe that presentation of the groups results in this way Foreign exchange 316 16 332 is relevant to the understanding of the groups financial Acquisitions 32 32 performance as specic items are significant one-off or unusual in Total underlying costs 15,160 2,517 17,677 nature and have little predictive value.
Items that we consider to be significant one-off or unusual in nature include disposals of Free cash ow businesses and investments, business restructuring costs, asset Free cash ow is one of our key performance indicators by which impairment charges, property rationalisation programmes and the our financial performance is measured.
Free cash ow is dened as settlement of multiple tax years in a single settlement.
An analysis the net increase in cash and cash equivalents less cash ows from of Specic items recognised in all years presented is included on nancing activities except net interest paid and less the pages 45 and 106. acquisition or disposal of group undertakings and less the net sale of short-term investments and excluding pension deficit payments.
Free cash ow is primarily a liquidity measure, however we also BT GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT & FORM 20-F 55 ADDITIONAL INFORMATION FINANCIAL STATEMENTS REPORT OF THE DIRECTORS REVIEW OF THE YEAR OVERVIEW REVIEW OF THE YEAR FINANCIAL REVIEW believe it is an important indicator of our overall operational This denition of net debt measures balances at the expected performance as it reects the cash we generate from operations value of future undiscounted cash ows due to arise on maturity of after capital expenditure and nancing costs, both of which are financial instruments and removes the balance sheet adjustments significant ongoing cash outows associated with investing in our made from the re-measurement of hedged risks under fair value infrastructure and nancing our operations.
In addition, free cash hedges and the use of the effective interest method as required by ow excludes cash ows that are determined at a corporate level IAS 39.
In addition, the gross balances are adjusted to take account independently of ongoing trading operations such as dividends, of netting arrangements.
share buy backs, acquisitions and disposals and repayment of debt.
Net debt is considered to be an alternative performance measure Our use of the term free cash ow does not mean that this is a as it is not dened in IFRS.
The most directly comparable IFRS measure of the funds that are available for distribution to measure is the aggregate of loans and other borrowings current shareholders.
A reconciliation of free cash ow to net cash inow and non current, current asset investments and cash and cash from operating activities, the most directly comparable IFRS equivalents.
A reconciliation of net debt to this measure is included measure, is included on page 51. on page 53.
It is considered both useful and necessary to disclose net debt as it is a key measure against which performance against Net debt the groups strategy is measured.
It is a measure of the groups net Net debt consists of loans and other borrowings both current and indebtedness that provides an indicator of the overall balance sheet non current, less current asset investments and cash and cash strength.
It is also a single measure that can be used to assess both equivalents.
Loans and other borrowings are measured at the net the groups cash position and indebtedness.
There are material proceeds raised, adjusted to amortise any discount over the term of limitations in the use of alternative performance measures and the the debt.
For the purpose of this measure, current asset use of the term net debt does not necessarily mean that the cash investments and cash and cash equivalents are measured at the included in the net debt calculation is available to settle the lower of cost and net realisable value.
Currency denominated liabilities included in this measure.
balances within net debt are translated to Sterling at swapped rates where hedged.
56 BT GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT & FORM 20-F
