REPORT OF THE DIRECTORS REPORT OF THE NOMINATING COMMITTEE Introduction Board evaluation The Nominating Committee is chaired by the Chairman.
The other A further review was carried out by the Chairman and Company members are Tony Ball, Clay Brendish, Eric Daniels, Patricia Hewitt Secretary through a questionnaire and discussion with directors in and Phil Hodkinson.
Five of its six members are independent non-executive directors.
Maarten van den Bergh, the Deputy Chairman, reviewed the Although he is not independent, the Board believes that Sir Michael performance of the Chairman taking into account the views of the Rake, as Chairman of the Board, is the most appropriate person to non-executive directors.
He would not participate in the selection and The Chairman and Maarten van den Berghs successor as Senior appointment of his successor.
The Company Secretary and, where Independent Director, Patricia Hewitt, reviewed the results of the appropriate, at the invitation of the Chairman, the Chief Executive evaluation and agreed and implemented a set of actions to address attend the Committees meetings.
These included: the appointment of Tony Ball as a director, to bring broadcasting and telecommunication business experience to the Board Committee role and activities an increased focus on improving BT Global Services performance The Committees terms of reference are available from the Company more frequent discussion at Board meetings on strategic issues Secretary and are posted on our website at www.
com committees and opportunities The Nominating Committee ensures an appropriate balance of experience and expertise on the Board, reviews the size and building further customer and investor confidence composition of the Board and recommends any proposed changes to improving the quality and depth of oversight functions.
A further review was carried out in March and April 2010 by the It keeps under review the need to refresh the Board, prepares a Chairman and Company Secretary through a questionnaire and description of the specic experience and skills needed for an discussion and the results will be discussed by the Board following appointment, considers candidates who are put forward by the which an action plan will be produced.
It has been agreed that, directors and external consultants, and recommends to the Board from now on, the annual Board evaluation will be carried out using the appointment of all directors after having met short-listed an external facilitator every two or three years.
It makes recommendations to the Board on whether to Separate surveys about Audit Committee and Remuneration reappoint non-executive directors at the end of terms of ofce.
It Committee effectiveness were also carried out and the outcomes of also reviews the time required from the Senior Independent the surveys are reported in their respective reports.
The Operating Director and other non-executive directors to carry out their duties Committee also conducted its own evaluation, and considered the and advises the Board on succession planning for the positions of results.
the Chairman, Deputy Chairman and or Senior Independent Director, Chief Executive and all other Board appointments.
The Committee met three times during the 2010 financial year.
It reviewed Board succession, in particular the position of Senior Independent Director, the size, skills prole and composition of the Board, the role of external recruitment consultants and Board and Committee evaluation questionnaires and process.
The Committee recommended: the appointment of Patricia Hewitt as Senior Independent Director in succession to Maarten van den Bergh: and the appointment of Tony Ball as a non-executive director to bring industry-relevant knowledge and experience to the Board, having held senior executive positions in broadcasting and telecommunication businesses in the US and Europe, including the UK.
It also reviewed the position of the Chairman.
The minutes of Nominating Committee meetings are sent, at their request, to directors who are not members of the Committee, where appropriate to do so.
64 BT GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT & FORM 20-F
