REPORT OF THE DIRECTORS BOARD OF DIRECTORS AND OPERATING COMMITTEE Chairman Executive directors Ian Livingston Sir Michael Rake a, f c, d, e, f Chief Executive Chairman Sir Michael was appointed to the Board as Chairman on Ian Livingston was appointed as Chief Executive on 1 June 2008.
He also chairs the Nominating Committee and He chairs the Operating Committee.
He was formerly Chief the Committee for Responsible and Sustainable Business.
He was Executive of BT Retail from 7 February 2005 and Group Finance formerly chairman of KPMG International from 2002 to 2007, and Director from April 2002.
Prior to joining BT, he was group finance previously held other roles in KPMG from 1972. director of Dixons Group from 1997.
He joined Dixons in 1991 after He is chairman of the UK Commission for Employment and Skills working for 3i Group and Bank of America International.
His and easyJet, and a non-executive director of Barclays, where he experience at Dixons spanned a number of operational and chairs the Audit Comittee, McGraw Hill and the Financial Reporting financial roles, both in the UK and overseas.
Sir Michaels appointments include vice-president of the director of Celtic.
RNIB, membership of the board of the TransAtlantic Business Dialogue, the CBI International Advisory Board and the National Security Forum.
A Chartered Accountant, he was knighted in 2007 for his services to the accountancy profession.
Tony Chanmugam Gavin Patterson a a, e Group Finance Director Chief Executive, BT Retail Tony Chanmugam was appointed to the Board on 1 December Gavin Patterson was appointed to the Board on 1 June 2008.
He was formerly Chief Financial He joined BT in January 2004 as Managing Director, Consumer officer of BT Retail and Managing Director of BT Enterprises and, Division, BT Retail and was appointed Chief Executive, BT Retail on from 1997 to 2004, he was Chief Financial officer and then Chief 1 May 2008.
Before joining BT, he was managing director of the Operating officer at BT Global Solutions.
He was appointed a consumer division of Telewest.
He joined Telewest in 1999 and held non-executive director and chairman of the audit committee of a number of commercial and marketing roles, after working Barnet and Chase Farm Hospital Trust in April 2010.
He is a for Procter & Gamble since 1990.
Company Secretary Operating Committee Ian Livingston, Chief Executive Tony Chanmugam, Group Finance Director Sally Davis, Chief Executive, BT Wholesale Jeff Kelly, Chief Executive, BT Global Services Roel Louwhoff, Chief Executive, BT Operate Andrew Parker Gavin Patterson, Chief Executive, BT Retail Clive Selley, Chief Executive, BT Innovate & Design Andrew Parker, formerly General Counsel, BT Retail from 2004, was appointed Company Secretary on 1 April 2008.
A solicitor, he has worked for BT since 1988 in a number of legal, regulatory and Key to membership of Board committees: compliance roles.
He is an employer-nominated trustee director of a Operating the BT Pension Scheme.
Andrew previously worked in the City in b Audit legal private practice.
Aged 50. c Remuneration d Nominating e Responsible and Sustainable Business f Pension Scheme Performance Review Group g Equality of Access Board 58 BT GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT & FORM 20-F
