REVIEW OF THE YEAR OUR RESOURCES roll out to around two-thirds of the UK by 2015 for an incremental People engagement and communication investment of around 1bn.
Keeping our people informed about what is happening in BT is an BTs network platform is a global, open, software-driven IP important part of how we manage our business.
We use a range of platform, integrating various network layers into one converged communications channels, including online news services, quarterly multi-service network.
Products and services provided on top of employee magazine and two-way communications activities such this exible infrastructure give customers high-speed access and as town hall meetings and webchats.
converged communications and content services.
It helps us meet We have a record of stable industrial relations and constructive our customers needs faster and more efficiently whether they are relationships with recognised unions in the UK and works councils delivered over copper or bre and reduces the time it takes to get elsewhere in Europe.
In the UK, we recognise two main trade new services to market, eliminating duplication and reducing costs.
unions the CWU and Prospect.
We also operate a pan-European We have also further extended our Ethernet footprint, from 600 works council, the BT European Consultation Committee BTECC.
Ethernet is a next generation data connectivity service offering high-speed, lower Our values cost connectivity for large volumes of data between sites.
This Our values are a guide to how we get things done in BT.
They expansion has enabled us to provide improved and lower cost highdescribe an approach and an attitude which will help us provide a speed Ethernet services across the largest footprint in the UK consistent customer experience: marketplace.
Trustworthy: we do what we say we will Our international MPLS network service provides coverage and Helpful: we work as one team support around the world.
It provides the performance, reliability, and security of a leased-line network with the scalability and Inspiring: we create new possibilities exibilities of an IP network.
It delivers mission-critical data Straightforward: we make things clear applications, as well as multimedia and our business quality IP voice Heart: we believe in what we do.
service, as part of a converged voice and data solution.
BT MPLS We measure BTs relationship with employees through our annual allows customers to prioritise trafc based on application, ensuring attitude survey on a five-point scale.
We have essential data applications are served irrespective of the growth of held engagement steady through challenging economic conditions.
Our target for 2011 is to maintain or improve on the 2010 result.
Global research capability Employee engagement is measured on a five point scale Technology innovation and the ability to create new and exciting products and services our customers want is critical to BTs future.
Our research and development team works with customers, partners and universities around the world.
We have dedicated innovation scanning teams in the US, Asia, Europe and the Middle East who identied more than 500 new technologies, business 3.60 3.61 3.58 propositions and market trends over the year and global development centres in the UK, US, Europe, India and China.
We have focused on bringing our innovation scanning and research teams closer to our customers, designers and product development teams so 2008 2009 2010 that BT can quickly capitalise on the opportunities they uncover.
In 2010 we invested 789m 2009: 1,119m in global research and development to support our drive for innovation.
This investment comprised capitalised software development costs of Networks and platforms 345m 2009: 529m and research and development operating We have the most comprehensive xed line communications costs of 444m 2009: 590m.
network in the UK, with around 5,600 exchanges and 670 local and We embrace open innovation and our acquisition of Ribbit in the 120 trunk processor units.
US in 2008 extended our ability to recruit ideas from outside our We own and maintain the UKs local access network the copper own boundaries.
It provides an open platform that enables wires and bre connecting homes and businesses to telephone developers to create innovative voice applications and services by exchanges, from where phone calls and data are transmitted across combining telephony and internet technologies in new ways.
We the country and the world.
give our global community of developers access to our technology More than 99% of UK premises now have access to first through the Ribbit interface, allowing them to innovate at will generation broadband which is capable of delivering up to 8Mb s. without any prior knowledge of telephony.
We believe it is this At 31 March 2010, our second generation broadband, based on community of more than 21,000 and growing registered developers ADSL2 technology, offered up to 20Mb s service to 55% of UK that will create the next generation of communications solutions.
premises, with plans to increase to up to 75% by spring 2011.
We In 2010 we led patent applications for 63 inventions.
We are now rolling out super-fast bre-based broadband, with a routinely seek patent protection in different countries including the combination of FTTC and FTTP.
We aim to make our bre services US, Japan, France, Germany and China, and we currently maintain a available to 4m UK premises by the end of 2010 and to be available total worldwide portfolio of around 6,400 patents and applications.
to at least 40% of UK premises in 2012.
Assuming an acceptable environment for investment, we see potential to expand our bre 20 BT GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT & FORM 20-F
