REVIEW OF THE YEAR OUR BUSINESS AND STRATEGY conclude that previous estimates of profitability for some of our At the same time, we will also continue to focus on our marketmajor contracts were no longer likely to be achieved.
leading Ethernet footprint which expanded from 600 nodes, or The Board took action as a result of these issues and BT Global access points for customers, in 2009 to more than 800 in 2010.
Services has been restructured including changes being made to Being the best network provider is not just about expanding the senior management team see BT Global Services How BT coverage.
We have also improved reliability and reduced costs Global Services is changing on page 22. through our cost saving and efficiency programmes.
Our plan is to Over the past year we have worked to improve efficiency and continue to deliver operational savings through further focus on delivery, and to build a stronger business.
We have made significant the efficiency of our work.
We have reduced the number of IT progress.
We have improved the way we bid for and manage incidents across the network by 33% over the last two years.
contracts, reduced costs and delivered better service for customers.
These changes are delivering results with an improved financial and How we measure our progress operational performance, and this is already showing in BT Global Services financial results, with a sequential improvement in We measure our progress through three key performance adjusted EBITDA and a 430m reduction in operating cash outow indicators: earnings per share, free cash ow and customer service.
But there is still much more to do and we will continue to drive this transformation.
Adjusted earnings per share We are seeking to strengthen our market position by enhancing Adjusted earnings per share was 17.3p in 2010, compared with our product portfolio and improving customer service and contract 14.1p in 2009 and 20.2p in 2008 see Financial review page 47. delivery, as well as through targeted investment in areas of potential profitable growth, such as in the Asia Pacic region where a, b Adjusted earnings per share we already have a strong market presence.
In this way, we can build pence on BT Global Services world-leading position.
The wholesaler of choice 20.2 19.1 BT is committed to supplying CPs in the UK and overseas with vital 17.4 17.3 communications infrastructure.
We have the broadest portfolio in 14.1 the industry and are trusted to underpin the UKs infrastructure.
We aim to be the wholesaler of choice in the UK, where we have more than 1,000 CP customers and we are the established leader for carriers, and to extend and develop our international wholesale business.
Over the next year, we also aim to consolidate further our 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 position as a leading provider of managed network services MNS in the UKs xed and mobile markets.
Our traditional wholesale markets are in decline, but we expect to see the addressable market grow in the medium term due to Free cash ow growth in digital content, consolidation, convergence and capital Free cash ow in 2010 was 1,933m, compared with 737m in constraints which make our white label services attractive for 2009 and 1,823m in 2008 see Financial review page 51. operators who do not want to invest in a xed line infrastructure.
We believe the capacity demand on our networks will quadruple by b Free cash ow 2013. m We are simplifying and reinventing our portfolio through internet protocol IP, enhancing our capabilities and expanding our addressable market to become a next generation wholesale 1,933 1,874 1,823 business.
We are investing in our products and services for the 1,612 future, developing advanced, software-driven platforms and services that, for example, exchange traditional and IP trafc and capabilities to deliver video content which is growing exponentially.
In the mobile space, we are facilitating mobile network 737 operators entry into the xed line market and have MNS contracts in place with all five key operators.
We are enabling the growth of 3G mobile data volumes in a market that is consolidating through 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 mergers and infrastructure joint ventures.
a Before specic items, BT Global Services contract and financial review charges in 2009 and net The best network provider interest on pensions.
b Adjusted basic earnings per share and free cash ow are non-GAAP measures provided in addition Super-fast bre-based broadband is critical to BTs future success to the disclosure requirements of IFRS.
The rationale for using non-GAAP measures is explained on and will be critical to the UK economy.
We will play a major part in pages 54 to 56.
A reconciliation of adjusted earnings per share and free cash ow, to the most directly comparable IFRS measure, is provided on pages 42 and 51, respectively.
this new communications environment and are making good progress in deploying this new technology.
BT GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT & FORM 20-F 13 ADDITIONAL INFORMATION FINANCIAL STATEMENTS REPORT OF THE DIRECTORS REVIEW OF THE YEAR OVERVIEW
