REVIEW OF THE YEAR OTHER INFORMATION by the Rome Public Prosecutor.
All the other defendants were also During 2009, we completed a number of acquisitions, acquitted.
The Public Prosecutor has appealed the courts decision.
including: The appeal was unsuccessful and no damages follow.
Wire One Holdings Inc one of the leading providers of videoconferencing solutions in the US Acquisitions and disposals Undus Ltd one of the UKs leading online business directories Ribbit Corporation a Silicon Valley-based Telco 2.0 platform We actively review our portfolio of assets and acquisition company opportunities in our target markets.
We will consider acquiring companies if they bring us skills, technology, geographic reach or Stemmer GmbH and SND GmbH two German companies time-to-market advantage for new products and services.
constituting the enterprise IT services segment of net AG, listed on the Frankfurt Stock Exchange.
2010 We also completed a number of other transactions in 2009, including: During 2010, there were no acquisitions.
In August 2009 BT transferred its consumer and SME broadband an agreement with Sekunjalo Investments Limited, under which and voice customer base in the Republic of Ireland to Vodafone, Sekunjalo became a 30% shareholder in BTs South African and agreed to provide wholesale network services to underpin business Vodafones business over a seven-year period.
We also completed a an extension of the geographic scope of our joint venture with number of other minor disposals in 2010.
Ena SpA in Parma, Italy, and an increase of our stake in the joint venture from 55% to 59.5% Prior to 2010 the acquisition of the remaining shares of Net2S SA, a publiclyThe BT of today was largely created by a restructuring of the traded IT services company listed in France, other than certain company in the 2002 financial year.
This restructuring involved a treasury shares and locked-up shares issued under employee rights issue raising 5.9bn, the demerger of O comprising BTs share plans we had acquired over 91% of the outstanding issued 2 wholly-owned mobile assets in Europe, the disposal of significant share capital of Net2S SA in 2008. non core businesses and assets, the unwinding of Concert our joint venture with AT&T, and the creation of customer-facing lines of business.
40 BT GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT & FORM 20-F
