REVIEW OF THE YEAR OUR MARKETS AND CUSTOMERS their business online and sell online.
Our mobile services also help Customers our SME customers work on the move.
We meet the needs of customers ranging from individual consumers Cloud computing has great potential for delivering IT services to through to multinational corporations and the communications SMEs at lower prices.
It is a style of computing where scalable and industry.
Our portfolio of products and services is sold in four exible IT capabilities are provided as a service to customers over customer segments by the customer-facing lines of business: BT the internet.
We are offering business applications that exploit Global Services, BT Retail, BT Wholesale and Openreach.
Multinational corporations Consumer BT Global Services provides networked IT services to organisations We serve consumer customers in the UK with xed lines, ranging from multinational corporations like major banks, retailers broadband, mobile and TV products and services.
We aim to offer and pharmaceutical manufacturers to local businesses and value-for-money packages.
government departments, in more than 170 countries.
We meet the needs of the increasing numbers of consumers Organisations need to be more efficient and effective.
They are wanting to buy telephony, broadband and TV from a single looking at ways to meet expectations of customer service at a time provider.
These bundled services have increased in popularity as when, as a result of economic conditions, budgets are increasingly they meet users needs at a xed price.
BT Vision, our on-demand under pressure.
television service, gives viewers access to a wide range of TV and We have created a powerful combination of networked IT and radio channels and pay-per-view services.
professional services capabilities to help our customers deliver We are also the only CP to offer a special service across the UK to sustainable organisations, communicate effectively, improve their the more vulnerable members of our society.
BT Basic offers a own customer focus, create security and resilience, react to a discount of over 60% off line rental, is available to nearly four changing marketplace, and increase their operational efficiency.
million people on low income and also includes a call allowance.
Public sector Wholesale and carrier As one of the largest suppliers of networked IT services for the UK Our wholesale and carrier customers are xed and mobile Government, we are well placed to help it improve the efficiency operators, internet service providers, broadcasters, and other CPs.
and effectiveness of public services through networked and shared We provide these customers with a portfolio of broadband and IT infrastructures, electronic purchasing and procurement, while high-speed data connectivity, interoperability, voice and meeting stringent security requirements.
We help the Government interconnection services, as well as partial or fully-managed outsource services to be more effective with the use of customer network services and platforms.
contact centres and the internet for revenue collection and benefit They are a diverse group of companies, with end users ranging distribution, engagement with citizens, and mobile and exible from large corporations to individual households.
We are a trusted supplier of networked IT services to central and regional governments in many other countries around the world.
As How we are structured one example of this, an important new business win for BT Global We have four customer-facing lines of business: BT Global Services, Services this year was a major contract awarded by the Spanish BT Retail, BT Wholesale and Openreach.
These are supported by government to connect its embassies across the world with national two internal service units: BT Innovate & Design and BT Operate.
BT Retail, BT Wholesale and Openreach operate mainly in the UK, The UK Government, collectively, is our largest customer, but the where we are one of the largest communications services providers provision of services to any one of its departments or agencies does to the consumer and business markets.
BT Global Services operates not comprise a material proportion of our revenue.
Except as in the UK and globally.
described in Our relationship with HM Government on page 39, In the UK we support CPs through BT Wholesale and Openreach, the commercial relationship between BT as a supplier and the UK and internationally through Global Telecoms Markets, a part of BT Government as a customer has been on a normal customer and Global Services.
How we sell our products and services SMEs We provide the UKs SMEs with a range of IT and communications BT has a portfolio of around 1,800 products and services, divided solutions.
We have around 1m SME customers, characterised by into five broad categories: their diversity, which can be anything from a start-up or microManaged solutions which comprise networked IT services, multibusiness with from one to 10 employees, through to a substantial protocol label switching MPLS and MNS medium-sized business with up to 1,000 or more employees.
We Broadband and convergence aim to simplify the management of communications for these Calls and lines customers, giving them value for money and driving innovation so they can get more benefit from their investment in Transit, conveyance, interconnect circuits, wholesale line rental communications.
Our broadband, e-mail, VoIP and online WLR, global carrier and other wholesale products applications help SMEs keep in touch and communicate online with Other products and services which include BT Global Services their customers, employees and suppliers, while our domain and revenue from non UK global products and BT Retails Enterprises web-hosting services make it easy for them to get online, develop division including revenue from conferencing, directories, payphones and other select services.
16 BT GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT & FORM 20-F REVIEW OF THE YEAR OUR MARKETS AND CUSTOMERS UK consumers can contact us online, through our call centres, or in Openreach has a range of account management options from stores without walls which are situated in prime locations in major which CPs can choose.
All new customers go through a specialised shopping centres across the UK and provide an opportunity for our customer establishment process, fully supported by dedicated customers to interact with us face-to-face.
We promote our Openreach people.
Once set up, customers mainly order through a products and services widely using a full range of media including secure online portal, where possible by integrating the Openreach TV and social media such as Facebook.
order management system into their own operations.
We sell to the UKs SMEs through our call centres, online, or via BT Global Services manages a wide variety of customers, with account teams, and also through 47 BT Local Businesses regional relationships of varying degrees of complexity.
We have created a franchises with their own sales staff and account management consistent framework for our relationships.
complex relationships with global multinational corporations, CPs can order most of our products and services online, and we where we have developed a client engagement model integrating have standardised our systems and processes across our next sales delivery and professional services, through to desk-based generation broadband portfolio to streamline service delivery.
account management relationships, channel partner relationships Increasingly, our CP customers are choosing MNS.
We bring BTs and even web-based self-servicing for some other customers.
economies of scale to their cost base, and they no longer have to worry about core network management, building new infrastructure or even running an engineering eld force.
By outsourcing these tasks to BT, our customers are free to focus on their own customers needs.
Our biggest wholesale customers are supported by client directors who have a thorough understanding of the companies they support and take overall responsibility providing products and services from our existing portfolio, and developing solutions based on their understanding of their customers business priorities.
BT GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT & FORM 20-F 17 ADDITIONAL INFORMATION FINANCIAL STATEMENTS REPORT OF THE DIRECTORS REVIEW OF THE YEAR OVERVIEW
