REPORT OF THE DIRECTORS REPORT OF THE COMMITTEE FOR RESPONSIBLE AND SUSTAINABLE BUSINESS Introduction Committee activities The Committee for Responsible and Sustainable Business is chaired The Committee aims to ensure that BTs responsible policies, by the Chairman and comprises: Gavin Patterson, Chief Executive behaviour and practices are applied throughout the business, BT Retail: Larry Stone, President Group Public and Government minimising any CR risks to BTs operations and reputation.
It Affairs: and Alex Wilson, Group Human Resources Director: two encourages innovation and the development of new non-executive directors: Clay Brendish and Phil Hodkinson and communication services to help create a more sustainable society.
three independent members: Lord Hastings, Baroness Jay and The Committee met four times in the 2010 financial year and Dame Ellen MacArthur.
Jonathon Porritt, chair of BTs external reviewed: Leadership Advisory Panel, attends one meeting per annum.
progress against CR strategy and key performance indicators Deborah Lathen left the Committee on 31 January 2010, when she community and charity support programmes ceased to be a director.
the development of BTs volunteering and sustainability skills programmes Committee role activities supporting BTs environment and climate change programmes With input and recommendations from executive management and advice from an independent expert advisory panel, the Committee proposals relating to the development of BTs low carbon sets the corporate responsible and sustainable business strategy for economy solutions.
the BT group globally including wholly owned subsidiaries for The Committee made visits to a number of organisations in the approval by the Board.
The Committee reviews and agrees plans 2010 financial year, including InterHealth, One Young World, I CAN and targets, evaluates performance, oversees a culture of and Radar, and also to Adastral Park where the Committee met transparency and stakeholder accountability and distributes, within more organisations and reviewed a number of projects.
the approved budget, funding to support the strategy.
The Committee has close links with BTs CR Leadership Advisory Panel Panel : Jonathon Porritt chair of the Panel attended the July meeting of the Committee and Dame Ellen MacArthur attended the December Panel meeting.
Gavin Patterson is a member of the Committee and he attends Panel meetings.
BT GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT & FORM 20-F 65 ADDITIONAL INFORMATION FINANCIAL STATEMENTS REPORT OF THE DIRECTORS REVIEW OF THE YEAR OVERVIEW
