REVIEW OF THE YEAR OTHER INFORMATION regulates the provision of premium rate services.
The Electronic Communications Code applies to all CPs authorised to carry out Other information streetworks and similar activities for network provision.
It requires CPs with apparatus on or in the public highway to identify potential liabilities and, where appropriate, to make financial provision to Regulation cover any damage caused by work they carry out, and for the removal of their networks in the event of liquidation or bankruptcy.
BT has provided the required certicate of compliance to Ofcom in Our relationship with HM Government accordance with this requirement.
Conditions applying to BT Legal proceedings Universal service obligations USO are dened in an order issued by the Secretary of State.
BT is the designated supplier of universal service for the UK, excluding the Hull area where Kingston Acquisitions and disposals Communications is the designated provider.
Our primary obligation is to ensure that basic xed line services are available at an affordable price to all citizens and consumers in the UK.
Other Regulation conditions relate to payphones and social needs schemes.
We understand that the UK Governments plans for the digital Innovation in communications markets continues at a high level, economy, prior to the May 2010 election, are expected to create a driven by consumer needs and new technology.
Convergence is fund of 200m that will be available via competitive tender to maturing, and consumers routinely buy bundles of xed, mobile, bidders in order to deliver the Governments universal service broadband and TV services.
In July 2009, we announced our commitment USC to provide a 2Mb s broadband connection.
This ambitious plans for bre-based broadband deployment, is not part of BTs USO, but BT is likely to be one of the providers underpinned by significant investments.
The UK communications eligible to bid for such funds.
The procurement process for allocation market is highly competitive and as a result, in 2010 many of our of the funds for the USC is currently expected to be administered by retail services were deregulated see significant market power a new Government body known as Broadband Delivery UK.
Regulatory evolution needs to keep pace with these developments, allowing further deregulation where effective significant market power designations competition exists, encouraging investment and rewarding riskOfcom is also required by EU directives to review relevant markets taking in new markets such as bre-based broadband, and ensuring regularly, and determine whether any CP has SMP in those markets.
that any new regulation is only applied where necessary.
Where Ofcom nds that a provider has SMP, it must impose appropriate remedies that may include price controls.
In 2010 Regulation in the UK Ofcom completed its market review of xed narrowband retail Electronic communications regulation in the UK is conducted within services in relation to the supply of consumer and business a framework set out in various EU directives, regulations and telephone lines and voice calls.
Ofcom concluded that BT no longer recommendations.
The framework was recently reviewed had SMP in these markets except for digital exchange lines, and amended directives are expected to be implemented by late although Ofcom is currently consulting on a market review charge May 2011 in the UK and other EU member states.
control for ISDN30 lines, which resulted in BT having greater freedom to package and price those services as we choose.
Ofcom Ofcom also completed its review of wholesale narrowband services Ofcom was set up under the Ofce of Communications Act 2002 to markets and concluded that BT retained SMP in certain dened provide a single, seamless approach to regulating the entire UK markets for example, the provision of wholesale exchange lines, communications market.
Its principal duties are to further the call origination and interconnect links but not in local-to-tandem interests of citizens in relation to communications matters, and to conveyance where BTs activities became deregulated.
BT is also further the interests of consumers in relevant markets, where deemed to have SMP in other markets such as wholesale leased appropriate by promoting competition.
In the 2010 calendar year, Ofcom will conduct market Ofcom regulation takes the form of sets of conditions laid down reviews, which are currently underway, of the Wholesale Local under the Communications Act 2003 Communications Act, and Access WLA and the Wholesale Broadband Access WBA markets, directions under these conditions.
Some conditions apply to all covering products such as LLU and IPStream.
Ofcoms WLA providers of electronic communications networks and services: proposals include new obligations on BT to provide a bre-based others apply to individual providers, which Ofcom has designated Virtual Unbundled Local Access VULA product and an obligation as universal service providers or having significant market power to share our ducts and poles for bre-based broadband purposes.
Openreach already offers a product that we believe meets the requirements for VULA and we have said BT will share its ducts and Conditions applying to all providers poles with other CPs.
In the WBA market, Ofcom proposes to Although these general conditions are concerned mainly with increase the size of the mainly urban deregulated geographic consumer protection, they also include requirements relating to market, and to introduce price regulation in the remainder of the general access and interconnection: standards: emergency country with a price control to cover rural areas.
planning: the payment of administrative charges: the provision of information to Ofcom: and numbering.
A separate condition 38 BT GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT & FORM 20-F
