REVIEW OF THE YEAR OUR MARKETS AND CUSTOMERS consolidation in the mobile space with mobile operators 3 and T-Mobile sharing their infrastructure, as do O and Vodafone.
During 2 Our markets and customers the year, Orange and T-Mobile also agreed to merge their UK operations.
The industry is also embracing internet-based, next generation communications services that are faster, more exible and Our markets cheaper.
There is greater demand than ever for lower input prices, with stronger demand for higher, cost-effective bandwidth.
Our wholesale customers are increasingly positioning themselves as service providers Competition rather than network operators.
Many of the services they provide are bandwidth hungry, which presents them with a challenge during an economic downturn as they may be unwilling to commit to the high Customers levels of capital investment required by network expansion or upgrade.
This presents us with opportunities to supply a range of managed network and outsourced services leveraging our network capacity.
How we are structured BT operates in the wholesale market outside the UK, primarily through Global Telecoms Markets, the wholesale arm of BT Global How we sell our products and services Services.
The business provides voice and non voice connectivity and consultancy capabilities to xed line and mobile network operators worldwide, primarily across BT's global network assets.
Our markets Global networked IT services We serve the needs of customers in the UK and in more than 170 Globally, we are in the networked IT services market which is valued countries worldwide.
at around US$579bn, according to International Data Corporation In the UK, regulation and the open, commercial marketplace IDC.
As the market responds to economic conditions, we see have created one of the most competitive telecommunications continued interest in network operational efficiency, workforce markets in the world.
The market is characterised by demand for management, security, unied communications where an increasingly lower prices, ease of use, speed, reduced operational organisations infrastructure, mobility, desktop and applications complexity, and the ability to offer end users genuinely work together, global hosted contact centre solutions, differentiated services with improved quality of service.
virtualisation where the resources of a single computer are shared across multiple applications, and cloud services.
UK consumer As a result of the global recession, industry analysts Gartner The market in the UK has been challenging with falling demand for reported the worldwide IT industry declined by 5% in the 2009 xed lines and calls.
The calls and lines consumer market is valued calendar year, but is expected to recover in the 2010 calendar year.
at around 5.9bn and declined by 1% last year.
We are well placed to take advantage of any upturn in the BTs market share of consumer xed line revenue is 59%.
expect continuing pressure on our market share of calls and lines in particular as more people choose to buy telephony from their Competition broadband supplier.
The broadband market has continued to grow through the The markets in which we operate are very competitive.
recession despite the market maturing.
Broadband penetration now In the UK consumer market, our voice and broadband offerings exceeds two-thirds of UK households.
compete with a range of players and propositions.
Our In the broadband market BTs retail share of the DSL and LLU base competitors include a number of well known brands that utilise remains strong at 35%, and our share of net additions was 44% in BTs infrastructure to provide competing services in telephony the fourth quarter of 2010, having remained above 40% for five and broadband, and also Virgin Media which provides an consecutive quarters.
alternative service utilising its own cable network.
In serving our SME customers, we nd competition is fragmented UK SMEs and can depend on which services our customers take from us, We estimate that the total combined SME market for simple connectivity, or one of our more popular IT services communications and IT is worth about 29bn per annum, of which packages.
For smaller accounts, we might be in competition with BT had revenues of 2.6bn in 2010.
The economic environment in local start-ups or services rms such as Geek Squad.
For larger 2010 has impacted the overall market with falling demand for lines SMEs, we face competition from, among others, TalkTalk via and calls, slower growth in broadband, and lower IT spending.
Opal and Cable & Wireless Worldwide.
However, we retain the There have been fewer business start ups, a higher rate of largest market share in voice telephony.
insolvencies, and rms have been downsizing and cutting costs.
The networked IT services market is also challenging, both in the UK and internationally.
Companies such as Orange Business Services Wholesale and Verizon Business are targeting multinational corporations.
The UK wholesale and local access market is consolidating through the Finally, while we have the largest network in the UK, our BT acquisition of CPs by other providers, and the merging of network and Wholesale and Openreach lines of business compete regularly systems infrastructure.
For example, Carphone Warehouse bought against other CPs either selling network capabilities to others or Tiscali, and Cable & Wireless acquired Thus.
In addition, there has been choosing to build their own infrastructure.
BT GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT & FORM 20-F 15 ADDITIONAL INFORMATION FINANCIAL STATEMENTS REPORT OF THE DIRECTORS REVIEW OF THE YEAR OVERVIEW
