REPORT OF THE DIRECTORS REPORT ON DIRECTORS REMUNERATION Non-executive directors remuneration Overview Directors service agreements and contracts of appointment The Remuneration Committee endorsed the Chief Executives Directors interests proposal that directors and senior executives should receive no Performance graph salary increase in 2009 10, in line with the pay freeze for all Remuneration review audited employees.
Directors emoluments In view of our executive teams strong performance, the Former directors Committee decided to increase salaries to directors and senior Loans executives from June 2010.
Executive directors salaries are set Pensions to be below the median level for directors of comparable Share options companies.
The salary increases proposed for 2010 11 are in line Share awards under long-term incentive plans with that principle.
Vesting of outstanding share awards and options The demanding conditions set for the 2009 10 annual bonus were Deferred Bonus Plan awards largely met.
In particular, BT exceeded the targets for free cash Share awards under the Employee Share Investment Plan ow and earnings per share EPS.
The Chief Executive was therefore awarded a bonus of 142% of target: 71% of his Shareholders will be asked to vote on this Report at the maximum bonus opportunity.
In 2008, shareholders supported a two-stage change in executive remuneration, designed to simplify the structure and bring total Remuneration policy remuneration closer to our comparators.
As we reported last year, This part of the Report on directors remuneration is not subject however, the second stage was postponed in view of the companys to audit.
The second stage will now be implemented in 2010 11, but with lower maximum long-term incentive opportunities than originally proposed, and lower than i Role of the Remuneration Committee awards granted in previous years.
The Remuneration Committee is a formal committee of the Board Following consultation with major shareholders, we and has powers delegated to it under the Articles of Association.
Its strengthened the performance measures for our long-term remit is set out in the terms of reference formally adopted by the Incentive Share Plan.
For awards granted from 2009 10, half of Board, which were last reviewed in December 2009. each award is linked to total shareholder return and half to a new The terms of reference of the Committee are available on the three-year cumulative free cash ow measure.
com committees The Remuneration Committee agrees the framework for the The Committee introduced a clawback mechanism into all remuneration of the Chairman, the executive directors and certain executive share plans, making BT one of the first companies to senior executives.
This includes the policy for all cash remuneration, take such action.
executive share plans, service contracts and termination Having considered the impact of personal income tax changes arrangements.
The Committee approves salaries, bonuses and share from April 2010, the Committee endorsed the Chief Executives awards for executive directors and senior executives.
The recommendation that no changes be made in order to either Committee approves changes to the executive share plans and avoid or to compensate for the higher top tax rate.
recommends to the Board any changes which require shareholder Hanif Lalani, Chief Executive of BT Global Services and formerly approval.
The Committee also determines the basis on which Group Finance Director, resigned as a director on 7 January 2010. awards are granted under the executive share plans to executives Details of his leaving arrangements are disclosed in this report.
reporting to the senior management team.
The Board has reviewed compliance with the Combined Code on reward-related matters, and confirms that the company has Introduction complied with all aspects.
The Chairman, Sir Michael Rake, is a This report sets out the details of the remuneration policy for the member of the Committee, in accordance with the provision of the companys directors and senior executives and the amounts paid to Combined Code permitting a company chairman to be a member of, the directors in 2009 10.
As well as meeting statutory requirements, but not chair, the remuneration committee.
the Committee aims to comply with best practice guidelines in The Committee met five times during 2009 10.
In addition to the producing this report.
Relevant sections of this report have been Chairman, the members of the Committee are all independent nonaudited in accordance with the Large and Medium-sized Companies executive directors.
Maarten van den Bergh, who had been and Groups Accounts and Reports Regulations 2008. chairman of the Committee since October 2006, stood down at the This report covers the following: AGM in July 2009 and was succeeded by Patricia Hewitt, the Senior Independent Director.
The other members who served during Remuneration policy not subject to audit 2009 10 were: i Role of the Remuneration Committee ii Remuneration principles Matti Alahuhta retired 31 May 2009 iii Remuneration in 2009 10 and 2010 11 Eric Daniels iv Other matters Deborah Lathen retired 31 January 2010 Executive share ownership Carl Symon Pensions Other benets In addition, the Chief Executive is invited to attend meetings, Director who has left the Board except when it would be inappropriate for him to be there, for Service agreements example, when his own remuneration is discussed.
Non-executive Outside appointments directors who are not members of the Committee are entitled to Non-executive directors letters of appointment receive the papers discussed at meetings and the minutes.
66 BT GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT & FORM 20-F
