REVIEW OF THE YEAR OTHER INFORMATION SMP charge controls Regulation outside the UK As a result of SMP designations, the charges we can make for a BT must comply with the regulatory regimes in the countries in number of wholesale services are subject to regulatory controls which we operate and this can have a material impact on our which are designed to ensure that our charges are reasonably business.
derived from costs, plus an appropriate return on capital employed.
These include: European Union network charge controls NCC on wholesale interconnect Communications regulation in each EU country is conducted within services we operate under interconnection agreements with the regulatory framework determined by EU directives, regulations most other CPs and recommendations.
The manner and speed with which the existing directives have been implemented vary from country to partial private circuits PPC charge controls applying to certain country.
National regulators are working together in the Body of wholesale leased lines that BT provides to other network European Regulators for Electronic Communications to introduce operators greater harmonisation in their approach to the assessment of SMP certain wholesale Ethernet access and backhaul services and the imposition of appropriate remedies.
BT does not have USO LLU and WLR.
outside the UK, although in certain member states we may be Regulatory decisions by Ofcom are liable to appeal.
Other CPs are required to contribute towards an industry fund to pay for the cost currently appealing Ofcom decisions on wholesale leased lines, LLU of meeting such obligations.
Ofcom is currently consulting on market reviews charge controls The rest of the world for ISDN30 and WBA see significant market power designations The vast majority of the communications markets in which we on page 38. operate around the world are subject to regulation.
The degree to In December 2009, Ofcom published a consultation document which these markets are liberalised varies widely, and our ability to about how BTs costs of providing pensions benets should be compete is constrained, to a greater or lesser degree, in many treated in regulatory charges.
Ofcom is expected to consult further countries.
We continue to press incumbent operators and their later in the 2010 calendar year, and conclude its review towards the national regulatory authorities around the world including in the end of the year.
Ofcom would then look to implement any revised EU for cost-related non discriminatory wholesale access to their approach in setting charge controls moving forward.
networks, where appropriate, and for advance notice of any changes to their network design or technology which would have BTs Undertakings an impact on our ability to serve our customers.
In response to Ofcoms 2005 strategic review of telecommunications, we proposed a number of legally-binding Undertakings under the Competition law Enterprise Act 2002 Enterprise Act.
These Undertakings, which In addition to communications industry-specic regulation, BT is included the creation of Openreach, were accepted by Ofcom and subject to the Competition Act 1998 Competition Act in the UK came into force in September 2005.
The Undertakings are intended and to EU competition law.
to deliver clarity and certainty to the UK telecommunications industry about the way BT will provide upstream regulated Our relationship with HM Government products to support effective and fair competition in related downstream markets.
Ofcom acknowledges that BT's delivery of We can be required by law to do certain things and provide certain the Undertakings has enabled deregulation in more competitive services for the UK Government.
For example, under the downstream markets.
The Undertakings do need to evolve in light Communications Act, we and others can be required to make and of market developments and variations have been agreed in 2010 implement plans for the provision or restoration of services in to assist delivery of bre-based broadband, and to reschedule connection with disasters.
Additionally, under the Civil timescales for the delivery of operational systems separation and Contingencies Act 2004, the UK Government can impose the migration of BT's installed base to the same, equivalent base as obligations on us and others at times of emergency and in other CPs.
connection with civil contingency planning.
Also, the Secretary of State can require us to take certain actions in the interest of Business rates national security and international relations.
The European Commission formally investigated the way the UK Government set the rates payable on BTs infrastructure and those Legal proceedings paid by Kingston Communications, and whether or not the UK Government complied with European Community Treaty rules on We do not believe that there is any single current court action that state aid.
The Commission concluded in October 2006 that no state would have a material adverse effect on the financial position or aid had been granted.
The Commissions decision was appealed.
However the aggregate volume and value Judgement on the appeal has not yet been given but we continue of legal actions to which we are a party has increased signicantly to believe that any allegation of state aid is groundless and that the during 2010. appeal will not succeed.
There have been criminal proceedings in Italy against 21 defendants, including a former BT employee, in connection with the Italian UMTS universal mobile telecommunication system auction in 2000.
Blu, in which BT held a minority interest, participated in that auction process.
On 20 July 2005, the former BT employee was found not culpable of the fraud charge brought BT GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT & FORM 20-F 39 ADDITIONAL INFORMATION FINANCIAL STATEMENTS REPORT OF THE DIRECTORS REVIEW OF THE YEAR OVERVIEW
