REVIEW OF THE YEAR OUR LINES OF BUSINESS contract and financial reviews, charges of 1.6bn were recognised in 2009, which included 1.2bn relating to two major contracts.
Our lines of business These charges reected a more cautious view of the recognition of the expected and future cost efficiencies and revenues and other changes in underlying assumptions and estimates, particularly in BT Global Services the light of the economic outlook.
The new management team implemented a number of process improvements in 2009 and further enhancements have been made BT Retail in 2010, as noted below.
The operational review was completed towards the end of 2009 and resulted in a revised operating model and restructuring plan to BT Wholesale reshape and refocus the business, in order to further enhance BT Global Services ability to serve customers and establish a Openreach signicantly lower cost base.
In 2009 we said that we expected to incur restructuring charges of around 420m in 2010 and 2011.
In 2010, we have recognised restructuring charges of 301m 2009: 280m, predominately BT Innovate & Design comprising network, products and supplier rationalisation charges and people and property costs.
Further restructuring charges of around 175m are expected to be incurred in 2011, giving a total BT Operate charge of around 475m, above our original estimate of 420m.
This increase reects the complexities of our restructuring programme.
An analysis of these charges is provided in the Specic Our customer-facing lines of business are BT Global Services, items section of the Financial review on pages 45 to 46.
BT Retail, BT Wholesale and Openreach.
They meet the needs of our In 2010 we implemented the new operating model in BT Global different customer groups, supported by two internal service units, Services, which focuses on three customer segments: BT Innovate & Design and BT Operate.
seamless global connectivity and networked IT services to The financial performance of each of our customer-facing lines multinational corporations of business for 2010, 2009 and 2008 is discussed in this section.
We measure the financial performance of BT Global Services, BT networked IT services to customers in the UK corporate and Retail, BT Wholesale and Openreach on an adjusted basis, being public sectors revenue, EBITDA and operating profit: all stated before specic networked IT services to corporate and public sector customers items.
For BT Global Services adjusted EBITDA also excludes the outside the UK.
impact of the contract and financial review charges recognised in Other structural improvements have been made to improve the 2009.
For further discussion of these items, see pages 54 to 56.
During 2010 we signicantly improved contract reconciliation of adjusted EBITDA to group operating profit loss by management, risk management and performance.
We have customer-facing line of business, and for the group, is provided in changed the way we bid for major contracts and also carry out the Segment information, note 1 to the consolidated financial regular in-life contract reviews to assess commercial risks and statements on page 102.
The financial performance commentaries opportunities and to improve contract performance, creating for each customer-facing line of business also discuss movements independent review teams to provide additional assurance on our in operating cash ow.
Operating cash ow is dened as adjusted most significant contracts.
EBITDA less direct and allocated capital expenditure, working Sales teams have been realigned to focus on the key customer capital movements and other non cash items.
segments, and service units have been restructured.
We have brought together all design, programme and technical delivery BT Global Services people across the wider design organisation to standardise and create replicable solutions.
This has helped us to manage and more How BT Global Services is changing accurately forecast demand and costs.
We have continued to rationalise systems and networks.
Strategy, marketing, In 2009 a combination of higher costs, the slow delivery of cost propositions, commercial, legal and regulatory functions have also reduction initiatives and worsening economic conditions caused been realigned.
the level of profitability in BT Global Services to fall signicantly.
We have made progress this year but we still have more to do.
The Board took action as a result of this, including changing the BT Global Services senior management team.
The new teams brief was to address the cost base, bring greater Business overview focus to the profitability of new contract wins and reduce shortfalls BT Global Services is a global leader in the provision of networked IT in delivery performance on existing contracts.
services to multinational corporations, domestic businesses, The management team undertook an extensive review of BT government departments and other CPs in more than 170 Global Services financial position, contracts and operations.
We have a strong customer base, global reach, and a financial review covered the financial performance of BT Global powerful combination of networked IT and professional services Services and its balance sheet position.
covered the largest and most complex contracts and were We aim to be the global partner of choice for multinational conducted jointly with external advisors.
Having completed the corporations, the number one provider to business and public 22 BT GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT & FORM 20-F REVIEW OF THE YEAR OUR LINES OF BUSINESS sector organisations in the UK, and a leading player in other Operating review countries key to our customers.
Our professional services In challenging market conditions we continued to win and re-sign consultants use in-depth knowledge of networked IT services, contracts in our three key markets, with a total order value of combined with a solid understanding of sector-based business 6.6bn in 2010 2009: 7.9bn, 2008: 7.8bn which reects the processes, to build on the investment our customers make in continued interest in outsourcing, managed and hosted services, networked IT services to help them to realise business benets, converged communications and security.
including cost saving, productivity gains, competitive advantage, The lower order intake value in 2010 reects the market trend and improved customer experience and loyalty.
We have towards lower value and shorter contracts and longer sales lead consultants located worldwide helping our customers choose the times as customers delay decisions in the current climate.
right technology solution for their business, and how to use it to deliver what they need.
We build and run complex networks for our customers to enable Order intake them to deliver applications critical to their success.
Building on our bn network expertise, we provide services which include unied 2.8 communications, mobility, customer relationship management 2.4 CRM and customer contact centres, data centre services, exible working, IT sustainability, managed security and sophisticated 2.0 conferencing solutions.
1.6 Our customers benefit from BTs global scale, but they are sold 1.2 to, and served by, our teams in their own countries and sectors who understand their specic business challenges and create locally 0.8 relevant solutions.
0.4 BT Global Services has a worldwide reach and capability.
More 0.0 than 300 of our top customers are headquartered in the US.
In Q1 Q2 Q3 Q4 Q1 Q2 Q3 Q4 Latin America, we operate in 22 countries where we offer 2009 2010 communications services including IP infrastructure, outsourcing solutions and business transformation.
The worlds top stock exchanges, leading broker-dealers and We secured a number of contract renewals and extensions with biggest banks depend on BT infrastructure to provide secure, existing customers, including leading multinationals, in 2010. shared connectivity and services.
These included: BT Global Services sees the Asia Pacic region as a major area for a global contract with FIAT Group to provide and manage their growth and plans to further increase its capabilities to capture the worldwide networked IT services with an MPLS network dynamic business opportunities available in the fast-growing connecting more than 500 locations in 37 countries region.
The new investment will build on the strong market a two-year contract extension with Eni Group, one of the worlds presence already established and will align to growth plans of major integrated energy companies, to provide and manage their multinational customers as they continue to expand.
Key elements global telecommunications services across five continents.
will be extending our professional services, industry sector and Our focus on the important Asia Pacic market was demonstrated innovation resources with enhancements to many products by a contract secured to provide a managed services solution for and services and the establishment of technology showcase centres Deutsche Post DHLs telecommunications infrastructure in 15 where customers can directly experience BTs leading edge countries and more than 1,000 sites across the region.
During the year we built on our expertise and leadership in the In China we have technology and service centres providing global banking and financial markets sector.
New contracts in this software development, service delivery and multilingual customer sector included: support.
Headquartered in Singapore, BT Frontline is a leading regional global investment bank Nomura to provide dealing room provider of end-to-end IT services including consulting and technologies and implementation of market data infrastructure implementation, IT security, enterprise software and outsourcing Commerzbank, one of Germanys biggest banks, to manage local services and solutions.
and wide area network across hundreds of sites.
In Europe, we are a leading provider of communication services In the UK we secured a three-year contract extension with the UK dedicated to the corporate, SME and public sectors in Italy.
In Department for Work and Pensions to provide voice, data network Spain, we are a leading alternative enterprise data transmission and contact centre solutions helping to transform their voice and provider.
Our customers in Germany include more than two-thirds data network, which regularly handles more than two million calls a of the DAX 30 companies.
day and at peak times has managed three million.
More than 20 of Switzerlands top 100 multinational companies Other UK public sector contract wins included the Ministry of and international financial organisations use our services, as well as Defence which awarded us a five-year contract to manage voice global institutions including the World Health Organisation and the and data networks across 196 military bases as part of the defence United Nations.
In the three Benelux countries, our 870 customers xed telecommunications service agreement BT delivers on their include the EU and NATO.
behalf and a seven-year deal in partnership with Capgemini to provide IT and communication services to the Environment Agency in England and Wales.
BT GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT & FORM 20-F 23 ADDITIONAL INFORMATION FINANCIAL STATEMENTS REPORT OF THE DIRECTORS REVIEW OF THE YEAR OVERVIEW REVIEW OF THE YEAR OUR LINES OF BUSINESS We continue to deliver on our National Health Service NHS Excluding these, underlying revenue decreased by 4%.
The National Programme for Information Technology contracts.
We had reduction in underlying revenue reects the trends seen our busiest year for deployments under our local service provider throughout the year including the impact of mobile termination contract, where we are upgrading NHS IT systems and services rate reductions, lower wholesale call volumes in continental across London and the South of England.
Our systems and services Europe, declines in UK calls and lines revenue and the impact of now support more than 100,000 registered users.
The Spine, the economic conditions.
secure database and messaging service which BT has built and is Revenue from outside the UK increased to 50% of BT Global managing for the NHS, continues to enable the increased use of key Services total revenue 2009: 48%, 2008: 40% reecting the services to transform the NHS.
Every day more than 30,000 impact of organic growth as well as foreign exchange movements.
referrals are arranged through the national electronic referrals and a a 2010 2009 2008 booking system Choose and Book, as well as the electronic m m m transfer of around 700,000 prescription messages.
N3, the secure Products and services broadband network BT has built and is managing for the NHS, now Managed solutions 5,281 5,273 4,468 has more than 47,000 connections and connects every NHS Calls and lines 956 1,055 1,197 organisation across England and more than a million NHS Global carrier 822 904 777 employees.
Broadband and convergence 334 321 275 Our corporate and public sector customers in our target markets Other products and services 1,120 1,075 947 outside the UK have signed a number of significant deals during the year, including contracts to provide global hosted contact centre Total adjusted revenue 8,513 8,628 7,664 services, network connectivity and voice services in Spain and a Restated.
Portugal for the security company Prosegur Activa, xed mobile IP telephony for Dutch rail infrastructure provider ProRail to enable Revenue from managed solutions remained broadly at 2009: their employees to work exibly, and with South Africas leading 18% increase.
Within this, networked IT services revenue was integrated energy and chemical company Sasol to provide and negatively impacted by the challenging economic conditions.
This manage services including managed security.
In Brazil we signed a was offset by increased MPLS revenue and the impact of favourable contract with the largest retailer, Po fide Acar, to provide high foreign exchange rate movements.
Calls and lines revenue decreased by 9% 2009: 12% decrease, During 2010 we launched new products and service the reduced rate of decline reecting our focus on winning new enhancements reecting the continued market interest in business to mitigate the continuing trend of customers migrating to outsourcing, managed and hosted services, converged alternative services including managed solutions.
These included the releases of virtual Global carrier revenue decreased by 9% 2009: 16% increase data centre, hybrid virtual private network, hosted unied due to the impact of mobile termination rate reductions and lower communications service, unied communications and wholesale call volumes in continental Europe.
collaboration, next generation contact centres and BT OneVoice.
Broadband and convergence revenue increased by 4% 2009: As part of our right first time initiative, BT Global Services has 17% increase reecting continued demand for business mobility improved sales order quality by 40% and the number of calls solutions.
Other revenue, principally comprising global product unanswered by our call centres has reduced by around 70% in revenues, increased by 4% 2009: 14% increase partially due to 2010. foreign exchange movements and global demand.
Net operating costs decreased by 4% to 8,056m 2009: 22% Financial performance increase.
This decrease is after the adverse impact of foreign a a 2010 2009 2008 exchange rate movements of 285m and acquisitions of 11m.
m m m Excluding these, underlying operating costs decreased by 7%.
This improvement reects delivery of our cost saving initiatives during Adjusted revenue 8,513 8,628 7,664 2010.
These initiatives have addressed our total labour cost, Net operating costs 8,056 8,367 6,856 resulting in a reduction of more than 5,900 in total labour resource Adjusted EBITDA 457 261 808 in 2010.
They also reect continued progress in the re-negotiation Contract and financial review of better pricing through our procurement channels and the b charges 1,639 simplication of processes, systems and networks.
As a result of our progress in addressing the cost base, adjusted EBITDA 457 1,378 808 EBITDA increased by 75% 2009: 68% decrease.
In 2009 EBITDA Depreciation and amortisation 815 776 744 was a loss of 1,378m, principally due to the contract and financial Adjusted operating loss profit 358 2,154 64 review charges of 1,639m.
Capital expenditure 599 886 961 Depreciation and amortisation increased by 5% to 815m 2009: Operating cash ow 482 912 150 4% increase.
The increase reects the impact of unfavourable foreign exchange movements and the timing of higher value and a Restated.
See page 101. b Contract and financial review charges in 2009 include 41m recognised in revenue.
shorter-lived software assets which were brought into use in prior years.
In 2010 revenue decreased by 1% to 8,513m 2009: 13% The adjusted operating loss in 2010 was 358m, an increase.
This decrease is after the impact of favourable foreign improvement compared with the loss of 2,154m in 2009.
The exchange movements of 269m and acquisitions of 11m.
improvement is due to the operational improvements in the 24 BT GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT & FORM 20-F
