REVIEW OF THE YEAR OUR RESOURCES report, visit to the London 2012 website and millions of calls, e-mails and texts.
Our resources With just over two years to go to the Olympic and Paralympic Games, our partnership with London 2012 is already delivering real benets.
The work we are doing at the Olympic Park in Stratford, Brand and reputation East London and at event sites around the country, is helping demonstrate our capabilities to large customers.
Internally, we have seen an increase in the proportion of employees who say the People partnership makes them feel proud to work for BT, rising from 59% in 2009 to 71% in 2010.
We are measuring the impact of our services using a newly Networks and platforms developed carbon footprint methodology and will be capturing lessons learned about where savings can be made for future Games.
We are also sponsoring the BT Paralympic World Cup in Manchester Global research capability in May 2010, an event for elite international athletes.
Our support for major sporting events was reinforced in February Suppliers when we became an ofcial supporter of the England 2018 FIFA World Cup bid.
Property portfolio People One of our key resources is our people and we aim to maintain a Our resources, in particular our brand and reputation, our people, team of high-performing, engaged and motivated people who can our networks and platforms, global research capability, suppliers and make a difference for customers, shareholders, the company and property portfolio are critical to delivering our business priorities.
The quality of our leadership is vital to BTs continued transformation.
We aim to ensure leaders at all levels understand what is expected of them and have access to appropriate Brand and reputation development opportunities.
We are committed to delivering our brand vision of helping our The improvement in our efficiency has enabled us to reduce our customers thrive in a changing world.
total labour resource with the majority of this reduction in indirect We are proud to have a trusted brand that is recognised in the UK labour.
We have a successful track record of redeploying and and around the world as a leader in delivering communications retraining people by helping them learn new skills and nd jobs services.
Some BT people are being given the A strong brand is important as it helps shape our relationships with opportunity to gain valuable experience and develop their skills customers and suppliers, and between the people who work for the while seconded to another organisation.
Customers turn to suppliers they know they can rely on.
At 31 March 2010, BT employed around 78,200 full-time equivalent people in the UK, and around 17,900 outside the UK.
We also employ 32,000 people indirectly, through agencies and BT marks the 1,000 day countdown to the London 2012 Olympic contractors, giving BT a total labour resource of around 128,100.
Games and Paralympic Games This represents a reduction in total labour resource in the past year of around 20,000 people.
We continue to support an inclusive working environment in which our people can develop their careers regardless of their race, sex, religion beliefs, disability, marital or civil partnership status, age, sexual orientation, gender identity, gender expression or caring responsibilities and we are proud of our performance benchmarks.
Our policy is for people to be paid fairly, regardless of gender, ethnic origin or disability.
We work with specialist recruitment agencies to attract people with disabilities to work for BT and we run a retention service to ensure that talented people can stay with us even if their capabilities change.
Diversity of the BT workforce Our partnership with the London 2012 Olympic Games and Target 2011 2010 2009 2008 Paralympic Games is a powerful signal of the inspiring and BT will maintain a top 10 innovative brand we aim to be.
We are the ofcial communications position in four of five major services partner and will be providing the critical communications diversity benchmarks: four UK infrastructure which means that working together with our fellow based, and one global London 2012 technology partners we will carry every image, sports 18 BT GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT & FORM 20-F
