REVIEW OF THE YEAR OUR CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY During the last year, we have been working to identify the skills our people need to integrate sustainability fully into their BT people take calls donations for Sport Relief and other development and business decisions.
telethons Through our digital inclusion projects we work with partners to help older people, disadvantaged communities and individuals gain IT skills they can use to improve their lives.
Our programmes to target barriers to digital inclusion in 2010 included the BT Internet Rangers website, providing tools for young people to teach older relatives how to use the internet: BT Community Connections, providing laptops, broadband and IT equipment to community organisations in deprived areas across the UK and the Republic of Ireland: and our work with Katha, an education charity, which is bringing IT education and training to disadvantaged children in India in Delhis poorest communities at the Katha Information Technology E-Commerce School.
With our help, since 2001 Katha has awarded more than 16,000 IT certicates of which 54% went to girls and women.
Our corporate responsibility CR risks As one of six London 2012 Sustainability Partners we want to We quantify the most significant social, environmental and ethical leave a lasting legacy by making the most of what we do best risks to BT in our CR risk register.
This is updated twice a year and bringing people together using eco-efficient technologies.
reviewed annually by our Board and our external Leadership Advisory Panel.
Charity support We currently have seven CR risks which we monitor and report on, four of which are managed by the CR risk forum: BT works with strategic charity partners in the UK as well as local Mitigating climate change impacts such as increased costs charities across Europe and the Americas.
Our people gave 2.5m associated with changing legislation to charity in 2010, matched by a BT contribution of 1m.
Our strategic charity partner in the UK is ChildLine, an Adapting our business to reduce our exposure to the direct organisation that provides support for children and young people, impacts of climate change, such as severe weather including a 24-hour helpline.
We support ChildLine through The effect of diversity on employee relations and customer strategic and technical support, fundraising, and by donating service money, equipment and expertise.
BT people also volunteer as Unacceptable supply chain working conditions.
We manage the following three CR risks at group level: BT has invested 1.5m in Inspiring Young Minds, a three-year strategic partnership with UNICEF which brings education, IT and Health and safety risks to employees and the public exposed to communication skills to disadvantaged children in South Africa, BT operations Brazil and China.
Breach of integrity leading to a loss of trust in BT The programme started in South Africa in 2007, was expanded to Loss of trust caused by unintended release of private customer Brazil a year later and in 2010 the initiative was launched in China.
data which is part of our Security and resilience risk see Our In its first year in China, more than 6,600 students at 40 schools in risks on page 37. poorer areas have had access to IT equipment through the programme.
In 2011, the equipment will be used to enable cultural Each of these seven CR risks has a senior management owner and a exchanges and remote learning between the students of the Hong mitigation strategy in place.
Aside from the loss of trust caused by Kong Polytechnic University and those in mainland China.
unintended release of private customer data, these CR risks are not We are providing support over two years to One Economy, a new regarded as material in relation to the group, and consequently are digital literacy partnership in the US, to help young people teach not included in Our risks on page 36. adults how to use the internet.
We use our communications expertise to support fundraising Recognition of our contribution telethons including Children in Need, Comic Relief, Sport Relief and We have been ranked seventh in the list of 60 top green businesses the Disasters Emergency Committee DEC. We helped raise more than in Britain in this years Best Green Companies Awards announced by 100m in 2010 by providing equipment: telephony and network The Sunday Times, and won a number of awards for CR, including management: call centres and BT people to take calls donations: an the prestigious Queens Award for Enterprise for Sustainable online giving platform: and communications and PR support.
Development and Business in the Communitys Community Mark The ongoing partnership between Openreach and I CAN, the and platinum plus recognition.
We have been in the top 5% of our childrens communication charity, aims to ensure that everyone in sector in the Dow Jones Sustainability Index for the last nine years.
contact with children up to the age of 11 knows how important communication is, what communication difficulties look like and what they can do to help.
Further information More detailed information about our CR and sustainability performance is available on our independently veried 2010 sustainability report at www.
com betterworld BT GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT & FORM 20-F 35 ADDITIONAL INFORMATION FINANCIAL STATEMENTS REPORT OF THE DIRECTORS REVIEW OF THE YEAR OVERVIEW
