REVIEW OF THE YEAR OUR RISKS have to provide services to other CPs.
In recent years the effect of Security and resilience these controls has required us to reduce our prices, although in BT is critically dependent on the secure operation and resilience of some recent cases, prices have been allowed to increase in real its information systems, networks and data.
We cannot provide assurance to our shareholders that the Any significant failure or interruption of such data transfer as a regulatory authorities will not increase the severity of the price result of factors outside our control could have a material adverse controls, extend the services to which controls apply or extend the effect on the business and our results from operations.
We have a services which we have to provide to other CPs.
These controls may corporate resilience strategy and business continuity plans in place, adversely affect our market share, our ability to compete and our designed to deal with such catastrophic events including, for future profitability.
example, major terrorist action, industrial action, cyber-attacks or Wholesale customers may also raise disputes with Ofcom, seeking natural disasters.
A failure to deliver that strategy may lead to a lower prices on wholesale services which are not subject to direct reduction in our profitability and there can be no assurance that price control.
material adverse events will not occur.
The scale of our business and global nature of our operations Major contracts means we are required to manage significant volumes of personal and commercially sensitive information.
BT stores and transmits We have a number of complex and high value contracts with data for its own purposes and on behalf of customers, all of which customers.
The profitability of these contracts is subject to a number needs to be safeguarded from potential exposure, loss or of factors including: variation in cost and achievement of cost corruption, and therefore receives a high level of management reductions anticipated in the contract pricing both in scale and time: attention and security measures.
Any material failure could delays in delivery or achieving agreed milestones owing to factors signicantly damage our reputation and could lead to a loss of either within or outside of our control: changes in customers revenues, cancellation of contracts, penalties and additional costs requirements, budgets, strategies or businesses: the performance of being incurred.
our suppliers and other factors.
Any of these factors could make a contract less profitable or even loss making.
In 2009 a failure to achieve anticipated cost savings made a Pensions number of our major contracts less profitable or even loss making, We have a significant funding obligation to a dened benefit adversely impacting our profits.
Contract and financial reviews were pension scheme.
undertaken in BT Global Services, and resulted in our taking a more Declining investment returns, longer life expectancy and cautious view of the recognition of expected and future cost regulatory changes may result in the cost of funding BTs dened efficiencies, revenues and other changes in underlying assumptions benefit pension scheme BTPS becoming a significant burden on and estimates, particularly in light of the economic outlook, our financial resources.
resulting in contract and financial review charges of 1,639m being The triennial funding valuation of the BTPS at 31 December recognised.
2008 and associated recovery plan has been agreed with the As detailed on page 22, during 2010 we have taken actions and Trustee.
Under this prudent funding valuation basis the deficit is implemented a number of improvements to signicantly enhance 9bn.
BT and the Trustee have agreed a 17 year recovery plan with contract management, risk management and performance.
the first three years payments being 525m.
The payment in 2013 Independent review teams provide additional assurance on our will be 583m, then increasing by 3% per annum.
Whilst progress has been made, and no Whilst the valuation and the recovery plan have been agreed significant charges in relation to major contracts were incurred in with the Trustee, they are currently under review by the Pensions 2010, there is still a risk that further contract charges could arise in Regulator.
However, the Pensions Regulators initial view is that the future due to the impact of any of the factors identied above.
they have substantial concerns with certain features of the The degree of risk increases generally in proportion to the scope agreement.
The Pensions Regulator has indicated it will discuss its and life of the contract and is typically higher in the early stages.
position with us once they have completed their review.
Some customer contracts require significant investment in the early Accordingly, as matters stand, it is uncertain as to whether the stages, which is expected to be recovered over the life of the Pensions Regulator will take any further action.
Major contracts often involve the implementation of new outside of our control.
systems and communications networks, transformation of legacy The results of future scheme valuations and associated funding networks and the development of new technologies.
The requirements will be impacted by the future performance of recoverability of these capital costs may be adversely impacted by investment markets, interest and ination rates and the general delays or failure to meet milestones.
Substantial performance risk trend towards longer life expectancy, as well as regulatory changes, exists in these contracts, and some or all elements of performance all of which are outside our control.
depend upon successful completion of the transition, development, transformation and deployment phases.
Failure to manage and meet our commitments under these contracts, as well as changes in customers requirements, budgets, strategies or businesses, during the contract term, may lead to a reduction in our expected and future revenue, profitability and cash generation.
We may lose significant customers due to merger or acquisition, change of customer strategy, business failure or contract expiry.
Failure to replace the revenue and earnings from lost customers could reduce revenue and profitability.
BT GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT & FORM 20-F 37 ADDITIONAL INFORMATION FINANCIAL STATEMENTS REPORT OF THE DIRECTORS REVIEW OF THE YEAR OVERVIEW
