REPORT OF THE DIRECTORS THE BOARD The Board is ultimately responsible for the management of the Introduction groups operations in addition to discharging certain legal BT Group plc is the listed holding company for the BT group of responsibilities.
It has final responsibility for the groups strategy companies: its shares are listed on the London Stock Exchange and and for overseeing the groups performance.
Its principal focus is on: on the New York Stock Exchange in the form of American Strategy Depositary Shares.
Development The directors submit their report and the audited financial Growing shareholder value statements of the company, BT Group plc, and the group, which includes its subsidiary undertakings, for the 2010 financial year.
Oversight and control The Review of the year on pages 10 to 40 forms part of this Corporate governance.
The audited financial statements are presented on pages 87 It approves BTs: to 144 and 149. values, ethics and business policies and practices strategic plans Corporate governance statement annual budget We are committed to operating in accordance with best practice in capital expenditure and investments budgets business integrity and maintaining the highest standards of financial reporting, corporate governance and ethics.
The directors larger capital expenditure proposals consider that BT has, throughout the year, complied with the the overall system of internal controls, governance and provisions set out in Section 1 of the 2008 Combined Code on compliance authorities.
Corporate Governance the Code and applied the main principles The Board also oversees controls, operating and financial of the Code as described in pages 58 to 82 of this Report.
The Code performance and reviews the risk register.
These responsibilities are and associated guidance can be found on the Financial Reporting set out in a formal statement of the Boards role which is available Council website at www.
com board The Board has agreed the corporate governance framework, Directors including giving authority to the key management committee, the Operating Committee, to make decisions on operational and other The names and biographical details of the directors are given on matters.
The roles and powers of this Committee are set out below.
pages 58 and 59 in Board of Directors and Operating Committee.
The Board normally meets nine times each year as it did during Changes to the composition of the Board from 1 April 2009 are the 2010 financial year.
set out in the table below: The roles of the Chairman and the Chief Executive are separate.
They are set out in written job descriptions, approved by the Former directors Date of change Nominating Committee.
As well as chairing the Board, the Matti Alahuhta 31 May 2009 Chairman consults the non-executive directors, particularly the Maarten van den Bergh 15 July 2009 Senior Independent Director, on corporate governance issues, matters considered by the Nominating Committee, which the Hanif Lalani 7 January 2010 Chairman chairs, and the individual performance of the nonDeborah Lathen 31 January 2010 executive directors.
The Chairman and the non-executive directors hold regular meetings at which they discuss matters without the executive directors being present.
With the Chief Executive and the New director Company Secretary, the Chairman ensures that the Board is kept Tony Ball 16 July 2009 properly informed, is consulted on all issues reserved to it and that its decisions are made in a timely and considered way that enables Maarten van den Bergh retired from the Board on 15 July 2009.
He the directors to full their duciary duties.
The Chairman ensures was succeeded as Senior Independent Director by Rt Hon Patricia that the views of the shareholders are known to the Board and Hewitt, who also became chair of the Remuneration Committee considered appropriately.
He represents BT in specified strategic and the Pension Scheme Performance Review Group, and a and Government relationships, as agreed with the Chief Executive, member of the Nominating Committee.
and generally acts as the bridge between the Board and the executive team, particularly on BTs broad strategic direction.
The Governance and role of the Board Chairmans other current significant commitments are shown in Board of Directors and Operating Committee on page 58.
The The Board, which operates as a single team, is made up of the Chief Executive has final executive responsibility, reporting to the part-time Chairman, the Chief Executive, two other executive Board, for the success of the group.
directors and six non-executive directors.
All the non-executive The Company Secretary manages the provision of timely, directors during the 2010 financial year met, and continue to meet, accurate and considered information to the Board for its meetings the criteria for independence set out in the Combined Code and are and, in consultation with the Chairman and Chief Executive, at therefore considered by the Board to be independent.
The Board other appropriate times.
He recommends to the Chairman and the viewed the Chairman as independent at the time of his Chief Executive, for Board consideration where appropriate, appointment.
In line with BTs policy, the Board comprised a corporate governance policies and practices and is responsible for majority of independent non-executive directors throughout the communicating and implementing them.
He advises the Board on 2010 financial year.
appropriate procedures for the management of its meetings and duties and the meetings of the main committees, as well as corporate governance and compliance within the group.
The appointment and removal of the Company Secretary is a matter for the whole Board.
60 BT GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT & FORM 20-F
