REVIEW OF THE YEAR OUR LINES OF BUSINESS performance of BT Global Services and the impact of the contract technologies, so they can concentrate on their core business.
We and financial review charges in 2009. also offer them a range of specialised services through BT Capital expenditure reduced by 32% to 599m in 2010 due to Enterprises.
the timing of capital expenditure across certain of our larger BT is also one of the largest single suppliers of leased line internet customer contracts, more stringent investment return criteria and access to UK businesses through BT Net, which together with our improved procurement and programme delivery.
Etherow service was the first to leverage the resilience and Operating cash outow in 2010 almost halved from an outow exibility of BTs software-driven IP network platform, enabling of 912m to 482m reecting the higher EBITDA, improved new features such as our self-service Etherow portal which makes working capital and lower capital expenditure.
In 2009 the poor it quicker and easier for businesses to manage and recongure operating cash outow reected the unacceptable performance of services as their needs change.
In addition, BT has the largest BT Global Services.
wholly owned estate of customer access points in the UK market more than 800 which increases availability and reliability while driving down the cost of high quality internet and Ethernet BT Retail connectivity for our customers.
BT Business aims to become the Brand for Business for the UKs Business overview SMEs.
This means partnering with customers to nd ways to help BT Retail has around 13m consumer lines in the UK, and around a them grow their business, whether it be solutions that unify their IT million SME customers.
We serve UK consumers and SMEs through and communications needs, or ways to help them collaborate.
four customer-facing divisions: BT Consumer, BT Business, BT BT Business generated 2.6bn revenue in 2010.
However, the UKs Enterprises and BT Ireland.
SMEs spend in total around 29bn a year on their IT and telecommunications needs, presenting a significant opportunity for BT Business.
2010 Revenue by division BT Enterprises consists of a portfolio of businesses, including BT Conferencing, BT Directories, BT Expedite, BT Payphones and BT Redcare.
Each of these businesses operates as a standalone BT Consumer 51% business, with the support of BTs brand and customer BT Business 31% relationships.
BT Ireland 10% BT Conferencing Global provider of audio, video and internet BT Enterprises 8% collaboration services BT Directories Directory Enquiries 118 500, operator and emergency services, and The Phone Book BT Expedite Software and IT services for retailers.
BT Expedite now supports more than 10,000 points of sale for more than 60 retailers BT Payphones Street, managed, prison, card and private We are the UKs leading provider of telecommunications products payphones.
In a declining market, we are and services to the consumer market, where we offer our customers committed to meeting our obligation to innovative and value-for-money calls, lines, broadband and TV provide a public payphone service packages.
BT Redcare Alarm monitoring and tracking facilities BT Vision, our television service, now has over 6,000 hours of video on-demand content available, the most in the UK.
Among its Our BT Openzone business provides wihotspots to offer selection of more than 7,000 programmes, it has 600 lms, from broadband on the move, both to retail customers and to wholesale classics to family favourites, with seven new titles added every customers such as mobile network operators.
BT Vision will be expanded to include free-to-air HD become part of BT Enterprises.
programming, more interactive services, a wider choice of We design our products and services for use by as many people as on-demand programming, and we will provide greater access to possible.
com to make it more accessible premium sports.
to all, including those with impaired abilities, and we are the only We believe that Project Canvas, our TV joint venture with the FTSE 100 company to hold the See it Right industry accreditation BBC, Channel 4, Five, ITV, and others, will transform the UK TV for our inclusion website www.
com inclusion market, combining free digital channels with free on-demand BT Retail is also improving the sustainability of its products and content from public service broadcasters and on-demand and services by reducing their environmental impact and improving their interactive TV delivered over broadband.
For example, our Home Hub 2.0 has a standby BT Business customers are characterised by their diversity, facility to reduce power consumption.
We are also reducing the ranging from start-up or micro businesses with one to 10 volume of our product packaging as well as using recycled materials.
employees, to medium-sized businesses with up to 1,000 or more.
BT Ireland operates in Northern Ireland and in the Republic of We offer SMEs telecommunications and IT services that were Ireland.
In Northern Ireland we are the leading provider of once available only to the largest businesses, helping them cut communication services to consumers and SMEs.
We are also costs and improve services to their own customers.
We take away responsible for providing regulated wholesale access via their need to invest and take the burden out of implementing new Openreach.
In the Republic of Ireland, we are one of the largest BT GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT & FORM 20-F 25 ADDITIONAL INFORMATION FINANCIAL STATEMENTS REPORT OF THE DIRECTORS REVIEW OF THE YEAR OVERVIEW REVIEW OF THE YEAR OUR LINES OF BUSINESS providers of wholesale network services.
Across Northern Ireland a BTs retail broadband market share year end and the Republic of Ireland we are the second largest provider of IT million lines services focusing mainly on government and major corporate 16 customers.
Other ISPs market 14 share 65% 66% 12 65% BTs market share Operating review 10 In a challenging market, BT Retail has continued to improve its 8 profitability and its customer service performance.
We have 6 continued to invest in broadband, and have developed our offers of 35% 4 34% 35% TV to consumers and IT services to business customers.
2 BT Retail has continued to focus on making its business more 0 2008 2009 2010 efficient, with sustained cost reductions by simplifying, standardising and automating processes.
Our focus on customer a DSL and LLU installed base service improvement has contributed signicantly to cost savings by removing costs of failure, such as repeat calls.
During 2010 we started the roll out of our ADSL2 service, BT Consumer delivering speeds of up to 20Mb s at no extra cost to customers.
The degree of competition in the retail calls and lines markets led This technology increases the speed at which customers can Ofcom to remove certain restrictions in 2009 to allow BT to provide download information over their copper telephone line.
bundled products so that it could compete more effectively.
We offer our customers unbeatable broadband coverage, with This has given us the freedom to offer attractive bundled Home Hubs which give the widest available range in the home, packages of broadband, calls and TV services.
We have been supported by the largest network of hotspots.
encouraging customers to move to call packages, and the In January we launched BT Innity, our super-fast bre-based proportion of customers on our highest value plan has increased broadband proposition currently offering download speeds of up to from 11% to 17% during 2010.
40 Mb s and upload speeds of up to 10 Mb s, which will change The popularity of buying bundles of services from BT has driven the way customers use the internet.
We aim to make the service average annual revenue per consumer user ARPU up to 309 as available to at least 40% of UK premises in 2012. multi-product take up among our customers grows.
We have entered into a commercial partnership with OnLive Inc, a Silicon Valley based cloud computing video gaming business, which gives BT exclusive rights to bundle its game service with Average annual revenue per consumer user broadband in the UK.
This service will enable customers to purchase and play video games streamed over broadband.
320 We also offer consumer broadband and home phone services 310 under the Plusnet brand which now has 369,000 customers 2009: 300 309,000.
290 We continue to pursue growth opportunities in the TV market.
BT Vision now has 467,000 customers 2009: 423,000, with the 280 average number of views per subscriber per month up 37% year on 270 year.
Ofcom concluded its pay TV market investigation in March 260 2010 by requiring Sky to provide Sky Sports 1 and Sky Sports 2 at 250 wholesale regulated prices.
This should enable BT and other pay TV Q1 Q2 Q3 Q4 Q1 Q2 Q3 Q4 operators to offer premium sports channels in future at lower prices 2009 2010 than those currently available.
We have reached an agreement with Arqiva to supply digital terrestrial TV transmission capacity to support the planned offers of In the broadband market, BTs retail share of the DSL and LLU base these channels.
We aim to bring these offers to viewers in time for has remained at around 35% for the last three years.
Our share of the 2010 11 Premier League season.
Sky has indicated that it is net additions was 44% in the fourth quarter of 2010.
We continue planning to appeal Ofcoms decision.
to invest in this market to build on our success.
Project Canvas achieved a significant milestone in December 2009 with the BBC Trust giving provisional approval for the BBCs involvement which means the partners can continue developing the technology.
Our customers also benefit from our investment in our winetwork.
BT has the largest wihotspot estate in the UK and Ireland.
Comprising BT Openzone, BT Fon and Business Hubs, our customers can now get online at more than 1.5m locations including high street chains, hotels, transport hubs, residential and commercial sites.
Strong usage growth doubled BT wiuser trafc over the previous year.
We now carry more than a billion minutes a year.
26 BT GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT & FORM 20-F REVIEW OF THE YEAR OUR LINES OF BUSINESS In 2010, we signed UK wideals to provide Orange, Vodafone and conferencing users.
More than half of BT Conferencings revenue O with BT Openzone wiaccess.
comes from outside the UK.
2 The integration of UFindus, now known as BT Customerstreet, BT Business into BT Directories further strengthens our online directory The SME market is diverse and fragmented.
challenging sector to operate in over the past year as the economic In May we introduced a new product range, BT Redcare Agile downturn has had a significant impact on this market.
which meets the high industry security standards.
BT Redcare is We were the first UK CP to make an unlimited calls, lines, aiming to migrate customers to IP-based security services.
broadband and mobile option available to SMEs via our BT One In July luxury shirtmaker Thomas Pink, retail fashion chain Plan Plus package, bringing them certainty and value for money.
Warehouse and JJB Sports became the first businesses in the UK to This has contributed to the growth of our mobile base, which now commit to use BT Expedites Integrated Store technology to link has more than 230,000 end users 2009: 188,000. their high street and online operations.
Major new contracts included installing BT Expedites latest store electronic point of sale system at New Look, and building e-commerce websites for JJB BT Business mobile end user base excl.
free mobile broadband Sports and Snow & Rock.
000 BT Ireland 250 Despite the challenging economic conditions, particularly in the Republic of Ireland, we continued to secure major private and 200 public sector contracts during 2010.
In July we signed a contract with Vodafone in the Republic of 150 Ireland for the provision of wholesale network services over a 100 seven-year period, and the transfer of BTs consumer and SME broadband and voice customer base to Vodafone.
50 In December we signed a contract with the Northern Ireland government to extend the roll out of bre-based broadband 0 beyond our existing commercial deployment plans through a 2007 2008 2009 2010 combination of public-private sector investment and European Union funding.
In November we announced a multi-million pound investment in BT Business has continued to develop its activities in the SME IT our contact centre operations in Northern Ireland, with the creation services market which is worth around 19bn.
This is a market of two dedicated digital care sites, enabling our customers to access characterised by fragmented competition with a clear customer the highest quality of customer support via e-mail, live chat and need for simple IT solutions.
BT Business has consolidated the IT other web-based contact including proactive support channels services and companies it has acquired, integrating BT Lynx and BT such as Twitter.
This development involves advanced training and Basilica into BT EngageIT and driving the performance of Dabs and development of more than 600 BT customer care advisors in BT iNet in an extremely challenging environment.
Dabs offers customers the IT hardware components they need Our achievements in this market were recognised by BT being and has built its market share in the business-to-business market named Northern Irelands Responsible Company of the Year 2009 with contract wins with VT Group, QinetiQ, and CAN Media Group.
by Business in the Community for our role in helping build BT iNet is a centre of excellence for Cisco technology and has economically sustainable and socially inclusive communities.
won contracts in its markets but especially in higher education.
We have delivered significant cost savings over the year as a BT EngageIT provides IT hardware and software infrastructure result of labour efficiencies, property rationalisation and solutions to medium-sized business-to-business customers in both optimisation of marketing spend.
the public and private sector.
During 2010 BT EngageIT has achieved some notable customer wins including the Environment Customer service delivery Agency and UK Anti Doping.
We have a range of programmes in progress which are designed to improve the customer experience and take the cost of failure out of BT Enterprises the business.
Customers are noticing the difference: this year we BT Enterprises comprises five standalone businesses, all of which have seen a reduction of around a third in the number of enquiries made progress in 2010. about bills.
Core service costs labour and non labour have fallen In February BT Conferencing introduced interoperability between 12% over the same period as we enhance self-service capabilities the worlds top three videoconferencing systems.
It has now and cut down call transfers.
We also increasingly resolve customer installed more than 500 immersive networked telepresence rooms complaints and queries on first contact with no repeat calls.
Air travel disruption and other global incidents have We will continue to build on this positive momentum, with a promoted the use of conferencing services.
Businesses are also sustained focus on systems, processes and people.
more environmentally aware and can reduce CO emissions by 2 In order to serve our customers better, we are expanding our using BT Conferencings services to cut down on travel.
We are channels where customers can contact us or nd self-help support, working to maximise revenue with our existing accounts by nding including Twitter, bt.
com community forums, YouTube and Live Chat.
new applications and new users, and by working with other parts of BT to acquire new customers who are either existing or first time BT GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT & FORM 20-F 27 ADDITIONAL INFORMATION FINANCIAL STATEMENTS REPORT OF THE DIRECTORS REVIEW OF THE YEAR OVERVIEW
