REVIEW OF THE YEAR OUR RISKS factors which contribute to the high level of competition the prominent factors include regulatory intervention which is focused Our risks on promoting competition, technology substitution, market and service convergence, customer churn, declining levels of market differentiation, declining market growth rates and the emergence Principal risks and uncertainties of competitors with distinctive and non replicable sources of competitive advantage.
BT faces a number of challenges in relation to growing revenues.
Competitive activity A distinct challenge is that our UK voice and connectivity business is a mature business subject to price deation and declining or negative market growth rates leading to declining revenues, Global economic and credit market margins and cashow.
The net effect is that we increasingly have to conditions look beyond the UK voice and connectivity market to secure profitable revenue growth from adjacent markets, both inside and outside the UK.
This in turn is dependent on developing strong and Regulatory controls advantaged competitive positions in attractive product and service markets.
As well as looking beyond the UK and voice and connectivity market we also need to deliver major new investments Major contracts e. g. super-fast broadband which will not only help us defend existing revenues but also open up new adjacent markets for us to Security and resilience penetrate.
These new areas of growth carry associated risks including high investment in development and launch and might not yield the necessary returns or offset declining revenues in our Pensions traditional business.
Global economic and credit market Principal risks and uncertainties conditions In common with all businesses, BT is affected by a number of risks Whilst there have been improvements in the UK and global and uncertainties, not all of which are wholly within our control.
economies during 2010, the level of business activity could be Although many of the risks and uncertainties inuencing our impacted by continued economic uncertainty and could lead to a performance are macroeconomic and likely to affect the reduction in revenue, profitability and cash generation.
In common performance of businesses generally, others are particular to our with many other businesses, our financial performance could also operations.
be impacted by increased exposure to the default of customers and This section highlights some of those particular risks and suppliers if economic conditions do not continue to improve.
In uncertainties affecting our business but it is not intended to be an achieving our goals, we are dependent on a number of partners, extensive analysis of all risk and uncertainty affecting our business.
contractors and suppliers and therefore are at risk of loss of Some may be unknown to us and others, currently regarded as revenue, increased cost, delays and possibly associated penalties in immaterial, could turn out to be material.
All of them have the the event of their failure.
potential to impact our business, revenue, profits, assets, liquidity However, unfavourable economic conditions may arise which and capital resources adversely.
could impact our ability to generate sufficient cash ow or access We have a dened enterprise-wide risk management process for capital markets to enable us to service or repay our indebtedness or identifying, evaluating and managing the significant risks faced by to fund our other liquidity requirements.
We may be required to the group.
The key features of the risk management process are renance all or a portion of our indebtedness on or before maturity, provided in Internal control and risk management on page 80.
The reduce or delay capital expenditure or seek additional capital.
group risk register captures the most significant risks facing the Renancing or raising additional nancing may not be available on business.
Each risk is assigned a senior management owner commercially reasonable terms or at all.
Our inability to continually responsible for monitoring and evaluating the risk and the generate sufficient cash ow to satisfy our debt service obligations, mitigation strategies.
The group risk register has been reviewed by or to renance debt on commercially reasonable terms, may the Operating Committee before being reviewed and approved by adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of the Board.
The principal risks below are all identied on the group operations and prospects.
The principal risks and uncertainties should be considered in conjunction with the risk management process, the forwardRegulatory controls looking statements for this document and the Cautionary Some of our activities continue to be subjected to significant price statement regarding forward-looking statements on page 156. and other regulatory controls which may affect our market share, competitive position and future profitability.
Competitive activity Many of our wholesale xed network activities in the UK are subject to significant regulatory controls which are reviewed As detailed on page 15, we operate in markets which are periodically.
The controls regulate, among other things, the prices characterised by high levels of competition.
While there are many we may charge for many of our services and the extent to which we 36 BT GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT & FORM 20-F
