REPORT OF THE DIRECTORS THE BOARD on it, allocates resources across BT within plans agreed by the Directors powers to authorise conicts Board, plans and delivers major programmes, and reviews the of interest senior talent base and succession plans.
Within BTs corporate governance framework, approved by the Board, the Operating All directors have a duty under the Companies Act 2006 the 2006 Committee can approve, up to limits beyond which Board approval Act to avoid a situation in which he or she has or can have a direct is required, capital expenditure, disposals of xed assets, or indirect interest that conicts or possibly may conict with the investments and divestments.
It can delegate these approvals, up interests of the company.
The company adopted new Articles of to its own limits, to sub-committees and to senior executives.
Association in July 2009 which included provisions for dealing with To meet best corporate governance practice, the Audit directors conicts of interest in accordance with the 2006 Act.
The Committee, the Remuneration Committee and the Nominating Company has procedures in place, which it follows, to deal with Committee have long been an established part of BTs system of situations where directors may have any such conicts, which governance.
Each committee has written terms of reference, which require the Board to: are available on our website.
The Report of the Audit Committee, consider each conict situation separately on its particular facts the Report of the Nominating Committee and the Report on consider the conict situation in conjunction with the rest of directors remuneration are on pages 62 to 77.
The Report of the their duties under the 2006 Act Committee for responsible and sustainable business is included on page 65.
The Equality of Access Board EAB, which is also a keep records and Board minutes as to authorisations granted by committee of the Board, was established, as part of the directors and the scope of any approvals given Undertakings given by BT to Ofcom following Ofcoms strategic regularly review conict authorisation.
review of telecommunications, to monitor, report and advise BT on BTs compliance with these Undertakings.
As required by the Undertakings, the EAB comprises five members: Carl Symon, a BTs non-executive directors BT non-executive director and chairman of the EAB: a BT senior The Nominating Committee has agreed and reviews from time to executive, Himanshu Raja, Chief Financial officer, BT Innovate & time the combination of experience, skills and other attributes Design: and three independent members: Sir Bryan Carsberg, which the non-executive directors as a whole should bring to the Stephen Pettit and Dr Peter Radley.
The EAB reports regularly to Board.
This prole is used by the Committee, when the the Board.
Its terms of reference are available on BTs website.
The appointment of a non-executive director is being considered, to EAB publishes an annual report to Ofcom, which is also available on assess the suitability of candidates.
Short-listed candidates meet BTs website.
the Committee, which then recommends to the Board candidates The Board also has a Pension Scheme Performance Review for appointment.
Group, which reviews the position of the BTPS and issues affecting The non-executive directors provide a strong, independent its ongoing funding.
Between them, they bring experience and independent judgement, gained at the most senior levels of New York Stock Exchange international business operations and strategy, finance, marketing, technology, communications and political and international affairs.
BT, as a foreign issuer with American Depositary Shares listed on the In her capacity as the Senior Independent Director, and as the New York Stock Exchange NYSE, is obliged to disclose any chairman of the Remuneration Committee, Patricia Hewitt meets significant ways in which its corporate governance practices differ from time to time with BTs major institutional shareholders.
She is from the corporate governance listing standards of the NYSE.
able, if necessary, to discuss matters with these shareholders where We have reviewed the NYSEs listing standards and believe that it would be inappropriate for those discussions to take place with our corporate governance practices are consistent with them, with either the Chairman or the Chief Executive.
the following exception where we do not meet the strict Non-executive directors are appointed initially for three years, requirements set out in the standards.
These state that companies subject to three months termination notice from either BT or the must have a nominating corporate governance committee director.
At the end of the first three years, the appointment may composed entirely of independent directors and with written terms be continued by mutual agreement.
Each non-executive director is of reference which, in addition to identifying individuals qualied provided, upon appointment, with a letter setting out the terms of to become board members, develops and recommends to the his or her appointment, including membership of Board Board a set of corporate governance principles applicable to the committees, the fees to be paid and the time commitment company.
We have a Nominating Committee chaired by the expected from the director.
The letter also covers such matters as Chairman, Sir Michael Rake, but this does not develop corporate the condentiality of information and BTs share dealing code.
governance principles for the Boards approval.
The Board itself approves the groups overall system of internal controls, governance and compliance authorities.
The Board and the Main Board committees Nominating Committee are made up of a majority of independent, The Operating Committee, the key management committee, meets non-executive directors.
weekly and is chaired by the Chief Executive.
The other members The Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, the US Securities and Exchange are the Group Finance Director and the Chief Executives of BT Commission SEC and NYSE introduced rules on 31 July 2005 Retail, BT Wholesale, BT Global Services, BT Innovate & Design and requiring us to comply with certain provisions relating to the Audit BT Operate.
The Company Secretary attends all meetings and the Committee.
These include the independence of Audit Committee Group HR Director normally attends the meetings.
The Committee members and procedures for the treatment of complaints regarding has collective responsibility for running the groups business.
To do accounting or auditing matters.
We are fully compliant with these that, it develops BTs strategy and budget for Board approval, requirements.
recommends to the Board capital expenditure and investments budgets, monitors financial, operational and customer quality of service performance, reviews the risk register and individual risks BT GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT & FORM 20-F 61 ADDITIONAL INFORMATION FINANCIAL STATEMENTS REPORT OF THE DIRECTORS REVIEW OF THE YEAR OVERVIEW
