REVIEW OF THE YEAR OUR BUSINESS AND STRATEGY What we do Our business and strategy Our main activities are the provision of xed lines, broadband, mobile and TV products and services as well as networked IT services.
Who we are In the UK we are the largest communications services provider, serving the consumer, business and public sector markets.
Globally, we supply networked IT services to multinational corporations, What we do domestic businesses and government departments.
We also provide access to our network and services to more than 1,000 communications providers CPs in the UK and others worldwide.
Our aim Our aim Our strategic priorities Our aim is to drive shareholder value by making BT a better business with a better future.
How we measure our progress Three areas - customer service delivery, cost transformation and investing for the future are essential building blocks to making BT a better business.
They are linked: the better we serve our 2010 outlook customers, the less time and money we spend on reworking and xing faults.
By continuing to transform our cost base, we open up new opportunities to invest in BTs future.
2011 outlook and future plans We are committed to acting as a responsible business for shareholders, customers, suppliers and our people, developing innovative solutions that both benefit society and support our This is the Annual Report for the year ended 31 March 2010.
Investing in the communities in which we complies with UK regulations and is the Annual Report on Form operate and driving down our CO emissions are critical parts of this 2 20-F for the US Securities and Exchange Commission to meet US commitment.
This Annual Report has been sent to shareholders who have elected to receive a copy.
A separate summary financial Customer service delivery statement & notice of meeting 2010 has been issued to Every part of BT is taking action to make substantial improvements shareholders who have elected to receive a shorter document.
Both to the delivery of our services by putting our customers at the heart documents are available on the companys website, www.
In this Annual Report, references to BT Group, BT, the group, This means keeping our promises to our customers, being easy to the company, we or our are to BT Group plc which includes the contact and straightforward to deal with, keeping customers continuing activities of British Telecommunications plc and its informed, and taking action to address the reasons why they subsidiaries and lines of business, internal service units, or any of complain.
them as the context may require.
We track the real experience of our customers from start to nish, References to a year are to the financial year ended 31 March of and will remove duplication and inefficiency to drive down service that year, e. g. 2010 refers to the year ended 31 March 2010, provision time.
except in relation to our bre-based broadband roll out plans which We have signicantly reduced failures, faults and complaints over are based on calendar years, not financial years.
Unless otherwise the past year and will invest in training, systems and better stated, all non financial statistics are at 31 March 2010.
Please see processes to continue this improvement.
In the last year, we have cautionary statement regarding forward-looking statements on reduced business and consumer complaints by 50% and 33%, page 156. respectively.
Being a responsible and sustainable business is integral to the way we work.
Our non Cost transformation financial key performance indicators measure our progress.
These also include direct costs to BT related to our environmental and We continue our drive to reduce costs across our business and social performance, in line with the principles of the connected deliver absolute levels of cost reduction.
During 2010, our cost reporting framework.
transformation activities have delivered a step change in the cost base of our business, with a reduction of 1,752m in total underlying operating costs and capital expenditure.
All of our lines Who we are of business and internal service units have made a contribution to BT is one of the worlds leading communications services the delivery of these savings.
See Transforming our cost base on companies, serving the needs of customers in the UK and in more page 44 for further analysis.
Savings have been delivered from targeted cost reduction programmes which focus on eliminating the cost of failure across the group, an overhead value analysis programme which provides a structured approach to reducing costs on a project-by-project basis, and process re-engineering which reviews processes end-toBT GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT & FORM 20-F 11 ADDITIONAL INFORMATION FINANCIAL STATEMENTS REPORT OF THE DIRECTORS REVIEW OF THE YEAR OVERVIEW
