Key management Ian Muir Bob Cleland Human Resources Chief Executive Howden 64 Director ESAB 52 Bob Cleland was appointed as Chief Operating officer of Howden Ian Muir was appointed as Charter HR Director and Global HR Director Global in 1998 and as Chief Executive officer in 1999.
Previously, Ian was a director of Cable formerly Group Operations Director of Triplex Lloyd plc.
He has a degree & Wireless International Group Limited.
He has a degree in Social in Mathematics and Physics from Glasgow University and a Masters Sciences from the University of Bath, is an alumnus of INSEAD and degree in Operations Research from Lancaster University.
He is a is a Fellow of the Chartered Institute of Personnel and Development.
Chartered Engineer, an alumnus of INSEAD and holds an honorary Doctor of Technology degree from Glasgow Caledonian University.
Michael Hampson Brendan Colgan Company Secretary and Managing Director Strategy General Counsel 52 & Development ESAB 36 Michael Hampson was appointed as Company Secretary and General Brendan Colgan was appointed in 2010 as Managing Director of Counsel on 21 October 2009.
Michael previously held positions as Strategy & Development for ESAB Global with executive responsibility Director of Corporate Development at Anglian Water Group plc, Director for China, North & South East Asia, Sub-Saharan Africa, the Middle of Corporate Affairs at RMC Group plc and Company Secretary and East and North America.
Previously Brendan was CEO of ESAB North General Counsel at Whitbread plc.
He is a Non-Executive Director of America, CFO Anderson Group Inc. CFO Howden North America the charity the Royal Society for the Prevention of Accidents, and is a and CFO Howden Australia.
He has a degree in accounting from the barrister and a Chartered Secretary.
University of Ulster, is a Harvard AMP Graduate and a Fellow of The Chartered Institute of Management Accountants.
Peter Dodd Ian Brander Managing Director Operations Director ESAB Europe 63 Howden 49 Peter Dodd was appointed as Managing Director of ESAB Europe on Ian Brander was appointed Technology Director of Howden Global in 1 July 2008, having been Sales and Marketing Director since 2003.
2006 and Operations Director of Howden Global in 2008.
Ian joined Peter joined ESAB in October 1975.
He has held a number of sales Howden in 1983 and has held a number of technical, project, commercial and commercial positions, becoming Managing Director of ESAB and general management positions in Howden associated with a wide Group UK Limited in 1994.
He has a degree in Biochemistry, a range of products.
He has a degree in Mechanical Engineering from diploma in Business Studies and an MBA, all from Liverpool University.
Charter International plc 38 Annual Report 2010
