Page heading Divisional and financial r continued eview ESAB ESAB is a world-leading international welding and cutting company.
It formulates, develops, manufactures and supplies consumable products and equipment for use in the cutting and joining of steels, aluminium and metal alloys.
Global sales Revenue by destination North America Europe Asia 222.3m 444.6m 2009: 218.6m 177.6m 2009: 424.6m 2009: 157.4m South America Rest of the world 242.3m 70.8m 2009: 171.9m 2009: 58.9m Total 1,157.6m 2009: 1,031.4m Charter International plc 12 Annual Report 2010 2010 review Directors and corporate governance Financial statements Other information 01 35 36 57 58 114 115 116 1.
Manual plasma cutting using the latest ESAB Powercut 900, a machine capable of cutting conductive materials of up to 25mm in thickness.
ESABs new compact and portable Caddy Mig C160i, with a built in wire feeder ideal for repair and maintenance and general welding assembly applications.
The new ESAB Aristo 300 400 500s are inverter based Mig Mag and MMA welding 1.
3. machines designed for high productivity welding applications.
ESABs principal products Key business strengths and competitive advantages Welding consumables and standard equipment Market leadership based on technology, customer service Bespoke welding and cutting equipment and brand strength Approximately one-half of revenue generated in developed European markets and North America Markets Strong focus on emerging markets, with leading positions in ESABs products are used wherever steel and other metals Brazil, Russia and India: and developing positions in China, are being cut and joined together.
Its principal end-user elsewhere in Asia and Africa segments are: Largest end-user segment is energy, including oil and gas, Energy nuclear and renewable Vehicles Extensive research and development function maintains technical leadership and market responsiveness Infrastructure and other construction Manufacturing predominantly located in low cost areas General industrial ESAB is showing a strong recovery from the economic downturn, with signicantly improved volumes and margins Strong environmental credentials 2010 2009 Change Revenue m Highlights of 2010 Welding 1,015.4 846.7 19.9% Much improved performance, weighted towards the first Cutting & automation 142.2 184.7 -23.0% half of the year 1,157.6 1,031.4 12.2% Adjusted operating profit of 89.3 million 2009: 66.0 million, an increase of 35.3 per cent Adjusted operating profit loss m Adjusted operating margin of 7.7 per cent 2009: 6.4 percent, an increase of 1.3 percentage points Welding 89.7 55.6 61.3% Cutting & automation 0.4 10.4 Recovery led by welding consumables, with volumes up by 15 per cent, and standard equipment 89.3 66.0 35.3% Cutting & automation benefits from restructuring measures Adjusted operating Continued capital expenditure and investment in research margin 7.7% 6.4% 1.3% and development points Charter International plc 13 Annual Report 2010 Divisional and financial review ESAB continued Welding industry by region 2010: $13.6 billion globally By region Europe 19% North America 15% China 23% Japan 8% Russia and CIS 8% Other Asia 6% South America 6% India 5% All others 10% Source: Frost & Sullivan ESAB the welding authority Market size and end-user segments ESAB is a world-leading international welding and cutting In 2010, the global welding and cutting industry had total company, with a heritage in welding dating back to the revenue estimated at $13.6 billion: this compares with invention of the welding process.
$12.8 billion in 2009, reecting recovery from the economic downturn in developed economies and continuing economic ESAB is the worlds premier welding brand, with its growth in emerging markets.
The market is divided brand values emphasising integrity, innovation, experience approximately equally between welding consumables and partnership.
and welding and cutting equipment.
ESAB is the clear market leader in Europe, South America The major global end-user segments are as follows: and India, and is amongst the top four welding companies in North America.
It is the largest international welding company the energy sector, which includes the oil and gas industries in Russia and is developing its market positions in Africa, the and electricity generation from conventional, nuclear and Middle East, China and elsewhere in Asia.
ESABs sales are renewable sources and transmission estimated to account split broadly evenly between the developed economies of for 26 per cent of industry revenue : Western Europe and North America, and emerging markets.
vehicles, which includes cars, commercial vehicles, off road vehicles and railway rolling stock 15 per cent : and ESABs comprehensive range of welding consumables includes electrodes, cored and solid wires, and uxes.
ESABs welding construction, in particular relating to infrastructure 24 per cent.
and cutting equipment ranges from standard equipment to large bespoke plant used in industrial applications.
General industrial users are estimated to account for 26 per cent of the industrys revenues and shipbuilding In 2010, ESAB derived over 80 per cent of its sales from for the remaining 9 per cent.
welding consumables and standard welding equipment.
The energy sector, including oil and gas, nuclear and During 2010, the outstanding end-user segment was vehicles, renewables, is the largest user of ESAB products and is with strong growth being seen in the production of cars in all estimated to account for around one-quarter of revenue.
Commercial vehicles also showed strong recovery from 2009 levels.
This led to significant increases in the volume ESABs leadership of the worldwide welding industry is of welding wire sold, with ESAB gaining market share in the key confirmed by independent research which has shown that European market, assisted by innovations in solid wire process the ESAB brand is almost universally recognised, and is and further enhancements to its agship AristoRod product.
the one which customers are most likely to recommend.
Demand from the energy industry was generally solid.
However, ESABs position is supported by continued investment in there was relative weakness in the wind-tower and off-shore research and product development which is highly focused segments, both of which are important users of ESABs on specic customer requirements.
During 2010, there were higher value-added consumables and automation equipment, important new products and processes introduced for users reecting general economic uncertainty and nancing in the vehicle industry and in the off-shore and wind-tower constraints which led to postponing of projects, although the segments of the energy industry.
In addition, ESABs worldlong-term prospects of both segments remain strong.
leading technical expertise enabled it to establish strong Shipbuilding was generally weak, although there were pockets positions in more recently established markets, for example of strength.
Construction deteriorated in many European the supply of specialist consumables for the construction of countries.
The mixed performance of these industries meant LNG facilities and nuclear power stations in China, as well as that demand for electrodes lagged the growth seen in reinforcing its traditional areas of strength.
ESABs manufacturing facilities are located predominantly in low cost locations, in particular in Central Europe, South America and Asia.
During 2010, capacity was progressively restored as levels of demand recovered, most notably in its consumables business.
Charter International plc 14 Annual Report 2010 2010 review Directors and corporate governance Financial statements Other information 01 35 36 57 58 114 115 116 ESABs business model ESAB supplies product to customers in every economic Other key components of ESABs business model, which region around the world which give it a unique knowledge is illustrated below, are its brand, its manufacturing facilities, and understanding of customers requirements.
its technology and its distribution network, as well as the support provided to customers through ESAB process centres.
Product development and positioning Technology Market knowledge and Brand Over 100 years of understanding The worlds leading accumulated knowledge Based on global presence welding brand Global facilities centred across all end-user in Gothenburg, Sweden segments Product development is customer focused Manufacture and procurement ESAB factories Outsourced manufacture 26 facilities worldwide Increasing network of Generally well-invested sub-contractors facilities, situated in low Supply specialist products cost countries such as PPE Principal raw material is steel Distribution 40% direct sales 60% through independent distributors End user segments Energy Vehicles Construction General industrial Oil and gas Cars Infrastructure Consumer durables Power Buses and lorries Commercial Shipbuilding Petrochemicals Off-road Other Pipeline and Railcars pipe mills ESAB process centres Global network helps customers develop optimal welding solutions Charter International plc 15 Annual Report 2010 Divisional and financial review ESAB continued Worldwide steel consumption The World Steel Association WSA estimates that worldwide mmt and percentage change over previous year consumption of steel in 2010 was 1,272 mmt 2009: 1,125 mmt, an increase of 13.1 per cent.
2011 f 5.3% For 2011, the WSA forecasts that global steel consumption 2010 e 13.1% will be 1,340 mmt, an increase of 5.3 per cent.
Consumption 2009 -6.6% in EU 27 and the USA is expected to increase by 6 per cent and 9 per cent respectively compared to 2010 but will remain 0 0 250 500 750 1000 1250 well below 2008 levels.
The growth of steel consumption in China is forecast to slow to 4 per cent.
e estimated f forecast ESAB is also impacted by the relative performance of the Demand outlook different end-user segments which its supplies.
In 2011, ESAB Demand for welding and cutting products is predominantly expects to see continued growth in the vehicle segment, determined by the consumption of steel.
Information on historic although not necessarily at the rates seen in 2010, whilst there and future levels of steel consumption is set out above.
are as yet no clear signs that segments such as off-shore and Against this background, ESAB expects that growth in the wind-towers, which are important users of higher value welding demand for its welding consumables and standard equipment consumables but which were relatively subdued in 2010, will will also slow compared with 2010.
Demand for its cutting and show a sustained recovery.
automated welding equipment is seen as later-cycle, and the improving prospects seen during the second half of 2010 Competitive environment should be reected in higher revenues in 2011.
Globally, ESAB is the leading supplier of welding consumables.
It is the only worldwide, full-service welding and cutting company, ESABs demand environment will vary from region to region.
with leading market positions in many regions.
In the EU, economic growth is generally expected to be around 1per cent in 2011, but certain economies, such as Germany ESAB operates in a competitive environment, consisting and Poland, are expected to grow appreciably faster, whilst of a relatively small number of companies that operate on a others, mainly in Southern Europe, are expected to see little multinational basis and a much larger number of smaller if any growth.
The USA is expected to see growth running companies which operate in regional or product niches.
around its trend rate of 2.5 per cent.
Developing economies, including Brazil, India and Russia where ESAB is well ESAB estimates that it has a 12 per cent share, by value, of the represented, are expected to grow more quickly.
available global welding and cutting market.
This share reects Strategy ESABs strategic objective is to generate significant growth in revenue and profit over the next five years through building upon its position as the worlds leading company in welding consumables and its strong global positions in welding and cutting equipment.
In pursuit of this strategic objective, ESAB has formulated specic objectives as set out below.
Objective What weve achieved To enhance market leadership by leveraging its broad ESAB continues to be recognised as the welding authority product range in all its markets globally as well as by further with, according to independent research, almost universal investment in brand recognition and customer service.
brand recognition in the welding industry.
To use its research and development facilities to develop ESAB has developed new welding materials processes and highly customer-focused products to enhance its leading equipment with particular examples for use in the automotive position in welding technology.
To build upon its leading position in Europe and other ESAB increased its market share in solid wire by 4 percentage developed markets to achieve growth at above market rates.
points and continued to invest in its supply infrastructure.
ESAB will continue to build upon its positions in developing ESAB remains the clear market leader in South America markets around the world.
It continues to grow in Russia where it is the leading international welding company, and to develop its presence in China and other markets in Asia, and elsewhere, such as Africa.
ESAB will target specifically welding-intensive end-user ESAB has built up specialist teams to service customers segments which are seen as offering particular growth in industries such as nuclear, wind energy, off-shore opportunities.
ESAB will look to act as a consolidator in the global welding ESAB will continue to target acquisitions which enable it industry.
to strengthen market positions, enter new markets and improve its technology base.
Charter International plc 16 Annual Report 2010 2010 review Directors and corporate governance Financial statements Other information 01 35 36 57 58 114 115 116 Overview of 2010 performance particularly strong positions throughout Europe, and in South America and India, and ESAB is well-represented in North America, the Middle East and parts of Asia.
ESAB has an During 2010, ESAB achieved revenue and adjusted under-weight position in China, where the market is intensely operating profit of 1,157.6 million and 89.3 million 2009: price competitive and a small number of producers account for 1,031.4 million and 66.0 million, representing increases over one-half of total industry sales of welding consumables.
of 12.2 and 35.3 per cent respectively.
The adjusted operating margin was 7.7 per cent 2009 6.4 per cent.
ESAB aims to maintain and progressively strengthen its global market share, despite the threat of low cost manufacturers During 2010, the increase in ESABs revenues was driven looking to increase their shares of markets in which ESAB has by the welding division in which revenue increased by an established position, through continued investment in and 19.9 per cent, but this was partly offset by the cutting attention to: & automation segment.
The increase in revenue in the welding division was primarily attributable to higher its brand: volumes of consumbles which rose 15 per cent during its industry-leading technology: the year, with price movements leading to a small positive variance.
its extensive product portfolio covering consumables and equipment: Revenue bridge the governmental and other certications it possesses 1200 for many different specialist and demanding applications: 1000 its manufacturing facilities which are generally well-invested 800 and located in low cost areas: 600 its well-established and wide-ranging distribution network 400 and supply chain: and 200 the financial strength of Charter.
0 2009 2010 ESAB aims to be a consolidator in the relatively fragmented Welding Cutting & automation worldwide welding industry and will look to make acquisitions Exchange which build its geographic strength, increase its presence in markets where it is currently under-represented or give access A full analysis and review of ESABs performance is set out in the to new technologies, provided that the terms of the acquisition Chief Executives report.
are expected to be value accretive for Charter shareholders.
Brand values Integrity within a performance culture.
Partnership People who can make things Straight talking: We say Action orientated value better, simpler, easier and what we mean and we mean driven: ESAB people do more cost-effective.
Its about being things that matter, that have honest, direct, collaborative, an impact and that make a Innovation reliable and standing up for difference.
Working together Outcome focused: Success what we believe in.
we create value for our is all about getting things customers, suppliers, our Experience done.
At ESAB we create people, shareholders and products and solutions that Great people smart communities.
thinking: We aim to have a highly focused team of effective people working Charter International plc 17 Annual Report 2010
