Directors report Principal activities and review of operations Directors Charter International plc the Company is the ultimate owner The names and brief biographical details of the Directors and of two international engineering businesses, being ESAB a key management of the Company appear on pages 36 to 38. world leading welding and cutting business and Howden a There were no changes to the Board of Directors during the leading applications engineer.
The Company is registered in year.
At the Companys forthcoming Annual General Meeting Jersey and has its headquarters and tax residence in the AGM all of the Directors will offer themselves for re-election Republic of Ireland.
It is listed on the London Stock Exchange.
7.1 of the UK Corporate A review of the activities and operations of the Company and Governance Code, which is applicable to the Company its subsidiaries is given in the Chief Executives statement and from 1 January 2011. the Divisional and financial review on pages 12 to 35.
These sections, together with the other sections of the annual report Powers of Directors referred to in the Directors report are incorporated, by The Board of Directors is responsible for the management of reference, into and form part of the Directors report.
the business, and may exercise all the powers of the Company, subject to the Companys Memorandum and Articles of Divisional and financial review Association, the Jersey Companies Law and any directions The Divisional and financial review is a review of the given by a special resolution of the Company passed at a development, the operational and financial performance of, general meeting.
In particular, the Board may exercise all the and key trends and factors within, the business during the powers of the Company to borrow money, to guarantee, to year ended 31 December 2010 and contains a description indemnify, to mortgage or charge any of its undertaking, of the principal risks and uncertainties facing the business.
property, assets present and future and uncalled capital and, subject to the Jersey Companies Law, issue debentures and other securities and give security for any debt, liability or profits obligation of the Company or of any third party.
The profit after tax for the year ended 31 December 2010 was 118.9 million 2009: 74.8 million.
Appointment and replacement of Directors Directors may be appointed by the Company by ordinary Dividends resolution or by the Board and unless otherwise determined by On 17 February 2011 the Directors declared a second interim ordinary resolution, the number of Directors shall not be less dividend of 15.5 pence per ordinary share 2009: 14.5 pence than two.
A Director appointed by the Board holds ofce until per ordinary share to be paid on 6 May 2011 to holders the next following AGM of the Company and is then eligible for of ordinary shares registered on 15 April 2011.
The Board or any committee authorised by the dividend of 7.5 pence per ordinary share was paid on Board may from time to time appoint one or more Directors to 10 September 2010 in respect of the six months ended hold any employment or executive ofce for such period and on 30 June 2010 2009: 7 pence.
such terms as they may determine and may also revoke or terminate any such appointment.
Payment of dividends The Company may by ordinary resolution remove any Director Subject to the provisions of Jersey Companies Law, the before the expiration of his period of ofce.
The ofce of a Company may by ordinary resolution declare dividends up Director shall be vacated if: i he resigns or offers to resign and to the amount recommended by the Directors and the Board the Board resolves to accept such offer: ii his resignation is may authorise the payment of dividends of such amount and requested by all of the other Directors and all of the other on such dates as it thinks justied by the financial position of Directors are not less than three in number: iii he is or has the Company.
The Board may, if authorised by an ordinary been suffering from mental or physical ill health and the Board resolution of the Company, offer any holder of shares resolves that his ofce be vacated: iv he is absent without the excluding treasury shares the right to elect to receive permission of the Board from meetings of the Board whether a dividend in the form of fully-paid ordinary shares.
or not an alternate director appointed by him attends for six The Company operates Income Access Share Arrangements consecutive months and the Board resolves that his ofce is IAS that enable shareholders to elect to receive either their vacated: v he becomes bankrupt or compounds with his dividends direct from the Company, which is tax resident in creditors generally: vi he is prohibited by law from being the Republic of Ireland, or from a subsidiary company which a Director: vii he ceases to be a Director by virtue of the is resident for tax purposes in the UK.
provisions of Jersey Companies Law: or viii he is removed from ofce pursuant to the Companys Articles.
A general summary of the tax implications of receiving dividends from an Irish source or receiving them from a UK source under the IAS, together with a copy of the IAS election form, is available on the Companys website at www.
If a shareholder who holds at least 0.25 per cent in nominal value of the ordinary shares is in default of an Article 15 notice, then the Directors may also withhold the payment of any dividend to and restrict the transfer of shares held by that shareholder.
Charter International plc 54 Annual Report 2010 2010 review Directors and corporate governance Financial statements Other information 01 35 36 57 58 114 115 116 Directors indemnities Charitable and political contributions Each of the Directors has been granted an indemnity by the During the year the Company donated 161,000 2009: Company, to the extent permitted by applicable law, in respect 113,000 to charities of which 18,000 2009: 9,000 was to of certain liabilities that may arise as a result of the Director charities in the UK.
Within the UK, donations were made in the acting as a Director or employee of the Company or an year to support charities working in medical research support associated company.
There were no political donations made Under the terms of each indemnity, the relevant Director is during the year 2009: nil.
indemnified against liability to third parties excluding the liability to pay criminal fines and regulatory penalties and certain other Research and development liabilities.
In relation to any third-party claim, the Company may The Company continues to place strong emphasis on research loan funds to a Director to allow him to fund his legal costs.
and development to meet the changing needs of the markets Any such loan must be repaid by the Director if the Director is they serve, further details of which can be found in the convicted of an offence, judgment is given against the Director Divisional and financial review on pages 12 to 35.
Research or the Directors application for relief is refused by the court.
and development expenditure, which excludes engineering and production support costs, totalled 20.5 million 2009: 17.1 Related party transactions million for the year of which 14.7 million 2009: 11.4 million ESAB Holdings Limited, Howden Group Limited and The ESAB has been charged to the income statement for the year and Group Inc. subsidiaries of the Company, are party to arms 5.8 million 2009: 5.7 million has been capitalised as length consultancy agreements with Unipart Logistics Limited intangible assets.
Unipart Logistics for the provision of LEAN manufacturing and other consultancy services to ESAB, Howden and Share capital structure Anderson Group Inc. respectively.
John Neill, a Non-Executive As at 17 February 2011, the Company had 167,021,060 fully Director of the Company, is currently Group Chief Executive of paid ordinary shares of 0.02 each in issue which are listed on the Unipart Group of Companies.
The total charges paid to the London Stock Exchange.
The Company has a single class Unipart Logistics during the year amounted to 1.5 million of shares.
The amount payable to Unipart Logistics as at 31 December 2010 was 0.2 million 2009: 0.2 million.
The Directors have the power to issue, buy back, grant options over or otherwise dispose of unissued shares in the Company, Corporate governance to such persons, at such times and on such terms as deemed A review of the Companys application of the principles and appropriate.
provisions of the Combined Code can be found on pages Powers for the Company issuing and buying back its 39 to 43.
The Combined Code can be viewed online at own shares www.
cfm At the AGM shareholders will be asked to grant a further authority to allot shares in the Company and to grant rights Financial instruments to subscribe for or convert any security into shares in the The financial risk management objectives and policies of Company i up to a nominal amount of 1,113,473 and ii the Company including interest rate, currency and credit comprising equity securities as dened in the Articles up to a risk can be found in note 21 to the Companys consolidated nominal amount of 2,226,947 after deducting from such limit financial statements on pages 97 to 100. any allotments or grants made under i in connection with an offer by way of a rights issue the allotment authority, such allotment authority to apply until the end of next years AGM or, Employees if earlier, until 30 June 2012.
The Companys policy is to encourage effective communication and consultation between employees and management.
This resolution will also provide a further authority to allot shares in Subsidiaries develop their own consultation and communication the Company up to a maximum nominal amount of 2,226,947 procedures as part of their employment practices.
Further pursuant to the exercise of a right to subscribe for, or convert any details on the Companys employment policies, including details security into, shares in the Company in circumstances where the of the considerations given to disabled employees, can be Company had the requisite authority to grant such right at the time found in the Corporate responsibility report on pages 33 to 34 it was granted.
This authority is required due to provisions of the Divisional and financial review.
contained in the Companys Articles as a result of it being incorporated in Jersey and provides the Directors with the same Creditor payment policy authority they would be entitled to under section 549 3 Due to the global spread of the Companys operations, Companies Act 2006 if the Company were incorporated in the Group companies are responsible for establishing terms United Kingdom.
and conditions with their suppliers.
The Companys creditor A special resolution will also be proposed to renew the Directors payment policy is to settle amounts due to creditors in power to make non-pre-emptive issues for cash in connection with accordance with agreed terms.
The policy provides that local rights issues and otherwise up to a nominal amount of 167,021. practice must be observed in the countries in which they Again, this resolution will also provide a further authority to make operate and that standard payment terms in each country may non-pre-emptive issues pursuant to the exercise of a right to be varied by negotiation with individual suppliers.
The Company subscribe for, or convert any security into, ordinary shares in the had no trade creditors at the year-end.
Company in circumstances where the Company had the requisite Charter International plc 55 Annual Report 2010 Directors report continued authority to grant such right at the time it was granted.
This lodged at such place as they may determine and, where authority is required due to provisions contained in the Companys appropriate, is accompanied by any relevant share certicates Articles as a result of it being incorporated in Jersey and provides and such other evidence as they may reasonably require to the Directors with the same authority they would be entitled to show the right of the transferor to make the transfer.
The under section 561 3 Companies Act 2006 if the Company were Directors may also suspend transfers where a shareholder incorporated in the United Kingdom.
has failed to comply with an Article 15 notice, in the manner noted above.
No market purchases were made by the Company during the year ended 31 December 2010.
Certain restrictions on transfers of shares may from time to time be imposed by laws and regulations for example, insider A special resolution will also be proposed to renew the trading laws and pursuant to the Listing Rules of the Financial Directors authority to repurchase the Companys ordinary Services Authority whereby certain employees of the Company shares in the market.
The authority will be limited to a maximum require the approval of the Company to deal in the Companys of 16,702,106 ordinary shares and sets the minimum and ordinary shares.
The Company is not aware of any agreements maximum prices which may be paid.
between holders of securities that may result in restrictions on the transfer of securities.
Rights and obligations attaching to shares The rights and obligations attaching to the Companys shares Securities carrying special rights are contained in the Articles of Association, a copy of which No shares have been issued that carry any special rights with is available on the Companys website www.
The regard to the control of the Company.
Articles may only be changed by a special resolution passed at a general meeting of the Company.
Holders of ordinary shares Variation of rights are entitled to receive notice of, attend, speak and vote at any Subject to the provisions of the Jersey Companies Law and to general meeting of the Company, except as described below.
any rights attached to existing shares and except in the case where there is only one holder of the issued shares of a class Voting by way of a poll of shares, in which case any and all of the rights attached to In line with growing market practice, voting at the 2011 AGM that class of shares may be varied only with the consent in will be conducted by way of a poll.
Shareholders will be entitled writing of that holder, rights attached to any class of shares to one vote for each ordinary share of 0.02 held.
This reects may be varied with the written consent of the holders of not best practice and allows those shareholders who are not able less than two-thirds in nominal value of the issued shares of to attend the AGM to have their votes fully recognised.
Any that class calculated excluding any shares held as treasury Directors appointed as proxies will cast their votes as directed shares, or with the sanction of a special resolution passed at by shareholders.
a separate general meeting of the holders of those shares.
At every such separate general meeting except an adjourned Holders of ordinary shares have the right to appoint a proxy or meeting the quorum shall be two persons holding or proxies who need not be members of the Company or, where representing by proxy not less than one-third in nominal value appropriate, a corporate representative, to attend and vote on of the issued shares of the class calculated excluding any their behalf.
Further details about the right to appoint a proxy shares held as treasury shares.
or a corporate representative are set out in the Notice.
Major shareholders The Directors may make calls on shareholders in respect of As at 17 February 2011, the Company had received the monies unpaid on their shares.
If any call is not complied with, following notications pursuant to DTR 5 of the Disclosure and the Directors may serve a notice requiring payment with interest Transparency Rules of the FSA the DTR.
Failure to comply with this may result in forfeiture of any share the subject of the notice.
The Company has a lien Direct % of issued on any share which is not fully paid.
of shares share capital notification Shareholder interest voting rights voting rights Voting restrictions 08.02.2011 Legal & General Direct 6,225,405 3.72% No member shall, unless the Directors otherwise determine, Group plc 03.02.2011 BlackRock Inc Indirect 8,351,058 5.00% be entitled to vote at a general meeting either personally or by proxy, or to exercise any other right conferred by membership 11.01.2011 FRM LCC Indirect 8,429,306 5.04% in relation to meetings of the Company, if any call or other sum 25.10.2010 Lloyds Banking Indirect 11,917,047 7.12% Group plc presently payable by him to the Company in respect of such Direct 939,963 0.56% shares remains unpaid.
Further, a shareholder is not, unless the Total 12,857,010 7.68% Directors otherwise determine, entitled to attend or vote at any 19.03.2010 Ignis Investment Indirect 5,088,564 3.05% general meeting if the shareholder has failed to comply with a Services Limited notice under the Articles an Article 15 notice to investigate interests in the Companys shares within 14 days.
The Company is not aware of any agreements between holders of securities that may result in restrictions on voting rights of securities.
Transfer restrictions The Directors may refuse to register any transfer of any certicated share which is not fully paid and refuse to register any transfer in favour of more than four persons jointly.
The Directors may also refuse to recognise any instrument of transfer unless it is in respect of any one class of share, is Charter International plc 56 Annual Report 2010 2010 review Directors and corporate governance Financial statements Other information 01 35 36 57 58 114 115 116 significant agreements Auditors The Company acts as guarantor in respect of five multiA resolution to re-appoint  LLP as currency revolving facility agreements entered into by Charter Auditors to the Company and a further resolution to authorise Central Finance Limited, a subsidiary of the Company, with the Board to x the Auditors remuneration will be proposed at Bank of China UK, Barclays Bank plc, HSBC Bank plc, Lloyds the AGM.
TSB Bank plc and Skandinaviska Enskilda Banken AB.
Each of Annual General Meeting these agreements contain a change of control provision which, The Companys AGM will take place at 2.00 pm on 20 April if triggered, could restrict further utilisations and or require the 2011 at 27 Northwood House, Northwood Park, Santry, Dublin repayment of all outstanding utilisations.
The notice of AGM the Notice can be found in a HSBC Bank plc and Lloyds TSB Bank plc may also call for separate circular to shareholders.
The Notice sets out details cash collateral for outstanding utilisations under separate of the resolutions that will be proposed at the AGM as well documentary credit facilities that are provided to subsidiaries as explanatory notes giving the background and reasons for of the Company.
The Companys Long-Term Incentive Plan contains provisions By order of the Board that allow outstanding awards to vest in certain circumstances Michael Hampson upon a change of control of the Company.
Conditional awards Company Secretary and General Counsel made pursuant to the Charter International plc Deferred Bonus 17 February 2011 Plan will automatically vest on a change of control of the Company.
Further details concerning the above can be found Registered ofce: in the Remuneration Report on pages 46 to 53.
22 Grenville Street St Helier Rights under the employee share schemes Jersey JE4 8PX Under the rules of the Charter International Long-Term Incentive Registered in Jersey Number 100249 Plan and the Charter International Deferred Bonus Plan eligible employees are awarded shares in the Company.
As at 17 February 2011, Appleby Trust Jersey Limited as trustee of the Charter Employee Trust holds 0.053 per cent of the issued share capital of the Company on trust for the benefit of the Executive Directors, senior executives and managers of the Group.
The voting rights in relation to these shares have been waived by the Trustee.
Corporate responsibility CR The Companys report on CR, including its approach to health and safety, human resources, social, environmental and other related environmental issues, can be found on pages 30 to 35.
Directors statement pursuant to the Disclosure and Transparency Rules The Directors whose names and functions are set out on pages 36 and 37 confirm that, to the best of their knowledge, the financial statements are prepared in accordance with the applicable set of accounting standards, give a true and fair view of the assets, liabilities, financial position and profit or loss of the Company and the Group taken as a whole: and the Directors report includes a fair review of the development and performance of the business and the position of the Company and the Group taken as a whole, together with a description of the principal risks and uncertainties that they face.
Statement of disclosure of information to Auditors So far as the Directors each are aware, there is no relevant audit information that is, information needed by the Companys Auditors in connection with preparing their report of which the Companys Auditors are unaware, and each Director has taken all reasonable steps that he ought to have taken as a Director in order to make himself aware of any relevant audit information and to establish that the Companys Auditors are aware of that information.
Charter International plc 57 Annual Report 2010 Financial statements Contents Consolidated financial statements Parent Company financial statements 59 Audit opinion Group financial statements 108 Audit opinion parent Company financial statements 60 Consolidated income statement 109 Company profit and loss account 61 Consolidated statement of comprehensive income 109 Company balance sheet 62 Consolidated statement of changes in equity Notes to the financial statements of the Company 63 Consolidated balance sheet 110 Basis of preparation 1 64 Consolidated cash ow statement 110 Principal accounting policies 2 64 Reconciliation of net cash ow to movement in net cash 111 Operating loss 3 Notes to the consolidated financial statements 111 Net interest and nancing charge credit 4 65 Basis of preparation and accounting policies 1 111 Taxation 5 72 Segment analysis 2 112 Tangible xed assets 6 75 Analysis of revenue by category 3 112 Investment in subsidiary undertakings 7 75 Operating profit 4 112 Debtors amounts falling due within one year 8 76 Exceptional items 5 112 Creditors amounts falling due within one year 9 76 Net nancing credit charge 6 113 Called-up share capital 10 77 Taxation 7 113 Reserves 11 78 Employees and Directors 8 114 Share-based payments 12 79 Earnings per share 9 114 Guarantees 13 80 Intangible assets 10 114 Commitments operating lease 14 82 Property, plant and equipment 11 a 114 Dividends 15 83 Assets held for sale 11 b 84 Investments in associates and joint ventures 12 84 Inventories 13 85 Trade and other receivables 14 86 Cash and cash deposits 15 86 Borrowings 16 88 Trade and other payables 17 89 Provisions for other liabilities and charges 18 90 Deferred income tax 19 92 Retirement benefit obligations 20 97 Financial instruments and risk management 21 101 Share capital and share premium 22 101 Share-based payments 23 102 Other reserves 24 102 Operating lease commitments minimum lease payments 25 102 Capital commitments 26 102 Contingent liabilities 27 103 Cash generated from operations 28 104 Acquisitions and disposals 29 105 Related party transactions 30 105 Dividends 31 106 Principal interests in Group undertakings 107 Five-year record Charter International plc 58 Annual Report 2010
