Divisional and financial review Howden Howden is a world-leading international applications engineer.
It designs, manufactures, installs and maintains various types of air and gas handling equipment for use in the power, oil and gas, petrochemical and other industries.
Global sales Revenue by destination North America Europe Asia 125.1m 130.4m 2009: 149.0m 137.0m 2009: 171.1m 2009: 149.5m South America Rest of the world 39.3m 130.2m 2009: 31.7m 2009: 126.5m Total 562.0m 2009: 627.8m Charter International plc 18 Annual Report 2010 2010 review Directors and corporate governance Financial statements Other information 01 35 36 57 58 114 115 116 1.
Axial cooling fan these fans are incorporated into cooling towers that are used in many industries.
Diaphragm compressor specialist compressors for handling difficult and toxic gases without leakage or contamination.
Variax fan high technology, variable pitch axial fans that adjust to varying loads during operation: mainly installed in power stations.
Howdens principal products Key business strengths and and services competitive advantages Fans and heat exchangers Market leadership based on technology, customer service and brand strength Compressors Approximately one-half of revenue generated in Europe and After-sale provision of spares, service, enhancements North America and retrots One-half of revenue derived from emerging markets, through leading positions in China and South Africa, and developing positions in India and South America Markets Largest end-user segment is energy, comprising principally Howdens products are used to move air and gas through power generation and oil and gas large scale industrial plant and, to a lesser extent, to provide Engineering expertise and extensive design resource help ventilation.
Its principal end-user segments are: maintain Howdens technical leadership Electricity generation coal-fired Manufacturing of high technology and performance critical Oil, gas and petrochemical components is retained in-house Mining Aftermarket accounts for over one third of revenue, with Iron and steel growth opportunities especially in China Tunnel ventilation Strong environmental credentials 2010 2009 Change Revenue m Highlights of 2010 New build 358.0 438.6 -18.4% Robust performance with revenue of 562.0 million Aftermarket 204.0 189.2 7.8% and adjusted operating profit of 67.8 million 562.0 627.8 -10.5% Aftermarket revenues of 204.0 million, representing 36 per cent of total revenue and up 8 per cent Adjusted operating profit m 67.8 71.5 -5.2% Adjusted operating margin of 12.1 per cent 2009: 11.4 per cent, reflecting strong contract execution and improving revenue mix Adjusted operating margin 12.1% 11.4% 0.7% Year end order book of 424 million, in line with expectations points Much enhanced presence in Indian power market Order book m 423.8 441.1 -3.9% through joint venture with Larsen & Toubro Commissioned new facility in South America Significant compressor orders for coal bed methane extraction and waste-water treatment Charter International plc 19 Annual Report 2010 Divisional and financial review Howden continued opened a much enhanced factory in Brazil.
Overall, around Howden a world leading one-half of Howdens sales are made in emerging markets and applications engineer this proportion is expected to progressively increase over time.
Howdens engineering heritage stretches back over 150 years since it was founded in Glasgow, Scotland.
Howden became Howden has also successfully grown its aftermarket business, a member of the Charter group of companies in 1997. which, in 2010, accounted for 36 per cent of revenue and, because of the higher margin which it generates, nearly Howdens principal products are fans, heat exchangers and one-half of gross profit.
The aftermarket is seen as one aspect compressors.
The fans and heat exchangers are used mainly of Howdens business which can grow consistently through the in the generation of electricity by coal-red power stations, economic cycle.
both in combustion and the control of emissions, and other large scale industrial plant.
Howden compressors are mainly used by the oil, gas and petrochemical industries.
Overall, the Industry overview energy sector is estimated to account for some two-thirds of Fans and heat exchangers Howdens revenues.
Demand for new Howden equipment is strongly influenced by the construction of new coal-red power stations and Other applications for Howden products are in the mining, environmental legislation which impacts demand for emission iron and steel, tunnel ventilation and waste water industries.
control equipment for coal-red power stations and other heavy industrial plant.
As illustrated on page 22, Howden has made considerable progress in diversifying its business away from its traditional The International Energy Agency IEA expects, under its markets.
current policies model, that worldwide construction of new coal-red generating plant will average 56 GW per annum over The supply of new equipment to the coal-red power industry the next 20 years, of which more than half will be built in China.
represented 24 per cent of Howdens revenue in 2010, India is also expected to add signicantly to its coal-red compared to 42 per cent in 2005.
The supply of other new generating capacity.
Howden has established leading positions equipment, including fans for use in other industries and in both China and India and is therefore well placed to supply compressors, has increased in both absolute terms and as significant amounts of new-build equipment over this period.
For Europe and North America, the IEA expects little change Howden now has significant market positions in Europe, North in the aggregate fleet of coal-red generating capacity for the America, China, South Africa and Australia.
On this basis, Howden expects most work Howden signicantly increased its presence in India, and also in these regions to be retrots, upgrades and maintenance.
There is some expectation of significant new build activity in In May 2010, Howden signed Russia, although not in the immediate future.
a joint venture agreement with Larsen & Toubro, a major Indian Governments generally recognise the need to limit the engineering and construction environmental impact of generating plant.
If there were to be company, that will give it greater concerted international action to restrict the emission of carbon access to the rapidly growing dioxide, this would reduce the rate at which new coal-red power power generation market plant is constructed.
It could also require increased adoption of in India.
carbon capture and storage, which is an emerging technology which represents a new opportunity for Howden.
Under the agreement, Howden and L&T will collaborate in the In relation to other emissions, uncertainty over the policies to be supply of fans and heat adopted and the nature and timing of legislation somewhat exchangers to customers slowed the market for Howdens emission control equipment in India engaged in the during 2010.
In the USA, new regulations governing the construction of coal-fired power emission of polluting gases are expected and, when they come stations.
A new manufacturing into force, are likely to lead to increased demand for Howden facility is being constructed in fans and heat exchangers as utility companies install additional Hazira, Gujarat and this is exhaust gas scrubbers.
In the EU, the previous deadline of expected to start production 2016 for NOx reduction from large power plants has been by the end of the year.
relaxed, meaning that utilities will be able to defer the placing of orders for this equipment.
Charter International plc 20 Annual Report 2010 2010 review Directors and corporate governance Financial statements Other information 01 35 36 57 58 114 115 116 Howdens business model Howdens business model emphasises its brand, design The aftermarket is seen as being the single biggest and manufacture of performance critical and high-technology opportunity for growth, to make the most of which components and aftermarket services.
Howden has allocated increased resources to pursue aftermarket opportunities globally.
Howdens global resources include 600 engineers who are able to access Howdens many years of accumulated expertise.
Design The Howden brand stands for over 150 years of accumulated knowledge 300 employees globally engaged in design Proprietary design software Performance Other critical components components In-house Manufacture manufacturing by sub-contractors 16 centres of Global networks Raw materials e. g. steel engineering Mainly located Bought-in components excellence in low cost globally countries Installation End user segments Power Oil, gas and Mining Other industries Coal-red petrochemical Ventilation fans Iron and steel electricity for deep mines Tunnel ventilation generation Waste-water treatment Cement Aftermarket services Charter International plc 21 Annual Report 2010 Divisional and financial review Howden continued Over the last five years, Howden has successfully diversied Revenue diversication away from coal-red power into other businesses.
In 2010, % 24 per cent of revenue came from the sale of new equipment Aftermarket 36% to the coal-red power industry, of which slightly over half was New equipment power 24% to customers in China and other emerging markets, whereas New equipment compressors 13% Other new equipment 27% in 2005 this gure was 42 per cent.
In 2010, the sale of new compressors generated 13 per cent of revenue, and the aftermarket accounted for 36 per cent of revenue and approximately one-half of gross profit.
Other large scale industrial plant which uses Howden fans and bookings and sales stand to benefit from higher levels of heaters includes reneries, steel mills and cement factories.
capital expenditure forecast in other industries.
Construction of this plant is expected to be concentrated in Howden has also successfully penetrated other growing emerging markets.
In addition, Howden fans are used to markets for its products, most particularly, the coal-bed ventilate sub-surface mines and tunnels, and also for methane industry in Australia.
These also include waste-water specialised cooling applications, such as the traction treatment, where Howden has recently won a major order to motors of high-speed trains.
supply compressors for what will be Turkeys largest facility, Compressors and the manufacture of solar panels.
The compressor industry is large and covers many different Howden compressors are supplied to customers worldwide, applications.
Howden has developed various niches for its with notable sales having been made to customers in Europe, range of compressors.
China, the Middle East and South America.
Howden compressors are mainly sold into the oil and gas, petrochemical and refrigeration industries.
Howdens order Strategy Howdens strategic objective is to generate significant growth in revenue and profit over the next five years through building upon its current world-leading position as an applications engineer which designs, manufactures, installs and maintains performance-critical equipment for air and gas handling.
Objective What weve achieved Howden will maintain and enhance its position in all those Howden already has strong market positions in Europe, regions where there is expected to be significant amounts China, North America and South Africa, and during 2010 of coal-fired generating capacity and related emission it significantly increased its market position in India.
control equipment being used or installed.
As part of its objective of reducing its dependence on Howden has continued to enhance its position in the coal-fired power, Howden will develop further its position in compressor industry and has won notable new orders, for the oil and gas and petrochemicals industries.
example to supply compressors to the coal-bed methane market in Australia.
Howden will also develop new products and services to enter Howden has increased its presence in bio-fuels, solar energy growth industries where its technology and expertise and waste-water treatment industries.
can be used to its advantage.
Howden will continue to develop its aftermarket business, In 2010, Howdens aftermarket revenues were 204.0 in particular in China.
million, an increase of 8 per cent, representing 36 per cent of Howdens total revenues.
The aftermarket business in China continued to grow and achieved its objectives for the year.
Where appropriate, Howden will grow its business through During 2010, Howden acquired Austcold, a screw acquisitions that strengthen its market position and improve compressor packager, which increases its presence in its technology base.
the compressor industry in Australia and South-East Asia.
Howden continues to review other acquisition opportunities.
Howden will continue to develop its supply chain to Howden has increased plant utilisation, undertaken capital accommodate higher levels of activity in both new expenditure on plant expansion and IT, continued initiatives to equipment and aftermarket.
ensure that it has access to sufficient trained engineers, and extended use of LEAN techniques across all aspects of its business.
Howden is continuing to develop a global network of sub-contractors.
Charter International plc 22 Annual Report 2010 2010 review Directors and corporate governance Financial statements Other information 01 35 36 57 58 114 115 116 Howden order book As at 31 December 2010, the order book stood at m 424 million 31 December 2009: 441 million, a decrease of 4 per cent.
Customers in emerging markets accounted for Europe 60 per cent of total orders.
North America South America The order book at 31 December 2010 included some 331 Asia million for delivery in 2011 and 93 million for delivery in 2012 Rest of world or beyond.
2010 Net orders booked in the year were 533 million 2009: 503 2009 million, an increase of 6 per cent, and in excess of 70 million 0 100 200 300 400 500 of orders were booked in January 2011.
Aftermarket Overview of 2010 performance Each delivery of Howden equipment creates a potential aftermarket revenue stream over the operating life of the equipment which is typically 30 to 40 years for fans.
Generally, During 2010, Howden achieved revenue and adjusted operating profit of 562.0 million and 67.8 million 2009: a piece of equipment starts to generate meaningful aftermarket revenues some four to six years after its installation.
The 627.8 million and 71.5 million, representing decreases of 10.5 and 5.2 per cent respectively.
prospects for Howdens aftermarket business in China, where significant amounts of new equipment have been installed in The adjusted operating margin was 12.1 per cent 2009: recent years, are seen as being particularly strong.
11.4 per cent, an increase of 0.7 percentage points.
Aftermarket services are provided by Howden to the equipment During 2010, the decline in Howdens revenue was due to operator usually an electricity utility in the case of the power lower sales of new equipment, which fell by 18 per cent to industry.
Whilst there is generally no contractual obligation on 358 million, reflecting the lower order book at the start of the operator to employ Howden to provide aftermarket services the year.
Aftermarket revenues increased by 8 per cent to on equipment which it originally supplied, Howden believes 204 million, and as such represented 36 per cent of that it is able to optimise the long-term performance of Howdens total revenue.
There was a small impact on equipment which it continues to service.
Howden also revenue from currency factors.
provides aftermarket services on equipment supplied by other manufacturers.
Revenue bridge Competitive environment 700 Howden is the worlds leading supplier of engineered fans to 600 the power and other specialised markets that it serves.
It is the 500 only truly global company in the industry, with its competitors 400 tending to be regionally based.
The strength of its market 300 position is based on the accumulated technical expertise 200 which it has built up over many years, which is reected in 100 the strength of its brand, and also the cost-effectiveness of 0 its product offering and its customer service.
In addition to its 2009 2010 strong global position, Howden is one of three market leaders New equipment Aftermarket in China, where it has been established for many years.
Exchange Howdens participation in the compressor industry is built A full analysis and review of Howdens performance is set out in around strong positions in a number of specialised niches, the Chief Executives report.
including being one of the five leading worldwide suppliers of process gas screw compressors for use in the oil and gas industry.
Howdens share of the aftermarket varies between regions.
In some locations, such as the United Kingdom and Southern Africa, where Howden supplied a high proportion of the original equipment, and Australia, where recent new build activity has been low, its share is relatively high.
In China, Howden is aiming to capture a significant proportion of aftermarket business on the equipment it has installed in recent years.
Charter International plc 23 Annual Report 2010
