32 Corporate governance Directors and corporate information Peter C F Hickson Dr David J Price CBE Paul A Rayner FCA David R Evans CEng CSci Non-Executive Chairman Chief Executive Finance Director Non-Executive Director Joined the Group as a Joined the Group in Joined the Group in June 1994 Joined the Group in 1987 non-executive director April 2005 as Chief Executive.
and acted as Finance Director to as Managing Director of the on 1 July 2010 and was Formerly Managing Director, several Group companies before Countermeasures business and appointed Chairman of the Naval Marine at Rolls-Royce plc being appointed to the Board appointed to the Board in 1988.
Board on 1 October 2010. and Managing Director of in August 1999.
Formerly a He took up his current position Currently Chairman of Thomson UK Holdings Ltd Senior Audit Manager with as a non-executive director in Communisis plc, Senior now part of the Thales Group.
April 2005, after stepping down Independent Director of Fellow of the Institute of as Chief Executive, a position he Aged 49.
London & Continental Railways Engineering & Technology had held since January 1999.
Ltd and a non-executive and the Institute of Marine Managing Director of the director of Kazakhymys PLC.
Engineering, Science & Marconi torpedo business prior He has had senior management Technology.
Member of the to joining the Group.
Currently experience with a number of Defence Industries Council, a non-executive director of large international companies and appointed member of Avon Rubber plc.
Previously and previous appointments the Council for Southampton a non-executive director of include Chairman of Anglian University in 2010.
Water Group, Finance Director of Aged 55.
Powergen plc and non-executive directorships of Scottish Power plc, Marconi Corporation plc and RAC plc.
He is also a trustee and Board member of Orbis Charitable Trust, the international sight saving charity, and a Fellow of the Institute of Chartered Accountants.
Headquarters and Registrars Computershare Investor registered office Services PLC Chemring House, 1500 Parkway, The Pavilions Whiteley, Fareham, Hampshire Bridgwater Road PO15 7AF, England Bristol BS13 8AE Tel: 44 1489 881880 Fax: 44 1489 881123 Website: www.
co. uk Registration number 86662 Chemring Group PLC Report and Accounts 2010 Business overview Corporate governance Financial statements Other information 33 The Rt Hon Ian F R Much Air Marshal Sarah Ellard FCIS Lord Freeman Sir Peter Norriss KBE CB AFC MA FRAeS Non-Executive Director Non-Executive Director Non-Executive Director Company Secretary Joined the Group as a Joined the Group as a Joined the Group as a non-executive director in non-executive director non-executive director May 2006.
Chairman of the in December 2004. in May 2004.
Currently a Senior Independent Director Consultant to Tessella plc and Consultant formerly Partner and Chairman of the a Senior Adviser to Newton.
He is also a member of major Chairman of Thales UK Advisory Previous appointments include programme review teams Board and a non-executive Chief Executive of fide La Rue plc for the Office of Government director of Savile Group PLC.
and T&N plc, and non-executive Commerce and an adviser He is also on the main Board of director of Admiral plc, or court member at four Thales S. A. France.
Partner with Camelot plc, Manchester universities.
Formerly Deputy Lehman Brothers Investment United plc and Simplyhealth Chief of Defence Procurement Bankers between 1969 and Group Ltd.
Member of Parliament non-executive director Aircraft on the Air Force Board.
Made a Privy of Senior plc and BTG plc.
Past President of the Royal Councillor in 1993.
Membership of Board committees during year: Audit, Remuneration, Nomination Chemring Group PLC Report and Accounts 2010
