12 Business overview Countermeasures The year end order book for the Countermeasures division was 265.4 million, up 14% on the previous year.
This growth is dominated by the order book for decoys used on fast-jet aircraft, which rose 44% compared to 2009. bolstered by $105 million of multi-year Strategy Highlights in 2010 orders for the flare sets used to protect the The core strategy for our Countermeasures Revenue increased by 7% to B-52 and F-22 aircraft.
A further $50 million division is to maintain our share of the 196.3 million of order book is for the M212 spectral flare.
expendable countermeasures market and to Kilgore Flares order book increased expand the business in line with the market, Activities during the year by 95% to 115.8 million which is expected to grow steadily over the Kilgore Flares, one of our US subsidiaries, next ten to fifteen years.
We will invest in Sales of decoys for helicopters had an encouraging year, with revenue up new products and technologies that build on and transport aircraft rose 6% to 17% to a new record on steady production our current leadership in special materials, 87 million volumes of around 1.1 million flares.
This was spectral and thrusted flare technologies.
principally driven by 24% growth in demand Revenue from naval countermeasures We will also invest significantly in both for fast-jet flares and, in particular, by a grew by 70% to 17 million decoy and launcher technologies for the 120% increase in the volume of advanced naval market, which we expect to grow Kilgore Flares revenue rose by 17% flares delivered on the F-22 and Joint Strike rapidly in the future.
The acquisition of Roke to a new record on steady production Fighter JSF programmes.
Development of has enhanced our capabilities in advanced volumes of around 1.1 million flares the JSF flare set was completed during the electronics and sensor systems, and we year and low rate initial production has now Key information will exploit this capability by developing started.
Production volumes are expected electronic countermeasures for air, sea Orders to gently increase over the next few years and land applications.
We will continue to before the transition to volume production invest in new fully automated production from 2014 onwards.
219.2m facilities that will improve operator safety and significantly enhance our operational On 14 September 2010, there was a serious Revenue incident at Kilgore within a specialist efficiency, and we will maintain our lead role in the development of new products for the assembly facility that undertakes the final 196.3m next generation of fixed-wing and rotary assembly on the MJU-7 flare that protects the F-16 and a number of other aircraft.
aircraft, naval ships and land forces.
Operating profit Three of our employees sustained serious Analysis injury and our investigations have identified a 58.8m The market in expendable countermeasures number of safety improvements that we have is estimated to be 390 million.
In 2010, our implemented across the site.
The incident is Operating margin revenue was 196.3 million, 7% higher than still under investigation by the US regulatory the previous year and equating to a market authorities.
There was substantial damage 30% share of just over 50%.
Sales of decoys used to the facility and it will be several months on fast-jets increased slightly to 91 million, before it can be returned to operation.
with increased demand at Kilgore offset by The restart of all other production lines was reduced demand elsewhere.
Sales of decoys reviewed and a number of important safety for helicopters and transport aircraft, whose improvements implemented.
This took usage is more closely linked to peacekeeping several months to complete and resulted in activities, rose 6% to 87 million, driven by about 7 million of revenue being delayed increased demand from the US Air Force.
from 2010 to 2011, which would have added Revenue from naval countermeasures grew another 15% to Kilgores full year revenue.
by 70% to 17 million, driven by an increase Our other US subsidiary, Alloy Surfaces, in Royal Navy requirements.
had a satisfactory year with stable revenue The year end order book for the generated from production volumes of Countermeasures division was just under 1.9 million decoys, 5% lower 265.4 million, up 14% on the previous than the previous year.
This was in spite of year, and should be considered a positive growth in demand for MJU-50 decoys that indicator of further steady growth in 2011. are principally used by the US Air Force on This growth is dominated by the order book transport aircraft.
This growth was linked for decoys used on fast-jet aircraft, which to a specific stockpile requirement and the rose 44% compared to 2009.
The order demand is expected to drop back to normal book for Kilgore, in particular, increased levels from 2011 onwards.
$60 million of new by 95% to a record level of $186 million, multi-year contracts were awarded during Chemring Group PLC Report and Accounts 2010 Business overview Corporate governance Financial statements Other information 13 Dispensing flares F-22 Raptor aircraft deploys flares.
the year, one by the US Navy for decoys to Significant interest has also been shown in Our products support their fast-jet and helicopter fleet, the system by overseas customers and we Air countermeasures and one from the UK Royal Air Force to estimate that there could be a global market Conventional and advanced flares support their combat aircraft.
of 500 systems over the next ten years.
Special material decoys Good progress was made during the year on Our business units and companies the development of a next generation flare Chaff Alloy Surfaces Company, Inc. USA solution for the protection of helicopters.
Naval countermeasures A new covert decoy underwent a number The worlds only manufacturer of special material decoys for the US Department of trials with the US Army and the results, RF decoys of Defense and militaries world wide.
to date, have been very encouraging.
IR decoys Alloys patented technology employs The US Army is currently planning to run a pyrophoric materials to decoy attacking competition for its next generation decoy Naval decoy launchers in 2011 and Alloy Surfaces special material enemy missiles.
Land EW solution is believed to be a strong candidate.
Chemring Australia Pty Ltd Electronic intelligence equipment Chemring Countermeasures, our UK Australias leading manufacturer and subsidiary, also had a good year with stable Electronic countermeasures supplier of military countermeasures.
overall revenue, with aircraft flare volumes 10% lower at 350,000 units, and revenue Chemring Countermeasures Ltd UK from naval countermeasures up 95% to A world leader in the design, development a new record level.
The reduction in flare and manufacture of advanced expendable volumes was directly related to three months countermeasures for air and sea platforms, of lost production of spectral flares caused and is also developing next generation by the oven fire at our site in Salisbury in launchers for deploying naval decoys.
The demand for Typhoon flares Kilgore Flares Company LLC USA did not increase by as much as we expected, as many of the European nations delayed Kilgore Flares develops and produces placing orders as a consequence of budget airborne expendable IR countermeasure reviews that have been undertaken to solve decoys and IR naval decoys.
The large numbers Roke Manor Research Ltd UK of Typhoon aircraft scheduled for delivery to customers over the next few years continues A world-class developer of electronic to represent a future growth opportunity.
countermeasures, electronic intelligence and threat detection technologies.
The UK market was a major component of the growth in the naval countermeasures business in 2010, with significant deliveries of both infra-red and chaff decoy rounds.
Orders to the value of 24 million were awarded, including the full development of an advanced technology decoy, which is expected to start production in 2011.
However, to make full use of the latest variable range technology, we have developed a new launcher system that will significantly enhance the performance of the decoys against a wide range of threats.
The new launcher is called Centurion, and a prototype version has recently been demonstrated to the UK Ministry of Defence in live firing trials involving a range of different types of decoy.
The performance demonstration was a success and there is considerable interest in qualifying the launcher for use on the Type 45 Destroyer.
Chemring Group PLC Report and Accounts 2010
