34 Corporate governance Directors Report for the year ended 31 October 2010 The directors present their annual report, together with the Substantial shareholdings audited financial statements of the Group and the Company for At 17 January 2011 the following substantial holdings in the ordinary the year ended 31 October 2010. share capital of the Company had been notified to the Company in accordance with Chapter 5 of the Disclosure and Transparency Principal activities Rules of the Financial Services Authority: The principal activities of the Group are the design, manufacture Name % Interest and sale of countermeasures, counter-IED equipment, pyrotechnics and munitions.
Invesco Limited 19.15 Old Mutual Asset Managers 5.13 Business review Ameriprise Financial, Inc. 5.07 The Statement by the Chairman, the Review by the Chief Executive and the Review by the Finance Director, together with the sections JP Morgan Chase & Co. 4.94 of the annual report on each of the business segments, key AXA S. A. and its group of companies 4.84 performance indicators and principal risks, and the Corporate Standard Life Investments Ltd 4.57 Responsibility Review on pages 4 to 33, provide a review of the Legal and General Group PLC 3.97 Groups business development, performance and position during and at the end of the financial year: its strategy and likely future BT Pension Scheme Trustees Ltd as Trustees of the development: key performance indicators: and a description BT Pension Scheme 3.84 of the principal risks and uncertainties facing the business.
Further information regarding financial risk management policies Employees and financial instruments is given in Note 24 of the financial Details of the Groups employment policies are set out in the statements.
Details of significant events since the balance sheet Corporate Responsibility Review on page 29. date are contained in Note 36 of the financial statements.
Charitable and political donations Results and dividends Charitable donations amounting to 98,400 2009: 61,200 were The profit attributable to the Groups shareholders for the year made during the year.
No political donations were made during the was 66.7 million 2009: 70.1 million.
The directors recommend year 2009: nil.
a final dividend of 42p per ordinary share, which together with the interim dividend of 17p per ordinary share paid in August 2010 gives Contractual arrangements a total for the year of 59p 2009: 50p.
The final dividend is subject The Group contracts with a wide range of customers, comprising to approval by shareholders at the Annual General Meeting on governments, armed forces, prime contractors and OEMs across the 24 March 2011, and accordingly has not been included as a liability globe.
The US Department of Defense is the largest single customer, in these financial statements.
and procures the Groups products under a significant number of separate contracts placed with individual Group businesses.
Directors and their interests The present directors are shown on pages 32 and 33.
The Groups businesses utilise many suppliers across the world, and arrangements are in place to ensure that businesses are not totally Mr P C F Hickson was appointed as a director on 1 July 2010.
He will reliant on single suppliers for key raw materials or components.
be seeking re-appointment under Article 87.1 of the Companys Articles of Association at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting.
Policy on payment of suppliers Mr Hickson does not have a service contract with the Company.
It is the policy of the Group that each of the Group companies In accordance with the Companys Articles of Association, all should agree appropriate terms and conditions for its transactions directors are required to submit themselves for re-election every with suppliers.
These will range from standard written terms to three years.
However, in order to ensure compliance with the revised individually negotiated contracts.
Creditor days of the Group as at UK Corporate Governance Code during the financial year ending 31 October 2010 amounted to 83 days 2009: 78 days.
31 October 2011, all directors will voluntarily submit themselves for re-election at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting.
The Chemring Group Performance Share Plan The non-executive directors do not have service contracts with the the PSP The following conditional awards were made under the PSP during Company.
Details of the service contracts between the Company and Dr Price and Mr Rayner are set out in the Directors Remuneration the year: Report on page 42.
Total number of Number of participants Date of award shares awarded receiving awards Mr K C Scobie retired as a director and Chairman of the Board on 20 January 2010 105,693 31 30 September 2010.
18 March 2010 5,115 2 None of the directors had a beneficial interest in any contract of Total 110,808 33 significance to which the Group was a party during the year ended 31 October 2010.
Information required as to directors shareholdings is set out in the Directors Remuneration Report.
Chemring Group PLC Report and Accounts 2010 Business overview Corporate governance Financial statements Other information 35 The Company is not aware of any agreements between shareholders The Chemring Group 2008 UK Sharesave Plan that may result in restrictions on the transfer of securities and or the UK Sharesave Plan voting rights.
On 30 July 2010 options were granted over 17,921 ordinary shares.
The Companys Articles of Association may only be amended by Options over 432 ordinary shares were exercised during the year special resolution at a general meeting of shareholders.
and options on 5,705 shares lapsed.
Additional information is set out in Note 31.
Issue of shares Under the provisions of section 551 of the Companies Act 2006 The Chemring Group 2008 US Stock Purchase the Act the Board is prevented from exercising its powers Plan the US Stock Purchase Plan under the Articles of Association the Articles to allot shares On 30 July 2010 options were granted over 11,227 ordinary shares.
without an authority in terms of the Act contained either in the Options over 2,387 ordinary shares were exercised during the year Articles or in a resolution of the shareholders in general meeting.
and options on 2,815 shares lapsed.
Additional information is set The authority, when given, can last for a maximum period of five out in Note 31. years, but the Board proposes that renewal should be sought at each Annual General Meeting.
Such proposal is set out as resolution Approach to share ownership 12 in the Notice of the Annual General Meeting.
The Group actively encourages its employees to share in the Section 561 of the Act requires that an allotment of shares for future success of the Group.
A third grant of options under cash may not be made unless the shares are first offered to existing the UK Sharesave Plan and the US Stock Purchase Plan, which shareholders on a pre-emptive basis in accordance with the terms were launched in 2008, took place during the year.
In accordance with general practice, to ensure that small considering the establishment of similar schemes for employees issues of shares can be made without the necessity of convening in Group companies outside of the UK and the USA.
a general meeting, the Board proposes that advantage be taken of the provisions of section 571 of the Act to not apply the Acts Share capital and shareholder rights pre-emptive requirements.
Accordingly, a special resolution set General out as resolution 14 in the Notice of Annual General Meeting will The Companys share capital consists of ordinary shares of be proposed which, if passed, will have the effect of granting the 5p each and preference shares of 1 each, which are fully paid up directors the power to allot not more than 5% of the present issued and quoted on the main market of the London Stock Exchange.
ordinary share capital free of the requirements of section 561 of the Full details of the movements in the issued share capital of the Act.
No issue of these shares will be made which would effectively Company during the financial year are provided in Note 27 of the alter the control of the Company without prior approval of the financial statements.
All holders of ordinary shares are entitled to attend, speak and Purchase of own shares vote at any general meeting of the Company and to appoint a During the year the Company purchased 126,880 2009: 78,301 proxy or proxies to exercise these rights.
At a general meeting, of its ordinary shares, and 100,011 2009: 115,170 ordinary shares every shareholder present in person, by proxy or in the case of a were distributed following vesting of awards under the Chemring corporate member by corporate representative has one vote on Group Performance Share Plan.
At 31 October 2010, the Company a show of hands, and on a poll has one vote for every share held.
held a total of 300,000 ordinary shares in treasury representing To decide who can attend or vote at a general meeting, the notice 0.8% of the ordinary shares in issue on 1 November 2010. of meeting can give a time, which must not be more than 48 hours All purchases of ordinary shares were by means of market before the meeting, by which shareholders must have been purchases through the London Stock Exchange.
Further details entered on the register in order to have the right to attend or vote can be found in Note 29 of the financial statements.
A special resolution set out as resolution 15 in the Notice of Annual If a shareholder has been properly served with notice under General Meeting will be proposed at the forthcoming Annual section 793 of the Companies Act 2006 requiring information about General Meeting, to renew the Companys authority to purchase its interests in shares, and has failed to supply such information within own shares in the market up to a limit of 10% of its issued ordinary fourteen days after the service of the notice, then the shareholder share capital.
The maximum and minimum prices are stated in the is not entitled to attend and vote at a shareholder meeting.
The directors believe that it is advantageous for the There are no restrictions on the transfer of ordinary shares in the Company to have this flexibility to make market purchases of its capital of the Company other than certain restrictions which may own shares.
The directors of the Company will consider holding from time to time be imposed by law, for example insider trading repurchased shares pursuant to the authority conferred by this law.
In accordance with the Listing Rules of the Financial Services resolution as treasury shares.
This will give the Company the ability Authority, certain employees are required to seek the approval of to re-issue treasury shares quickly and cost effectively and will the Company to deal in its shares.
provide the Company with additional flexibility in the management of its capital base.
Any issues of treasury shares for the purposes The cumulative preference shares carry an entitlement to a dividend of the Companys employee share schemes will be made within the at the rate of 7p per share per annum, payable in equal instalments 10% anti-dilution limit set by the Association of British Insurers.
on 30 April and 31 October each year.
Holders of the preference The directors will only exercise this authority if they are satisfied shares have the right on winding-up to receive, in priority to any that a purchase would result in an increase in expected earnings other classes of shares, the sum of 1 per share together with any per share and would be in the interests of shareholders generally.
Chemring Group PLC Report and Accounts 2010 36 Corporate governance Directors Report continued Statement of Directors Responsibilities Directors Responsibility Statement The directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Report We confirm that to the best of our knowledge: and the financial statements in accordance with applicable law the financial statements, prepared in accordance with the and regulations.
relevant financial reporting framework, give a true and fair view Company law requires the directors to prepare financial statements of the assets, liabilities, financial position and profit or loss of the for each financial year.
Under that law the directors are required Company and the undertakings included in the consolidation taken to prepare the Group financial statements in accordance with as a whole: and International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs as adopted by the Statement by the Chairman, the Review by the Chief Executive, the European Union and Article 4 of the IAS Regulation and have the Review by the Finance Director, together with the sections elected to prepare the parent company financial statements in of the annual report on each of the business segments, key accordance with United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting performance indicators and principal risks, and the Corporate Practice United Kingdom Accounting Standards and applicable Responsibility Review, which are cross-referred from the law.
Under company law the directors must not approve the Directors Report, include a fair review of the development and accounts unless they are satisfied that they give a true and fair performance of the business and the position of the Company view of the state of affairs of the Company and of the profit or loss and the undertakings included in the consolidation taken as of the Company for that period.
In preparing the parent company a whole, together with a description of the principal risks and financial statements, the directors are required to: uncertainties that they face.
select suitable accounting policies and then apply them consistently: Provision of information to auditors make judgments and accounting estimates that are reasonable Each of the directors at the date of approval of this report and prudent: confirms that: state whether applicable UK Accounting Standards have been so far as the director is aware, there is no relevant audit followed, subject to any material departures disclosed and information of which the Companys auditors are unaware: and explained in the financial statements: and the director has taken all the steps that he ought to have taken prepare the financial statements on the going concern basis as a director to make himself aware of any relevant audit unless it is inappropriate to presume that the Company will information and to establish that the Companys auditors are continue in business.
In preparing the Group financial statements, International This confirmation is given and should be interpreted in accordance Accounting Standard 1 requires that directors: with the provisions of section 418 of the Companies Act 2006. properly select and apply accounting policies: Close company provisions present information, including accounting policies, in a As far as the directors are aware, the close company provisions of manner that provides relevant, reliable, comparable and the Taxes Acts do not apply to the Group nor has there been any understandable information: change in that respect since 31 October 2010. provide additional disclosures when compliance with the Auditors specific requirements in IFRSs are insufficient to enable users A resolution to re-appoint Deloitte LLP as auditors will be proposed to understand the impact of particular transactions, other at the Annual General Meeting.
events and conditions on the entitys financial position and financial performance: and Annual General Meeting make an assessment of the Companys ability to continue as The resolutions to be proposed at the Annual General Meeting a going concern.
to be held on 24 March 2011, together with explanatory notes, appear in the separate Notice of Annual General Meeting sent The directors are responsible for keeping adequate accounting to all shareholders.
records that are sufficient to show and explain the Companys transactions and disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the Approved by the Board of Directors on 18 January 2011 financial position of the company and enable them to ensure that the Signed on behalf of the Board financial statements comply with the Companies Act 2006.
They are S L Ellard also responsible for safeguarding the assets of the Company and Company Secretary hence for taking reasonable steps for the prevention and detection of fraud and other irregularities.
The directors are responsible for the maintenance and integrity of the corporate and financial information included on the Companys website.
Legislation in the United Kingdom governing the preparation and dissemination of financial statements may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
Chemring Group PLC Report and Accounts 2010
