14 Business overview Counter Improvised Explosive Device IED Our revenue in 2010 was 114.9 million, 88% higher than the previous year.
customers on the performance of the system Strategy Highlights in 2010 has been very positive and has confirmed Our strategy is to become the world leader Sales of our detection products were that it makes an important contribution to in the global counter-IED market with high 102 million, 124% higher than last year the safety of coalition forces.
To meet the technology products to detect, disable and increased demand, an additional production The closing order book for Counter-IED defeat the threat posed by either buried facility was brought into operation, raising was 99.3 million, up 169% on 2009 or surface IEDs.
We will invest in advanced the monthly production rate to over twenty sensor technology for the detection of NIITEK delivered 107 HMDS ground HMDS units.
Revenues did, therefore, grow by explosive, biological, chemical and nuclear penetrating radars to the US and 124% compared with the previous year.
threats, as well the data fusion necessary Canadian Armies for high reliability for multi-sensor integration.
We will develop In August 2010, the US Army placed a new route clearance in support of wide-band adaptive jamming capabilities production contract, worth $217 million, on peacekeeping operations to disable remotely controlled devices, our US subsidiary, NIITEK, for the supply Roke acquisition provides us with a advanced technology disrupters and the of 76 HMDS, together with the necessary wide range of technologies that will full range of demolition stores needed spares, in-country maintenance and training.
enhance our opportunities in the to defeat them.
We will also enhance our A contract for a further 64 systems has counter-IED market recently been placed, covering both the secure coded, frequency agile initiation systems needed to reliably control this US Army and US Marine Corps requirements Key information for 2011.
This contract will take the process.
Further acquisitions, focused on New orders number of delivered systems above 240. complementary technologies to expand our capabilities, also constitute an important The US Army intends to place a multi-year, sustainment contract for the support of 178.5m element of our counter-IED strategy.
these systems, which is expected to be Revenue Analysis worth in excess of $60 million per annum, The global market for counter-IED equipment and will provide the necessary funding to is estimated to be 3 billion.
Our revenue in 114.9m maintain the sixty support staff that are 2010 was 114.9 million, 88% higher than the currently located at forward operating Operating profit previous year and equating to a market share bases.
Sales of our detection products were product is expected to be competitively 102 million, 124% higher than last year, procured in the second half of 2012.
28.1m principally driven by the demand from the The number of countries showing interest Operating margin US Army for the Husky Mounted Detection in acquiring HMDS continues to grow, with System HMDS ground penetrating Italy, France, Turkey, India and Australia all 25% radar.
Revenue from our Defeat products carefully evaluating its performance.
A new was 12 million, lower than last year and hand-held system, with multiple sensors, reflecting the delayed order intake from is under development and initial trials with European customers.
the US Army have been very encouraging.
The closing order book for Counter-IED was Our UK subsidiary, Chemring EOD, supplies 99.3 million, up 169% on 2009, and a clear another advanced detection system, called indicator of continued revenue growth in VehicleScan, that is used to identify 2011.
The availability of qualified demolition IED packages under vehicles and trains.
stores product with Insensitive Munitions IM The system has been used for stadium characteristics in 2011 is also expected to security at the 2010 World Cup in South enhance this years prospects.
Africa, the F1 Grand Prix in the UAE and the G20 conference in Seoul.
A large number Activities during the year of the systems are under consideration for Detect installation at the 2012 Olympics in London.
The detection of IEDs continued to dominate Phase 2 of the pilot trials of VehicleScan the activities of our Counter-IED division for railway systems will start in the next during the year, and resulted in the delivery few months on the New York subway.
of 107 HMDS ground penetrating radars A successful demonstration should qualify to the US and Canadian Armies for high the system for all Federal-funded rail reliability route clearance in support of networks, including subways, in the USA.
Feedback from Chemring Group PLC Report and Accounts 2010 Business overview Corporate governance Financial statements Other information 15 Threat detection Husky Mounted Detection System HMDS with VISOR 2500 Defeat Our business units and companies Our products Demolition stores, which are used to destroy Chemring Energetics UK Ltd Detect suspect packages or unwanted ordnance Specialises in the design and Vehicle-mounted detection systems and for forced entry into buildings, are manufacture of energetic materials, another important product range for the Stand-off IED detectors detonators, and demolition stores.
Chemring Energetics is currently Remote IED inspection equipment developing a suite of products, such as Chemring EOD Ltd UK the SABREX flexible linear cutting charge, Under-vehicle surveillance systems Manufactures a range of products the Bangalore Torpedo and plastic sheet Disable for detection, assessment and explosive, which all have IM explosive neutralisation of explosive threats characteristics.
These products will shortly Electronic countermeasures from improvised explosive devices complete qualification with the UK Ministry Defeat and unexploded ordnance.
of Defence and are expected to start production in 2011.
Strong interest from Remote initiators Non-Intrusive Inspection Technology, European and Far Eastern countries has Inc. USA Detonators already been evident and this should provide The leading manufacturer of Explosive charges strong export opportunities for the future.
vehicle-mounted ground penetrating Minefield clearance systems The remote initiation of disrupters and radar mine detection systems.
explosives is also a key capability for the Recoilless fide-armers disrupters Roke Manor Research Ltd UK Group, and we continue to see a steady market for our BREACH secure-coded A world-class developer of electronic RF initiation system.
A derivative, called the countermeasures, electronic intelligence Forced Rapid Entry Device FRED, that better and threat detection technologies.
meets the needs of Special Forces has been Chemring Defence Europe developed, and there is considerable interest in its application to Remote Operating Vehicle Manufactures Portable Explosive counter-IED operation.
Minefield Breaching Systems PEMBS and distributes other Disable demolition products.
Our recent acquisition of UK-based Roke provides us with a wide range of technologies that will enhance our opportunities in the counter-IED market.
Their wide-band technology is a key component in UK jamming systems that are used to counter remote initiation.
They also provide detection sensors across the full range of the electro-magnetic spectrum for close-range and stand-off applications.
They have substantial data fusion and network enabled capabilities to support distributed operation.
Defeat the Network Roke also produces a range of technologies for cyber warfare, including the Vanguard system that provides a scalable modular lawful intercept product that is deployed on five continents.
A new generation system is currently under development and will be launched into the market in 2011.
Chemring Group PLC Report and Accounts 2010
