10 Business overview Our strategy Leafield BDL Nobel High Nobel Energetics Engineering Systems Energy Materials UK UK UK Norway 2005 2006 2007 Comet Technical Simmel Difesa Richmond EEI Germany Ordnance Italy UK USA Group strategy Vision The Group strategy remains focused on our four market segments Countermeasures, Counter-IED, Pyrotechnics and Munitions.
Our vision is to be the leading producer of With the growing importance of electronics throughout our protection systems and energetic products business, we have extended our future vision statement to include a broader definition of protection systems, including electronic for the global defence market countermeasures and IED detection systems.
Our core strategy over the next five years looks to develop our four Countermeasures Counter-IED key core competencies: Maintain market share Establish technological Energetic materials We will focus the business on products leadership Exploit lead in special where we can exploit our extensive knowledge and expertise in material, spectral and Become the world leader explosive, pyrotechnic and pyrophoric materials.
We will address thrusted flares in IED detection and niche, highly profitable markets with significant value-added neutralisation manufacture assembly where barriers to entry are high.
We will Invest in new exploit the commonality of technology and design expertise to automated production Maintain technological generate a broad centre-of-expertise that can be maintained facilities lead in GPR and over the long term future.
counter-IED jamming Develop a market lead in High reliability and integrity The nature of our products requires naval decoys and launchers Develop a strong position the highest levels of safety in manufacture and use, and in demilitarisation services reliability, particularly when their correct operation is life critical, as in ejection seats or IED detection.
Manufacturing and product Pyrotechnics Munitions safety must be one of our highest priorities if we are to sustain our position and become leader in the field.
Displace weak competitors Partner prime contractors High volume manufacturing We currently manufacture Consolidate the market Develop position as IR flares, pyrotechnics, high-explosive pellets, impulse cartridges through acquisition preferred supplier of and detonators in significant quantities and have built up strong energetic materials to Extend lead in niche expertise in automated manufacturing.
Our strategy is to key prime contractors technologies consolidate manufacturing centres, where possible, to produce Develop position as a niche high volumes.
Expertise in automation and flexible manufacture Develop capability in prime contractor will drive down our cost base and maintain competitive advantage.
space applications Maintain position as the Growing dependence on electronics We recognise that a growing world market leader in proportion of our business, either directly or indirectly, is dependent naval ammunition on electronics, from IED detection and jamming through to pyrotechnic delays, advanced fuzing and active expendable decoys.
Maintain Establish Displace Partner Geographic strategy market technology weak prime Our geographic strategy has five components: share leadership competitors contractors Maintain a geographic footprint which reflects the balance of global defence spending.
Manufacture in the USA for the US market and in Europe for the European market.
Use our excellent worldwide sales network to export both the Groups and third parties products to global markets from both Europe and the USA.
Establish local manufacturing facilities in countries where it provides competitive advantage.
Increase our regional marketing presence in the Far East and the Middle East.
Countermeasures Counter-IED Pyrotechnics Munitions Chemring Group PLC Report and Accounts 2010 Business overview Corporate governance Financial statements Other information 11 Acquisition timeline 20052010 Titan Dynamics Martin Chemring Roke Manor Systems Electronics Fuze Technology Research USA USA Italy UK 2008 2009 Scot NIITEK Hi-Shear Mecar USA USA USA Belgium & USA Strengths and resources Acquisition strategy The Group has core competencies in the design and manufacture Acquisitions have been an important element of the recent of energetic materials: the development of highly reliable and safe growth of the business.
The successful completion of seventeen products: high volume manufacturing: and specialist electronics.
acquisitions over the last five years has contributed directly to the overall growth of the Group, and has broadened our capabilities.
Market position and reputation The Group is the worlds leading manufacturer of countermeasure Components of Group revenue growth 20052010 decoys, with over 50% market share.
We are currently 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 leading the field in the development and manufacture of 700 advanced countermeasures.
51m 597m 600 In the counter-IED market, we are the leading supplier of vehicle 224m mounted ground penetrating radar detection systems to the US Army: a recognised UK leader in detection and jamming 500 technologies: and a prominent player in explosive ordnance disposal equipment and consumables.
400 201m In our Pyrotechnics segment, we are an expert manufacturer of 300 products containing energetic materials and we are developing a prominent position in several niche market areas, including 200 screening and illumination pyrotechnics, satellite separation systems, and aircrew egress components.
121m 100 In our Munitions segment, we have successful and long-standing relationships with many of the worlds leading missile and 0 ammunition suppliers, and as a niche prime contractor, we are a 2005 Organic Acquisitive Foreign 2010 leader in naval ammunition and specialist ammunition for light exchange armoured vehicles LAVs.
Our strategy for acquisitions is to continue to target opportunities Customer relationships which add capability, technology and market access.
We will exploit The Group has an extensive customer base, comprising synergies from such acquisitions by creating centres of excellence, governments, armed forces, prime contractors and OEMs across investing in new products and promoting our products though our the globe.
We have an extensive distribution network and our worldwide channels to market.
businesses currently supply to over eighty countries worldwide.
We intend to maintain a balance of acquisition investment across Manufacturing operations Counter-IED, Pyrotechnics and Munitions, and between Europe and The Group continues to benefit from efficiency improvements the USA.
achieved through automation and rationalisation of manufacturing across the Group, and we have an ongoing investment plan for new Our acquisition investments over the last five years can be analysed plants and technologies.
as follows: Solid financial base Total investment in acquisitions 20052010 The Group enjoys healthy operating margins across its businesses.
Our focus on working capital management in recent years has manifested itself in excellent cash conversion and produced a sound balance sheet for the Group.
Management Management resource and expertise have been strengthened at all levels across the Group during recent years, and we continue to develop our operational skills to ensure that we remain a world class manufacturer.
Geographical spread Business activity UK 25% Pyrotechnics 43% Europe 24% Munitions 34% USA 51% Counter-IED 16% Countermeasures 7% Chemring Group PLC Report and Accounts 2010 million
