16 Business overview Pyrotechnics We were awarded a multi-year contract, worth over 40 million, which included the supply of the compact smoke grenade, newly qualified by the UK Ministry of Defence.
The UK Army Strategy Highlights in 2010 had accelerated deliveries of 81mm mortar Our strategy is to become the world A multi-year contract, worth up to pyrotechnic rounds in 2009 to ensure leader in pyrotechnics, through focused $75 million, was awarded to the Group security of supply and, in 2010, the volumes investment in new products that displace in May 2010 for our BES launchers reduced down, as expected, to their long existing incumbents and which better meet term sustainable requirement.
However, to Demand for our 40mm pyrotechnic our customers requirements.
We intend to augment the UK capability, we developed a rounds continued to grow in the USA, expand our activities in the space sector black light payload for the BAE Systems with revenue up 22% compared with by developing improved products for Bofors 105mm ammunition over a very the previous year initiation, stage separation, satellite and short period, and the first production units sub-system deployment for military and We successfully demonstrated the have been delivered for use in peacekeeping commercial customers.
This will address the 38mm Multiple Effects Rocket System operations.
Two air-launched black light US, European and emerging international MERS, which can operate up to 1,000 products are also under development for US markets.
We intend to expand our safety metres, to a number of UK, US and and European applications, and qualification systems activities, both in aircraft and other international customers of these products is expected to begin in 2011.
Mine Resistant Ambush Protected MRAP Growth in safety systems and space vehicles.
We also intend to consolidate A new compact smoke grenade completed product sales the market through carefully selected development during the year and was acquisitions in both Europe and the USA.
qualified by the UK Ministry of Defence.
Key information A multi-year contract, worth over New orders Analysis 40 million, which included the supply of this The global market for pyrotechnics is new grenade, was awarded in March 2010. currently estimated to be 1.6 billion.
Production was increased rapidly in the 181.4m Our revenue in 2010 was 170.0 million, second half of the year and reached its Revenue which is slightly lower than the previous maximum capacity of 150,000 units per year and represents a market share of month.
Sales of smoke and illumination automated assembly will be incorporated 170.0m products were 112 million, 7% lower than the in 2011.
We expect the export demand for Operating profit previous year, principally due to the timing this product to increase strongly.
of order intake from our UK and European Demand for our 40mm pyrotechnic rounds customers.
Sales of training and simulation 40.1m continued to grow in the USA, with revenue products were 16 million, substantially down up 22% compared with the previous year.
Operating margin on the previous year, reflecting reduced US Production of the M992 black light production levels due to the timing of product round commenced during the year and improvement and manufacturing transfer.
24% the volumes are expected to quadruple These were compensated for by growth in over the next few years.
Production of the safety systems and space products sales of M661 green parachute round also started, 34 million and 8 million respectively.
and we expect to begin manufacture of the The closing order book was 171.9 million, M662 red parachute round in 2011. similar to the previous year, providing a clear Training indication of the stable outlook for 2011.
The US Army changed the design of the The resumption of volume production in the M67 hand grenade, to include a confidence USA of training grenades and Battlefield clip that prevents accidental arming of the Effects Simulations BES cartridges should product.
This modification was incorporated lead to a recovery in that part of the market, into the design of the M228 training and the growing order book for safety grenade during the year and implemented systems and space should ensure growth into the automated manufacturing process.
This implementation took far longer than Activities during the year expected and production has only just Smoke and illumination returned to the 20 units per minute rate Deliveries of black light and conventional that is necessary to meet the US Armys illumination mortar rounds remained fairly delivery requirements.
Production volumes stable throughout the year, with reductions in 2010 did, therefore, drop to very low in UK deliveries offset by the requirements volumes whilst line qualification and factory Chemring Group PLC Report and Accounts 2010 Business overview Corporate governance Financial statements Other information 17 Enabling safe ejection Detonation of twin seat Hawk trainer aircrafts rear canopy taken from high-speed video of a trial.
This will The first production orders have also been Our products recover in 2011. received for the Joint Combined Aircraft Space and satellite launch Systems Testers JCAST, that are used At the beginning of 2010, we took the Initiators to test oxygen systems, helmets, noise decision to close our Titan Dynamics reduction headsets and chemical defence Separation sub-systems Systems facility in Marshall, Texas, and systems on F-16 and F-22 aircraft.
to transfer the manufacturing of BES Thrusters and actuators launchers to Chicago and the cartridges to Our business units and companies Training Florida.
The US Army took the opportunity Chemring Australia Pty Ltd to upgrade the products, including both Pyrotechnics and launchers Supplies a range of pyrotechnics, military the M34 hostile fire and M35 target hit Smoke and illumination training and marine safety products.
The upgrade and the factory acceptance testing were completed but no Military smokes, flares and rockets Chemring Defence Europe production of cartridges was possible by the Distraction and screening products Centre-of-excellence for the design, year end.
A multi-year contract, worth up to development and production of smoke and $75 million, was awarded to the Group in Pyrotechnic payloads illumination pyrotechnics and payloads for May 2010.
Commercial marine pyrotechnics military, OEM and safety customers.
A new shoulder-launched missile simulator, Safety systems based upon our standard lightweight gunnery Chemring Energetics UK Ltd simulation system, has been developed by Rocket motors A leading supplier of rocket motors, our European business, Chemring Defence.
canopy cutting cords and pyromechanisms Canopy cutting charges Trials of the product have recently been for safety and aircrew egress.
Cartridge actuated devices conducted for the US Army and a number Chemring Energetic Devices, Inc. USA of European nations.
The results were very positive and we expect a number of Supplier of pyrotechnic and customers to place orders for the system electromechanical systems for space, in 2011.
We successfully demonstrated the safety and military training applications.
38mm Multiple Effects Rocket System, which Chemring Marine Ltd UK can operate up to 1,000 metres, to a number of UK, US and other international customers The worlds leading supplier of marine and its black light and illumination payloads distress signals to commercial and will become available in 2011. leisure markets, under the brand names Pains Wessex and Comet.
We also had a number of successes in the European market during the year, with the Chemring Ordnance, Inc. USA selection of the Multiple Effects Cartridge Leading US manufacturer of military System MECS by the French Ministry of training pyrotechnics and pyrotechnic Defence for force-on-force training, and a rounds for 40mm grenade launchers.
contract from the French Army for a training simulator for the Portable Explosive Mine Hi-Shear Technology Corporation USA Breaching System PEMBS.
Leading supplier of space qualified Safety systems initiators and low shock satellite Military ejector seats continue to use separation systems, and a range of a large number of pyrotechnic devices pyromechanisms for aircrew egress.
for propulsion, controlled initiation and Simmel Difesa S. p. A. Italy sequencing.
We continue to be a major supplier of components and sub-systems Manufactures pyrotechnic visible and to the principal manufacturers of such infra-red illumination rounds for mortars.
In the UK, there has been a 25% increase in demand for propellant products.
In the USA, we have delivered a batch of leg restraint systems for the F-16 ejection system and have just finished qualification of the thermal battery for the F-22 system.
Chemring Group PLC Report and Accounts 2010 18 Business overview Munitions The year end order book for the Munitions division was 266.7 million, an increase of 126% on the previous year and a clear indication of further growth in 2011.
Strategy Activities during the year Highlights in 2010 Our principal strategy is to develop our Naval Order book improved with the position as a strategic supplier of energetic 76mm naval ammunition continued to be in Middle East growing by 207% material components and sub-systems to demand during the year, with strong interest Steady growth in component sales to the key prime contractors for ammunition from Europe, the Middle East, the Far East 54 million and missiles in Europe and the USA.
This will and South America.
A new insensitive be achieved by developing and qualifying explosive round for the French market Revenue from electronic safety and components for next generation weapon is under development and will complete arming systems for the Mk3 Patriot systems, displacing poorly performing qualification in 2011.
The training variant missile grew by 33% compared incumbents on legacy products, did finish qualification during 2010, and an to 2009 investment in automated manufacturing initial production contract was placed by Over 100% growth in order intake to facilities, and by further complementary the French Ministry of Defence.
As a niche prime contractor for the production of the operational we will build on our world leading position rounds is unlikely to occur until the latter Key information in naval ammunition, our strong position part of this calendar year.
New orders in ammunition for light armoured vehicles Land and our broad range of mortar and 40mm Our Italian subsidiary, Simmel Difesa, grenade products, through focused product 245.2m had an excellent year, with a substantial development and investment in new increase in the number of large calibre Revenue facilities that will allow us to expand our tank ammunition rounds sold to a variety presence in a growing international market.
$25 million of 125mm tank 115.9m ammunition was delivered to a Middle East Analysis customer and $10 million of 120mm tank Operating profit The global market for munitions components ammunition was supplied to a NATO is estimated to be 2 billion.
The first production order for revenue from components was 54 million, 20.9m 115mm tank ammunition was also awarded representing 47% of our total Munitions at the end of the year for delivery in 2011.
Operating margin revenue, an increase of 8% compared However, the strongest demand was for our with the previous year and equating to a 90mm ammunition, which is the standard market share of 3%.
The global market 18% round for the CMI Mk8 gun that is fitted to a for ammunition, excluding small calibre, is large number of light armoured vehicles.
Our total revenue in 2010 was 62 million, a 72% increase on Components and sub-systems last year and equating to a market share Interest in ballistic missile defence systems of 2%.
This growth was driven by the award continues to grow internationally, with of a number of multi-year contracts from many countries expressing concern about Middle East customers, which increased sales the threat from nuclear, biological or volumes by 270%.
Hi-Shears revenue from electronic safety and arming systems The year end order book for the Munitions for the Mk3 Patriot missile grew by 33% division was 266.7 million, an increase compared to 2009, and further growth over of 126% on the previous year and a clear the next few years is now expected.
indication of further growth in 2011.
The improvement in the order book was The new lead azide manufacturing facility well-distributed, with the Middle East was completed in South Dakota and a growing by 207%, the Far East by 127%, broad set of samples manufactured for Europe by 140% and the USA by 53%.
qualification testing by the US Army.
This should complete in 2011 and we expect to rapidly expand our production to cater for the growing demand for both military and commercial applications.
Chemring Group PLC Report and Accounts 2010 Business overview Corporate governance Financial statements Other information 19 Hi-Shear ESAF system Patriot Advanced Capability PAC-3 missile.
Our business units and companies Our products Chemring Energetics UK Ltd Naval ammunition A leading supplier of detonators, Medium and large calibre ammunition actuators, rocket motors, high explosive Land forces ammunition filling and pyromechanical sub-assemblies.
Medium and large calibre ammunition Chemring Energetic Devices, Inc. USA 40mm grenades Manufactures a range of materials, Mortar ammunition components and sub-systems for leading missile and ammunition prime contractors.
Components Chemring Military Products, Inc. USA Propellants and rocket motors Provides load, assemble, pack Fuze and safe arm units and procurement services to the Pyromechanisms and actuators US Government and prime contractors.
Energetic materials Chemring Nobel AS Norway Manufactures niche energetic materials with insensitive munitions IM characteristics for munition and oil-field applications.
Chemring Ordnance, Inc. USA Niche supplier of 40mm grenade ammunition.
Hi-Shear Technology Corporation USA Develops advanced sub-systems for ballistic missile defence and tactical weapons.
Mecar S. A. Belgium A niche supplier of medium and large calibre ammunition for light armoured vehicles.
Simmel Difesa S. p. A. Italy A leading supplier of naval ammunition, advanced fuzing technology and missile components.
Chemring Fuze Technology S. r. l. Italy Manufactures precision mechanical and electronic sub-systems.
Chemring Group PLC Report and Accounts 2010
