Business Review continued We have a large current storage customer base of approximately Property Risk 30,500 spread across the portfolio of open stores and many Big Yellows management has significant experience in the property thousands more who have used Big Yellow over the years.
In any industry generated over many years and in particular in acquiring month, customers move in and out at the margin resulting in property on main roads in high profile locations and obtaining changes in occupancy.
Despite the current environment, this has planning consents.
remained a seasonal business and typically one sees growth over We do take planning risk where necessary, although the more distressed the spring and the summer months, with the seasonally weaker property market will in our view provide more opportunity to buy periods being the winter months.
The table below illustrates the sites on a conditional basis.
The planning process remains difficult seasonality of the business with move-ins to the portfolio of wholly with some planning consents taking in excess of twelve months to owned stores that were open at 1 April 2009.
Twickenham opened achieve, although given we have planning consent on all bar one site, in May 2009. the risk to the Group has reduced significantly from prior years.
Year ended Year ended 31 March 31 March We manage the construction of our properties very tightly.
The Move-ins 2010 2009 building of each site is handled through a design and build contract, with the fit out project managed in-house using an established April to June 9,357 9,413 1% professional team of external advisors and sub-contractors who July to September 9,919 9,289 7% October to December 8,042 7,493 7% have worked with us for many years to our Big Yellow specification.
January to March 8,279 6,962 19% Treasury Risk Total 35,597 33,157 7% The Group borrows in sterling at floating rates of interest and uses swaps to hedge its interest rate exposure.
The Group has derivatives in place to This also illustrates the year on year activity level improvement ensure at least 50% of our bank borrowings are hedged, the balance in the current year for the last three quarters.
The performance in is left floating paying margin over LIBOR.
At 31 March 2010, we had fixed terms of occupancy, revenue and EBITDA of our stores can be seen rate swaps in place over 63% of our outstanding bank borrowings, from the Portfolio Summary on page 28. including hedging of at least 70% of the investment tranche of our senior debt facility, as required by our loan documentation.
The hedging expires The average length of stay in Big Yellows stores is also increasing.
in September 2015, two years beyond the expiry of the facility, thus At 31 March 2010 the average length of stay for existing customers providing interest rate risk mitigation when the facility is refinanced.
was 18.6 months: an increase from 18.0 months in the prior year.
For The Group does not hedge account its interest rate derivatives, all all customers, including those who have moved out of the business, movements in fair value are taken through the income statement.
the average length of stay has increased from 8.4 months to 8.5 months.
This translates into a loyal customer base.
In our 32 same The Group monitors compliance with its banking covenants closely.
store portfolio, 40% of our customers have been storing with us for During the year it complied with all its covenants, and is forecast to over three years.
A further 17% in these stores have been in the do so for the foreseeable future.
business for between one and three years.
Our portfolio is relatively high yielding and we believe a flexible That said, we have seen a small decline in the financial year of the approach to our hedging is appropriate for our strategic aims, given length of stay of customers who moved out during the year.
This fell to 8.1 months from 8.6 months in 2009, albeit that was a sizeable increase from 7.4 months in 2008.
This is consistent with Interest Cover and Balance Sheet Risk the improving demand from customers using the product for The Group reviews its current and forecast projections of cash flow, relatively short periods of time, linked in the main to house moves borrowing and interest cover as part of its monthly management and home improvements.
In addition, an analysis of the impact of significant transactions is carried out regularly, as well as a sensitivity analysis assuming movements in interest rates and occupancy in the stores on gearing and interest cover.
