Chairmans Statement continued We continue to innovate to improve the prospect and customer Property experience of Big Yellow.
In February 2009 we launched our new We have obtained planning consents on five stores since April 2009, website with fully integrated reservations online and have recently including at New Cross where we have recently had our planning introduced a pre check in process online for all customers who have appeal allowed.
We were also delighted to receive planning consent reserved.
We anticipate this will save 30% of time from the move-in on our proposed new purpose built 75,000 sq ft store in Chiswick process.
In addition, we now show on our website externally managed located on the A4 with very high visibility from the M4 flyover in west reviews for existing and past customers, using an online retail style London.
We now have consent on all of our pipeline stores with the star system.
Currently over 50% of our customer reviews have given exception of our site in central Manchester, where we are in detailed 5 stars out of 5 and the average rating is 4.6 out of 5 stars or 92% negotiations for the scheme with the City Council.
This demonstrates our commitment to very The six freehold stores in development with planning consents high levels of customer service, which has been at the centre of our consist of five prime sites in London Chiswick, Eltham, Enfield, core values since opening the first Big Yellow store in Richmond in Gypsy Corner and New Cross, and a prime site in central Guildford.
The capital expenditure that would be required to complete these six A table summarising the performance of these 51 directly owned stores, wholly owned development sites is approximately 44 million.
Our and the nine stores operating within Big Yellow Limited Partnership current intention is to build out these stores on a phased basis over over the year can be found in the portfolio summary on page 28. the next two years.
Although we did not make any site acquisitions in the current year Banking given the development pipeline, we continue to monitor selective Lloyds TSB Bank plc and HSBC Bank plc have joined our core banking site opportunities, with a focus on London.
syndicate during the year, taking 100 million and 25 million During the year we sold surplus land adjacent to our Twickenham store respectively of the 325 million facility.
I would like to thank them for a consideration of 3.2 million.
In addition we have agreed to sell for their support, and we look forward to developing our relationships our surplus site at Clapham North and have entered into an option further with them in the future.
agreement with a social housing developer.
A planning application is Big Yellow Limited Partnership The Partnership or shortly to be submitted on our site at Richmond for hotel use and we Joint Venture, or BYLP are in detailed lease negotiations with a national hotel operator.
In Our joint venture with Pramerica Real Estate Investors Limited is addition, we are in detailed negotiations, but no contract has been performing well.
Planning consents have been obtained on all the executed in respect of the sale of our land at Blackheath.
The Partnership has enjoyed considerable benefits from At 31 March the current carrying cost of the land surplus to our falling construction prices and interest costs, reducing the capital requirements is 20 million.
We currently expect proceeds from the requirements.
Nine of the 12 stores are now open with a further sale of these properties to at least match that figure.
It is too early to make a definitive judgement but initial trading performance of the stores in the Partnership has been relatively encouraging, with occupancy growth of 74,000 sq ft over the year, and net achieved rents increasing by 12% to 18.99 per sq ft. 06 OUR PRINCIPAL MEDIUM TERM OBJECTIVE REMAINS TO DRIVE CASH FLOW THROUGH IMPROVING THE OCCUPANCY OF THE GROUPS WHOLLY OWNED STORES FROM 56% TO 85%.
Sustainability Outlook Three years ago we appointed a Corporate Social Responsibility In the quarter to March we saw the start of the usual seasonal pick up, Manager to drive change in relation to how we construct and operate which was stronger than in 2009.
There is clearly a recovery under our stores, so as to reduce our impact on the environment.
We see way in the performance of this business evidenced by year on year environmental and social objectives as core values in our business, quarterly growth and the levels of reservations, phone calls and web which are increasingly scrutinised by all our stakeholders.
During enquiries coming into the business.
The pace of this recovery will to the year we were delighted to be ranked as the number one European some extent depend on continuing improvement in housing transactions real estate company in the Maastricht University Environmental and economic growth, which drives business and consumer confidence.
In an improving economic environment, with growing self storage The Group is a member of the FTSE4 Good Index series and has demand from businesses and consumers, we are confident that our previously engaged in the International Carbon Disclosure Project.
brand positioning, the prime locations of our purpose built stores and In January 2010, Big Yellow received certification for achieving the excellent levels of customer service, will deliver outperformance.
Our Carbon Trust Standard CTS, reducing carbon emissions across the principal medium term objective remains to drive cash flow through whole store portfolio and operations with an absolute reduction of improving the occupancy of the Groups wholly owned stores from 4.8% and a relative reduction to turnover of 7.8%.
The overhead structure in both the stores and head office required to achieve this is embedded and therefore the vast proportion Our People of new revenue falls through to operating profit and cash flow.
We are very pleased to have been ranked 25th in the Sunday Times Best 100 Companies to Work For list for 2010.
The results of this survey are testament to the Group not just talking about our work environment, but also actively doing something about it.
As we have consistently reported, the Big Yellow team has remained largely stable, both at Head Office and within the stores.
In 2009 we had our first ten year anniversary celebration for 17 valued employees, Nicholas Vetch and this year there are a further 12 reaching that milestone.
Never Chairman complacent on this issue however, we are constantly investing in 14 May 2010 our people, which we believe is reflected in the very pleasing ratings we have received in our online customer reviews.
I would like to take the opportunity of thanking all the people who work at Big Yellow for their continued efforts, loyalty and hard work which, at the risk of repetition, really does make the difference between success and failure in our business.
