Corporate Social Responsibility Report continued VERIFICATION STATEMENT Scope Upstream Sustainability Services, Jones Lang LaSalle has been appointed by Big Yellow Group PLC Big Yellow to conduct an independent verification of the Companys 2010 CSR Report, covering the period 1 April 2009 to 31 March 2010.
This statement is intended to provide Big Yellows stakeholders with assurance that the information contained within this report is accurate and reliable.
The objectives of the verification assignment are to: Provide limited assurance of selected report content, including all Key Performance Indicator KPI data for the year ended 31 March 2010 and a limited number of factual statements relating to the Companys CSR activities in the year ended 31 March 2010.
Test the underlying systems and processes that are in place for the gathering and analysis of selected information contained within this report.
This statement does not seek to provide a commentary on Big Yellows CSR policies, targets, performance or strategy, nor performance prior to the financial year ended 31 March 2010.
The limited scope of the verification statement means that it is not intended to be used as the basis for any decisions, including financial or investment decisions.
Methodology As part of this verification assignment, Jones Lang LaSalle undertook the following: A review of management reports and data spreadsheets produced in the period 1 April 2009 to 31 March 2010 by Big Yellow.
The purpose of this review was to verify the factual statements and KPI data included within the scope of this assignment.
As such, we have only verified data collection systems and processes.
We have not verified data or factual statements at source.
Interviewed the CSR Manager at Big Yellow to corroborate findings from management reports and data spreadsheets to build a picture of the underlying data collection systems and processes.
Findings and recommendations Based on the findings of this verification assignment, it is Jones Lang LaSalles opinion that: The KPI data and factual statements reviewed accurately reflect the data recorded by Big Yellow as part of standard management reporting and data collation processes for the CSR report.
The underlying management systems for recording KPI data across stores, fit out and construction activities appears to be sufficiently robust for reporting purposes.
In certain circumstances these systems could be improved to make the verification process more efficient and to make performance measurement more effective, particularly with regards to waste data.
Jones Lang LaSalle therefore recommends that Big Yellow develops more formal data capture and recording systems for waste KPIs in particular.
Declaration of independence The verification team assigned to this project do not have any involvement with Big Yellow and there are no conflicts of interest that would undermine the rigour of our conclusions.
Furthermore, the Upstream Sustainability Services business unit has no financial dependencies on Big Yellow beyond the scope of this engagement.
Abigail Dean Jonny McCaig Senior Consultant Consultant Dated: 14 May 2010 49
