Section 2: Operating review CHIEF EXECUTIVES REVIEW SERVING INTERNATIONAL MARKETS: ENERGY & INFRASTRUCTURE Chloride has continued to generate organic growth in its Energy & Infrastructure business by increasing market penetration across the world including the Middle East, North Africa and the Far East.
The acquisition of Custom Power in May 2009 provided a platform in the US Energy & Infrastructure market for the first time.
Theacquisitionof AEES extended Chlorides presence in this market in France and Russia and elsewhere, whilst the acquisition of EPS strengthened our presence in the growing rail market in the UK.
SERVING INTERNATIONAL MARKETS: COMPLETE SERVICE Chloride has continued to build a global sales & service network that enables us to support customers locally, with local people.
In this way we seek to build long-term relationships with our customers and to differentiate ourselves from our competitors through the breadth and quality of the service we offer.
14 CHLORIDE ANNUAL REPORT 2010 N N O O I I T T A A N N R R E E T T N N I I G G N N I I affected, including Healthcare up 9% 3% at CER.
Pleasingly, in the second half of the Chloride subsidiaries and ofces Chloride joint ventures year order intake showed encouraging signs Chloride Partners of improvement with a return to growth, and order books in this part of the business grew in the second half of the year.
This service provision is an In the UK our service business continued SERVICE NETWORK important part of the through-life solution to grow well and this helped offset a weak Chlorides global sales & service network is we provide to our customers and provides product market, affected particularly by the a competitive advantage, and we continued to us with resilient and secure future earnings.
 invest in the development of both the people .
TheEnergy and the network throughout the year.
We continue to develop and broaden our &, whichincludes the service offering, and service revenues from our Masterpower business in Scotland, has been We achieved another year of good growth Energy & Infrastructure business grew by 39% strengthened by the EPS acquisition and is with service revenues up 13% 8% at CER to as the service approach, historically associated developing well as a focused approach to this 124.8 million.
Service now accounts for 37% with the Commercial business, was applied market is deployed.
The acquisition of Malcolm 2009: 34% of total sales.
The service order to the Energy & Infrastructure market.
Power Systems in Scotland was completed book grew by 9% in total, the majority of at the start of the year, and in Ireland we which was organic.
We made two small SALES PERFORMANCE strengthened our market-leading position bolt-on acquisitions, both in the UK business WESTERN EUROPE with the acquisition of AES, a service provider, one in Ireland and one in Scotland, and Sales in Western Europe, which represent to complement the acquisition of PES which we will continue to make bolt-on service 55% of total sales 2009: 57%, fell by 1% we made in late 2008. acquisitions to support the development 5% at CER, which was better than the of the business.
market, and reects the strength of our market In France the commercial business held up position in Western Europe, particularly in well despite the economic environment, with High-quality, trusted service support, delivered service.
In this region the dominant effect was service sales continuing to grow.
Energy & by well-trained local staff is part of our focus weakness in the commercial business, caused Infrastructure benefited from the acquisition on customers.
It was particularly important, by weak economies, and this was only partly of AEES.
Based in Lyon, AEES is a leading given the economic situation, when customers offset by service growth and to a lesser extent player in this market with good presence in may have chosen to defer capital spending growth in Energy & Infrastructure where France as well as significant exposure to the whilst wishing to maintain the same level markets outside Western Europe provided Middle Eastern and Russian energy markets.
of uptime of their critical processes and more opportunity.
CHLORIDE ANNUAL REPORT 2010 15 V V R R E E S S S S T T E E K K R R A A M M L L A A N O I T A N R E T N I G N I Section 2: Operating review CHIEF EXECUTIVES REVIEW The severity of the weakness in the Spanish EASTERN EUROPE CER.
The global recession did affect Asia for economy was reected in our business where InEasternEurope, TurkeyandCentralAsia, which much of the year and this was reected in our sales were signicantly lower, though the accountsfor9%oftotalsales 2009:10%, sales underlying performance.
In Australia, which service business performed robustly in the were down by 3%.
A more aggressive total has a strong bias towards the financial sector, circumstances.
Whilst there are signs that solutions approach in Turkey, where we are product sales struggled though the service the situation has stabilised, the economys a market leader, resulted in growth of 12%, business held up well.
India suffered from weaknesses will be the dominant feature but this was offset by lower economic activity a near cessation of inward investment into for some time to come.
Nevertheless, our joint the data centre market, though this improved venture, Chloride Rus, continued to perform towards the end of the year whilst the Unsurprisingly, Germany proved difficult too, well given the market conditions, and we domestic manufacturing sector held up well a reection of the sharp reduction in order strengthened the team to provide a focus and the business nished the year strongly.
intake near the start of the year as exports on the Energy & Infrastructure market.
There are signs of a nascent recovery.
In the Philippines, where we established our THE AMERICAS business early in the year, we made rapid The Italian business performed well, with The Americas accounts for 11% of the progress with good orders and sales.
In Korea service growth more than offsetting some Groups sales 2009: 10% and was up 21% we made a breakthrough with the first data limited weakness in product business.
In North America both our low centre project for LG which will be a strong power power conditioning business down reference for the future.
In Vietnam our MIDDLE EAST 2.8% at CER and our high-power business representative ofce again delivered, with good In the Middle East, sales were ahead by 21% down 1.1% UPS Systems at CER struggled order and sales growth, and we have taken 13% at CER, and the region now accounts for in difficult and competitive market conditions.
steps to strengthen the organisation further.
9% 2009:8% oftotalsales, drivenbystrength In the low-power business there were In Singapore we made solid progress with in the Energy & Infrastructure sector.
Our focus encouraging order intake trends in the another year of strong product sales growth.
on the Qatar and Abu Dhabi markets was well second half and in high power there was judged, with good growth from both.
A special a similar discernable improvement in project TECHNOLOGY & SOLUTIONS focus on Saudi Arabia paid off with strong opportunities.
Custom Power, which was We continued to invest in our technology to growth, up 130% 115% at CER from this acquired in June 2009, provides the platform provide customers with new and innovative important market.
During the year we for growth in the North American Energy solutions that provide them with value.
Our strengthened our sales and service ofce market, particularly as oil prices recover.
focus is energy efficiency and reducing the in Dubai with additional sales and service total cost of ownership for our customers personnel to support our rapidly expanding ASIA PACIFIC as they seek to minimise their energy costs installed product base.
Asia Pacic accounts for 16% of total sales and CO2 emissions.
Our R&D capability is 2009: 16% and was up 1% down 6% at spread globally, close to customers and to 16 CHLORIDE ANNUAL REPORT 2010 V R E S S T E K R A M L A
