Section 2: Operating review CHIEF EXECUTIVES REVIEW SERVING INTERNATIONAL MARKETS: INDIA During the year Chloride increased 40 sales and service ofces.
to 90% its investment in DB Power, DB Power is Chlorides presence based in Pune, India.
DB Power is in the dynamic, high-growth the leading domestic secure power Indian marketplace supplying business in India with over 700 into the data centre, commercial, employees and a comprehensive IT services and Energy & national network of more than Infrastructure sectors.
10 CHLORIDE ANNUAL REPORT 2010 N N O O II TT A A N N R R E E TT N N II G G N N II CHLORIDE SALES INTO DEVELOPED AND EMERGING COUNTRIES % Developed countries -11% Emerging countries 32% 77 78 75 68 67 33 32 25 23 22 05 06 06 07 07 08 08 09 09 10 ENERGY DEMAND: as the world demand of the prior year.
We took steps to ensure  for energy grows so too does the demand that our supply base, particularly for critical .
Thecost for the infrastructure to generate and supply components and sub-assemblies, was of the programme has been treated as it to business and consumers.
Secure power nancially secure and managed our payments exceptional.
 solutions are an important component of the to them accordingly.
As a consequence of torecruitment and expenditure authorisations infrastructure which ensures continuity and this focus, adjusted operating cash ow and to the level of pay reviews in order to safe operation through the energy supply conversion was 108% of adjusted operating exert a high degree of restraint and control chain, from extraction and generation to profit, exceeding the target of 100%, and on overheadswhichwere5%lowerintheyear transmission and distribution.
The trend is reecting the cash generative nature of the .
accentuated as the developing world builds, business model.
Asaconsequence, thebusinessendedthe and the developed world reinvests in, new .
infrastructure, particularly as energy sources FINANCIAL POSITION change towards nuclear and renewable.
Our policy of managing a series of bilateral MANUFACTURING JOINT VENTURE relationships with a number of banks continued The manufacturing joint venture in Shenzhen, The strength of these two global trends  China, developed rapidly, and by the end of the underpins our confidence in the growth a number of banking facilities at sensible year was operating at the targeted margin and potential of the markets we serve.
market rates so that throughout the period cost levels, despite lower volumes.
As markets we had more than adequate headroom to , wewouldexpect OPERATIONAL REVIEW allow continued investment in the business.
to see further improvements in performance.
Given the exceptional economic conditions At the close of the period we had committed This world-class, low-cost facility provides that prevailed, we took decisive action to facilities totalling 150 million and, with a good underpin to product margins going assure a robust and resilient short-term strong cash generation, net debt was low forward, as well as providing a local source performance of the business, mindful of at 41 million, after funding 37.2 million for shipments into China and the rest of Asia.
of acquisitions during the year.
MARGIN MANAGEMENT CASH GENERATION RESTRUCTURING PROGRAMME Contribution margins in both product and During the year cash management was a AND COST CONTROL service held up well despite the inevitable particular priority and we accentuated our focus At the start of the year we initiated a targeted pressures caused by the weak markets.
on the generation of operating cash.
With the  In product, where pricing was competitive, benefit of a high-quality customer base, cash , whilstensuring margins were within 1% point of the prior collections during the year were strong and customer service was unaffected.
This year, benefiting from the lower costs in the debtor day performance at the end of the year programme, , joint venture and a series of other actions to was 71 days, five days better than at the end , delivered reduce cost in the supply chain.
CHLORIDE ANNUAL REPORT 2010 11 V V R R E E S S S S TT E E K K R R A A M M LL A A N O I T A N R E T N I G N I Section 2: Operating review CHIEF EXECUTIVES REVIEW Despite the obvious pressures, service significant movements in the sterling-dollar The Energy & Infrastructure market is global margins were maintained at the same level and sterling-euro exchange rates have the and, with nearly half of sales made into the as the prior year as service volume growth potential to impact materially on the Groups Middle East, North Africa and Asia, growth in on a controlled cost base compensated for reported results.
this sector improved the geographic balance downward pricing pressure.
ACHIEVING MARKET SECTOR BALANCE The robustness of contribution margins, and Our long-term objective is to build a Many of the worlds energy markets are still improvement in sales mix, towards higher well-balanced secure power business serving under-penetrated by Chloride, so providing margin service sales, and the tight overhead international markets.
During the year, opportunities for further growth.
The control signicantly mitigated the negative we focused on improving the market sector acquisitions of AEES, EPS and Custom Power operational gearing effect of lower total sales balance within the Group.
increased signicantly our presence in this at CER.
As a consequence, operating margins high-growth potential sector.
The integration held up well at 13.3% only 0.9 pts lower and The value of this approach was reected of these businesses is proceeding to plan within 1% point of the prior year.
in good growth in sales into the Energy and they are trading in line with expectations.
& Infrastructure markets which mitigated Shortly after the period end we adjusted CURRENCY the effect of significant weakness in the our management structure to increase our The Groups activities in each of the countries Commercial markets which are more closely focus upon, and accelerate our presence in, in which we operate are conducted and aligned with the digitisation trend.
The weakness of sterling, relative to the euro and US dollar ENERGY & INFRASTRUCTURE GOVERNMENT & COMMERCIAL in which a majority of the Groups sales and Product sales into the Energy & Infrastructure In common with all our competitors, our profits are generated, contributed to a material market were up 28.7% 21.8% at CER in the commercial product business suffered with translational impact on the Groups reported year.
The Energy & Infrastructure market the economic weakness and was down 14% results.
The impact on sales and operating now accounts for 23% of sales 2009: 19% 19% at CER.
Following the growth in Energy profit in the year was about 5.0%, 16.0 million reecting the excellent progress that has been & Infrastructure, our commercial product now and 5.9%, 2.5 million respectively.
Whilst Oil & Gas activity was subdued, accounts for 40% of product sales 2009: operating margin is largely unaffected by the result of the relatively lower oil prices, 48%.
All major sectors were affected, with currency effects on translation.
good growth was achieved in Power financial services down 35% 37% at CER, Generation, Transport, and Transmission Telecoms down 16% 20% at CER and & Distribution applications.
manufacturing down 16% 20% at CER particularly badly hit.
We redirected resource to those sectors which were likely to be less 12 CHLORIDE ANNUAL REPORT 2010 V R E S S T E K R A M L A
