Section 2: Operating review CHIEF EXECUTIVES REVIEW SERVING INTERNATIONAL MARKETS: PRODUCT INNOVATION The launch of Trinergy in 2009 reects Chlorides long-held commitment to marketled innovation.
Trinergy is a revolutionary UPS solution that provides market-leading efficiency of up to 99%, allowing customers all over the world to reduce their carbon emissions, energy consumption and costs  they demand for their critical processes and applications.
In the first months since the launch, orders have been taken all over the world including in the UK, Kazakhstan, Singapore, China, Germany emphasising the global attractiveness of the solution.
SERVING INTERNATIONAL MARKETS: CHLORIDE ACADEMY The Chloride Academy addresses the training needs of many of Chlorides 2,540 employees.
Training centres have been accredited in ten countries across the world, from Australia to Chicago, Italy to Singapore, UK to Turkey, each of which is able to ensure that local staff are given the training appropriateto  receive the highest level of service support and that our employees are trained to use the best methods to assure their health and safety and to protect the environment.
18 CHLORIDE ANNUAL REPORT 2010 N O I T A N R E T N I G N I the markets we serve, and is coordinated PEOPLE PROSPECTS so that resource is targeted on our priorities.
Chloride has an experienced, skilled and loyal Chloride is a balanced business serving workforce and I am particularly grateful to all international markets which have robust longA global team, involving the US, China, India, of my colleagues for their commitment and term growth characteristics driven by growing Italy and Germany developed the new and tenacity in support of our customers through Energy demand and increasing Digitisation.
innovative Trinergy range that has set new .
The standards for efficiency performance, and is  Looking to the year ahead, the Group is very highly competitive on a total cost of ownership to their perseverance, and I look forward to well positioned to benefit from decisions basis.
The range was launched midway through working with them in what we all hope will taken over the last two to three years and, the year and, as if to prove its international be an improving economic environment.
in particular, the measures taken to develop heritage, orders have already been taken the service business and reduce costs whilst across the world including Singapore, Austria, The Chloride Academy has developed further continuing with the strategic development of China, Italy, Kazakhstan, UK, Germany, and during the year with the formal accreditation the Group.
Accordingly, the business ended Turkey, amongst others.
The solution is of a further two making a total of ten academy the financial year ended 31 March 2010 with manufactured in our joint venture in China centres located across the world.
The Academy stronger market and better cost positions using modules deployed in other units,  than it started.
so it benets from an excellent cost position.
and service people have the right skills and training to provide support to customers.
The Board now sees clear, positive signs in As part of our strategy of maintaining a The Academy now also provides courses to both our end markets and order intake trends, forward-looking approach to technology customer staff and to business partners and which together with a record opening order development, we continued to work with ensures that training and health and safety book, provides the Board with confidence in partners on the development of fuel cell, standards are properly dened and embedded the prospects for the Group for the year ahead.
ywheel and new-battery based solutions.
Although still in the early stages, we recently Longer term, we will continue to execute won our first order to provide a Lithium Ion In the future the Academys role will be our proven strategy, make further careful battery-based solution into the market.
extended to include the development of investments to access high-growth potential people in support of the Groups strategy.
markets, and develop the technology and The vitality index, which represents the services that meet the demands of our proportion of product sales generated from customers.
Accordingly, the Board is confident products introduced in the last three years, that the long-term prospects for the Group stands at 74% reecting the sustained are very attractive.
investment in new product technology.
TIM COBBOLD CHIEF EXECUTIVE CHLORIDE ANNUAL REPORT 2010 19 V R E S S T E K R A M L A
