Section 3: Governance DIRECTORS REPORT PRINCIPAL ACTIVITY AND BUSINESS REVIEW The principal activity during the year under review was the supply of secure power solutions, including the manufacture and sale of uninterruptible power supply systems and power conditioners, and after-sale technical support.
The business review on pages 8 to 31, which comprises the Chief Executives review, the financial review, the risk management report and the corporate social responsibility report, forms part of the directors report.
The corporate governance statement on pages 37 to 40 also forms part of the directors report.
The business review comments on the Groups performance and development during the financial year, its position at the end of the year, the key performance indicators, and the principal risks and uncertainties relating to the Group.
ACQUISITIONS Details are set out in note 28 to the financial statements on pages 86 to 89.
RESULTS AND DIVIDENDS The results for the year and the financial position at 31 March 2010 are shown in the consolidated income statement on page 54 and the consolidated statement of financial position on page 55.
The directors recommend the payment of a final dividend of 3.30p per share which, together with the interim dividend of 1.90p per share paid on 2 December 2009 makes a total dividend for the year of 5.20p per share 2009: 4.70p.
Payment of the final dividend, if approved at the Annual General Meeting AGM, will be made on 2 August 2010 to shareholders on the record at the close of business on 9 July 2010.
GOING CONCERN The results and financial position of the Group, its cash ows, borrowing facilities and liquidity are set out in pages 24 to 29 of the financial review and in note 21 on page 78.
The outlook for trading performance of the Group is discussed in both the Chairmans statement and the Chief Executives review.
Current economic conditions create uncertainty and make forecasting difficult.
The principal risks and uncertainties that may affect the Groups results and cash ows and financial position are discussed in the financial review and the risk management report.
The Groups committed borrowing facilities at 31 March 2010 amount to 150 million of which 71 million was drawn indicating an overall borrowing headroom of 79 million in addition to cash and cash equivalents of 30 million.
In addition, the Group has uncommitted facilities of 16 million.
Included in the committed facilities amount is one credit facility amounting to 10 million that expires in November 2010.
The Group is in discussions about the renewal or replacement of this facility.
The directors have considered the Groups internal forecasts and projections that take into account reasonably possible changes in trading performance.
The levels of committed facilities have been compared to forecast borrowing requirements.
The directors have also analysed the effect of forecast performance on covenant compliance.
Chloride has significant headroom in terms of both available facilities and in terms of its operation within existing covenants.
Based on the above, and after making enquiries, the directors have a reasonable expectation that the Company and the Group have adequate facilities to continue in operational existence for the foreseeable future.
Accordingly, they continue to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the annual report and accounts.
SHARE CAPITAL Details of the issued share capital, which comprises ordinary shares of 25p each, with equal voting rights, is given in note 26 to the financial statements starting on page 84.
The rights and obligations attaching to the Companys ordinary shares, and the provisions governing the appointment and replacement of, as well as the powers of, the Companys directors, are set out in the Companys Articles of Association, copies of which can be obtained from Companies House in the UK or by writing to the Company Secretary.
There are no restrictions on the voting rights attaching to the Companys ordinary shares or on the transfer of securities in the Company, except, in the case of transfer of securities: a that certain restrictions may from time to time be imposed by laws and regulations for example, insider trading laws : and b whereby, pursuant to the Listing Rules of the Financial Services Authority, certain employees of the Company require the approval of the Company to deal in the Companys ordinary shares.
No person holds securities in the Company carrying special rights with regard to control of the Company.
The Company is not aware of any agreements between holders of securities that may result in restrictions on the transfer of securities or on voting rights.
34 CHLORIDE ANNUAL REPORT 2010 It is a requirement of company law that any shares issued wholly for cash must be offered to existing shareholders in proportion to their holdings unless otherwise authorised by a resolution of the shareholders.
The Notice of Annual General Meeting includes resolutions to renew for a period of one year the directors power to allot shares and disapply pre-emption rights pursuant to sections 561 and 571 of the Companies Act 2006.
At the Annual General Meeting in 2009, an authority was given to the Company for a period of one year to make market purchases of its own shares.
A resolution will be put to shareholders at the Annual General Meeting to renew this authority for a further period of one year.
Further details of these resolutions are contained in the explanatory notes accompanying the Notice of Meeting.
ARTICLES OF ASSOCIATION Amendments to the Articles of Association must be approved by a general meeting of the shareholders in accordance with legislation in force from time to time.
DIRECTORS Biographical details of the directors at the year end are set out on page 32.
The Articles of Association provide for re-election of the directors every second year.
Norman Broadhurst, Gary Bullard, Paul Lester, Eric Tracey and Neil Warner retire by rotation and, being eligible, offer themselves for re-election.
Information on compensation payable to executive directors and other senior executives as a result of dismissal in the event of a takeover is given in the remuneration report, on page 48.
DIRECTORS INTERESTS The interests of the directors in the share capital of the Company are as shown in the remuneration report on pages 50 and 51.
The executive directors are deemed to have an interest in the Chloride Group Employee benefit Trust the Trust as potential discretionary beneciaries.
Details of the shares held by the Trust as at 31 March 2010 are set out on page 36.
DIRECTORS AND OFFICERS LIABILITY The Group maintains directors and ofcers liability insurance.
The Group also indemnifies its directors and ofcers to the extent permitted by UK law, including payment of defence costs in civil, criminal and regulatory proceedings.
Such costs must be refunded in the event that the director or officer is subsequently convicted.
Neither the insurance policy nor the deed of indemnity provides cover where the director has acted dishonestly or fraudulently.
POLICY ON PAYMENT OF SUPPLIERS Appropriate terms and conditions are agreed for transactions with suppliers and payment is generally made on these terms.
The average number of days credit taken by the Company for trade purchases at the financial year end was 39 days 2009: 38 days.
The average number of days credit taken by Group companies at the financial year end was 72 days 2009: 69 days, reecting different payment practices in the various countries in which Chloride operates.
CHARITABLE AND POLITICAL DONATIONS During the year donations of 9,517 2009: 12,770 were made to charitable organisations which are associated with employees or closely linked with the communities in which the Group operates.
No political donations were made.
INTERESTS IN VOTING SHARES At 12 May 2010, the Company had been notied of the following interests of 3% or more in the Companys ordinary shares: Number of % of issued Name of holder shares shares Threadneedle Investments 27,615,450 10.50 Black Rock 21,483,403 8.17 Mondrian Investment Partners 20,533,092 7.81 F&C Asset Management 14,572,290 5.54 Aegon Asset Management 10,504,519 3.99 Legal & General Investment Management 10,179,045 3.87 Standard Life Investments 9,995,558 3.80 Schroder Investment Management 8,659,308 3.29 Impax Asset Management 8,250,448 3.14 Montanaro Investment Managers 8,167,556 3.11 CHLORIDE ANNUAL REPORT 2010 35 Section 3: Governance DIRECTORS REPORT EMPLOYEE BENEFIT TRUST The Chloride Group Employee benefit Trust the Trust was established to acquire ordinary shares in the Company to satisfy rights to shares arising on the exercise of executive share options.
During the year, the Trust made the following transfers and open market purchases of the Companys ordinary shares: Number of shares Balance at 1 April 2009 6,793,309 Transferred out 1,685,045 Purchased 628,064 BALANCE AT 31 MARCH 2010 5,736,328 The Trust is funded by interest-free loans from the Company.
The cost of the shares held by the Trust was 9.1 million and the market value was 12 million at 31 March 2010.
EES Trustees International Limited, as trustee of the Trust, has waived all past and future dividends on ordinary shares held by the Trust except to the extent of 0.0001% of each dividend payable per share.
Voting rights in respect of shares held by the Trust are exercisable by the Trustee.
RESEARCH AND DEVELOPMENT Investment in the development of new and improved products and applications is considered to be key to further improvement of the Groups competitive position.
Programmes to upgrade existing technology, develop new products and software, reduce production and operating costs, and improve services to customers receive high priority.
Development engineers work closely with applications and software engineers and sales and marketing staff in the operations to ensure that development is focused on the Groups key markets.
The Group has departments specialising in the development of critical power protection solutions at Chicago, USA power conditioners and software : Bologna, Italy and Erlangen, Germany AC power protection products, and Lyon, France industrial systems.
Product and software development is also carried out in Pune, India.
CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY The corporate social responsibility report starting on page 20 comments on the Groups approach to corporate social responsibility, including health and safety, environmental and employee issues.
ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING The Annual General Meeting of the Company AGM will take place on 20 July 2010 at 11am, at the Royal Aeronautical Society, 4 Hamilton Place, London W1J 7BQ.
A letter from the Chairman accompanying the notice of meeting will provide information on the resolutions.
AUDIT INFORMATION In accordance with the provisions of Section 418 of the Companies Act 2006 the 2006 Act each of the directors of the Company at the date when this report was approved confirms that: so far as he is aware, there is no relevant audit information as dened by the 2006 Act of which the Groups auditors are unaware: and he has taken all the steps that he ought to have taken as a director to make himself aware of any relevant audit information as dened and to establish that the Groups auditors are aware of that information.
AUDITORS Resolutions to reappoint the auditors, Deloitte LLP, and to authorise the directors to determine their remuneration, will be proposed at the AGM.
Approved by the Board and signed on its behalf by JON MESSENT SECRETARY 24 May 2010 36 CHLORIDE ANNUAL REPORT 2010
