38 Capital Shopping Centres Group PLC Annual Report 2010 Management team Corporate Head Of ce Kate Bowyer Investor Relations Manager Gary Hoskins Head of Tax Joined the Group in 2000 as Group Financial Controller and was appointed Joined the Group in 2003.
Quali ed as a Chartered Accountant with KPMG Investor Relations Manager in 2008.
She quali ed as a Chartered in 1997, working in their property taxation team.
A member of the British Accountant with Coopers & Lybrand now  Property Federations Taxation and VAT Committees.
in1995, working in their Canadian and corporate finance practices.
Mark Kildea Group Treasurer Claire Combes Head of Risk and Internal Audit Joined the Group in 1995 and was appointed as Group Treasurer in 1998.
Joined the Group as Head of Risk and Internal Audit in 2009.
Quali ed as Member of the Association of Corporate Treasurers.
He worked in banking anACA with Coopers & Lybrand in 1993 and now focuses on Risk & Audit.
prior to joining the Group.
Previously held Head of Risk and Audit positions in three FTSE 100 and Bernie Kingsley Head of Human Resources large private companies.
Joined the Group as Head of Human Resources in March 2009.
Previously Susan Folger Group Company Secretary he was Head of Employee Relations at BAA Airports Limited and has over Joined the Group as Company Secretary in 2000.
Fellow of the Institute 30 years experience in HR, leading the function in a range of companies of Chartered Secretaries and Administrators.
Commenced her career in the manufacturing and service sectors.
at the London Stock Exchange, and has been Company Secretary Alexander Nicoll Director of Corporate Responsibility of three FTSE real-estate sector companies prior to joining the Group.
Joined the Group as Director of Corporate Responsibility in 2007.
Previously Hugh Ford General Corporate Counsel Head of Internal Communications for the Church of England.
Has served in Appointed General Corporate Counsel to the Group in 2003.
Previously London local government and was Lord Mayor of the City of Westminster hewas General Manager Legal at Virgin Atlantic Airways, and before that during 20062007. acommercial lawyer with British Airways Plc.
He quali ed as a solicitor Peter Weir Group Financial Controller in1992 with Fresh elds.
Joined the Group in October 2008 as Group Financial Controller.
Previously Brian Hors eld Chief Information and Systems Of cer worked in a number of finance roles in both listed and privately owned Joined the Group as Chief Information & Systems Of cer in October 2008. companies, lastly before joining the Group as Finance Director Europe Former IS Director of Wolseley UK & Ireland and has over 20 years IT atFidelity International.
experience including senior UK and European IT roles.
CSC London CSC Trafford Kay Chaldecott Chairman Mike Butterworth Chairman See page 36.
Joined the Group as Chairman, CSC Trafford in January 2011.
Formerly theProperty Director of Peel Holdings and the Managing Director of The Caroline Kirby Property Director Trafford Centre Ltd. A fellow of the Royal Institution of Chartered Surveyors.
Appointed Property Director for Capital Shopping Centres PLC in October Gordon McKinnon Operations Director 2005 and has responsibility for the investment management of the shopping centre portfolio.
Joined the Group as Operations Director, CSC Trafford in January 2011.
Spent 20 years in various roles with Marks and Spencer, before taking Has worked for the Group since August 1992 gaining extensive experience up anassignment with Manchester Millennium Ltd, the task force rebuilding in a wide range of CSCs regional shopping centres including involvement in Manchester City Centre following the 1996 IRA bomb.
Subsequently some major investment transactions such as Chapel eld, Norwich: Victoria appointed Chief Executive of Manchester City Centre Management Centre, Nottingham: Manchester, Arndale: Cribbs Causeway, Bristol, and Company Ltd.
He was appointed Director of Operations at The Trafford latterly The Trafford Centre.
Trevor Pereira Commercial Director Julian Wilkinson Property Director Appointed Commercial Director of Capital Shopping Centres PLC in 2007 Joined the Group as Property Director, CSC Trafford in January 2011, with responsibilities for shopping centre operations, marketing and supply responsible for investment and property management.
He has held similar chain, and has subsequently taken responsibility for property management positions at Director level over the last 15 years as a retailer and landlord.
Previously worked for airport group BAA plc for 21 years, latterly as Hewas appointed Director of Property at The Trafford Centre in 2006.
Retail and Commercial Director for Heathrow Airport.
Construction and Development Martin Ellis Construction Director Appointed a Director of Capital Shopping Centres PLC on 1 October 2005.
He initially joined the Group in 1990, before moving to a consultant in 1993 and returning to CSC in 2000.
Appointed in 2008 as Managing Director, Liberty International Construction and Development Limited.
Following the demerger of the Capital & Counties business in May 2010, he reverted to being CSCs Construction Director responsible for development and construction projects.
Financial review Corporate Other Overview Strategy and KPIs Business review and Risk responsibility Governance Accounts information Capital Shopping Centres Group PLC Annual Report 2010 39 Directors report The Directors have pleasure in presenting their Annual There are no restrictions on voting rights or any arrangements Report and the audited financial statements for the year ended by which, with the Companys co-operation, financial rights are 31 December 2010. held by a person other than the shareholder, or any agreements between shareholders known to the Company which may resultin restrictions on the transfer of shares or on voting rights.
Principal activities Under a 248million Revolving Facility agreement dated During the period the principal activity of Capital Shopping 25 February 2009 as amended by an agreement dated Centres Group PLC CSC was that of an investment holding 19February 2010 between, amongst others, the Company and company incorporated in the United Kingdom whose business HSBC Bank PLC as Agent, on a change of control, if directed is the management of a portfolio of investments in the property by the majority lenders, the Agent may by notice to the sector predominantly, but not exclusively, in the United Company cancel the facility and declare all or part of the Kingdom.
CSC has been a Real Estate Investment Trust outstanding loansrepayable on demand and or declare all or REIT since 1 January 2007. part of the outstanding loans, together with accrued interest and CSC is the leading specialist developer, owner and manager all other amounts accrued under the finance documents, ofpre-eminent UK regional shopping centres.
The Company is not party to any other signi cant agreements Business review that would take effect, alter or terminate following a change of control of the Company.
The Chairmans statement on pages 6 to 8, the Business review on pages 12 to 19, the Financial review on pages 22 to 27, and The Company does not have any agreements with any Key risks and uncertainties on pages 28 to 29 provide detailed Executive Director or employee that would provide information relating to the Group, the operation, development compensation for loss of of ce or employment resulting from a and future prospects of the business, the results and financial takeover except that provisions of the Company share schemes position for the year ended 31 December 2010 andtheprincipal may cause options and awards outstanding under such risks and uncertainties facing the Group.
TheCorporate schemes to vest on a takeover.
The terms of appointment of the Responsibility review on pages 30 to 35 containsinformation Non-Executive Directors provide for a payment equal to their about environmental matters, the Groupsemployees and basic annual fee in the event of change of control in recognition socialand community matters.
TheFinancial review, accounting of the additional work involved in such an event.
policies on pages 69 to 72andnote 32 on pages 89 to 95 contain information on theuseof financial instruments.
Going concern After making enquiries, the Directors have reasonable Dividends expectation that the Company and the Group have adequate The Directors declared an interim ordinary dividend of 5 pence resources to continue in operational existence for the 2009 5 pence per share on 5 August 2010, which was paid foreseeable future.
For this reason they continue to adopt the on 3 November 2010, and have recommended a final ordinary going concern basis in preparing the financial statements.
dividend of 10 pence per share 2009 11.5 pence.
Shareholders attention is drawn to the Going Concern disclosure contained in the Notes to the accounts on page 69.
Share capital and control of the Company Details of the Companys share capital including changes during Internal control the year in the issued share capital and details of the rights The statement on Corporate governance on pages 42 to 50 attaching to the Companys ordinary shares are set out in includes the Boards assessment following a review of internal note 35 on page 97.
Details of shares repurchased by the controls and consideration of the 2005 Financial Reporting Company and held as treasury shares are set out in note 37 Councils internal control guidance for Directors.
No shareholder holds securities carrying special rights with regards to control of the Company.
Shares held by the Companys Employee Share Ownership Plan rank pari passu with the shares in issue and have no special rights, but voting rights and rights of acceptance of any offer relating to the shares rest with the Plans Trustee and are not exercisable by the employees.
40 Capital Shopping Centres Group PLC Annual Report 2010 Directors report Continued Directors Articles of Association The Directors of CSC who held of ce during the year were as The rules governing the appointment and replacement follows: of Directors are contained in the Companys Articles of Association.
Chairman: D. P. H. Burgess Changes to the Articles of Association must be approved by shareholders in accordance with the legislation in force from Executive: time to time.
D. A. Fischel K. E. Chaldecott Substantial shareholdings E. M. G. Roberts appointed 3 June 2010 As at 16 February 2011 CSC had been noti ed of the following Non-Executive: substantial holdings of voting rights over ordinary shares of CSC: J. G. Abel appointed 2 June 2010 R. M. Gordon appointed 7 May 2010 Tokenhouse Holdings IOM Limited 169,716,817 19.76% : I. J. Henderson thefamily interests of Sir Donald Gordon 92,143,203 10.73% : AJ.
M. Huntley R. O. Rowley Coronation Asset Management Pty Limited 69,565,717 8.10% : N. Sachdev Public Investment Corporation 35,565,906 4.14% : A. D. Strang SimonProperty Group, Inc. 35,355,794 4.12% : and Retired during the year: I. C. Durant resigned 17 May 2010 BlackRock, Inc. 34,952,303 4.07%.
I. D. Hawksworth resigned 7 May 2010 G. J. Gordon resigned 7 May 2010 Employees M. Rapp retired 2 June 2010 CSC actively encourages employee involvement and Mr R. M. Gordon appointed Mr G. R. Fine as his alternate on consultation and places emphasis on keeping its employees 7May 2010. informed of the Companys activities and financial performance Since the year-end, Mr John Whittaker has been appointed by such means as employee brie ngs and publication to all staff asaNon-Executive Director and Deputy Chairman with effect of relevant information and corporate announcements.
He has appointed Steven Underwood The annual bonus arrangements help develop employees ashis alternate with effect from 22 February 2011. interest in the Companys performance: full details of these In line with provision B.
7.1 of the new UK Corporate Governance arrangements are given in the Directors Remuneration Code, the Board has decided that all Directors shall be subject Reporton pages 51 to 59.
Note 45 on pages 104 to 106 to re-election at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting.
contains details of conditional awards of shares under the annual bonusscheme and bonus shares currently outstanding, Pursuant to the Articles of Association of the Company, the aswellas outstanding options.
Company has indemni ed the Directors to the full extent allowed by law.
The Company maintains Directors and CSC operates a non-discriminatory employment policy and full Of cers insurance which is reviewed annually.
and fair consideration is given to applications for employment from people with disabilities or other protected characteristics Additional information relating to the Directors can be found in under the Equality Act where they have the appropriate skills note 48 on pages 107 to 108 on Directors interests, in the and abilities and to the continued employment of staff who report on Corporate Governance on pages 42 to 50, and in the become disabled.
Directors Remuneration Report on pages 51 to 59.
CSC encourages the continuous development and training of The powers of the Directors are determined by UK legislation itsemployees and the provision of equal opportunities for the and the Articles of Association of the Company, together with training and career development of disabled employees and any speci c authorities that may be given to the Directors by those with protected characteristics.
shareholders from time to time, such as the power to allot shares and the power to make market purchases of the Information relating to employees is given in note 7 on page 74.
Companys shares which are described in note 35 on page 97.
The Group provides retirement bene ts for the majority of its employees.
Details of the Group pension arrangements are set out in note 46 on page 106.
Financial review Corporate Other Overview Strategy and KPIs Business review and Risk responsibility Governance Accounts information Capital Shopping Centres Group PLC Annual Report 2010 41 The environment Auditors The Group has adopted a Corporate Responsibility CR The auditors,  LLP, have indicated their strategy and details of the policy and the Groups aims and willingness to continue in of ce and a resolution seeking to activities are given on the Companys website.
An overview reappoint them will be proposed at the forthcoming Annual of the Groups CR activity is printed on pages 30 to 35, General Meeting.
and a summary booklet is also available for download from the website or on request from the Company Secretarys of ce.
Annual General Meeting The Company recognises the importance of minimising the The notice convening the 2011 Annual General Meeting of the adverse impact on the environment of its operations Company will be published separately and will be available on particularly through its shopping centre business and the the Companys website and distributed to those shareholders management of energy and water consumption and waste who have elected to receive hard copies of shareholder recycling.
The Company strives continuously to improve its environmental By order of the Board performance.
The environmental management system and associated Environmental Policy and Guide are regularly reviewed to ensure that the Company maintains its commitment to environmental matters.
During the year, the Group made charitable donations amounting S. Folger to 223,000 2009 309,000.
No political donations were Secretary made in the year.
In addition, the UK shopping centres provided the equivalent of 1,881,000 2009 1,028,000 in community 23 February 2011 support, including sponsorship of local causes, support for Town Centre management and provision of free mall space andservices.
Creditor payment policy The Groups policy and practice is to pay creditors in accordance with agreed terms of business.
The Company does not ordinarily pay its creditors directly as this is carried out by other companies in the Group.
As a result, the Company has a nil trade creditor balance and it is not practical to calculate creditor days for the Company as at 31 December 2010 2009 nil trade creditor balance.
Directors disclosure of information to the auditors So far as the Directors are aware, there is no relevant audit information of which the auditors are unaware and each Director has taken all reasonable steps to make himself or herself aware of any relevant audit information and to establish that the auditors are aware of that information.
