Governance Derwent London plc Report & Accounts 2010 Directors report The Directors present their report and the financial statements for the year ended 31 December 2010. Business review A review of the development of the Groups business during the year, the principal risks and uncertainties facing the Group and its future prospects is included in the Chairmans statement and the business review.
The information required by section 417 of the Companies Act 2006 and by rules 4.1.
11 of the Disclosure and Transparency Rules is given on pages 10 to 65.
These sections should be read in conjunction with this report and are incorporated into the Directors report by reference.
The disclosures in respect of the use of financial instruments are given in notes 25 and 26 of the financial statements.
Corporate governance Compliance The Board supports the principles of good governance.
The Company is subject to the provisions of The Combined Code published by the Financial Reporting Council and the Board believes that the Company has, except as noted, complied with the main and supporting principles thereof.
The Company has not complied with code provision A.
2.2, concerning the independence of the Chairman on appointment for the reasons described in the following section.
A number of other code provisions were not applicable in the current year.
In addition, the Board had regard to the requirements of the UK Corporate Governance Code, which will be the Groups relevant code from next year, and believes that it has complied with its provisions where possible during the year.
Unless stated otherwise, section numbers refer to the Combined Code.
The Board At the start of the year, the Board comprised a non-executive Chairman, six non-executive Directors and six executive Directors.
On 1 February 2010 Damian Wisniewski replaced Chris Odom as Finance Director and on 2 August 2010 Stephen Young joined the Board as a non-executive Director.
Donald Newell will retire from the Board at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting AGM.
The Board assesses the independence of the non-executive Directors with regard to the guidance on independence contained in code provision A.
3.1 and notes that Robert Rayne, John Ivey and Simon Neathercoat cannot automatically be deemed independent.
The Board is also aware that code provision A.
2.2 requires a new Chairman to be independent on appointment.
6 of the code, the Board has carried out an annual review of the roles and performance of all Directors which included reconsidering the independence of the non-executive Directors.
Robert Rayne served in an executive capacity at London Merchant Securities plc prior to the merger in 2007 and consequently is not deemed independent.
However, in view of his significant contribution as Chairman of the Board, the Board continues to consider that his position is fully justified.
John Ivey has served on the Board for more than nine years and is therefore not deemed independent.
The Board has considered his expertise, commitment and the manner in which he carried out his duties during the year, and is satisfied that his independence remains unimpaired.
Simon Neathercoat has also served as a non-executive Director for more than nine years and is therefore not deemed independent.
Having reviewed his performance of his duties during the year, the Board has concluded that he continues to exercise strong independence in both his judgements and his contributions to the matters of the Board.
Neither Director has any association with management that might compromise his independence.
71 Governance Derwent London plc Report & Accounts 2010 Directors report The Directors also considered the composition of the Board and continue to believe that it has the appropriate balance of skills, experience, independence and knowledge of the Company to satisfy the requirements of good corporate governance.
During the year the Nominations Committee continued to implement the three year process of refreshment introduced last year which will ensure an orderly process of change.
This saw the appointment of Stephen Young as a new independent non-executive Director, who will become Chairman of the Audit Committee on 1 April 2011, and Donald Newell is to retire at the AGM.
Another independent non-executive Director will be recruited during the next year and the Committee is reviewing which firm of external advisers to use for this exercise so as to ensure that a varied source of candidates is identified for consideration.
A formal schedule, which has been approved by the Board, sets out the division of responsibilities between the Chairman, who is responsible for the effectiveness of the Board, and the Chief Executive Officer, who is responsible for the day-to-day operations of the business.
The Board is responsible for setting the Companys strategic aims, ensuring that adequate resources are available to meet its objectives and reviewing management performance.
The formal list of matters reserved for the full Boards approval is maintained and reviewed periodically.
The full Board met six times during the year and six meetings are scheduled for 2011.
Extra meetings will be arranged if necessary.
Additionally, the executive Board, which consists of the executive Directors, met 12 times in 2010.
Both bodies are provided with comprehensive papers in a timely manner to ensure that the Directors are fully briefed on matters to be discussed at these meetings.
The Board maintains a number of Board Committees.
The terms of reference of each Committee are available on the Groups website.
Set out below are details of the membership and duties of the three principal Committees.
Remuneration Committee At the start of the year the Committee comprised of June fide Moller, Simon Neathercoat, Stuart Corbyn and Donald Newell under the Chairmanship of Robert Farnes.
Stephen Young joined the Committee in August 2010.
It is responsible for establishing the Companys remuneration policy and individual remuneration packages for the executive Directors.
There were five meetings of the Committee in 2010.
The report of the Remuneration Committee is set out on pages 82 to 91.
Audit Committee This Committee is currently chaired by Simon Neathercoat and was served throughout the year by Stuart Corbyn, Robert Farnes, Donald Newell and June fide Moller.
Stephen Young was appointed to the Committee in August 2010 and will take over as Chairman on 1 April 2011.
The Committee is responsible for considering the application of financial reporting and internal control principles and for maintaining an appropriate relationship with the Companys Auditor.
The Committee met four times during 2010.
The report of the Audit Committee is on page 93.
Nominations Committee Stuart Corbyn took over the chair of this Committee on 1 January 2010.
At any point in time, the Committee consists of all of the non-executive Directors, except the Chairman.
Its responsibilities include identifying external candidates for appointment as Directors and, subsequently, recommending their appointment to the Board.
If requested, the Committee will make a recommendation concerning an appointment to the Board from within the Company.
The Committee met three times during the period under review.
The Nominations Committee report is on page 92.
72 Governance Derwent London plc Report & Accounts 2010 Directors attendance at Board and Committee meetings during the year was as follows: Full Executive Remuneration Audit Nominations Board Board Committee Committee Committee Number of meetings 6 12 5 4 3 Executive J. D. Burns 6 12 S. P. Silver 6 10 C. J. Odom to 31 January 2010 1 D. M. A. Wisniewski from 1 February 2010 6 11 P. M. Williams 6 12 N. Q. George 6 12 D. G. Silverman 6 12 Non-executive R. A. Rayne 6 J. C. Ivey 6 1 S. J. Neathercoat 6 4 4 3 R. A. Farnes 6 5 4 3 S. A. Corbyn 6 5 4 3 D. Newell 6 4 4 3 J. fide Moller 6 4 4 3 S. G. Young from 2 August 2010 3 2 2 1 Performance evaluation The Board conducted an internal evaluation of its own performance and that of its Committees and individual Directors.
The review was initiated by all the Directors completing a questionnaire which covered the processes and performance of the Board and its Committees together with an assessment of fellow Directors performance as Directors of the Company against set criteria including the skills that they bring to the Company and the contribution they make.
The responses were summarised by the Company Secretary and reviewed by the Chairman, the senior independent Director or the Committee Chairmen as appropriate.
Any significant matters were discussed with the individual Directors by the Chairman.
As a result of the evaluation, the Board is satisfied that the structure, mix of skills and operation of the Board continues to be satisfactory and appropriate for the Company.
In addition, the Chairman is satisfied that the non-executive Directors standing for re-election at the AGM continue to be effective and show commitment to their roles.
The performance of the Chairman was separately assessed by the non-executive Directors under the leadership of the Chairman of the Nominations Committee.
6.2 of the UK Corporate Governance Code, the Board will consider the use of external consultants for future reviews.
73 Governance Derwent London plc Report & Accounts 2010 Directors report Appointment and replacement of Directors Appointment of a Director from outside the Company is on the recommendation of the Nominations Committee, whilst internal promotion is a matter decided by the Board unless it is considered appropriate for a recommendation to be requested from the Nominations Committee.
The Directors shall be not less than two and not more than 15 in number.
The shareholders may vary the minimum and or maximum number of Directors by passing an ordinary resolution.
Other than as required by the Remuneration Committee, a Director shall not be required to hold any shares in the Company.
Directors may be appointed by the Company by ordinary resolution or by the Board.
A Director appointed by the Board holds office only until the next AGM of the Company and is then eligible for re-appointment.
The Board or any Committee authorised by the Board may from time to time appoint one or more Directors to hold any employment or executive office for such period and on such terms as they may determine and may also revoke or terminate any such appointment.
The articles provide that at every AGM of the Company any Director who has been appointed by the Board since the last AGM, or who held office at the time of the two preceding AGMs and who did not retire at either of them, or who has held office with the Company, other than employment or executive office, for a continuous period of nine years or more at the date of the meeting, shall retire from office and may offer himself for re-appointment by the members.
7.1 of the UK Corporate Governance Code the Board has decided that in future all Directors will be subject to annual re-election.
Therefore, at the next AGM all the Directors will retire and, being eligible, offer themselves for re-election.
Biographies of all the Directors are given on pages 68 and 69.
The Company may by special resolution remove any Director before the expiration of his period of office.
The office of a Director shall be vacated if: i he resigns or offers to resign and the Board resolve to accept such offer: ii his resignation is requested by all of the other Directors and all of the other Directors are not less than three in number: iii he is or has been suffering from mental or physical ill health and the Board resolves that his office be vacated: iv he is absent without the permission of the Board from meetings of the Board whether or not an alternate Director appointed by him attends for six consecutive months and the Board resolves that his office is vacated: v he becomes bankrupt or enters into an agreement with his creditors generally: vi he is prohibited by law from being a Director: vii he ceases to be a Director by virtue of the Companies Acts: or viii he is removed from office pursuant to the Companys articles.
If considered appropriate, new Directors are sent on an external training course addressing their role and duties as a Director of a quoted public company.
Existing Directors monitor their own continued professional development and are encouraged to attend those courses that keep their market and regulatory knowledge current.
All Directors have access to the services of the Company Secretary and any Director may instigate an agreed procedure whereby independent professional advice may be sought at the Companys expense.
Directors and officers liability insurance is maintained by the Company.
74 Governance Derwent London plc Report & Accounts 2010 Powers of the Directors Subject to the Companys articles, the Companies Acts and any directions given by the Company by special resolution, the business of the Company will be managed by the Board who may exercise all the powers of the Company, whether relating to the management of the business of the Company or not.
In particular, the Board may exercise all the powers of the Company to borrow money, to guarantee, to indemnify, to mortgage or charge any of its undertaking, property and assets present and future and uncalled capital and to issue debentures and other securities and to give security for any debt, liability or obligation of the Company or of any third party.
Directors The Directors of the Company during the year and their interests in the share capital of the Company, including shares over which options have been granted, either under the executive share option scheme or the performance share plan, are shown below.
All of these interests are held beneficially.
During the year, Directors exercised options over 179,500 shares granted under the executive share option scheme.
No new options were granted to Directors under the executive share option scheme.
In addition, options over 225,401 shares granted under the LMS executive share option scheme were exercised at an exercise price of 9.54.
A conditional grant of 263,240 shares was made to Directors under the performance share plan whilst 39,034 shares vested to the Directors from an earlier conditional award at a zero exercise price.
The remaining 43,011 shares of this award lapsed.
Other than as disclosed in note 38, the Directors have no interest in any material contracts of the Company.
75 Governance Derwent London plc Report & Accounts 2010 Directors report Conflicts of interest The Companys articles permit the Directors to regulate conflicts of interest.
The Board operates a policy for managing and, where appropriate, approving conflicts or potential conflicts of interest whereby Directors are required to notify the Company as soon as they become aware of a situation that could give rise to a conflict or potential conflict of interest.
The Board is satisfied that this policy has operated effectively throughout the period.
Communication with shareholders The Company recognises the importance of clear communication with shareholders.
Regular contact with institutional shareholders and fund managers is maintained, principally by the executive Directors, through the giving of presentations and organising visits to the Groups property assets.
The Board receives regular reports of these meetings which include a summary of any significant issues raised by the shareholders.
The annual report, which is available to all shareholders, reinforces this communication.
The AGM provides an opportunity for shareholders to question the Directors and, in particular, the Chairman of each of the Board Committees.
An alternative channel of communication to the Board is available through Robert Farnes, the senior independent Director.
Risk management and internal control The principal risks and uncertainties facing the Group in 2011 together with the controls and mitigating factors are set out on pages 19 to 21.
The systems that control the risks form the Groups system of internal control.
The key elements of the Groups financial control framework are: an approved schedule of matters reserved for decision by the Board supported by defined responsibilities and levels of authority: the day-to-day involvement of the executive Directors in all aspects of the Groups business: a comprehensive system of financial reporting and forecasting including both sensitivity and variance analysis: maintenance and regular review and updating of the Groups risk register: and a formal whistleblowing policy.
The effectiveness of this system and the operation of the key components thereof have been reviewed for the accounting year and the period to the date of approval of the financial statements.
The Board has considered the need for an internal audit function but continues to believe that this is unnecessary given the size and complexity of the Group.
Share capital As at 10 March, 2011, the Companys issued share capital comprised a single class of 5p ordinary shares.
Details of the ordinary share capital and shares issued during the year can be found in note 28 to the financial statements.
76 Governance Derwent London plc Report & Accounts 2010 Rights and restrictions attaching to shares The Company can issue shares with any rights or restrictions attached to them as long as this is not restricted by any rights attached to existing shares.
These rights or restrictions can be decided either by an ordinary resolution passed by the shareholders or by the Directors as long as there is no conflict with any resolution passed by the shareholders.
These rights and restrictions will apply to the relevant shares as if they were set out in the articles.
Subject to the articles, The Companies Act and other shareholders rights, unissued shares are at the disposal of the Board.
Voting Shareholders will be entitled to vote at a general meeting whether on a show of hands or a poll, as provided in the Companies Act.
Where a proxy is given discretion as to how to vote on a show of hands this will be treated as an instruction by the relevant shareholder to vote in the way in which the proxy decides to exercise that discretion.
This is subject to any special rights or restrictions as to voting which are given to any shares or upon which any shares may be held at the relevant time and to the articles.
If more than one joint holder votes including voting by proxy, the only vote which will count is the vote of the person whose name is listed first on the register for the share.
Restrictions on voting Unless the Directors decide otherwise, a shareholder cannot attend or vote shares at any general meeting of the Company or upon a poll or exercise any other right conferred by membership in relation to general meetings or polls if he has not paid all amounts relating to those shares which are due at the time of the meeting, or if he has been served with a restriction notice as defined in the articles after failure to provide the Company with information concerning interests in those shares required to be provided under the Companies Act.
The Company is not aware of any agreements between shareholders that may result in restrictions on voting rights.
Restrictions on transfer of securities in the Company There are no restrictions on the transfer of securities in the Company, except: that certain restrictions may from time to time be imposed by laws and regulations for example, insider trading laws : and pursuant to the Listing Rules of the Financial Services Authority whereby certain employees of the Company require the approval of the Company to deal in the Companys ordinary shares.
The Company is not aware of any agreements between shareholders that may result in restrictions on the transfer of securities.
77 Governance Derwent London plc Report & Accounts 2010 Directors report Variation of rights If the Companies Act allows this, the rights attached to any class of shares can be changed if it is approved either in writing by shareholders holding at least three quarters of the issued shares of that class by amount excluding any shares of that class held as treasury shares or by a special resolution passed at a separate meeting of the holders of the relevant class of shares.
This is called a class meeting.
All the articles relating to general meetings will apply to any such class meeting, with any necessary changes.
The following changes will also apply:- a quorum will be present if at least two shareholders who are entitled to vote are present in person or by proxy who own at least one third in amount of the issued shares of the class excluding any shares of that class held as treasury shares : any shareholder who is present in person or by proxy and entitled to vote can demand a poll: and at an adjourned meeting, one person entitled to vote and who holds shares of the class, or his proxy, will be a quorum.
The provisions of this article will apply to any change of rights of shares forming part of a class.
Each part of the class which is being treated differently is treated as a separate class in applying this article.
The rights conferred upon the holders of any shares shall not, unless otherwise expressly provided in the rights attaching to those shares, be deemed to be varied by the creation or issue of further shares ranking pari passu with them.
No person holds securities in the Company carrying special rights with regard to control of the Company.
Powers in relation to the Company issuing or buying back its own shares The Directors were granted authority at the last AGM held in 2010 to allot relevant securities up to a nominal amount of 1,686,346.
That authority will apply until the conclusion of this years AGM.
At this years AGM shareholders will be asked to grant an authority to allot relevant securities i up to a nominal amount of 1,686,672, and ii comprising equity securities up to a nominal amount of 3,373,343 after deducting from such limit any relevant securities allotted under i, in connection with an offer by way of a rights issue, the section 551 authority, such section 551 authority to apply until the end of next years AGM.
A special resolution will also be proposed to renew the Directors power to make non-preemptive issues for cash in connection with rights issues and otherwise up to a nominal amount of 253,001.
A further special resolution will be proposed to renew the Directors authority to repurchase the Companys ordinary shares in the market.
The authority will be limited to a maximum of 10,120,030 ordinary shares and the resolution sets the minimum and maximum prices which may be paid.
78 Governance Derwent London plc Report & Accounts 2010 Substantial shareholders In addition to those of the Directors disclosed on page 75, the Company has been notified of the following interests in the issued ordinary share capital as at 10 March 2011.
Percentage Number of issued of shares share capital Withers Trust Corporation 6,217,444 6.16 Withers Trust Corporation Ltd and James McCarthy 5,548,731 5.48 Cohen & Steers Capital Management Inc 5,231,757 5.17 Standard Life Investments Ltd 4,284,390 4.23 Blackrock Investment Management UK Ltd 4,048,417 4.00 Third Avenue Management LLC 3,944,764 3.90 Lady Jane Rayne 3,593,838 3.55 Legal & General Investment Management 3,482,391 3.44 Significant agreements There are no agreements between the Company and its Directors or employees providing for compensation for loss of office or employment that occurs because of a takeover bid, except that, under the rules of the Groups share based remuneration schemes some awards may vest following a change of control.
Some of the Groups banking arrangements are terminable upon a change of control of the Company.
As a REIT, a tax charge may be levied on the Company if it makes a distribution to another Company which is beneficially entitled to 10% or more of the shares or dividends in the Company or controls 10% or more of the voting rights in the Company, a substantial shareholder, unless the Company has taken reasonable steps to avoid such a distribution being made.
The Companys articles give the Directors power to take such steps, including the power: to identify a substantial shareholder: to withhold the payment of dividends to a substantial shareholder: and to require the disposal of shares forming part of a substantial shareholding.
There is no person with whom the Group has a contractual or other arrangement which is essential to the business of the Company.
Amendment of articles of association Unless expressly specified to the contrary in the articles of the Company, the Companys articles may be amended by a special resolution of the Companys shareholders.
Creditor payment policy The Groups policy is to agree terms of business with suppliers prior to the supply of goods or services.
In the absence of any dispute, invoices are paid in accordance with these terms.
For the year ended 31 December 2010, the average payment period was 23 days 2009: 21 days.
Going concern Having made due enquiries, the Directors have reasonable expectation that the Company has adequate resources to continue in operational existence for the foreseeable future.
Therefore, the Board continues to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the accounts.
79 Governance Derwent London plc Report & Accounts 2010 Directors report Fixed assets The Groups freehold and leasehold investment properties were professionally revalued at 31 December 2010, resulting in a surplus of 309.4m, before deducting the lease incentive adjustment of 7.8m.
The freehold and leasehold investment properties are included in the Group balance sheet at a carrying value of 2,388.5m.
Further details are given in note 17.
Post balance sheet events Details of post balance sheet events are given in note 36.
Disclosure of information to auditors The Directors who held office at the date of approval of this Directors report confirm that, so far as they are each aware, there is no relevant audit information of which the Companys Auditor is unaware: and each Director has taken all the steps that they ought to have taken as a Director to make themselves aware of any relevant audit information.
Auditor BDO LLP have expressed the willingness to continue in office and accordingly, resolutions to re-appoint them and to authorise the Directors to determine their remuneration will be proposed at the AGM.
These are resolutions 17 and 18 set out in the notice of meeting.
Annual General Meeting The notice of meeting contained in the circular to shareholders that accompanies the report and accounts includes four special resolutions to be considered as special business.
Resolution 19 is an ordinary resolution which will renew the authority of the Directors under Section 551 of the Companies Act 2006 to allot shares.
Paragraph A of the resolution gives the Directors authority to allot ordinary shares up to an aggregate nominal amount of 1,686,672 which represents about one third of the issued ordinary share capital excluding treasury shares of the Company as at the latest practicable date prior to the publication of this document.
In line with guidance issued by the Association of British Insurers, paragraph B of the resolution gives the Directors authority to allot ordinary shares in connection with a rights issue in favour of ordinary shareholders up to an aggregate nominal amount of 3,373,343, as reduced by the nominal amount of any shares issued under paragraph A of the resolution.
This amount before any reduction represents approximately two-thirds of the issued ordinary share capital excluding treasury shares of the Company as at the latest practicable date prior to the publication of this document.
The Directors have no present intention of issuing shares except on the exercise of options under the Companys share option scheme, on the vesting of shares under the Companys performance share plan or in connection with the scrip dividend scheme if approved at the AGM.
The authorities will expire at the conclusion of the next AGM after the passing of the resolution or, if earlier, the close of business on 20 August 2012.
Resolution 20 is a special resolution, proposed annually, which will renew the Directors authority under Section 571 of the Companies Act 2006.
The resolution empowers the Directors to allot or, now that the Company may hold shares as treasury shares as further described below, sell shares for cash in connection with pre-emptive offers with modifications to the requirements set out in Section 561 of the Companies Act 2006, in connection with the scrip dividend scheme where the scrip election is made after the declaration but before payment of a final dividend, or otherwise, up to an aggregate nominal value of 253,001 which is equivalent to approximately 5% of the issued share capital as at the latest practicable date prior to the publication of this document.
80 Governance Derwent London plc Report & Accounts 2010 In respect of this aggregate nominal amount, the Directors confirm their intention to follow the provisions of the Pre-Emption Groups Statement of Principles regarding cumulative usage of authorities within a rolling three-year period where the Principles provide that usage in excess of 7.5% should not take place without prior consultation with shareholders.
The authority will expire at the conclusion of the next AGM after the passing of the resolution or, if earlier, the close of business on 20 August 2012.
Resolution 21 is proposed in order to renew the authority enabling the Company to purchase its own shares, if, having taken account of all major factors such as the effect on earnings and net asset value per share, gearing levels and alternative investment opportunities, such purchases are considered to be in the Companys and shareholders best interest while maintaining an efficient capital structure.
The special resolution gives the Directors authority to purchase up to 10% of the Companys ordinary shares and specifies the maximum and minimum prices at which shares may be bought.
The Companies Act 2006 permits the Company to hold any such repurchased shares in treasury, with a view to possible re-issue at a future date, as an alternative to immediately cancelling them as had previously been required under the relevant legislation.
Accordingly, if the Company purchases any of its shares pursuant to resolution 21, the Company may cancel those shares or hold them in treasury.
Such a decision will be made by the Directors at the time of purchase on the basis of the Companys and shareholders best interests.
As at the date of the notice of meeting, the Company held no shares in treasury.
The total number of options to subscribe for ordinary shares outstanding at 10 March 2011 was 1,299,600, which represented 1.28% of the issued share capital excluding treasury shares at that date.
If the Company were to purchase the maximum number of ordinary shares permitted by this resolution, the options outstanding at 10 March 2011 would represent 1.59% of the issued share capital excluding treasury shares.
Resolution 22 is required to reflect the implementation of the Shareholder Rights Directive, which in the absence of a resolution to the contrary increased the notice period for general meetings of the Company to 21 days.
The Company is currently able to call general meetings other than an AGM on 14 clear days notice and would like to preserve this ability.
The approval will be effective until the Companys next AGM, when it is intended that a similar resolution will be proposed.
By order of the Board T. J. Kite ACA Secretary 10 March 2011 81
