Governance Derwent London plc Report & Accounts 2010 Board of Directors 1.
N. Q. George, 47 Non-executive Chairman Non-executive Deputy Head of Regeneration Executive Director The Hon R. A. Rayne joined the Mr Silver has overall responsibility A chartered surveyor, Mr George Chairman Board in February 2007.
He has been for the development and regeneration was appointed to the Board in 1998.
A chartered accountant, Mr Ivey was on the Boards of a number of public programme.
He became a Director He has responsibility for acquisitions a Director of RWS Holdings plc until companies, including First Leisure in 1986 and is an honorary fellow of and investment analysis.
January 2010 and was formerly Corporation plc and Crown Sports plc the Royal Institute of British Architects.
Chief Executive of The Davis Service and is currently Chairman of LMS He is also a partner in The Pilcher Group plc.
P. M. Williams, 50 Capital plc, a company listed on the Hershman Partnership.
Board since 1984 and is a member Executive Director London Stock Exchange.
He is also a of the Nominations Committee.
Mr Williams is a chartered surveyor non-executive Director of Weatherford 5.
D. M. A. Wisniewski, 49 and was appointed to the Board in International Inc. an international oil 3.
J. D. Burns, 66 Finance Director 1998.
His responsibilities include services company quoted on the New Mr Wisniewski joined the Board on portfolio management, supervision Chief Executive Officer York Stock Exchange, and was Chief 1 February 2010.
He is a chartered of refurbishment and development Mr Burns has been a Director of the Executive Officer of London Merchant accountant and has overall responsibility projects and sustainability.
Company since 1984 and has overall Securities plc.
for financial strategy, treasury, taxation responsibility for Group strategy, and financial reporting.
Previously, he business development and day-to- 8.
D. G. Silverman, 41 was Finance Director of Treveria Asset day operations.
He is a partner in Executive Director Management.
Prior to that, he was The Pilcher Hershman Partnership, Mr Silverman joined the Board in Chief Operating Officer of the Wood estate agents.
He is a chartered Wharf Limited Partnership and Group surveyor and is responsible for Finance Director of Chelsfield plc.
68 Governance Derwent London plc Report & Accounts 2010 15 13 9 2 10 5 11 8 12 6 4 3 1 14 7 Plc and a non-executive Director of 9.
S. G. Young, 55 Cookson Group plc, BT plc, AWG plc, Senior independent Director Non-executive Director Non-executive Director J Sainsbury plc and London Merchant Mr Farnes is a chartered surveyor.
Mr Corbyn is a chartered surveyor.
Mr Young is a chartered management Securities plc.
She is a member He was previously the Chairman of He was appointed to the Board in accountant.
He joined the Board in of the Audit, Remuneration and CB Hillier Parker and joined the Board 2006.
Until December 2008, he was August 2010.
He is Group Finance Nominations Committees.
He chairs the Remuneration Chief Executive of Cadogan Estates, Director at Meggitt plc.
Previously, Committee and is a member of the one of the principal private estates he held the position of Group Finance 13.
D. Newell, 68 Audit and Nominations Committees.
in London, and is a former president Director at Thistle Hotels plc and the of the British Property Federation.
He is a He chairs the Nominations Committee Mr Newell is a chartered surveyor.
member of the Audit, Remuneration 10.
S. J. Neathercoat, 62 and is a member of the Audit and He joined the Board in February 2007. and Nominations Committees.
Previously, he was senior partner of Mr Neathercoat is a chartered Hillier Parker May & Rowden, Chairman 15.
He joined the Board in of the Europe, Middle East and Africa 12.
J. fide Moller, 63 1999 and chairs the Audit Committee Company Secretary division of CB Richard Ellis Services whilst serving on the Remuneration Non-executive Director Inc. a non-executive Director of and Nominations Committees.
He is Mrs fide Moller joined the Board in London Merchant Securities plc Deputy Chairman of Lombard Medical February 2007.
She is a non-executive and a past president of the British Technologies plc and was previously Director of Temple Bar Investment Council of Offices.
He is a member a Managing Director of Dresdner Trust plc and Archant Limited.
of the Audit, Remuneration and Kleinwort Wasserstein.
Previously, she was Managing Nominations Committees.
