Regent Street Portland Place Great Titchfield Street Great Portland Street Newman Street Rathbone Place Tottenham Court Road Fitzroy Street Charlotte Street Huntley Street Gower Street Malet Street Melton Street Cleveland Street Performance Derwent London plc Report & Accounts 2010 Property review Central Cross Central Cross is strategically located in an area where we already have substantial holdings and expect to see significant improvements from infrastructure enhancements, principally Crossrail.
The property offers significant regeneration Our immediate priority is to create a more Overview potential and value creation through the inviting aspect from Tottenham Court Road, development of a new entrance and encouraging footfall along Stephen Street Village ground floor studios, refurbishment of the and welcoming tenants and visitors to the Fitzrovia offices and extension of the retail space.
It should also enhance east-west links through to Gresse Street and the Size The building was originally built in the Charlotte Building, another Derwent 2.1 acre site 1970s and now incorporates a mix of uses.
Unusually, it spans a roadway, Stephen 251,000 sq ft Street, which connects to Tottenham Central Cross represents an excellent 2 Court Road via a short passage under opportunity to demonstrate Derwent 23,300m the building.
The office entrance is on Londons place-making skills, opening Type Stephen Street and there is retail frontage up an otherwise back-street environment on Tottenham Court Road.
and contributing to further urban 86% offices regeneration in the neighbourhood.
10% retail Euston 4% cinema Central Cross Purchase price Warren Other Derwent London properties Street 146m funded from existing facilities Rental income Great Portland Street 8.1m pa Average rent 34 per sq ft Yield Goodge Street 5.2% EPRA net initial Key tenants FremantleMedia Group S Technologies Skype T ottenham Court Road Encompass Digital Oxford Circus Media formerly Ascent Media 44 Oxford Street Eastcastle Street New Cavendish Street Cavendish Place Warren Street Euston Road Great Marlborough Street Mortimer Street Euston Street Bedford Avenue Maple Place T ottenham Street T orrington Place Grafton Way Store Street Foley Street Performance Derwent London plc Report & Accounts 2010 1 1 Aerial view of Central Cross with the Charlotte Building to the left.
2 Proposed entrance on Stephen Street.
3 Proposed refurbished entrance and reception area.
3 2 Working with residents A more positive experience and the local community Our vision for transformation of the property A larger, contemporary entrance and A key element of Derwent Londons begins on Stephen Street where we have reception area will be developed with business model is to build strong drawn up plans to rejuvenate the faade an internal caf and lounge space for relationships with its tenants and the local and entrance.
Currently, the office occupiers and their visitors and a new communities in which it operates.
We are entrance is set back from the road and canopy at six metres above street level already working closely with the tenants at overshadowed by a large canopy whilst will run continuously along Stephen Street Central Cross and meet regularly with local the walls have no windows, creating an and Gresse Street, curving around the residents.
We also have plans to upgrade unwelcoming environment for occupiers, property.
Underneath, a sweeping faade the entrance in Gresse Street with new visitors and passers-by.
of full-height glass and perforated metal finishes and lighting as part of the initial will unify the building, generating a feeling refurbishment.
We intend to remove the existing canopy of greater light and space.
Four new and vehicle drive-in and bring the office double-height studio spaces will also We are very excited about our plans for entrance out closer to the road, connecting be created with frontage on the street the area.
We believe it is important to it better with the street.
It will then be visible allowing for separate entrances if required.
maintain a regular dialogue with those from all angles on Stephen Street and from who live and work locally so we can all the passage to Tottenham Court Road.
A planning application was submitted in share in the benefits.
