Great Portland Estates Annual Report 2010 48 Directors Martin Scicluna Toby Courtauld Timon Drakesmith Neil Thompson BCom, FCA MA, MRICS BSc, FCA BSc Hons, MRICS Chairman, Non-Executive Chief Executive Finance Director Development Director Appointed to the Board on With MEPC from 1991 to Formerly Group Director of With Derwent Valley from 1 October 2008 and became 2002, joined the Group and Financial Operations at Novar 1996 to 2002 and previously Chairman on 16 March 2009. appointed to the Board in plc, previously with Credit with Legal & General.
Joined Joined the Group in 2002 Chairman of the Audit Director of Liv-ex Limited and the Group and appointed to and appointed to the Board Committee of Lloyds Banking of the London Board of Royal the Board in 2005.
Member of the Group and previously & Sun Alliance and a member the Finance Committee of the Management Board of the Chairman of Deloitte from of the Management Board British Property Federation.
British Council of Offices, 1995 to 2007.
Age 59. of the Investment Property Age 44.
Council Member of the Forum.
Member of the Policy Westminster Property Chairman of the Nomination Committee.
Committee and Junior Vice Association and member of President of the British the Commission for the Built Property Federation and a Environment CABE design director of The New West End review panel.
Annual review Governance Financials 49 Charles Irby Jonathan Nicholls Phillip Rose Jonathan Short FCA BA Hons, ACA, FCT MA, FFin, FSI BSc, ACIB Non-Executive Director Non-Executive Director Non-Executive Director Non-Executive Director A Non-Executive Director Non-Executive Director Chief Executive Officer of Founding Partner and of North Atlantic Smaller and Chairman of the Audit Alpha Real Capital and a Executive Chairman of Companies Investment Trust Committee of SIG plc and Non-Executive Director of Internos Real Investors LLP, and QBE Insurance Group Non-Executive Director of Hermes Property Unit Trust.
a pan European real estate Limited.
Appointed to the DS Smith Plc.
Formerly Group Head of Real Estate for ABN investment management Board in 2004.
Finance Director of Old Mutual Amro from 2002 to 2005 business.
Non-Executive plc from 2006 to 2008 and and formerly Chief Operating Director of Big Yellow Group Senior Independent Director.
Chairman of the Remuneration Committee and Member previously Group Finance Officer of TrizecHahn Europe plc, Independent Director of the Audit and Nomination Committees.
and Managing Director of to the Grosvenor Shopping Appointed to the Board in Lend Lease Global Centre Fund and Trustee and 2009.
Appointed to the UK Chairman of the Urban Board in 2005.
Appointed to Chairman of the Audit Committee and Member of the Remuneration Committee.
Member of the Audit and Nomination Committees.
Member of the Audit and Remuneration Committees.
