16 key perfOrmance indicatOrs key performance indicators to monitor the performance of our business, we measure three principal indicators against appropriate benchmarks.
set against the background of our strategy, these key performance indicators, or kpis, demonstrate the extent to which earnings and valuation growth drive returns.
growth in portfolio and equity returns should, over time, be reflected in improved shareholder returns.
the sources of the information used to calculate kpis are management reporting systems and ipd.
2 return on shareholders equity roe portfolio return relative to ipd occupancy description ROE represents the income and We compare the total return achieved The ERV of the space in the portfolio capital returns in a year expressed as from the portfolio against the relevant which is currently let, as a percentage 1 3 a percentage of shareholders equity IPD index.
It is a measure of how effective It enables us to monitor the return We aim to maximise the occupancy Why it is important Hammerson is in generating a return achieved from the portfolio against a of our properties as income lost on the equity invested by recognised benchmark.
through vacancy has a direct impact shareholders in the business.
Benchmark 8.2% estimated cost of equity IPD Universe 1.0% 97.0% -16.9% -4.1% IPD Universe 1.3% 95.4% 2009 actual 2010 actual 21.1% 18.6% IPD Universe: 15.1% 97.3% Financial and property returns, Financial and property returns, Business Review, page 22 Commentary page17 page17 Notes 1 Please refer to the glossary on page 117 for a full definition.
2 2010 figures refer to UK data only, based on the IPD quarterly index, as the UK annual index was unavailable at the time of publication.
There is no French quarterly index and the French annual IPD index was unavailable at the time of publication.
The figures will be updated when the annual indices are available.
3 EPRA has issued revised guidance for the calculation of vacancy.
Previously, vacancy was reported as a percentage of rents passing plus the ERV of vacant space.
The revised definition expresses vacancy as a percentage of the total ERV of a property or portfolio.
We have adopted this new definition and restated our 2009 comparatives for vacancy and occupancy data.
The data for 2010 is for the UK only as the IPD index for France is not yet available.
