O Ove ver rvi vie ew w b bu us siin ne es ss s an and d fi finan nanc ciial al r re ev viie ew w g gO Ov five er rnan nanc ce e fi finan nanc ciial al s st ta at te em me en nt ts s pr prO Op pe er rt ty y p pO Ort rtf fO Oli liO O HammersOn plc annual report 2010 17 financial and prOperty returns financial and property returns returns Our objective is to achieve a return on equity which is greater than our cost of equity.
To achieve this, we set hurdle rates for investment.
The hurdle rates are based on a minimum five-year internal rate of return and are adjusted according to the risk associated with each project.
When appropriate, the returns that would be generated by buying in the Companys own shares are evaluated against the potential returns from property investment and development.
The table below provides information on the financial returns achieved in 2010 and compares them with appropriate benchmark indices.
The IPD annual return was not available at the time of publication, so the IPD benchmarks shown for the UK portfolio are based on the quarterly index.
There is no benchmark for total portfolio returns which is comparable with Hammersons geographical portfolio allocation.
IPD data relating to the returns of the French property sector in 2010 will be available only after this Annual Report has been published.
returns data for 2010 Return % Benchmark % UK portfolio capital return 12.5 UK IPD Universe capital 8.5 UK portfolio income return 5.5 UK IPD Universe income 6.2 UK portfolio total return 18.6 UK IPD Universe total 15.1 Total portfolio capital return 9.3 n a Total portfolio income return 5.3 n a Total portfolio total return 15.0 n a Return on shareholders equity 21.1 Estimated cost of equity 8.2 Total shareholder return over one year 2.5 FTSE EPRA NAREIT UK index over one year 4.9 Total shareholder return over three years p. a.
-11.9 FTSE EPRA NAREIT UK index over three years p. a.
-13.4 Total shareholder return over five years p. a.
-6.6 FTSE EPRA NAREIT UK index over five years p. a.
-9.3 An analysis of capital and total returns by business segment is provided in the Business Review on pages 19 and 20.
The IPD Universe includes retail, office and industrial returns for all grades of property in the UK, although Hammerson does not invest in the industrial sector.
The outperformance of the IPD Universe capital return index arose principally because of the prime nature of Hammersons shopping centre portfolio.
Prime shopping centres and offices provide low initial yields reflecting the high quality of these assets.
Consequently, the income returns for our portfolio are lower than the index.
Hammersons return on shareholders equity for the year ended 31 December 2010 was 21.1%.
The income element of the return on shareholders equity will tend to be relatively low given the high quality of the property portfolio, as described above.
In 2010 the capital element of the return on equity reflected the increase in the value of the portfolio during the year, which resulted from the continuing recovery of the real estate investment market.
Total shareholder return for 2010 underperformed the FTSE EPRA NAREIT UK index.
Over the last five years, Hammersons average annual total shareholder return has been -6.6% compared with -9.3% for the EPRA NAREIT UK index.
epra performance measures EPRA promotes the presentation of certain performance measures in its Best Practices Recommendations.
A summary is set out below.
Performance measure Definition Recurring earnings from core operational activities.
epra earnings Page 75 Purpose A key measure of a companys underlying operating results from its property rental business and an indication of the extent to which current dividend payments are supported by earnings.
Definition Net Asset Value adjusted to include properties and other investment interests at fair value and to epra nav Page 75 exclude certain items not expected to crystallise in a long-term investment property business model.
Purpose Adjusts IFRS NAV to provide stakeholders with relevant information on the fair value of the assets and liabilities of a real estate investment company with a long-term investment strategy.
epra nnnav Definition EPRA NAV adjusted to include the fair values of financial instruments, debt and deferred taxes.
Purpose Adjusts EPRA NAV to provide stakeholders with relevant information on the current fair value of the Page 75 assets and liabilities of a real estate company.
epra net initial Yield niY Definition Annualised rental income based on cash rents passing at the balance sheet date, less non-recoverable property operating expenses, divided by the market value of the property, including estimated Page 21 purchasers costs.
Definition EPRA NIY adjusted for the expiry of rent-free periods.
epra topped-up niY Page 21 Purpose Comparable measures in Europe for portfolio valuations.
vacancy Definition Estimated market rental value ERV of vacant space divided by the ERV of the whole portfolio.
Page 22 Purpose A measure of investment property space that is vacant, based on ERV.
