12 bUsinEss FramEWOrK business framework The trend in the UK is for a more flexible Operational and financial strategies support leGal and reGulatOrY approach by property owners, which may the Groups real estate strategy and are FraMeWOrK include shorter leases, rent which is related implemented within a risk management Hammerson operates in the UK and France to an occupiers turnover and rents being framework designed to identify and manage where planning regimes impose restrictions paid monthly.
More details of these strategies are on new property developments.
These provided in the Business and Financial restrictions are particularly onerous in the In France, leases are governed by the Code Reviews on pages 18 and 31 respectively.
case of large retail schemes, limiting the du Commerce and a typical lease is of Asummary of the principal risks and supply of new space and thereby benefiting around ten years duration, with the occupier uncertainties faced by Hammerson and owners of existing retail properties.
By often having the right to break the lease how these are managed is set out on pages contrast, it is generally more straightforward every three years.
Rent for the majority of 14 and 15. to gain permission to create new office leases is revised annually according to one of buildings, which can lead to more marked two official indices which are related to retail KeY PerFOrManCe IndICatOrS imbalances between supply and demand, prices, retail sales and construction costs.
We use financial and operational measures resulting in greater fluctuations in rents and Rents may go up or down depending on the to monitor the performance of the business.
From a developers perspective, the index.
Occupiers have the right to renew The Key Performance Indicators KPIs which planning process can sometimes be their leases for a further term at the end of we believe are most important to the Groups uncertain and protracted.
performance are shown on page 16 and details of our financial and property returns In England and Wales, contracts to lease Hammerson is subject to various are on page 17. property are governed principally by the environmental regulations in the UK and Landlord and Tenant Act 1954.
In particular, our office and retail COrPOrate reSPOnSIBIlItY of a typical lease is 10-15 years, with rent portfolio investment activities are subject to: The impact of our business on the payable quarterly in advance and with rent environment and our stakeholders, including reviews at the end of each five year period.
Climate Change Act employees and the communities in which we Rent reviews are generally upward only Carbon Reduction Commitment Energy operate, is discussed on pages 32 to 37. whereby the rent will be increased to the Efficiency Scheme CRC EES market rent, unless the market rent is lower COntraCtual relatIOnSHIPS than the passing rent, in which case it will Energy Performance Certificates EPC Our principal contractual relationships are remain unchanged.
Occupiers bear the European Energy Performance of with occupiers, joint venture partners, responsibility for repairing and insuring Buildings Directive managing agents and building contractors.
the property and have a right to renew However, due to the number and diversity of their leases for a further term at the end Landfill regulations the businesses with whom we deal, there are of the lease.
Grenelle fide lEnvironment Acts one no individual contractual arrangements and two which are essential to the Groups business.
Scotland has its own legal system and there As part of our commentary on the security of is no equivalent of the Landlord and Tenant StrateGY and rISK ManaGeMent Hammersons income, details of our largest Act.
There is little legislation or case law The Groups strategy, which is summarised occupiers by rental income are provided in relating to leases and a Scottish lease will on pages 7 to 11, is set by the Board and the Business Review on page 23. usually contain all relevant terms.
However, documented in the Groups annual threecommon law provisions may apply if the year business plan.
The strategy and We have important relationships with our lease is silent on a particular issue.
Despite associated action plans take into account banks and bondholders who, together with the legal differences, the commercial terms the current and anticipated conditions in shareholders, finance the Group.
We use a of Scottish leases are similar to those property markets.
Set out opposite is a number of banks and our bonds are widely elsewhere in the UK discussed above.
review of the property markets in 2010 and held by a diverse range of investors.
Accordingly, our financing risk is not concentrated with any particular lender.
