32 Human resOurces Human resources Our people are more than just the face of Hammerson.
they deliver our products and services to customers and other key partners.
Our people bring our values to life.
Our goal is to create a high performing organisation has benefited from an Employees of Hammerson are encouraged organisation, made up of people who are increasing performance focus and a to become investors in the Company through inspired and enabled to give their very best.
strengthening of the calibre of the team a range of share ownership schemes.
Over the last 12 months we have reviewed in both property and finance.
Throughout At 31December 2010, 217 employees owned almost every aspect of our people the Group, the focus has been on active shares or participated in one of the Groups management and development practices team-working to ensure expertise and share plans.
to ensure they are aligned to this goal.
knowledge within functional areas are shared to benefit the business as a whole.
The remuneration of Directors is set out on engagement pages 46 to 51.
We conduct an annual staff survey through development Great Place To Work and use the results as At the start of the year, we incorporated skills diversitY and equalitY a basis for improving working life.
We share assessment into appraisals for LondonHammerson now employs around 250 the results openly with staff, discuss and based staff to add a strong development people in the UK and 100 in France.
involve them in developing solutions, and dimension to employee reviews and help commit to an action plan against which improve performance.
To make the most of We have an active equal opportunities policy management can be judged.
For our 2010 existing capabilities, support succession and monitor employee satisfaction in our survey 84% of staff from across the Group planning, and provide people with career annual staff survey by various demographics participated and the results show that development options, we also introduced including gender, age, racial or ethnic three-quarters of respondents rate a talent review to identify those with the minority, full and part-time status and Hammerson highly for its friendliness, its motivation and potential to progress to new those with caring responsibilities as well support for training and development, the or more senior roles.
Both these approaches as responses to specific questions on fair office facilities, and the way the organisation will be rolled out throughout the Group in treatment on the grounds of age, race manages its impact on the environment and 2011.
In 2010 we also added to the resources or ethnicity, gender, sexual orientation society.
Targeted areas for improvement we provide to support learning and and disability.
in 2010 were training and development, development in particular we have used employee recognition, and internal coaching to support managers who are new Hammerson reports on a number of communications.
All three have seen to their role.
In December we launched a performance indicators relating to employees improved responses from employees.
leadership development programme to aid as part of the Global Reporting Initiative.
managers in this important area.
These are available in the online CR report organisation at www.
com cr Toward the end of 2009, we reorganised reWard our UK property teams to provide better We aim to ensure that our employee reward performance for our customers.
In 2010 our policies encourage the highest levels of attention turned to embedding this new way performance in support of business goals, of working into day-to-day practices.
We and that they align with our desire to attract recruited new talent, including people from and retain talented people.
In the last quarter outside the real estate sector, to bring new of 2010 we launched a Group-wide review of ideas and, in particular, to strengthen our reward with the involvement of representative customer account management and staff from around the organisation.
Throughout the year review identified areas for improvement we continued to integrate the shopping which we will start to implement from 2011. centre-based property management teams into our business to help us deliver our operational service goals.
In April 2010 we appointed Jean-Philippe Mouton to run our French business.
