06 bOard OF dirECtOrs board of directors John nelson, Chairman Jacques espinasse, Non-Executive Director John Nelson, a Chartered Accountant, was Jacques Espinasse was appointed a appointed Chairman in 2005 and is a member Non-Executive Director and member of of the Remuneration Committee and the Audit Committee in 2007.
He is a Chairman of the Nomination Committee.
He is non-executive director of AXA Belgium, deputy chairman and the senior independent Maroc Telecom, SES and LBPAM.
director of Kingfisher plc and senior advisor to Charterhouse Capital Partners LLP.
He is also a trustee of The National Gallery and chairman of its development board.
david atkins, Chief Executive John Hirst, Non-Executive Director David Atkins, a Chartered Surveyor, joined the John Hirst, a Chartered Accountant, joined Company in 1998 and was appointed to the the Board as a Non-Executive Director in Board of the Companys UK business in 2003.
2004 and is Chairman of the Audit Committee.
He was appointed an Executive Director of He is chief executive of the Met Office, a Hammerson in 2007 and Chief Executive in director of Epilepsy Research UK and a 2009.
He is a board member of the European trustee of Epilepsy Bereaved.
He is chairman Public Real Estate Association, a member of of the audit committee of the World the policy committee of the British Property Meteorological Organization and a member Federation and the advisory committee of the of Exeter University Business Schools British Council of Shopping Centres.
Peter Cole, Chief Investment Officer Simon Melliss, Chief Financial Officer Peter Cole, a Chartered Surveyor, joined the Simon Melliss, a Chartered Accountant, Company in 1989 as a senior development joined the Company in 1991 as group financial surveyor and was appointed to the Board controller, having worked in various financial of the Companys UK business in 1992. positions for other companies, and was He was appointed an Executive Director of appointed Chief Financial Officer in 1995.
He is a general council He will be retiring from the Board on 30 June member and past president of the City 2011.
He is a non-executive director and Property Association.
chairman of the audit committee of Whitbread PLC and a member of the committee of management of Hermes Property Unit Trust.
terry duddy, Non-Executive Director anthony Watson CBe, Non-Executive Director Terry Duddy was appointed a Non-Executive Tony Watson was appointed a Non-Executive Director of Hammerson in 2009 and is a Director of Hammerson in 2006.
He is the member of the Audit, Remuneration and Senior Independent Director, Chairman of the Nomination Committees.
He is chief executive Remuneration Committee and is a member of of Home Retail Group plc.
the Audit and Nomination Committees.
He is chairman of Marks & Spencer Pension Trust Limited and the Asian Infrastructure Fund Limited and a member of the Shareholder david edmonds CBe, Non-Executive Director Executive Board.
He is also a non-executive David Edmonds was appointed a Nondirector of Lloyds Banking Group plc, Witan Executive Director of Hammerson in 2003 and Investment Trust plc and Vodafone Group Plc is a member of the Remuneration Committee.
and is on the advisory board of Norges Bank He will be retiring from the Board at the Investment Management.
Annual General Meeting on 28 April 2011.
He acts as Chairman to the Hammerson Pension Scheme Trustees.
He is chairman of Wincanton plc, the Legal Services Board and NHS Shared Business Services Limited.
He is also a non-executive director of William Hill plc and the Olympic Park Legacy Company.
