O Ove ver rvi vie ew w b bu us siin ne es ss s an and d fi finan nanc ciial al r re ev viie ew w g gO Ov five er rnan nanc ce e fi finan nanc ciial al s st ta at te em me en nt ts s pr prO Op pe er rt ty y p pO Ort rtf fO Oli liO O HammersOn plc annual report 2010 15 principal uncertainties principal uncertainties propertY valuations liquiditY tenant deFault The property portfolio is the largest Although conditions in the financial markets The trading environment has continued to component of the Groups net asset value.
have stabilised during 2010, companies with improve during 2010, and the rate at which The value of the portfolio is affected by short-term refinancing requirements may retail companies in the UK are going into the conditions prevailing in the property continue to find it difficult to secure adequate administration has fallen.
However the investment market and the general economic funding at costs comparable with their effects of increased taxation and restrictions environment.
Accordingly, the Groups net existing facilities.
Hammerson has just on government spending may mean that asset value can change due to external 43million of debt maturing before April some tenants, principally in the UK retail factors beyond managements control.
2012 and a further 175 million in 2013. sector, face difficult operating conditions During 2010, improved economic conditions Accordingly we have time to plan for an and there is a risk that they will be unable to and the relatively attractive income yield on optimal debt maturity and cost profile.
The large number of tenants prime property have encouraged investors to and their geographical spread mean the be more active in the real estate investment Gearing at 31 December 2010 was 52%.
impact of individual tenant default to market and property values have risen.
The risk that the Group could breach its Hammerson is low.
Furthermore, our However, there remains some uncertainty borrowing covenants, the most stringent occupational leases are long-term in the outlook for the economy whilst the of which is that gearing should not exceed contracts, thus making the income continued high levels of bank finance 150%, is therefore low.
We estimate that, on relatively secure.
The quality of the Groups secured on commercial property and the a proforma basis, the value of our portfolio income is discussed on page 23 of the associated refinancing requirements could would have to fall by 43% to endanger our Business Review.
cause weakness in the investment market.
interest rates The Property markets and outlook section of this report provides further discussion development and letting Interest charged on borrowings is a Potential occupiers remain cautious about significant cost for Hammerson.
entering into commitments to lease space, guidelines for our exposure to fixed and although the level of interest has increased floating interest rates and use interest rate Hammerson has a high quality portfolio which is geographically diversified and let over the last year.
Vacancy is discussed and currency swaps to manage this risk.
further in the Business Review on page 22.
At 31 December 2010, 94% of the Groups to a large number of tenants.
These factors should help to mitigate any negative impact We currently have one significant gross debt was at fixed rates of interest.
development underway, Les Terrasses du If short-term interest rates increase, our arising from changing conditions in the financial and property markets.
Port in Marseille, which is 49% let or under hedging programme should partly mitigate offer and where we have much interest from the impact of any rise.
Our property portfolio is valued in prospective tenants.
Although we have a significant development pipeline, the exChange risk compliance with international standards Exchange risk is managed by matching by external, professionally qualified valuers.
programme will be phased and we will not start major capital projects without foreign currency assets with foreign currency The primary source of evidence for valuations debt, using derivatives where appropriate.
should be recent, comparable market substantial pre-lets.
The construction contract at Les Terrasses is for a fixed price At the end of 2010, 82% of the value of the transactions.
The current level of activity in French portfolio was hedged.
We estimate the commercial property investment markets and is therefore protected from the effects ofinflation.
that a 1% strengthening of the euro relative in the UK and France has meant that our to sterling would have the effect of increasing valuers have had sufficient market evidence shareholders funds by around 2 million and on which to base their valuations.
would increase net debt by approximately 11million.
