O Ove ver rvi vie ew w b bu us siin ne es ss s an and d fi finan nanc ciial al r re ev viie ew w g gO Ov five er rnan nanc ce e fi finan nanc ciial al s st ta at te em me en nt ts s pr prO Op pe er rt ty y p pO Ort rtf fO Oli liO O HammersOn plc annual report 2010 13 prOperty markets and OutlOOk property markets and outlook investment market retail propertY oFFiCe propertY Global economic recovery and supportive In the UK, non-food retail sales rose by The performance of the central London monetary policy contributed to a marked almost 3% over the year, as households office market generally mirrored the improvement in the performance of UK and reduced savings and increased spending.
movements in global financial markets.
In The recovery in retail sales was partly the Take-up fell back during the Greek sovereign both countries, improving investor sentiment result of lower than expected unemployment.
debt crisis, but improved in the final quarter increased the demand for commercial to a three-year high, as equity markets property, boosted transaction volumes and Although overall sales recovered, trading reached levels not seen since mid-2008.
led to lower investment yields and higher conditions for retailers in the UK have been property valuations.
Some retailers have taken advantage Over the year as a whole, central London 2 mainly focused on high quality property of the downturn to improve operations and take-up was 15 million ft, a 67% rise on the assets with secure income streams.
However, factors previous year, and represented the highest such as the weakness of sterling and rising level of leasing activity since 2006.
For the The value of UK commercial property commodity costs have affected retailer first time since 2008, significant pre-letting transactions reached 35 billion during 2010, profitability.
Against this background we activity began to return to the market.
The an annual rise of almost 50%.
The quarterly expect to see a continued polarisation to central London vacancy rate fell from 7.2% IPD all-property equivalent yield moved in prime, regionally dominant shopping centres atthe start of the year, to 5.5% by the end of consistently throughout the year, falling 80bp and conveniently located retail parks.
2010, supporting continued rental growth to 7.1% by December 2010.
Although the and smaller incentive payments to tenants.
2 rate of inward yield movement slowed as During the recent downturn, many of the Prime City rents were 55 ft by the end the year progressed, a stabilisation of rental UKs planned retail developments were of the year, whilst rent-free periods had values helped to push up annual all-property either delayed or cancelled by property reduced by six months to 24 months for total returns to 15.1%, the highest level companies.
Accordingly, the UK aten-year lease.
development pipeline is now substantially smaller.
Fewer new developments and an The completion of additional floor space The French commercial property market improved sales environment helped UK retail in the City will fall over the next two years, recorded a smaller decline in capital values vacancy rates to stabilise in 2010, reducing with the likely consequence of lower during the downturn, and accordingly has the pace of shopping centre rental decline, availability of grade-A offices and further not seen as sharp a recovery as the UK.
The and returning positive rental growth to the increases in prime rents.
Demand has volume of transactions in France in 2010 retail warehouse sector during the second increased but remains unpredictable, remained below the historic average, but half of the year.
Vacancy levels at prime which in conjunction with an increase in accelerated through the year to a total of well-let shopping centres and retail parks development activity could temper rental 11billion, a year-on-year rise of 40%.
Rising such as Hammersons are significantly growth in the longer-term.
demand put pressure on yields throughout lower than market averages, supporting the year, contributing to a return to capital rental values.
In France, retail sales have also started Commercial property continues to look to grow as economic recovery and a attractive.
The spread between property stabilisation of unemployment have yields and interest rates remains well above overcome weak consumer confidence.
the historic average, which should continue French households have a higher level of to encourage investor demand.
However, savings and lower level of personal debt investors are expected to prefer prime than those in the UK, and the economic properties, helping to maintain the wide downturn in France resulted in fewer retailer spread between prime and secondary yields.
administrations, helping to keep shopping centre vacancy rates lower than in the UK, at around 3%.
However, retailers are yet to increase appreciably their demand for new stores.
Shopping centre rents declined on average by just 1% during the downturn, and are estimated to have returned to growth in 2010.
The main French indexation rate for existing retail leases was set at -0.22% with effect from 1 January 2011, and compares with 0.84% a year earlier.
Indexation in France is likely to track any further increase in inflation, helping to maintain real rental incomes.
