Technology in action Everyday, around the world the men and women who serve our society and protect our way of life rely on Cobham products, often without even knowing it.
Some of these connections are visible.
An airliner at a commercial airport can be 3.
Cobhams Explosive Ordnance Disposal or 5.
With a highly dexterous manipulator arm, carrying 20 Cobham antennas, along with EOD command post from Telerob will be the UGV will change tools to first remove oxygen systems, radios, navigation aids and scrambled into action, driving to within a bags blocking its way, and then carefully computer servers to record and process safe distance of the aircraft.
It will be fitted open overhead compartments.
If a suspicious package is found in with an impressive array of antennas, lights one of these parked aircraft, Cobham and cameras, with the camera perhaps 6.
If a suspect package is found, the robot will equipment will be pivotal.
Cabin crew will supplied from a recent acquisition, RVision.
again change its tools to gently swab the alert emergency services, tapping into the package, before retracing its steps to the communication systems Cobham designed 4.
From a special platform on the vehicle, a command vehicle and placing the sample for the airport terminal.
small UAV will deploy to provide an aerial into a special compartment in the side of surveillance picture, monitored from inside the vehicle for analysis to check if chemical 2.
Emergency services will swing into action the vehicle.
The UAV can be fitted with weapons are involved.
Based on the analysis, and airport security might deploy Cobham Cobham video and control links plus the robot will return to the package to deal wireless security systems, with the control sensors, as can the unmanned ground with it accordingly.
No human will be put room security team watching and listening vehicle or robot, which will leave the back in harms way throughout this process.
for anything amiss using covert cameras of the vehicle, track toward the aircraft and sensors.
and climb the aircraft stairs.
It will send live pictures back to the command post, which can rebroadcast them to a control room in the airport, as well as individuals who are carrying handheld terminals originally developed by Cobham for soldier systems.
10 Cobham plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2010 Business overview Business overview Corporate governance Group financial statements Other information But in many cases, Cobhams technology is unseen, providing a critical enabling capability that helps our customers meet their most demanding missions, civil or military.
Military scenario 6 1 2 4 3 5 More than ever before, the modern military 2.
At brigade and battalion headquarters, this 4.
But the mobile convoys take no chances unit depends on information.
And so often, intelligence is received, reviewed and shared there may be other Improvised Explosive without knowing it, they depend on Cobham.
across the network via another variety of Devices out there and they employ Cobham antennas that allow continuous electronic countermeasures using Cobham Every day, personnel of more than 18 line of sight communication with ground antennas and components to transmit their armed forces rely on Cobham technologies units operating in forward areas.
to gather, receive, interpret and transmit vital operational data between sensors, Should an Improvised Explosive Device 5.
And to keep them capable of working amid platforms and people.
be spotted, airborne US Navy Prowler and high heat and humid conditions, many Growler aircraft will jam the signals used soldiers use Microclimate cooling vests to 1.
Before a convoy leaves the safety of its to detonate it, partly through the Cobham survive the oven-like heat of their armored compound, Cobham technology is at work.
transmitters at the heart of their electronic vehicles on typically hot and sunny days.
Global Hawk, Predator and Scan Eagle warfare suites.
These vests are also worn by the helicopter unmanned systems gather intelligence crews that provide additional support to the and communicate through Cobham-built 3.
M eanwhile bomb disposal units can move men and women on the ground.
command and control uplinks, antennas in to defuse or harmlessly explode the 6.
Should soldiers need to dismount from and microwave assemblies, surveying the device.
They will use Cobhams digital radio their vehicles, they can maintain total convoys intended route to detect enemy video data links to send robots into harms connection with what is happening forces or other dangers.
And once the around them through Cobhams handheld routes are clear, the supply convoys roll Integrated Digital Soldier System, providing forward, communicating with each other communications, navigation and even video and their base through Cobhams secure, from remote sources.
flexible intercom systems and radios.
com Cobham plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2010 11
