Board of Directors J F Devaney, BEng, CEng, FIMechE, FIEE A J Stevens BSc, CEng, FIET, FRAeS W G Tucker BSc, ACA, MBA Non-executive Director and Chairman Chief Executive Officer Chief Financial Officer Appointed to the Board as a Non-executive Director Appointed to the Board in 2003, Andy Stevens, Appointed to the Board in 2003, Warren Tucker, in February 2010 and appointed as Chairman age 54, joined the Group as Managing Director of age 48, joined the Group as Chief Financial Officer in May 2010, John Devaney, age 63, is currently the Aerospace Systems Group.
He was appointed and is a chartered accountant.
Prior to joining, he Non-executive Chairman of National Express plc, Chief Operating Officer of the Technology Divisions worked at Arthur Andersen, Lazard, held senior the passenger transport group, and Non-executive in September 2005 and in March 2007 assumed finance positions at British Airways plc, Euro Disney Chairman of NATS, the National Air Traffic Services.
responsibility for operational management, and was Deputy Group Financial Director of Cable He has previously served as Non-executive Director performance and profit and loss accountability and Wireless plc.
He is a Non-executive Director of Northern Rock and Chairman of Marconi plc, later for the Group.
He became Chief Executive Officer of Reckitt Benckiser Group plc, appointed on renamed Telent.
His executive career was built in on 1 January 2010.
Prior to joining he qualified 24February 2010. engineering companies within the Varity Group.
as a chartered engineer at Dowty Group and He was President of Perkins Engines in the midsubsequently became Chief Operating Officer of 1980s, and he went on to be President of KelseyMessier Dowty International before joining RollsHayes, the automotive components manufacturer.
Royce as Managing Director, Defence Aerospace.
He was subsequently Chief Executive of Eastern Electricity, the largest regional electricity company in the UK at the time.
Following its acquisition by Hanson he was appointed Executive Chairman.
He is Chairman of the nomination committee and a member of the remuneration committee.
M Beresford CBE, MAMechSc, FIET P Hooley FCA, MSc J S Patterson CBE, MBChB, FRCP, Fmed Sci Independent Non-executive Director Independent Non-executive Director Independent Non-executive Director Appointed to the Board as a Non-executive Director Appointed to the Board as a Non-executive Appointed to the Board as a Non-executive in 2004, Marcus Beresford, age 68, was Chairman Director in 2002, Peter Hooley, age 64, is a chartered Director in 2005, John Patterson, age 63, qualified in of Ricardo plc until November 2009 and was a accountant, and was Group Finance Director of medicine in 1971 and obtained a Membership now Non-executive Director of Spirent PLC until late Smith & Nephew plc until mid-2006.
In July 2006, Fellowship of the Royal College of Physicians in 2006.
He was an Executive Director of GKN plc he was appointed Non-executive Chairman of 1974.
He was appointed as a Non-executive Director from 1992 to 2002 and Chief Executive from 2001 BSN Medical Luxembourg Holdings Sarl, a group of Ferring Holding SA in April 2009.
He is the Senior Independent Director engaged in medical textile products.
In May now AstraZeneca in 1975 and in December 2004 and is a member of the nomination, audit and 2009, he was appointed as an independent was appointed to the main Board as Executive .
Non-executive Director of Xstrata plc.
Previously Director responsible for development.
He retired he was a Non-executive Director of Powell Duffryn as a Director of that firm in March 2009.
He is Chairman of the audit former President of the Association of the British committee and a member of the nomination and Pharmaceutical Industry, a former Non-executive .
Director of Amersham PLC and a former member of the supervisory board of the UK Medicines Control Agency.
He is Chairman of the remuneration committee and a member of the nomination and audit committees.
32 Cobham plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2010 Business overview Business overview Corporate governance Group financial statements Other information M H Ronald CBE, BA, BScEE, MScEE M W Hagee Independent Non-executive Director Independent Non-executive Director Appointed to the Board as a Non-executive Appointed to the Board as a Non-executive Director Director in 2007, Mark Ronald, age 69, was, until in December 2008, Mike Hagee, age 66, was, until his retirement at the end of 2006, Chief Operating his retirement in January 2007, a member of the Officer of BAE Systems plc and Chief Executive Joint Chiefs of Staff as the 33rd Commandant of Officer of BAE Systems Inc, its wholly-owned the United States Marine Corps.
Prior to that, he US subsidiary.
Previously he was Vice-President, was the Commanding General of the 1st Marine programme management with Litton Industries Expeditionary Force.
In total, he served in the and Chief Operating Officer of AEL Industries.
US military for more than 44 years and holds He is currently a Non-executive Director of ATK numerous military, civilian and foreign decorations, Inc and Aerofex Inc and was, until 7 July 2010, including the Bronze Star with Valor, National a Non-executive Director of DynCorp International Intelligence Distinguished Service Medal and Inc.
He is a senior adviser of Veritas Capital LLC Defense Distinguished Service Medal.
He is currently and a management consultant.
He is a member a Non-executive Director of Rackable Systems, IAP of the nomination and remuneration committees.
Worldwide Services Inc, Dyncorp International Inc. and Freedom Group, Inc.
He is a member of the audit, nomination and remuneration committees.
M Wareing CMG D J Turner Independent Non-executive Director Former Independent Non-executive Chairman Appointed to the Board as a Non-executive Director Appointed to the Board as Non-executive Deputy in December 2010, Michael Wareing, age 56, was Chairman in December 2007 and Chairman on formerly Chief Executive of KPMG International and 7 May 2008, David Turner, age 66, is a chartered is a non-executive member of the Board of Wolseley accountant.
He was appointed Chairman of the plc, where he is Chairman of that companys audit Commonwealth Bank of Australia in February committee and will be appointed as a non-executive 2010.
He stood down as Chairman of Cobham member of the Board of Intertek Group plc on at the conclusion of the Annual General Meeting 15 April 2011.
He is also a member of the Board on 6May 2010. of Business in the Community and Co-chairman, Business in the Community International formerly the Global Partner Network which promotes best practice in Corporate Social Responsibility.
Michael worked for KPMG from 1973 until 2009 when he retired.
Between 2005 and 2009, he was Chief Executive Officer, KPMG International, Chairman, KPMG International Executive Team and Chairman, KPMG Iberoamerica Board.
He is a member of the nomination committee and a member of and Chairman designate of the audit committee.
com Cobham plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2010 33
