Directors report The Articles require that a director shall retire from office if he has been The Directors present their report and the audited Group and parent appointed by the Board since the previous AGM or if it is the third AGM company financial statements of Cobham plc for the year ended following that at which he was elected or last re-elected.
The Company is registered in England and Wales accordance with the UK Corporate Governance Code, which under company number 30470. recommends that all directors of FTSE 350 companies seek re-election by shareholders on an annual basis, all directors currently in office will Business review retire and seek re-election at the AGM.
Michael Wareing, who was The Chairmans statement on page 4 of the Annual Report together with appointed by the Board on 1 December 2010, is seeking election by the Chief Executive Officers review on pages 5 to 6, the Business review shareholders at the 2011 AGM for the first time.
on pages 12 to 19, the Financial review on pages 20 to 25, the Principal risks section on pages 26 to 27, the Corporate responsibility and Subject to the Companys Articles, UK legislation and any directions sustainability section on pages 28 to 30 and the Corporate governance given by resolutions of the Company, the business of the Company is section on pages 37 to 40 contain information that fulfils the managed by the Board.
The Directors have been authorised to allot and requirements of the statutory business review and are incorporated issue Ordinary Shares and to make market purchases of Ordinary Shares.
in this Directors report by reference.
The statutory business review is These powers are exercised under authority of resolutions passed at the addressed only to shareholders and its purpose is to provide a review Companys AGM.
of the business and to explain the principal risks and uncertainties facing the Group.
Directors indemnity arrangements The Company has entered into qualifying third party indemnity Principal activities arrangements for the benefit of all its Directors in a form and scope Providing a suite of end-to-end avionics products, law enforcement which comply with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006. and national security solutions, and satellite communication equipment for land, sea and air applications.
Directors interests Critical technology for network centric operations, moving information None of the Directors is or was materially interested in any significant around the digital battlefield, with customised and off-the-shelf contract during or at the end of the financial year, particulars of solutions for people and systems to communicate on land, sea and air.
which are required to be disclosed by the Listing Rules of the UK Providing safety and survival systems for extreme environments, Listing Authority.
nose-to-tail refuelling systems and wing-tip to wing-tip mission systems for fast jets, transport aircraft and rotor craft.
Details of Directors share interests and of their rights to subscribe Delivering outsourced aviation services for military and civil customers for shares are shown in the Directors remuneration report on worldwide through military training, special mission flight operations, pages 41 to 48. outsourced commercial aviation and aircraft engineering.
Corporate governance Dividends The Companys statement on corporate governance is set out on pages An interim dividend of 1.628p per ordinary share of 2.5p each in the 37 to 40. capital of the Company Ordinary Shares 2009: 1.48p was paid in November 2010.
The Directors are recommending a final dividend Share capital of 4.372p per Ordinary Share 2009: 3.97p payable on 3 June 2011 to Details of movements in the share capital of the Company during the ordinary shareholders on the register as at 6 May 2011, making a total year are given in note 29 to the Group financial statements and note 13 ordinary dividend for the year of 6.00p 2009: 5.45p.
to the parent company financial statements respectively.
Board of Directors At the AGM held on 6 May 2010, the Company was authorised to The current Directors are listed, together with short biographical notes, purchase up to 114,899,393 Ordinary Shares.
This authority will expire on pages 32 to 33.
They all held office throughout the year except at the conclusion of the 2011 AGM.
Although no Ordinary Shares have John Devaney, who joined the Board on 1 February 2010 and became been purchased by the Company during the period from 6 May 2010 Chairman of the Company on 6 May 2010 and Michael Wareing, who to the date of this report, a special resolution will be put to shareholders joined the Board on 1 December 2010.
Peter Hooley will retire from at the AGM to renew the authority to make market purchases of the the Board and stand down as Chairman of the audit committee at Companys shares up to a maximum of 10% of the share capital of the conclusion of the Annual General Meeting AGM on 6 May 2011 theCompany.
after nine years and Michael Wareing will assume the Chair of the audit committee at that time.
The rights and obligations attaching to the Ordinary Shares and 6% second cumulative preference shares of 1 each in the capital of the The rules for the appointment and replacement of Directors are set out Company are set out in the Articles.
in the Companys Articles of Association the Articles copies of which can be obtained from Companies House in the UK or by contacting Subject to applicable statutes, and to the rights conferred on the holders the Company Secretary.
Changes to the Articles must be approved of any other shares, shares may be issued with such rights and by shareholders passing a special resolution.
The Directors and the restrictions as the Company may by ordinary resolution decide or Company in the latter case by ordinary resolution may appoint if there is no such resolution or so far as the resolution does not make a person who is willing to act as a Director, either to fill a vacancy specific provision as the Board may decide.
Holders of Ordinary Shares or as an additional Director.
are entitled to attend and speak at general meetings of the Company, 34 Cobham plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2010 Corporate governance Business overview Corporate governance Group financial statements Other information Bonus Co-investment Plan, Performance Share Plan and Executive Share to appoint one or more proxies and, if they are corporations, corporate Option Scheme.
representatives and to exercise voting rights.
Holders of Ordinary Shares may receive a dividend and, on a liquidation, may share in the assets Employee share schemes rights of control of the Company.
Holders of Ordinary Shares are entitled to receive the If required to do so by the Company, the trustee of the Cobham Share Companys Annual Reports.
Subject to meeting certain thresholds, Incentive Plan the Plan will, on receipt of notice from the Company holders of Ordinary Shares may requisition a general meeting of the of any offer, compromise, arrangement or scheme which affects shares Company or the proposal of a resolution at an AGM.
held in the Plan, invite participants to direct the trustee on the exercise of any voting rights attaching to the shares held by the trustee on their Voting rights and restrictions on transfer of shares behalf and or direct how the trustee shall act in relation to those shares.
On a show of hands at a general meeting of the Company, every holder of shares present in person or by proxy and entitled to vote has one vote The trustee will not vote in respect of any shares held in the Plan in and on a poll every member present in person or by proxy and entitled respect of which it has received no directions nor will the trustee vote to vote has one vote for every 1 in nominal value of the shares of which in respect of any shares which are unallocated under the Plan.
None of the Ordinary Shares carry any special rights with regard to control of the Company.
Research and development The Group continues to invest in the important area of research There are no restrictions on transfers of shares other than: and development.
During the year the Group expended 73.8m 2009: 88.3m on non-customer funded research and development.
Certain restrictions which may from time to time be imposed by laws The management of each Group business is responsible for identifying or regulations: and carrying out suitable research and development programmes Pursuant to the Companys code for securities transactions including having regard to particular market and product needs.
the requirement on the Directors and designated employees to obtain approval to deal in the Companys shares: and Further information on research and development appears on pages 5, Where a person with an interest in the Companys shares has been 9 and 20. served with a disclosure notice and has failed to provide the Company with information concerning interests in those shares.
Major interests in shares As at 2 March 2011, being a date not more than a month prior to the The Company is not aware of any arrangements between shareholders date of the AGM notice, the Company had been notified of the following that may result in restrictions on the transfer of securities or interests of 3% or more in the Ordinary Shares: votingrights.
Number of shares at the Percentage at date Significant arrangements change of control date of notification of notification The Company is party to the following significant agreements which Credit Suisse Group AG 59,008,164 5.11 contain provisions which take effect, alter or terminate upon a change Sprucegrove Investment of control of the Company: Management Limited 57,730,347 5.05 Newton Investment The Company has entered into a number of credit agreements with Management Limited 57,695,346 5.00 banks, and has issued senior notes under private placements.
The total Legal & General Group plc 56,779,341 4.91 amount owing under such agreements at the year end date is shown in note 24 to the Group financial statements.
All agreements contain clauses such that, in the event of a change of control, the Company Financial instruments must repay all such borrowings together with accrued interest, fees Notes 26, 27 and 28 to the Group financial statements and note 12 to and other sums owing as required by the individual agreements: the parent company financial statements contain disclosures relating Under the FB Heliservices FBH shareholders agreement entered into to the use of financial instruments.
in November 2004, change of control of either the Company or its subsidiary holding shares in FBH, without the prior written consent People of that other FBH shareholder, entitles the other FBH shareholder to At the end of 2010, Cobham employed 11,375 people including purchase all of the Cobham Groups shareholding in FBH: contractors on five continents with major population centres in the UK, Under the Sentinel contract, entered into in March 2006, the Company France, North America and Australia.
must seek approval for any material change in the shareholding of the Company.
There is an ancillary Lease Agreement under which a change Across Cobham, implementation of organisational structures designed of control may result in the termination of the lease if such event is to support the Groups declared strategy of building its capabilities across likely to have a material adverse effect on the Companys ability to all functions continued with an emphasis on collaboration to better perform its obligations under the lease: and utilise resources and succession planning to increase opportunities for Under the FSTA shareholders agreement entered into in June 2008, personal and professional development.
a change of control of the Company may result in a required sale of the Companys shares in FSTA to the other shareholders.
Cobham is committed to equal opportunities for all of its employees.
The Group aims to ensure that the workplace is free from discrimination: Further information relating to change of control appears in the recruitment, selection and career development are based on competence Directors remuneration report on pages 43 and 44 under the headings and job requirements, irrespective of race, sex, sexual preference, www.
com Cobham plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2010 35 Directors report continued Annual General Meeting religion or disability.
Cobham continues to monitor and improve its The Companys AGM will be held at 12 noon on Friday, 6 May 2011 at the policies and practices to reflect the requirements of age discrimination offices of UBS Investment Bank, 1 Finsbury Avenue, London EC2M 2PP.
With regard to employees who become disabled, the policy is to take all reasonable steps, including retraining, to ensure that they The Company arranges for the notice of AGM and related papers to can remain in employment wherever practicable.
The importance of be sent to shareholders at least 20 working days before the meeting.
employee development and training is recognised and Group businesses are required to encourage employees to take advantage of available and By order of the Board relevant training programmes and opportunities for advancement.
Eleanor Evans 2 March 2011, Chief Legal Officer & Company Secretary The Group encourages employee participation and consultation at all levels and also the sharing of relevant business information.
Such an approach facilitates the development of new ideas and practices that add value to the business, promotes team member commitment and helps to focus Company and employee expectations.
In-house newsletters, intranet, extranet and internet communications, Company announcements, team meetings and suggestion schemes all play a part in this process.
UK employees are given the opportunity to become shareholders in the Company through the Cobham Savings Related Share Option Scheme and the Cobham Share Incentive Plan.
Under the former, employees can acquire shares through the exercise of options granted at a 20% discount to market value with savings made over three, five or seven years.
Under the latter, shares may be purchased out of pre-tax income.
Corporate responsibility and sustainability Information in relation to the Groups commitment to Corporate responsibility and sustainability including additional information in relation to employment matters is set out on pages 28 to 31.
Creditors payment policy Payment is generally made by Group companies to their creditors in accordance with agreed terms of business provided that those terms have been met.
It is the policy of the Company that all invoices are paid within 30 days following the end of the month in which the invoices are approved.
The total amount of the Companys trade creditors falling due within one year at 31 December 2010 represents 45 days 2009: 44 days worth as a proportion of the total amount invoiced by suppliers during the year ended on that date.
Events after the balance sheet date Note 35 to the Group financial statements contains information in respect of post-balance sheet events.
Political and charitable gifts No contributions were made to political organisations.
The amount donated during the year for charitable purposes was 84,005 2009: 85,423.
Of this sum, individual donations in excess of 2,000 to UK charities were made to the value of 2,500 2009: 10,000 to armed services charities, 15,000 2009: 6,350 to business enterprise charities and 2,500 2009: nil to other charities.
Land and buildings Details of the carrying amount and market values of the Groups investment properties are as disclosed in note 15 to the Group financial statements.
Auditors The auditors,  LLP, have indicated their willingness to continue in office and a resolution to re-appoint them will be proposed at the AGM.
36 Cobham plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2010 Corporate governance
