Looking forward, 84 million of bank and private placements debt to foreign exchange differences on translation into Sterling.
Where is due to be repaid during the 2011 financial year and it is currently the borrowings are either less than, or equate to, the net investment in envisaged that these will be repaid from surplus cash.
With strong overseas operations, these exchange rate movements are treated as ongoing free cash flow generation, the Group believes that it is in a movements on reserves and recorded in the consolidated statement solid financial position.
of comprehensive income rather than in the income statement.
Non-Sterling earnings streams are translated at the average rate of The EBIT to net interest ratio has increased from 5.6 times in 2006 exchange for the year.
This results in differences in the Sterling value to 12.3 times in 2010 and the EBITDA to net interest has increased of currency earnings from year to year.
The table in note 34 of the from 8.2 times to 15.2 times in the same period.
This is adjusted consolidated financial statements sets out the exchange rates used where necessary for covenant definitions and includes share of to translate the income statements, balance sheets and cash flows profits of associates and discontinued operations, but excludes the of non-Sterling denominated entities.
amortisation of intangibles arising on acquisition, hedge accounting ineffectiveness and the change in fair value of minority interest put Interest rate risk options.
The Group remains committed to maintaining strong As detailed above, the Group has effective borrowings in a number investment grade credit ratings.
of currencies and its policy is to ensure that, in the short-term, it is not materially exposed to fluctuations in interest rates in its principal Liquidity risk currencies.
The Group implements this policy either by borrowing The Group finances its borrowings from a number of sources including fixed rate debt or by using interest rate swaps so that at least 80% banks, the public markets and the private placement markets.
The of its projected net debt is fixed for one year, reducing to 60% fixed maturity profile of the Groups principal borrowings at 30 September for the second year and 40% fixed for the third year.
2010 shows the average period to maturity is 2.7 years.
Other risks and uncertainties Maturity profile of principal borrowings The Board takes a proactive approach to risk management with as at 30 September 2010 the aim of protecting its employees and customers and safeguarding the interests of the Company and its shareholders.
Years ending 30 September 2011 The principal risks and uncertainties facing the business and the activities the Group undertakes to mitigate these are set out in the 2012 section headed Managing Risk on pages 28 to 31.
2013 2014 Shareholder return 2015 The market price of the Groups ordinary shares at the close of the 2016 financial year was 530.5 pence per share 2009: 382.3 pence per share.
2017 Going concern m 0 100 200 300 400 500 600 700 The Groups business activities, together with the factors likely to bonds US$ private placement private placement bank affect its future development, performance and position are set out in 1 Based on borrowings and facilities in place as at 30 September 2010, maturing the Business Review, as is the financial position of the Group, its cash in the financial year ending 30 September.
flows, liquidity position, and borrowing facilities.
In addition, note 19 2 The average life of the Group's principal borrowings as at 30 September 2010 is 2.7 years 2009: 3.1 years.
includes the Groups objectives, policies and processes for managing its capital, its financial risk management objectives, details of its The Groups undrawn committed bank facilities at 30 September financial instruments and hedging activities and its exposures to credit 2010 were 696 million 2009: 756 million.
Financial instruments The Group has considerable financial resources together with longerThe Group continues to manage its foreign currency and interest rate term contracts with a number of customers and suppliers across exposure in accordance with the policies set out below.
The Groups different geographic areas and industries.
As a consequence, the financial instruments comprise cash, borrowings, receivables and Directors believe that the Group is well placed to manage its business payables that are used to finance the Groups operations.
The Group risks successfully despite the current uncertain economic outlook.
also uses derivatives, principally interest rate swaps and forward currency contracts, to manage interest rate and currency risks arising After making enquiries, the Directors have a reasonable expectation from the Groups operations.
The Group does not trade in financial that the Group has adequate resources to continue in operational instruments.
The Groups treasury policies are designed to mitigate existence for the foreseeable future.
For this reason, they continue to the impact of fluctuations in interest rates and exchange rates and to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the financial statements.
manage the Groups financial risks.
The Board approves any changes to the policies.
Andrew Martin Group Finance Director 24 November 2010 Foreign currency risk The Groups policy is to match as far as possible its principal projected cash flows by currency to actual or effective borrowings in the same currency.
As currency cash flows are generated, they are used to service and repay debt in the same currency.
Where necessary to implement this policy, forward currency contracts are taken out which, when applied to the actual currency liabilities, convert these to the required currency.
A reconciliation of the 30 September 2010 actual currency liabilities to the effective currency borrowed is set out in note 18 of the consolidated financial statements.
The borrowings in each currency give rise Compass Group PLC Annual Report 2010 25 1 3:56 New York, USA Delivering quality, choice and value We know whats important to our clients and consumers and thats why we offer everything from a nutritious breakfast and delicious lunch to barista-made coffee and grab and go snacks, bringing people back to our restaurants and outlets day in, day out.
26 Compass Group PLC Annual Report 2010 16 :07 Berlin, Germany Delivering for business We offer an extensive range of high quality multi-services to major national and international clients, tailored to meet their specic needs, so that they can focus fully on their core business.
Compass Group PLC Annual Report 2010 27
