A safe and healthy workplace 2010 highlights t IFAP CGU Gold Award for Safety Achievement for second consecutive year Australia t 12.5 million man-hours with zero lost-time injuries Angola t 3 gold medals, 9 gold certificates and 12 silver certificates at the RoSPA Awards UK & Ireland Our number one operational priority remains health, safety and the This year, in line with our published 2009-2010 commitment, we have environment for our employees and the 20 million consumers who eat worked hard with our internal stakeholders to measure, collate and and drink with us every day.
report on our Lost Time Injury Rate LTIR in a consistent way.
All of our countries now report their health and safety and food safety All management and board meetings throughout the Group feature a performance in a consistent format every month.
Due to the diverse health and safety update as one of their first agenda items.
The Board range of business sectors in which we operate, we have further work reviews the Occupational Health & Safety and Food Safety policies to do in consolidating our performance data to create one global annually as well as the latest performance results at each meeting measurement which we can report publicly.
In the meantime, we are to ensure that they continue to reflect our aims and aspirations and pleased to report that in 2009-2010 we recorded a 28% improvement meet current legislation.
in our LTIR performance compared to 2008-2009.
Sharing best practice Health and safety have always had a special focus in our business Supporting the Board is our internal Health, Safety & Environment and particularly for our Offshore & Remote site workplaces, where our Forum Global HSE Forum, comprising technical specialists from customers demand the very highest operational standards.
At the around the business, responsible for promoting policy, setting Chevron Cabinda Gulf Oil Company site in Angola, our Express standards, measuring compliance and sharing best practice across Support Services Lda team reached an important safety milestone the Group.
this year when they achieved more than 12 million man-hours worked with zero days away from work or lost-time injuries.
During this time, We believe that everyone at Compass has a moral obligation to we provided food and support services for an average of 2,000 safeguard each other, our customers and the environment by residents working at the base and up to 2,500 field-based consumers operating a safe, injury free and healthy workplace: serving food that servicing oil and gas exploration and production.
In Abu Dhabi, is always safe to eat, nutritional and which minimises our impact on our ADNH Compass Oil and Gas team has reported zero lost-time the environment.
To ensure best practice, we developed a set of injuries in the last eight years, a testament to their continued hard policies, minimum operating standards and behaviours in 2007, work and commitment.
which have been steadily rolled out across our business.
We are pleased to report that, this year, the first phase of the programme Recognition We take great pride when our commitment to health and safety is has been successfully implemented across 98% of our countries.
Our standards are based on the strictest regulatory requirements recognised externally.
A long running and highly respected occupational safety body, RoSPA The Royal Society for the Prevention of Accidents and industry best practice.
has been recognising health and safety success across the UK for more than 50 years.
In 2010, they awarded our UK & Ireland Our number one priority World-class performance continues to be our goal, seeking over the business a total of 24 medals and certificates: 3 gold medals, 9 gold certificates and 12 silver certificates.
A gold medal denotes a shortto medium-term to set the benchmark for our industry.
significant achievement, awarded for a very high level of performance, a well developed occupational health and safety management system and culture.
Find out more online at: www.
com CR10 Compass Group PLC Annual Report 2010 39
