Corporate responsibility continued Wellness and nutrition 2010 highlights t 24% increase in the number of sites operating the Balanced Choices healthy eating programme Global t Best Employers for Healthy Lifestyles awarded by the National Business Group on Health US t 800 chefs and 40,000 students nutritionally trained by Compass UK & Ireland As a global foodservice company, we recognise that we have an nutritional labelling to the Education sector: for example, in Portugal, enormous impact on what our 20 million daily consumers choose nutritional labelling has been introduced in 92% of our Education sites to eat and drink.
Our positive contribution to their diet and nutrition reaching over 128,000 students.
is our most significant impact and we are proud of the role we play in promoting health, wellness and nutrition, particularly, as in many Chartwells, one of our Education sector brands, is a leading provider of the markets where we operate, the meal we provide may be the of foodservice to schools, colleges and universities across the globe.
only nutritious meal eaten by our consumers that day.
2010 has seen the continued implementation of our Eat-Learn-Live programme.
The programme promotes awareness of the importance Delivering balanced choices and benefits of healthy eating including practical advice on healthy We are working closely with our clients and through them with our cooking, nutrition seminars and production of an informative but fun consumers, suppliers, governments and regulators across the world comic book highlighting the potential dangers of overeating and lack to respond to public health issues such as those associated with of exercise.
Our consumers are becoming increasingly sophisticated about the nutritional content of their food choices and Tastelife, our Australian health and wellness programme, has been during 2010, we have continued to roll out our healthy eating framework, shown not only to increase the wellbeing of the individual but help Balanced Choices, across the business to enhance nutritional reduce employee absenteeism, increase employee retention and labelling across our food product range, providing consumers with the productivity, increase social interaction and reduce injury claim costs.
information that they need to make informed choices.
More than 1,300 The programme consists of three elements: Nutritiouslife, Activelife sites 2009: 830 sites in the UK and over 2,077 sites 2009: 2,000 and Healthylife.
Nutritiouslife encapsulates our commitment to sites in the US are operating Balanced Choices.
In the Netherlands, healthy eating and currently operates in 355 sites across Australia, the outstanding success of our Puur brand which offers a Balanced New Zealand, Papua New Guinea and offshore in that region.
The Choices menu promoting fresh, wholesome foods has led to a 52% focus is on fresh, exciting food and enabling consumers to make increase in the number of Balanced Choices sites.
Our business in healthy choices by highlighting nutritionally balanced options and Japan has also shown a marked increase of 67% in the number of providing clear food labelling.
Activelife focuses on physical aspects, challenging ideas around exercise and healthy lifestyle, supported by Balanced Choices sites they operate.
over 70 full-time instructors across 33 sites.
The Tastelife programme has been so successful we are sharing it as a best practice example Encouraging healthy lifestyles Compass is committed to leading the way in the foodservice industry initiative through our Global HSE Forum.
in understanding the needs of consumers and is at the forefront of providing nutritional information.
We take our Responsibility value very seriously, and this year, in response to the growing concern over childhood obesity and the importance of educating school children to adopt healthy eating habits, we have extended our efforts in terms of Interested?
Find out more online at: www.
com CR10 40 Compass Group PLC Annual Report 2010
