Our sectors Delivering across our diverse sectors Business Education & Industry Group revenue 2010 Group revenue 2010 41% 16% 2009: 43% 2009: 15% Delivering world-class foodservice and From kindergarten to college, we provide support services to people at work.
fun, healthy dining options that help boost Our renowned customer first hospitality concentration and knowledge retention.
mindset and reputation for great food are Our food and nutrition specialists are combined with the industrial efficiency committed to building strong bodies, sharp of our Compass Service Framework to minds and establishing the foundation for consistently manage and deliver multiple a long, healthier life.
services to the highest standard, at the best value, on a global scale.
Major sector brands Major sector brands 6 Compass Group PLC Annual Report 2010 We believe that the sectors we operate in have specific requirements and that responding to these and driving innovation and operating efficiency are best addressed by building sector expertise.
For our customers this means access to unrivalled experience, global best practice and market-leading innovation, and the specialist skills of our people from award-winning chefs to service practice experts.
Healthcare Sports Defence, & Seniors & Leisure Offshore & Remote Group revenue 2010 Group revenue 2010 Group revenue 2010 19% 11 % 13% 2009: 19% 2009: 11% 2009: 12% Delivering with care to the most exacting With our acclaimed foodservice and We lead the market in providing food and standards for patients, staff and visitors unrivalled hospitality and service support services to major companies in in the public and private healthcare sector excellence, we have built up an enviable the oil and gas and mining and construction and in the growing senior living market, reputation for providing food and hospitality industries, operating in some of the most with services to residential care homes, services at some of the worlds most demanding environments in the world.
retirement communities and providing prestigious sporting, leisure and exhibition To our defence sector clients, we are a home delivery meal services.
venues, visitor attractions and major events.
partner who understands the challenges of running efficient and cost-effective operations for members of the armed forces outside of areas of conflict.
Major sector brands Major sector brands Major sector brands Compass Group PLC Annual Report 2010 7
