Board of directors Our Board A B C D E F G H I J K 1, 2 3, 8, 10 A | Sir Roy Gardner | Chairman Age 65 G | Susan Murray | Non-executive Director Age 53 Appointed Chairman in July 2006 having joined as a Non-executive Director in Appointed to the Board in October 2007.
She is Non-executive Chairman of Farrow October 2005.
He is a senior advisor to Credit Suisse, Chairman of Plymouth Argyle & Ball and a Non-executive Director of Pernod Ricard S. A. from 10 November Football Club, a Non-executive Director of Willis Group Holdings plc and Mainstream 2010, Enterprise Inns Plc and Imperial Tobacco PLC.
She is a former NonRenewable Power Limited, Chairman of the Advisory Board of the Energy Futures executive Director of Aberdeen Asset Management PLC, SSL International PLC Lab of Imperial College London, a member of the International Advisory Board of and Wm Morrison Supermarkets PLC, former Chief Executive of Littlewoods the IESE Business School at the University of Navarra, President of Carers UK, Stores Limited and former Worldwide President and Chief Executive of The Pierre and Chairman of the Apprenticeship Ambassadors Network.
He was formerly Smirnoff Company, part of Diageo plc, and a former council member of the Chief Executive of Centrica plc, Chairman of Manchester United plc, Chairman Advertising Standards Authority.
Susan is a Fellow of the Royal Society of Arts.
of Connaught plc May-September 2010 and a Director of British Gas plc, GEC- 6, 8 H | Tim Parker | Non-executive Director Age 55 Marconi Ltd, GEC plc and Laporte plc.
He was also Chairman of the British Reappointed to the Board in November 2008 having been a Non-executive Olympics Appeal Committee for the Beijing Games 2008.
Director of the Company from February 2007 to May 2008, when he was 2, 3, 4, 11 B | Richard Cousins | Group Chief Executive Age 51 appointed as First Deputy Mayor of London, a position from which he retired Appointed Group Chief Executive in 2006.
Richard had previously spent six in August 2008.
Tim is Chairman and CEO of The Samsonite Corporation, years as CEO of BPB plc, having held a number of positions with that company.
Non-executive Chairman of PBL Media Holdings Pty Ltd and a Director of British His earlier career was with Cadbury Schweppes plc and BTR plc.
He is an Industrial Partner of CVC Capital Partners and was Non-executive Director of Reckitt Benckiser Group plc and is a former formerly Chief Executive of the AA and a Non-executive Director of Boots Group plc.
Non-executive Director of P & O plc and HBOS plc.
Tim will leave the Board on 31 December 2010.
2, 4, 5, 11 3, 6 C | Andrew Martin | Group Finance Director Age 50 I | Don Robert | Non-executive Director Age 51 Appointed to the Board in March 2004.
He was previously a partner with Arthur Appointed to the Board in May 2009.
He is Chief Executive Officer of Experian plc, Andersen and held senior financial positions with Forte Plc and Granada Group having joined the Board of Experian in July 2006 as part of the demerger of GUS PLC.
Following the disposal of the Hotels Division in 2001, Andrew joined First plc.
He is a Trustee of the Education and Employers Taskforce.
Don was formerly Choice Holidays PLC as Finance Director.
He is an Associate of the Institute of Chairman of the Consumer Data Industry Association and previously held Chartered Accountants in England and Wales and an Associate of the Chartered positions with First American Corporation, Credco, Inc. and US Bancorp.
3, 6 J | Sir Ian Robinson | Non-executive Director Age 68 4, 11 D | Gary Green | Group Managing Director USA & Canada Age 53 Appointed to the Board in December 2006.
He is a former Chairman of Ladbrokes Appointed to the Board in January 2007.
He joined the Group in 1986 in a senior plc, Hilton Group plc and Amey plc, and a former Chief Executive of Scottish finance role in the UK and became a UK director in 1992.
Gary relocated to the Power plc and Non-executive Director of ASDA plc, RMC plc, Scottish & USA in 1994 as Chief Finance Officer of the Groups North American business and Newcastle plc and Siemens Holdings plc where he remains a member of the in 1999 became Chief Executive Officer.
He is a chartered accountant and in 2001 Advisory Board.
He is a Fellow of the Royal Academy of Engineers, a Fellow of received an honorary doctorate from Johnson & Wales University in the USA.
the Institution of Chemical Engineers and a Member of the Takeover Panel.
3, 7 E | Sir James Crosby | Senior Independent Non-executive Director Age 54 General Counsel and Company Secretary 2, 5, 11, 12 Appointed to the Board in February 2007.
He is Chairman of Misys plc and a K | Mark White | General Counsel and Company Secretary Age 50 Trustee of Cancer Research UK.
He was formerly Chief Executive of HBOS plc, A solicitor who joined Compass Group on 1 June 2007.
He is Secretary to the Deputy Chairman of the Financial Services Authority and a Non-executive Director Audit, General Business, Nomination and Remuneration Committees and is a of ITV plc.
He is a Fellow of the Faculty of Actuaries.
member of the Corporate Responsibility Committee.
Mark was previously Group Company Secretary and Counsel of Wolseley plc and Company Secretary of 2, 8, 9 F | Steve Lucas | Non-executive Director Age 56 Enterprise Oil plc and Rotork plc.
Appointed to the Board in July 2004.
He is Finance Director of National Grid plc having been previously Executive Director, Finance of Lattice Group plc.
He is a chartered accountant and has held a number of senior finance positions with 1 Chairman of the Nomination Committee 8 Member of the Remuneration Committee Shell International Petroleum Company and British Gas.
More recently, he was 2 Member of the Corporate Responsibility 9 Chairman of the Audit Committee Treasurer at BG Group.
Committee 10 Chairman of the Corporate Responsibility 3 Member of the Nomination Committee Committee 4 Member of the General Business 11 Member of the Executive Committee Committee 12 Trustee of the Compass Pension Scheme, 5 Member of the Disclosure Committee the Compass Group Pension Plan and 6 Member of the Audit Committee the Compass Retirement Income 7 Chairman of the Remuneration Committee Savings Plan 44 Compass Group PLC Annual Report 2010
