44 Aegis Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2010 REPORT OF THE DIRECTORS The directors present their report and the audited financial Directors statements of the Company for the year ended 31 December The names of the directors at the date of this report and their 2010.
The Business and Financial Reviews set out on pages 4 biographical details are given on pages 42 and 43. to 41 and the Corporate Governance Statement set out on pages Changes to the Board during the year were as follows: 49 to 54 form part of this report.
Robert Philpott was appointed on 18 March 2010.
Harold Mitchell was appointed on 15 December 2010.
Results and dividends The consolidated income statement is set out on page 63 and The interests of the directors in the shares and share incentives shows a profit for the financial year of 43.0 million 2009: 64.2 of the Company are shown in the Remuneration report on pages million.
An interim dividend of 1.025p per ordinary share was 59 to 61. paid on 24 September 2010 to ordinary shareholders.
The directors recommend a final dividend for the year of 1.725p per Re-election of directors ordinary share which, if approved at the Annual General Meeting, In accordance with the Articles of Association and in compliance will be payable on 6 July 2011 to ordinary shareholders with the 2008 Combined Code on Corporate Governance Harold registered at 17 June 2011.
The total dividend for the year will Mitchell will offer himself for election at the forthcoming Annual then amount to 2.75p per ordinary share 2009: 2.50p.
In addition Lorraine Trainer and Robert Philpott will retire and, being eligible, will offer themselves for re-election at the Annual General Meeting.
The FRCs new UK Principal activity Corporate Governance Code provides for the annual re-election The principal activity of the Company is that of a holding of all directors, however in this transitional year the Company company based in London.
Its subsidiaries and related has chosen not to implement the new provision.
companies provide a broad range of services in the areas of media communications and market research.
Details of all the directors service agreements, including notice The subsidiary and associated undertakings principally affecting periods, are given in the Remuneration report on page 57. the profits or net assets of the Group in the year are listed in Note 16 to the parent company financial statements.
Directors indemnities A qualifying third party indemnity QTPI, as permitted by the Articles of Association and sections 232 and 234 of the Review of business and future developments Companies Act 2006, has been or will shortly be granted by the A review of the business and likely future developments of the Company to each of its directors.
Under the QTPIs the Company Group is given in the Chief Executives report on pages 6 to 9, the undertakes to indemnify each director against liability to third Business Reviews on pages 10 to 25 and the Financial Review on parties excluding criminal and regulatory penalties and to pay pages 26 to 31.
Those sections form part of, and are directors costs as incurred, provided that they are reimbursed to incorporated by reference within, this Directors report.
the Company if the director is convicted or, in an action that is brought by the Company, judgement is given against the director.
Financial instruments Directors resigning from the Board continue to have the benefit Information about the use of financial instruments by the of the QTPI for potential liability to third parties that occurred Company and its subsidiaries is given in Note 19 to the financial prior to their resignation.
statements and in the Principal Risks and Uncertainties section on pages 32 to 35.
Substantial shareholdings Post-balance sheet events At 16 March 2011 the Company had been notified of the following The directors are not aware of any significant post-balance sheet interests of 3% or more in its ordinary shares, in accordance events that require disclosure in the financial statements other with chapter five of the Disclosure and Transparency Rules, or than those disclosed in Note 33 to the financial statements at understood such interests to exist as a result of enquiries made page 110. on its behalf: Shareholder Number of shares % Donations Bollor Group 340,911,920 26.52 The Groups approach with respect to charitable donations and Mitchell family 53,860,548 4.18 the amounts donated are detailed on page 38.
No political Norges Bank 52,160,955 4.06 donations were made during the year.
Legal & General Group 46,599,726 3.62 Standard Life 43,444,540 3.37 Supplier payment policy The Company does not impose a formal code of payment practice on its subsidiaries.
However, the Groups policy is to try to create relationships with its suppliers such that they trust us and want to do business with us.
In selecting external suppliers we use competitive processes that are fair and transparent, and designed to maximise value and quality of service for our clients and ourselves.
At 31 December 2010, the Group had 50 days purchases outstanding 2009: 50 days.
The creditor day analysis is not applicable to the holding company.
45 Aegis Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2010 Share capital Appointment and replacement of directors Details of the authorised and issued share capital, together with With regard to the appointment of directors the Company is details of movements in the Companys issued share capital governed by its Articles of Association, the 2008 Combined Code during the year, are shown in Note 22 to the financial statements and its successor the Corporate Governance Code, the on page 101.
Companies Acts and related legislation.
The Company has one class of share capital that is divided into The Company is required to have no fewer than two and no more ordinary shares of 5p each and that carry no right to fixed than 16 directors.
Directors may be appointed by the Company income.
Each ordinary share carries the right to one vote at by ordinary resolution or by a resolution of the Board.
A director general meetings of the Company.
appointed by the Board holds office until the following annual general meeting but is then eligible for re-appointment.
There are no specific restrictions on the size of a shareholding, the transfer of shares or voting rights, which are governed by the The Articles of Association provide that, at every annual general general provisions of the Articles of Association and prevailing meeting, any director who held office at the time of two legislation.
The directors are not aware of any agreements preceding annual general meetings and who did not retire at between shareholders that may result in restrictions on the either of them must retire and may offer himself for re-election.
transfer of shares or on voting rights, although the Company has In addition, any director who has been in office, other than as a entered into an agreement with Harold Mitchell restricting his director holding an executive position, for a continuous period of ability to sell shares in the Company prior to November 2012, nine years or more at the date of the meeting must also retire as described more fully in Note 32 on page 109. and may offer himself for re-election.
At the annual general meeting at which a director retires, shareholders can pass an The trustees of the Aegis Group Employee Share Trust the ordinary resolution to re-elect the director or to elect some other Trust have agreed to waive any right to all or any future eligible person in his place.
The Corporate Governance Code dividend payments on shares held within the Trust except in provides for annual re-election of all directors.
certain limited circumstances, none of which are currently applicable.
The only people who can be elected as directors at an annual general meeting are: i directors retiring at the meeting: Details of the shares held are set out in Note 23 to the financial ii anyone recommended by the directors: and iii anyone statements.
The trustees of the Trust may vote or abstain from nominated by a shareholder.
The nominating shareholder must voting on shares held in the Trust in any way they think fit and in be entitled to vote at the meeting.
He must deliver to the doing so may take into account both financial and non-financial Company a letter stating that he intends to nominate another interests of the beneficiaries of the Trust.
person for election and the written consent of that person to be No person has any special rights of control over the Companys elected.
These documents must be delivered to the Company share capital and all issued shares are fully paid.
not less than seven and not more than 42 days before the day of the meeting.
The directors are authorised to allot unissued shares in the The Company may by special resolution remove any director before Company up to a maximum nominal amount of 15,780,461. the expiration of his term of office.
A director automatically stops On 17 November 2010 the Company issued 116,672,515 ordinary being a director if: i he resigns: ii he offers to resign and the shares with a nominal amount of approximately 5,833,626, Company accepts his offer: iii all of the other directors being representing approximately 9.99% of the issued share capital at least three in number pass a resolution or sign a written of the Company immediately prior to such issue, to accepting notice requiring his resignation: iv he is or has been suffering shareholders in Mitchell Communication Group Pty Limited, from mental or physical ill health and the directors pass a on the acquisition of that company by the Aegis group further resolution removing him from office: v he is absent without the details of which are given in Note 25.
No other shares have permission of the Board for a continuous period of six months been issued or allotted under the authority held by the directors, and the directors pass a resolution removing him from office: vi nor is there any current intention to do so, save for shares he becomes bankrupt or makes a composition with his creditors issued to satisfy existing obligations.
This authority is valid until generally: vii he is prohibited by law from being a director: or the date of the forthcoming Annual General Meeting at which viii he ceases to be a director under legislation or is removed time a resolution will be proposed to renew the authority as pursuant to the Articles.
detailed in the accompanying circular.
The Company has not purchased, or created any charges over, its own shares in the year ended 31 December 2010.
The Company has not had the authority to allot shares without regard to the pre-emption provisions of the Companies Acts or to purchase its own shares since the 2008 Annual General Meeting.
GOVERNANCE 46 Aegis Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2010 REPORT OF THE DIRECTORS continued Significant agreements Human rights, diversity and disability The following significant agreements contain provisions entitling The Group has a series of human resources policies that require its the counterparties to, or the holders of notes or bonds issued employees to act respectfully and responsibly at all times.
These pursuant to, those agreements to exercise termination or other policies include policies on human rights, diversity and disability.
rights in the event of a change of control of the Company: We are committed to treating each employee and applicant 450,000,000 multicurrency credit facility agreement dated fairly and equitably.
Employment decisions are based on merit, 26 July 2010 between, amongst others, the Company, The experience and potential, without regard to race, nationality, Royal Bank of Scotland plc as agent and the financial sex, marital status, age, religion or sexual orientation.
We are institutions named therein as banks the Facility committed to following the applicable labour and employment laws in all of the jurisdictions in which we operate.
On a change of control of the Company, unless the Majority Banks as defined therein otherwise agree, all loans, letters We believe that disabled people have the same rights as nonof credit and guarantees, together with all accrued interest disabled people to become, and continue to be, employees of the and other sums payable under the agreement, must be Group.
Wherever possible, we provide the same opportunities for prepaid and, upon such prepayment being made, the total disabled people as for others.
If any of our employees become commitments of the banks under the Facility will be disabled we make every effort to keep them in the Groups cancelled and reduced to zero employment, with appropriate training where necessary.
Note purchase agreements dated 28 July 2005, 17 September Employee involvement 2007 as amended and 17 December 2009 the Note Purchase We have employee consultation processes throughout our Agreements pursuant to which notes amounting in aggregate business in accordance with local laws.
In addition, we update all to US$342,000,000 the 2005 Notes, US$125,000,000 the of our employees on a regular basis with Group developments 2007 Notes and US$183,000,000 and 25,000,000 the and progress through newsletters, internal publications, senior 2009 Notes, together with the 2005 Notes and the 2007 management notes and face-to-face meetings.
Notes, the Notes respectively were issued by the Company Each holder of Notes has an option, on a change of control Annual General Meeting of the Company, to require the Company to prepay the entire The Annual General Meeting will be held in the Wren Room principal amount of the Notes held by that holder together at the Royal Institute of British Architects, 66 Portland Place, with interest accrued thereon and the Make-Whole Amount London W1B 6DW, on Tuesday, 10 May 2011 at 11.00am.
as defined in each of the Note Purchase Agreements Enclosed with this report is a circular containing a letter from Pursuant to a subscription agreement dated 18 March 2010 the Chairman to shareholders and the formal notice convening between, amongst others, Aegis Group Capital Jersey the Annual General Meeting.
Limited as issuer the Issuer, the Company as guarantor and the financial institutions named therein as managers and Auditors pursuant to a trust deed dated 20 April 2010 between the Deloitte LLP have expressed their willingness to continue in Issuer as issuer, the Company as guarantor and Citicorp office as auditors and resolutions to re-appoint Deloitte LLP as Trustee Company Limited as trustee, the Issuer issued auditors to the Company and to authorise the directors to fix 190,600,000 2.50% guaranteed convertible bonds due 2015 their remuneration will be proposed at the forthcoming Annual the Convertible Bonds General Meeting.
On a change of control of the Company the holder of each Directors confirmation Convertible Bond will have the right to require the Issuer to Each of the directors at the date of approval of this report redeem the Convertible Bond at its principal amount together confirms that: with accrued unpaid interest.
so far as the director is aware, there is no relevant audit Employment policies information of which the Companys auditors are unaware The Group operates throughout the world and therefore has the director has taken all the steps that he or she ought to developed employment policies that meet local conditions and have taken as a director in order to make himself or herself requirements.
These policies are based on the best traditions aware of any relevant audit information and to establish that and practices in any given country in which it operates.
See the Companys auditors are aware of that information.
This confirmation is given and should be interpreted in accordance with the provisions of section 418 of the Companies Act 2006.
47 Aegis Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2010 Going concern The Groups business activities, together with factors likely to affect its future development, performance and financial position and commentary on the Groups financial results, its cash flows, liquidity requirements and borrowing facilities are set out in the Business and Financial Reviews on pages 4 to 41.
The Board is satisfied that the Group balance sheet remains strong.
Following the issue of 190.6m convertible bonds in April 2010 and re-financing of the 450m revolving credit facility in July 2010, both of which are on 5 year terms, the Group is wellfinanced with considerable cash and covenant headroom and no major facilities due to expire until 2012.
During 2010 the Group has continued to generate positive operating cash inflows from operations before tax, acquisitions and capital expenditure.
The main factors contributing to these cash inflows are the retention and growth of the customer base, terms of trade with customers and suppliers and the continuing management of working capital within the Group.
The Board has concluded that the Groups forecasts and projections, taking account of reasonably possible changes in trading performance, indicate that the Group has sufficient funding to operate within the terms of its available facilities.
The Board has considered various alternative operating and funding strategies should these be necessary and is satisfied that a range of actions including cost reduction activities could be adopted if and when necessary.
After making these enquiries, the Board is satisfied that the Group has sufficient resources to continue in operational existence for the foreseeable future and for this reason the going concern basis continues to be adopted in preparing the financial statements for 2010.
Furthermore, no material uncertainties related to events or conditions that may cast a significant doubt about the ability of the Group to continue as a going concern have been identified by the directors.
By order of the Board Andrew Moberly Company Secretary 16 March 2011 GOVERNANCE
