Board of Directors 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 28 Computacenter plc Annual Report and Accounts 2010 1 Greg Lock 2 Mike Norris Chairman Chief Executive Greg is the Chairman of Kofax plc and a Non-Executive Director Mike Norris graduated with a degree in Computer Science and of United Business Media and private technology company, Target Mathematics from East Anglia University in 1983.
He has more than 38 years experience in the software and Computacenter in 1984 as a salesman in the city office.
In 1986 he computer services industry, including four years as Chairman of was Computacenters top account manager.
Following appointments SurfControl plc and from 1998 to 2000, as General Manager of IBMs as Regional Manager for London Operations in 1988 and General Global Industrial sector.
Greg also served as a member of IBMs Manager of the Systems Division in 1992 with full sales and Worldwide Management Council and as a governor of the marketing responsibilities, he became Chief Executive in December IBM Academy of Technology.
1994 with responsibility for all day-to-day activities and reporting channels across Computacenter.
Mike also led the Company through flotation on the London Stock Exchange in 1998.
Mike was awarded an Honorary Doctor of Science from Hertfordshire University in 2010.
3 Tony Conophy 4 Peter Ogden Finance Director Non-Executive Tony has been a member of the Institute of Chartered Management Peter founded Computacenter with Philip Hulme in 1981 and was Accountants since 1982.
He qualified with Semperit Ireland Ltd Chairman of the Company until 1998, when he became a Nonand then worked for five years at Cape Industries plc.
He is Chairman of Dealogic Holdings plc and Computacenter in 1987 as Financial Controller, rising in 1991 to prior to founding Computacenter, he was a Managing Director of General Manager of Finance.
In 1996 he was appointed Finance Morgan Stanley and Co. Age 63. and Commercial Director of Computacenter UK Limited with responsibility for all financial, purchasing and vendor relations activities.
In March 1998 he was appointed Group Finance Director.
5 John Ormerod 6 Philip Hulme Non-Executive Non-Executive John is the Senior Independent Director and Audit Committee Philip founded Computacenter with Peter Ogden in 1981 and Chairman of Misys plc, a Non-Executive Director and Chairman worked for the Company on a full-time basis until stepping down as of the Audit Committee of Gemalto NV, a Non-Executive Director Executive Chairman in 2001.
He is a Director of Dealogic Holdings of ITV Plc and Deputy Chairman of Tribal Group plc.
John has held plc and was previously a Vice President and Director of the Boston senior positions with Arthur Andersen and with Deloitte, where he Consulting Group.
Age 62. was a member of the UK Executive Committee and elected Board.
7 Ian Lewis 8 Brian McBride Non-Executive Non-Executive Ian is Director of the University Computing Service at the University Brian was most recently Vice President and Managing Director of of Cambridge.
During his career he has held a number of senior Amazon.
His early career and management development was positions, including First Vice President and Global Chief Technology at IBM, where he started and spent 12 years in sales, culminating Officer of Merrill Lynchs Investment Banking and Sales division and in the appointment as Director of UNIX Marketing for IBM Europe.
Global CTO at Dresdner Kleinwort Wasserstein Investment Banking.
Brian has had broad non-executive experience, having served as Age 50.
Chairman of the Remuneration Committee and SID of S3 PLC, NED at Celtic Football Club PLC and Chairman of Virgin Mobile.
Computacenter plc Annual Report and Accounts 2010 29 Financial statements Governance Business review Overview
