Market overview Outperforming the market Author: John Simcox, Current Analysis -0.1% Decline in value in total UK IT market in 2010 2010 was a challenging year for many organisations and companies delivering technology related products and services were not immune from it.
Economic recovery, whilst welcome, was often patchy and the onset of Government -2.3% action required to address the high levels of annual public Decline in value sector borrowing built up during the previous few years dampened commercial and consumer confidence.
Despite in total mainland this, the IT Services segment of the marketplace in which Europe IT market Computacenter operates, saw only a modest overall decline in 2010 in value, and specifically was almost flat in the UK 0.1 per cent decline and a 2.3 per cent decline for mainland Europe Germany, France and Benelux.
The IT industry, as a whole, is in some ways well used to dealing with a market that is declining.
It is almost taken as a given that the technology product you buy today will be superseded in the near future by a new version offering more features and more performance at a lower price.
Against this background, the sector constantly has 13.9% to look at ways to create new opportunities to expand the adoption of technology, in order to grow the overall size of the market.
In part, Computacenter UK services the cause of the decline in the cost of technology also creates the revenue growth in 2010 opportunity, as solutions previously thought to be too complex or expensive become both possible and affordable.
For the IT Services sector, the impact of external events resulting in 4.3% an economic downturn is not always negative.
Firstly, traditional IT Computacenter mainland Services contracts are usually for a number of years and therefore, Europe services revenue the impact of any downturn in the past few years is only really seen when these contracts are being renewed or new contracts growth in 2010 negotiated and not so much in the revenue derived from existing contracts.
This does, of course, present the potential for the recessionary effect to be felt in the services sector for a number of years after the economy returns to growth.
16 Computacenter plc Annual Report and Accounts 2010 However, dealing with and also exiting from an economic downturn IT industry to provide the necessary services in order to successfully also presents opportunities.
As companies seek to respond to and securely integrate these new devices into the corporate the tougher market conditions, which challenge the potential for environment, in particular ensuring that the user experience maintaining let alone growing revenue, they look at ways of of the device is retained.
operating more efficiently and reducing costs, so that they can In 2010, the corporate sector began the wholesale adoption of maintain or even grow profitability.
The provision of IT, along with Microsoft Windows 7: it is to be expected that this will continue changes in the way that IT is used by the business, are often to gather pace in 2011, especially as Microsoft encourages amongst the ways in which companies look to make efficiencies.
organisations to move away from its older Windows XP and As such, there is the real potential for any reduction in the value Windows Vista products.
This change in operating system, along of contracts to be more than offset by the decision to increase with the availability of Microsoft Office 2010, will act as a catalyst the utilisation of IT within the organisation.
Figures from a number for the refreshing of hardware and other software being used of research agencies support this with the market seeing a slight across the customer base.
For many IT service organisations, downturn in 2010, but returning to growth, albeit modest, in 2011. especially those with product related divisions, this presents a further revenue opportunity.
Cloud computing brings to an end The public sector, regardless of country, has always been a the claim of smaller enterprises that significant part of the IT marketplace.
As with the commercial world, outsourcing is not for them, because 2010 was a year in which expenditure by the public sector on IT came under the microscope, with projects re-examined to determine they are too small.
whether they offered value for money.
The change of Government in the UK made this re-appraisal process more acute than some other One area that is expected to see a lot of attention in 2011 and European countries, although countries in the Eurozone had their beyond, is cloud computing.
Much hyped for a number of years, own public finance issues to contend with, but the outcome was the market is now starting to see real traction and that can be broadly similar: IT expenditure closely reviewed and in some cases, expected to grow significantly in the future.
The cloud computing contracts cancelled or renegotiated.
As with the private sector, IT in marketplace is itself very diverse with a variety of options open to the public sector can also be an enabler to drive efficiency and, as the customer, whether Public: enabling customers to access a such, it is to be expected that in the coming year there will be new usually shared facility provided by the supplier: or Private where opportunities for IT companies to engage with the public sector.
the facility is dedicated to one customer and often on the customers premises where it is managed and operated by the In the UK, there are some specific initiatives that have the potential chosen supplier.
Within the cloud environment, the customer can to change the supplier landscape for the public sector.
There is a access and use applications on a simple pay as you use basis or stated intention to open up the market to companies other than the alternatively, obtain the core IT infrastructure upon which to place few very large IT companies dominating the sector today.
To date, and run bespoke applications.
IT projects undertaken by central Government have tended to be of such a scale that only the very largest players have the scale of Cloud computing brings to an end the claim of smaller enterprises operation to be considered as suppliers.
Highly publicised project that outsourcing is not for them, because they are too small.
For failures have illustrated that even these large companies may not many, cloud computing provides a very cost effective and highly necessarily provide the answer.
Going forward, it is expected that flexible solution for meeting the changing IT needs of smaller large Government projects will be made more modular in scope and organisations.
The flexibility that the customers crave from adopting thus accessible to smaller companies, who often have the innovative cloud-based solutions does have an impact on the supplier sector ideas that really make a difference.
in that the revenue stability that the industry has enjoyed due to the long-term nature of the contracts will not be there, increasing In the UK there are some specific suppliers exposure to economic fluctuations.
initiatives that have the potential to It would be wrong to imply that the whole market is moving to cloud-based solutions and that the days of companies buying change the supplier landscape for hardware, software and the associated implementation and the public sector.
Organisations, even those who have adopted cloud-based services, will continue to invest The UK Government is also expected to establish its own cloud in hardware and software as well.
The challenge for the IT industry computing environment often referred to as G-Cloud, in order to is that there continues to be price erosion, especially when it relates encourage sharing of applications currently used by one department to CPU performance and storage capacity.
If therefore, a company across other departments rather than individual departments is to grow or even simply maintain its revenues in this area it needs incurring the cost of developing solutions that have already been to be able to also offer a range of quality product related services.
There is also the potential within It would also be wrong to suggest that the product related G-Cloud for access to off the shelf applications to be made widely market had become stagnant as a result of the economic issues.
Assuming these initiatives come Organisations will continue to refresh their equipment base, as to fruition, it will significantly alter the interaction between Government failure to do so could have serious consequences for the operational and the IT industry.
efficiency of the business and its ability to capitalise on the latest software availability.
Whilst 2011 will no doubt prove to be a commercially challenging year for all companies, there is real cause to believe that the IT One area that is seeing significant industry, especially those active in the services sector of the industry, will see significant opportunities to grow their business and offset any interest at present is what could declines in the more traditional parts of their organisation.
However, be termed the consumerisation the IT services industry will also need to adapt and embrace new technology itself, in much the same way as it is encouraging its of corporate IT.
customers to do, in order to better service their customers and grow profitability.
One area that is seeing significant interest at present is what could be termed the consumerisation of corporate IT.
With the advances Source Gartner figures.
seen in the capabilities of devices such as smartphones and tablet Figures provided in constant currency.
based computing devices, which were primarily developed for the consumer market, increasingly, corporate IT departments are being required to support and even integrate these devices into the IT real estate.
This again presents a commercial opportunity for the Computacenter plc Annual Report and Accounts 2010 17 Financial statements Governance Business review Overview
