48 SEGRO plc Annual Report 2010 Directors report: CORpORAtE GOvERnAnCE BoarD of Directors nigel rich cBe ian coull ChAiRMAn ChiEf ExECutivE Chairman of the nomination Committee Member of the nomination Committee Appointed a non-Executive Director on 1 July Appointed Chief Executive on 1 January 2003.
2006 and became Chairman on 1 October 2006. he will retire from the Board with effect from 28 April 2011. he is chairman of xchanging plc, a non-executive director of Bank of the philippine islands Europe he is on the London Regional Board of RSA plc, Matheson & Co Limited, pacific Assets trust and chairs the British property federations Bpf and Castle Asia Alternative pCC Limited.
he was REits task force, having been president of the previously chairman of Exel pLC, Cp Ships and Bpf from June 2005 until July 2006. he is a hamptons Group Ltd and in his career he was board member of European public Real Estate managing director of hongkong Land and then Association and a director of London Scottish Jardine Matheson.
he is a fellow of the institute international Ltd. he has recently been appointed of Chartered Accountants in England and Wales.
a non-executive director of Galliford try plc and Age 65. pendragon pLC.
prior to joining SEGRO he was a director at J Sainsbury plc and held board and senior management positions at Ladbrokes, texas homecare and Cavenham foods.
he is a fellow of the Royal institution of Chartered Surveyors.
DaviD sleath ian sutcliffe finAnCE DiRECtOR MAnAGinG DiRECtOR, uK Appointed as finance Director on 1 January 2006 Appointed an Executive Director on 1 July 2008. and will be appointed Chief Executive with effect previously, he was a director of taylor Wimpey plc from 28 April 2011. and chief executive of taylor Wimpey uK and had previously, he was finance director of Wagon plc, held a number of senior international roles with the international automotive engineering group Royal Dutch Shell plc, lastly as vice president retail from 1999 to 2005. from 1982 to 1999 he for Shell Oil in the uS.
he was also retail director worked for Arthur Andersen, latterly as a partner of Shell uK.
he is a non-executive director of and head of audit and assurance for the Midlands.
Age 51. he is a non-executive director of Bunzl plc and a fellow of the institute of Chartered Accountants in England and Wales.
com 49 anDreW palmer chris peacock mark roBertshaW SEniOR inDEpEnDEnt inDEpEnDEnt nOn-ExECutivE inDEpEnDEnt nOn-ExECutivE nOn-ExECutivE DiRECtOR DiRECtOR DiRECtOR Member of the Audit, nomination and Chairman of the Remuneration Committee Member of the Remuneration Committee Remuneration Committees Member of the nomination Committee Appointed a non-Executive Director on 1 June 2010.
Appointed a non-Executive Director on Appointed a non-Executive Director on 28 January 2004.
28 January 2004. he is chief executive officer of the Morgan Crucible Company plc, a post he has held since formerly group finance director of Legal & he is a director of howard fide Walden Estates August 2006, having joined the company in General Group plc where he had also held a Limited, a member of the advisory board to the 2004 as chief financial officer.
he was previously number of financial and operational roles in the Landon trust and sits on the Advisory investment chief financial officer of Gartmore investment asset management, insurance and international Committee for trinova Real Estate LLp.
prior to this he spent nine years businesses.
he is a member of the financial previously president and chief executive officer with Marakon Associates, a leading management Reporting Review panel of the financial Reporting of Jones Lang LaSalle.
he is a fellow of the Royal consultancy headquartered in the uS.
Council and a fellow of the institute of Chartered institution of Chartered Surveyors.
Accountants in England and Wales.
Doug WeBB thom Wernink inDEpEnDEnt nOn-ExECutivE inDEpEnDEnt nOn-ExECutivE DiRECtOR DiRECtOR Chairman of the Audit Committee Member of the Audit and nomination Committees Appointed a non-Executive Director on 1 May 2010.
Appointed a non-Executive Director on 23 May 2005. he is chief financial officer of London Stock Exchange Group plc, a post he has held since he is a non-executive director on a number June 2008. he was previously chief financial of property and investment companies based in officer of QinetiQ Group pLC, finance director Continental Europe.
he was previously chairman Continental Europe at Logica plc and spent of the European public Real Estate Association 12 years at price Waterhouse.
he is a member of and of Corio nv, a netherlands-based property the international integrated Reporting Committee, company with interests across Europe.
Age 65. the fSA practitioner panel and hundred Group of finance Directors.
he is a fellow of the institute of Chartered Accountants in England and Wales.
