26 SEGRO plc Annual Report 2010 Directors report: PERFORMAnCE REVIEW continental europe refocusing our activities in continental europe WE ARE In THE PROCESS OF REFOCUSInG On THE KEy GEOGRAPHIES OF GERMAny, FRAnCE, POLAnD AnD BEnELUx.
In EACH OF THESE GEOGRAPHIES WE WILL, OVER TIME, REALIGn OUR PORTFOLIO TO THE KEy CITIES AnD TRAnSPORTATIOn HUBS WHICH PROVIDE MORE ATTRACTIVE GROWTH OPPORTUnITIES.
Andy Gulliford, Managing Director Continental Europe Portfolio value 1.7 billion Lettable space sq m 2.6 million HAMBURG POZNA WARSAW BERLIN ALMERE AMSTERDAM BREQUETLAAN DORTMUND ESSEN LDZ ROTTERDAM DSSELDORF BRUSSELS KATOWICE AACHEN GLIWICE PRAGUE FRANKFURT OSTRAVA PARIS NRNBERG Passing rent MUNICH 107.7million Vacancy rate LYON by rental value MILAN 8.9 per cent Includes joint ventures at share.
Location of SEGRO assets www.
com 27 Location split overview Sentiment across Continental Europe in 2010 has been buffeted by Euro zone debt concerns and we have seen 7countries peaks and troughs in demand reflecting this throughout the year.
Our major exposures are to Germany, France, Poland Germany 29% and Belgium which at the end of 2010 made up a total of France 27% 91 per cent of our completed Continental European portfolio Poland 15% by value.
Germany performed relatively strongly in the Benelux 20% second half of the year as its export focused economy Other 9% benefited from the weaker euro and the continued growth % completed properties by value.
The French economy has been more muted but has been strongest around Paris where we currently have 80 per cent of our French assets by value.
Poland has not dipped into recession in the recent downturn and the economy has continued to grow throughout 2010.
Completed properties Of our big four exposures, the Belgian economy has been relatively weaker and vacancy levels remain high across this market.
However our major asset is located close to the airport 1.4 billion in Brussels which is a prime location and should prove more resilient than more regional assets.
Logistics warehousing 41% We have delivered a robust lettings performance in the Other business space 47% year despite the uncertain economic backdrop.
In total, Ofce 12% we signed 94 new leases across the Continental European % completed properties by value.
business generating 11.4 million of new annualised rental income.
Reflecting this letting performance, our vacancy rate fell from 10.7 per cent at the end of 2009 to 8.9 per cent at 31 December 2010.
Towards the end of 2010, we completed an internal review of our Continental European portfolio and have agreed to Customer type refocus on the core geographies of Germany, France, Poland and Benelux and within these geographies on core clusters around major cities and transportation hubs where we 340 customers HAMBURG consider the best opportunities are to add value.
POZNA WARSAW Agriculture and food 1% BERLIN ALMERE valuation Automotive 4% AMSTERDAM Our Continental European portfolio of completed properties Building and construction 2% BREQUETLAAN recorded a valuation decline of 3.9 per cent for the year, Chemicals and commodities 2% DORTMUND ESSEN LDZ ROTTERDAM primarily as a result of the movement in the valuation of Engineering and electrical 14% a small number of specific assets in Germany and Italy.
Finance and media 1% DSSELDORF Information technology 13% BRUSSELS Our completed portfolio in Germany recorded a valuation KATOWICE AACHEN Leisure and entertainment 2% GLIWICE decline of 9.7 per cent reflecting the return of the KarstadtRetail 23% Quelle property, unexpected roof refurbishment costs on one PRAGUE Timber, paper and printing 5% of our estates which were highlighted by the heavy snowfall FRANKFURT Transport 27% OSTRAVA in the year and a decline in the value of our estate at Frankfurt Utilities and services 4% where our valuers have revised their assumptions, in part, PARIS Other 2% NRNBERG to reflect the reduction in the lease term of one year.
% headline rent by customer industry.
In France, capital values were flat for the year.
Our assets around Paris benefited from a mix of positive letting activity and yield compression to record increases in capital values.
property analysis 2010 For further details of our portfolio, This was offset by negative capital growth on our assets please see the 2010 Property in the French regions where occupier markets have been Registered office Creating segro plc Cunard House value through 15 Regent Street London SW1Y 4LR MUNICH England operational Analysis at www.
delivery Tel: 44 0 20 7451 9100 Fax: 44 0 20 7451 9150 investors results-reporting property-analysis.
htm LYON MILAN performance review 28 SEGRO plc Annual Report 2010 Directors report: PERFORMAnCE REVIEW continental europe COnTInUED Polish capital values rose in the year as a result of the real Vacancy rates by rental value estate market recovery and our strong letting performance.
As at 31 As at 31 The portfolio of completed properties in Poland recorded December December a valuation gain for the period of 6.8 per cent.
2010 2009 % % Our portfolio of completed properties in Benelux recorded Germany 11.5 7.4 a valuation decrease of 3.1 per cent reflecting the valuers more conservative assumptions for rental levels and, while France 6.7 13.1 our leasing performance was strong, a continued vacancy Poland 2.6 12.5 in both the market and our main asset Pegasus Park.
Benelux 17.3 13.1 The remainder of our portfolio recorded a valuation Other 0.4 7.9 decline of 11.5 per cent principally as a result of the 17.1 per cent decline in the value of the Italian portfolio.
Lettings and takebacks At our largest holding in Italy, Energy Park, Vimercate we We generated 11.4 million of new annualised rental have now received a notice to break for 2012 from one income in the year 2009: 14.8 million.
The strength of our customers, who occupy 48,100 sq m which has of this performance is even more evident when you note been factored into the valuers view of the estate.
We are that in 2010 we had no benefit from pre-let developments in discussions with this customer in relation to their future completing whereas in 2009 this contributed 5.8 million space requirements.
Energy Park is a well located, high of new annualised rental income to our lettings figures.
quality estate and we have seen good levels of customer demand for space here during 2010.
Our German team delivered a strong performance in the year completing 42 leases and letting up 95,600 sq m. Significant lettings included: 26,800 sq m to DHL in Berlin: 8,200 sq m improving occupancy to nyK Logistics in Alzenau: 7,800 sq m to Darboven in Vacancy Hamburg: 6,400 sq m to Logtrans in Dusseldorf: and We started the year with a vacancy rate of 10.7 per cent.
5,000 sq m to Chick International in Hamburg.
This increased materially in the first quarter of the year following the return of the buildings occupied by KarstadtIn France, we delivered 63,200 sq m of lettings in the year, Quelle, the German retailer, after that company was declared an increase of 9.7 per cent on 2009.
This insolvency had been well predicted and we strong around Paris with a weaker performance from our had contingency plans in place for the return of the buildings.
This allowed us to negotiate with a sub-tenant of KarstadtThe quality and location of our assets in Poland continued Quelle in one building and transfer this lease to us.
We quickly to generate good demand and in total we let 59,100 sq m began any necessary refurbishment with a view to re-letting in the year.
as many of the assets as possible by the end of the year.
In Benelux, we completed a total of 17 leases in the year We are pleased to say the German team has made excellent totalling an aggregate of 36,600 sq m SEGRO share.
progress with these properties and at 31 December 2010, we Pegasus Park in Belgium had a good year with several had re-let or sold 52.0 per cent by rental value.
Managing the lettings successes and a total of 9,300 sq m was let at Karstadt-Quelle takeback and our strong lettings performance the park in the twelve months.
across our key countries drove our year end vacancy down We remain committed to offering excellent customer service to 8.9 per cent.
across all the countries where we operate and have in place a dedicated Customer Service Manager to coordinate our Continental Europe vacancy rate efforts in this area.
This focus on customer service has % by rental value continued to deliver benefits and we recorded a retention 16 rate of 75 per cent for the year.
14 12.8 11.9 In total, we lost 9.1 million of annualised rental income 11.1 12 10.7 in the year as a result of space returned.
This includes 10 8.9 4.6 million of annualised rental income relating to the 8 space returned by Karstadt-Quelle.
6 The level of insolvencies generally in the portfolio remains low at 0.2 per cent 0.3 million of annualised rental income 4 excluding Karstadt-Quelle.
Dec 09 Mar 10 Jun 10 Sep 10 Dec 10 Continental Europe vacancy rate Includes joint ventures at share.
com 29 CREATInG VALuE ThROuGh OPERATIOnAL DELIVERy active asset management We take an active approach to asset management and stay close to our customers to anticipate their space requirements and needs.
At Marly-La-Ville, Paris, our largest estate in France, we started to work with customers in the first half of the year when it became clear that we faced the possibility of significant vacancies.
Through the regearing of leases and relocation of customers we were able to free up space to complete an extension of space for Daher International who now have 62,400 sq m at the estate plus give our other customers the space they required.
The estate is now fully let versus a vacancy rate of 11.1 per cent at 31 December 2009.
Lettings exclude lease renewals, unexpired break options and income from short-term licence agreements.
Annualised rental income, after the expiry of any rent free periods.
Includes joint ventures at share.
Rental levels and incentives Overall, French transactions were completed at 5.0 per cent Overall headline rental levels on the new lettings and lease below ERVs.
In Poland, transactions were completed at an renewals transactions completed in Continental Europe average of 5.4 per cent below ERVs, reflecting the current during the year were an average of 2.2 per cent below over supply in certain segments in the Polish market.
saw positive rental movements in Benelux with transactions completed at an average of 2.5 per cent above ERVs.
In Germany, transactions were completed at an average of 8.9 per cent below ERVs reflecting our pragmatic approach Rent free incentives were lower than for 2009 at an average to letting up space with new lettings seeing the most of 6.8 per cent for the twelve months 2009: 9.0 per cent.
France and Belgium saw increased pressure on incentives with leases in France now running at around two months per year of the lease term before any potential break.
Performance review 30 SEGRO plc Annual Report 2010 Directors report: PERFORMAnCE REVIEW continental europe COnTInUED capitalise on opportunities to profitably Transactional rental levels versus grow anD improve the portfolio December 2009 ERVs % Refocusing our portfolio During 2010, we have completed a review of the assets within the Continental European portfolio to consider 2.5 whether we had the right balance of exposure both geographically and by asset type.
This review highlighted the strong position we have built in the attractive markets -2.2 of Germany, France and Poland and the attractiveness of the -5.0 -5.4 freight gateway to Europe through Benelux, plus the relative merits of creating core clusters as we have in our UK -8.9 business which serve major cities and transportation hubs.
Germany We are in the process of refocusing on the key geographies of Germany, France, Poland and Benelux.
In each of these France geographies we will, over time, realign our portfolio to Poland the key cities and transportation hubs which provide more Benelux attractive growth opportunities and have proved to be more Overall Continental Europe resilient to the economic downturn.
In Germany, this will mean we are focused on the key cities of Berlin, Dusseldorf, Frankfurt, Hamburg and Munich and in France in the Ile fide France.
In Poland, our focus will be on Warsaw, Silesia, Lodz Strykow and Poznan.
In Benelux, we intend to focus on the key trade gateway through the netherlands into Belgium, building on our logistics holdings around Schiphol airport, Amsterdam, Rotterdam and in the Belgian golden triangle of Brussels, Antwerp and Ghent.
We currently have good quality assets in Italy and the Czech Republic where we believe we can add additional value through exploiting development opportunities.
We intend to invest in these attractive opportunities but other than this do not currently expect to increase our holdings in these markets.
CREATInG VALUE THROUGH OPERATIOnAL DELIVERy high quality, well locateD polish portfolio We have delivered a good performance in 2010 from our Polish portfolio.
In total we let 59,000 sq m in 2010 including 24,000 sq m to the German retailer Kaufland in Gliwice in August which eliminated our largest vacancy.
At the end of 2010 our vacancy rate was only 2.6 per cent, well below the level in the wider market, illustrating the quality of our assets and the excellent locations we have in the country.
Our lettings performance and the continued strong outlook for the Polish economy has driven a 6.8 per cent valuation gain for the SEGRO portfolio in 2010. www.
com 31 Given the opportunities we see elsewhere for utilising our In addition to our pre-let development pipeline, we have capital, we have decided to close our operations in Spain started construction of a small speculative development of and Hungary.
We have closed our offices in both countries light industrial units at Lodz Poland.
The rationale for this with effect from the end of 2010 and in December we development is based on the specific circumstances of the completed the sale of two assets in Madrid which represented local market where there is a shortage of good quality light the majority of our Spanish portfolio.
In total we now have less industrial space plus strong market demand for the product than 12 million of assets in these two countries combined.
and we have an excellent development site.
We expect to complete this development during the first quarter of 2011.
Developments At Dusseldorf and Berlin Germany and Paris France we We have seen positive demand for pre-let developments during have identified sites which have similar characteristics to the the year.
We have capitalised on this demand which provides us Lodz site and we currently expect to commence speculative with an attractive opportunity to deliver good returns from our development at these sites during 2011. well located land bank.
As at 31 December 2010 we had 459 ha of development land in Continental Europe.
Disposals In 2010, we signed four pre-let developments in Continental Investors remain focused on the stronger economies Europe.
In September, we began construction on two of of Germany, France and Poland with particular interest these projects at Ostrava in Czech Republic 56 per cent in assets in Poland.
In France and Germany we are seeing pre-let to Adler and Gliwice in Poland 78 per cent pre-let polarisation between prime and secondary assets with to HL Displays.
Completion at Ostrava is currently expected strong demand for prime.
during the first quarter of 2011 and Gliwice in the second We completed a total of 13 disposals in the year for gross quarter of 2011.
Additionally in January 2011, we started proceeds of 47.1 million at an aggregate 1.0 million loss construction on a pre-let development for a 28,000 sq m to book value.
distribution facility at our Gonesse estate north of Paris which we will develop for the French retailer, Casino.
This project is The largest disposals are shown below: currently expected to complete in the third quarter of 2011.
Gross disposal In December, we signed a further pre-let project to develop Month of proceeds 20,700 sq m for Takko, the German retailer in Hamburg and Asset disposal m began construction on this project.
Completion is expected Velilla and Torrejon, Madrid, Spain December 15.4 to be in the third quarter of 2011.
Berlin Industriestrasse, Germany January 8.5 We finished the year with a strong pipeline of additional projects Woulwe Industry Park, Belgium April 8.3 with five more approved internally and in active negotiations.
CREATInG VALUE THROUGH OPERATIOnAL DELIVERy active asset management in belgium In May we completed a 15 year lease with Cummins n. V. for a 42,400 sq m 100 per cent share logistic warehouse facility at our estate in Rumst, Belgium and they now occupy 59,000 sq m at the estate.
This was the largest logistics letting in Belgium during the year.
