18 SEGRO plc Annual Report 2010 Directors report: PERFORMAnCE REVIEW uniteD kingDom strong lettings performance in Difficult markets WE HAVE MADE SIGnIFICAnT PROGRESS WITH THE VOIDS In THE FORMER BRIxTOn ESTATE.
THIS PORTFOLIO BEGAn THE yEAR WITH A VACAnCy RATE OF 22.1 PER CEnT AnD THROUGH A STROnG LETTInGS PERFORMAnCE PARTICULARLy In PARK ROyAL, LOnDOn AnD TRAFFORD PARK, MAnCHESTER HAD BEEn REDUCED TO 18.6 PER CEnT By yEAR EnD.
Ian Sutcliffe, Managing Director United Kingdom Lettable space sq m 2.9 million MANCHESTER RUNCORN Vacancy rate by rental value NEWCASTLE-UNDER-LYME DERBY 13.3 per cent BIRMINGHAM CAMBRIDGE STANSTED HEMEL HEMPSTEAD HATFIELD HIGH WYCOMBE READING SLOUGH LONDON BRISTOL NEWBURY CAMBERLEY FARNBOROUGH FRIMLEY BASINGSTOKE RADLETT ENFIELD GATWICK CRAWLEY FAREHAM SOUTHAMPTON EDMONTON PORTSMOUTH TOTTENHAM HARINGEY WOODFORD GREEN UXBRIDGE BARKING RAINHAM PARK ROYAL BLACKWELL GREENFORD ACTON CENTRAL EAST ACTON HANGER LANE NORTH ACTON BRENTFORD WEST THURROCK DEPTFORD SWANLEY HEATHROW Passing rent FELTHAM HARMONDSWORTH HATTON CROSS MERTON HAYES 218.7million HESTON SUNBURY HOUNSLOW POYLE WEST DRAYTON Portfolio value 3.6 billion Includes joint ventures at share.
Location of SEGRO assets www.
com 19 overview Location split Occupier markets were challenging throughout the UK in 2010 with the uncertainty over the election outcome 3 business units in May and worries about the new Governments austerity measures weighing on sentiment, particularly in the middle Thames Valley 38% of the year.
This lengthened the time taken by customers London Markets 43% to make decisions on new space and contributed to the National Markets 19% continued relatively high level of takebacks as existing % completed properties by value.
customers tried to cut costs by consolidating their space requirements on any lease break or expiry.
Against this backdrop, our lettings performance has been resilient with a total of 245 new leases signed representing an additional 26.3 million of annualised rental income.
Takebacks were 20.2 million of annualised rental income but encouragingly the level of insolvencies amongst our Completed properties customer base remains low.
new development completions in the year were significantly lower following the reduction in our development activities in the uncertain economic 3.5 billion conditions.
The positive net absorption of existing space, despite the economic environment, allowed us to reduce Logistics warehousing 7% our vacancy to 13.3 per cent at 31 December 2010.
Other business space 74% Ofce 19% We have enhanced the portfolio further during the year % completed properties by value.
to focus on our core markets where we have developed clusters of assets.
At Heathrow we bought into the APP joint venture in June strengthening our position in this important market.
In addition we have continued to dispose of assets which are peripheral to our portfolio or where we do not consider we can add material additional value.
In total we have disposed of 432.3 million of assets in the year including joint venture disposals.
Customer type valuation 1,300 customers Our portfolio of completed properties in the UK recorded a valuation increase of 4.4 per cent for the year, outperforming Agriculture and food 7% the quarterly IPD Industrial Index which recorded capital Automotive 6% growth of 3.5 per cent.
This outperformance was achieved Building and construction 6% despite the valuers taking a more conservative view on likely Chemicals and commodities 5% rental levels, in particular in estates outside the South East, Engineering and electrical 12% and was driven by the strong performance of Park Royal, Finance and media 8% our joint ventures, APP and Big Box at Heathrow, plus the Information technology 12% positive movement in our vacancy and improving investment Leisure and entertainment 1% market conditions which flowed through into a tightening Retail 8% of yields.
Timber, paper and printing 2% Transport 23% Our assets in London recorded the strongest valuation Utilities and services 10% gains, particularly our Park Royal assets with a valuation % headline rent by customer industry.
Heathrow valuations in our wholly owned portfolio were broadly flat as a result of the higher level of vacancy we are addressing here.
The APP portfolio recorded a material valuation gain reflecting the prime property analysis 2010 For further details of our portfolio, nature of this portfolio and the low levels of vacancy please see the 2010 Property in the APP estates.
Registered office Creating segro plc Cunard House value through 15 Regent Street London SW1Y 4LR operational England Analysis at www.
com segro Tel: 44 0 20 7451 9100 delivery Fax: 44 0 20 7451 9150 The uplift in value of the Slough Trading Estate helped drive investors results-reporting capital growth of 3.5 per cent for our Thames Valley business property-analysis.
htm unit where the remainder of the estates were broadly flat.
The performance of our industrial portfolio was positive but our suburban office portfolio reflected the more difficult conditions in this market and the higher level of vacancy within this portfolio.
performance review 20 SEGRO plc Annual Report 2010 Directors report: PERFORMAnCE REVIEW uniteD kingDom COnTInUED national Markets recorded a valuation gain of 4.6 per cent UK vacancy rate % driven by the estates in the south of England where we saw 24 stronger yield compression.
Although we are making inroads 22.1 21.5 22 20.7 into the vacancy in our estates in the Midlands and north of 19.4 20 18.6 England, the relatively high levels of void continue to impact value with only a small valuation increase of 0.5 per cent 18 recorded for the twelve months.
16 14.8 14.6 14.7 14.5 13.3 14 improving occupancy 12 Vacancy 10 We started 2010 with a vacancy level of 14.8 per cent Dec 09 Mar 10 Jun 10 Sep 10 Dec 10 reflecting our acquisition of the lower occupancy Brixton portfolio in August 2009.
Our key priority throughout the UK overall year has been to reduce this level through letting up space Former Brixton portfolio and working to minimise the amount of space returned to us on a potential lease break or expiry.
Includes joint ventures at share.
We made good progress during the year reducing our Lettings and takebacks overall vacancy by 150 basis points to 13.3 per cent at Our teams worked hard across the business and have 31 December 2010. achieved a very strong lettings performance despite the Within this overall vacancy reduction we have made challenges of the occupier markets.
In total we generated significant progress with the voids in the former Brixton 26.3 million of new annualised rental income which, estate.
This portfolio began the year with a vacancy rate of reflecting the addition of the former Brixton portfolio for 22.1 per cent which through a strong lettings performance, the period, was an increase of 62.3 per cent on 2009. particularly in Park Royal, London and Trafford Park, Our portfolio is significantly weighted towards London Manchester had been reduced to 18.6 per cent by year and the South East with over 80 per cent of the portfolio end.
Our stated target is to reduce this vacancy to by value in these regions.
This mix has served us well during 15.0 per cent by the end of 2012 and we remain the downturn and we have continued to increase our relative on track to achieve this.
exposure to our key clusters in Park Royal, Heathrow and the The UK vacancy rate of the original SEGRO assets was Thames Valley through the APP transaction and our disposals 10.8 per cent at year end, in line with the position at the in the year.
This flat outcome masks our strong lettings Our London region was a strong performer during the year, performance particularly in the fourth quarter of the year reflecting the quality of our portfolio, with 73 lettings signed which helped mitigate specific factors which increased this representing an aggregate of 98,600 sq m including APP rate earlier in the year.
In the first quarter, the completion lettings at share.
Of our major London markets, Park Royal of the speculative element of our office development at IQ recovered earliest in the year and has seen the highest levels Winnersh which remains vacant contributed an additional of demand.
In aggregate, we let 60,100 sq m in Park Royal 1.1 per cent to the vacancy rate.
The 12.2 per cent vacancy with 24 lettings signed including the letting of the 22,700 sq m at the end of the third quarter reflected two large takebacks which, although expected, added 0.8 per cent to that rate.
Verdus building in Greenford on a long lease to a major The first being from Fluor at Watchmoor Park following their supermarket chain.
This has allowed us to make significant move to IQ Farnborough and the second from a customer inroads into the Park Royal vacancy which has reduced who had already vacated their building at Winnersh.
Lettings exclude lease renewals, unexpired break options and income from short-term licence agreements.
Annualised rental income, after the expiry of any rent free periods.
In particular we have seen a CREATInG VALUE THROUGH OPERATIOnAL DELIVERy strong performance at Premier Park at Park Royal with vacancy down from 7.6 per cent at 31 December 2009 knowing your customers is key to lettings success to 2.0 per cent at the end of 2010.
Jupiter House in Poyle, Heathrow is a 2,600 sq m warehouse built in the 1960s which we acquired as part of the Brixton portfolio.
At this time the building was vacant and Our other cluster in London is at Heathrow which is a core appeared obsolete.
We have improved the look of the building and updated its features market for the Group.
One of the key drivers of the Heathrow allowing us to relocate one of our existing customers looking for a larger space into the market is the upturn in air cargo and the requirement this building on a new 10 year lease term.
This is just one example where we have used generates for space.
The economic downturn and volcanic our customer knowledge to improve and modify an asset to help generate demand.
ash disruption had a significant impact on Heathrow but we saw the first signs of recovery towards the end of the year, with cargo volumes hitting record highs in november.
This impetus is showing in our enquiry levels and is beginning to flow into our leasing numbers with 27 new lettings signed in the year for a total of 20,700 sq m including lettings within the APP portfolio at share.
Demand in the Thames Valley was stable through the year with 89 lettings signed for a total of 77,100 sq m. Our industrial portfolio in Thames Valley has performed well with a total of 54,400 sq m let in the twelve months.
The suburban office portion of our portfolio has been more subdued and, although we let a total of 22,700 sq m including the completion of a 12,600 sq m pre-let development for Fluor at IQ Farnborough in the first half of the year, vacancy in this portfolio remains at 15.2 per cent.
The Slough Trading Estate continued to perform well with a total of 41,300 sq m let in the period in 60 leases.
This letting performance led to a reduction of 1.1 per cent in the Slough Trading Estate vacancy rate to 6.2 per cent at 31 December 2010.
Outside the South East, occupier markets have been more CREATInG VALUE THROUGH challenging but we have continued to make progress with OPERATIOnAL DELIVERy 83 new lettings signed representing in aggregate 122,500 sq m. success at greenforD At the beginning of the year our holdings at Trafford Park At Greenford in West London we have in Manchester had a vacancy rate of 31.8 per cent.
Taking 219,700 sq m of lettable space across a pragmatic and flexible approach to lettings in this market four main industrial parks: Greenford we had materially reduced this vacancy by the end of Park, Metropolitan Park, Fairway Drive December 2010 to 24.7 per cent.
The parks are home to a range of customers who We have continued to work closely with our customers choose this location because of its throughout the year to anticipate their likely space excellent access into London and requirements, both to try to minimise the amount of to the national motorway network.
space returned on a lease break or expiry and to ensure In 2010 we secured a number of we anticipate space coming back and have a plan in lettings reducing the vacancy rate from place for managing this.
Our customer focus has helped 18.7 per cent to 15.6 per cent.
Major us to increase our retention rate to 55 per cent for the names attracted to Greenford include year 2009: 52 per cent.
a major auction house who leased a 4,900 sq m warehouse as a storage and In 2010, we completed a UK wide customer survey.
Of the distribution facility and a leading fashion customers surveyed, 73 per cent rated their overall satisfaction retailer who has warehouses at both as good or excellent, significantly outperforming the industry Metropolitan and Greenford Parks.
As we move into 2011, we are continuing to refine our customer service offering and in november put in place a revised customer care policy across the UK business which Encouragingly, the level of insolvencies remained low at details the values we have and approach we will apply to 1.0 per cent 2.3 million of annualised rental income, an ensure we are working in partnership with our customers.
improvement on the 1.8 per cent or 4.5 million in 2009.
Cash collection rates continue to be strong with 95 per cent In total, we lost 20.2 million of annualised rental income in of cash due at the end of December 2010 collected within the year as a result of space returned.
This is an improvement 10 days of the invoice date 92 per cent at December 2009. on the 2009 position of 20.4 million, particularly given the increased size of our portfolio, but remains relatively high.
We have a total of 27.9 million of rental income subject to a potential break or expiry in 2011 and managing our takebacks remains a priority for the business.
performance review 22 SEGRO plc Annual Report 2010 Directors report: PERFORMAnCE REVIEW uniteD kingDom COnTInUED Our Thames Valley region completed its transactions in the year at an average of 0.6 per cent above ERVs.
Again, performance on lease renewals was strongest with growth here of 3.9 per cent above ERVs.
new lettings were completed broadly in line with ERVs.
Reflecting the weaker markets outside the South East, rental levels on transactions in our national Markets unit declined with transactions completed at 2.6 per cent below ERVs.
Our rent free incentives were an average of 11.2 per cent for the twelve months 2009: 11.3 per cent.
In common with the slower recovery outside London and the South East, we have seen additional pressure on incentives in these markets as well as larger packages being the norm for CREATInG VALUE THROUGH OPERATIOnAL DELIVERy offices and larger buildings.
Delivering lettings success in manchester Trafford Park is Manchesters key industrial location situated 3.5 miles capitalise on opportunities to profitably south west of the city centre.
We have 242,900 sq m of lettable space grow anD improve the portfolio at the Park across 16 locations, including estates such as Premier Park, APP acquisition Westbrook Park, Longwood Park and Severnside.
In June we completed the acquisition of a 50 per cent The occupier markets in Manchester have been difficult throughout interest in APP, a joint venture with Aviva Investors set 2010 but we have made significant progress with lettings and have up to invest in properties around the major UK airports completed a total of 20 new leases at Trafford Park over 45,400 sq m. with the majority of its assets located within five miles Our vacancy rate which was 31.8 per cent at the end of 2009 has of Heathrow.
Following the acquisition we injected now been reduced to 24.7 per cent.
We have had particular success 237.1 million of our existing assets at Heathrow into at our newest estate Premier Park where vacancy has been more the joint venture.
We now have a portfolio of assets under than halved from over 95 per cent since we acquired Brixton.
Our investment in refreshing the look and feel of our older estates such as management at Heathrow of over 1.0 billion, more than Westbrook also started to deliver results towards the end of the year.
a threefold increase on the size of our holdings before the acquisition of Brixton in August 2009.
Transactional rental levels versus We have been responsible for the asset management December 2009 ERVs % of the APP portfolio since June and have spent the second half of the year really getting to know the portfolio and 2.8 integrating it into our systems.
We see significant potential from the Heathrow market which represents one of our core clusters of assets and is seeing demand recover.
0.7 0.6 Our plans to capitalise on this recovery and add value for our shareholders include exploiting the economies of scale inherent in having such a substantial portfolio in one area, capitalising on development opportunities and re-gearing certain of the existing leases within the APP portfolio.
Good -2.6 progress has been made in the six months.
In December, Thames Valley we took back space from a large APP customer at the London Markets 19,400 sq m portal site near Heathrows Terminal 4.
This National Markets is a prime development site and we are currently in active Overall UK negotiations with a major aviation freight customer for a pre-let development on the site.
We have been working with our customers who have nearer term lease expiries and have Rental levels and incentives re-geared a number of these leases particularly within the Overall headline rental levels on the new lettings and lease airside assets in the APP portfolio.
In the six months since renewals transactions completed in the UK were an average June, the APP vacancy has reduced from 9.3 per cent to 0.7 per cent above December 2009 ERVs.
Within this figure, 5.7 per cent and the passing rent roll has increased from headline rental levels on new lettings were broadly in line 20.7 million to 22.2 million.
with ERVs while the lease renewals in the year were generally done at higher rental levels.
Developments Our rental performance reflects the strength we have seen As the year has progressed we have seen an increase in in London and the South East.
In London headline rental demand for pre-let developments.
This demand is being levels on transactions completed in the year were an average driven by the reduction in available grade A space and of 2.8 per cent above ERVs and both Heathrow and Park the lack of new space coming onto the market following Royal recorded good rental growth in the period.
the curtailment of speculative development in the downturn.
com 23 CREATInG VALUE THROUGH OPERATIOnAL DELIVERy capitalising on the DemanD for pre-let Developments The Slough Trading Estate has had another good year in its 90th year of operation.
As well as a good lettings performance which drove our vacancy rate on the estate down to 6.2 per cent, we have also capitalised on the growing demand for pre-let developments.
The estate remains a popular location for customers taking advantage of the excellent facilities, good transport links and proximity to London.
In addition as the only location in the south of England to have Simplified Planning Zone status, we have a significant advantage in our ability to fast-track the development process.
In 2010 we signed four new pre-let developments on the estate.
A 3,500 sq m development for Selco which is now under construction, a 3,300 sq m facility for Ragus Sugars who are expanding their operations, a new 7,000 sq m factory for Selig to replace their existing building on the Estate and a 5,500 sq m development for Lonza.
As at 31 December 2010, we had 172 ha of development Disposals land in the UK.
Delivering returns from this land bank is The investment market has been stronger than we had a priority and we are capitalising on the increased demand anticipated but was highly polarised between prime and for pre-lets which provide attractive returns.
secondary assets with the length and strength of income being the key factor and pricing firmly focused on net initial In the UK, we have exchanged on eight pre-lets in the year yields.
We completed 432.3 million of disposals during with demand strongest in the South East.
In aggregate these disposals were completed at signed four pre-lets in aggregate representing 16,400 sq m a 1.0 million profit to book value.
and we began construction at Southall in September of a 3,400 sq m development for a distribution company.
This The Group maintains asset management plans for all estates project is expected to complete in the second quarter of 2011. which are intended to identify the optimum point at which to At Enfield we have recently started construction on another develop, refurbish, re-develop or sell each asset with a view facility for the same distribution company of 3,500 sq m to maximising value and reducing potential obsolescence in which is due to be completed in the third quarter of 2011. the portfolio.
We continue to put these plans into action and have sold peripheral assets during the year where we can see Also in September, we signed the largest pre-let at Heathrow limited potential to add further value or which are not a good in 2010 with Heathrow Cargo Handling HCH, a joint fit within our focused portfolio.
venture between Servisair and Air France, for 5,700 sq m of industrial warehouse space at our Horton Road site in The largest disposals completed in 2010 are shown below: Poyle.
Construction has now started on this development.
Gross The facility will be used for the handling of cargo for Air proceeds Month of France, KLM and others and we expect it to be completed Asset disposal m in the last quarter of 2011.
Assets injected into By the end of the year we had four pre-let developments APP joint venture, Heathrow June 237.1 exchanged on the Slough Trading Estate confirming the Westcore portfolio, Heathrow December 79.3 continued popularity of the estate.
In September, we began Treforest Industrial Estate, Cardiff December 27.7 construction on a 3,500 sq m warehouse on the Estate for Selco.
This development is currently expected to complete Fluor building IQ Farnborough May 21.0 in the third quarter of 2011.
Land at Farnborough June 14.8 We finished the year with a strong pipeline of additional The Hub, Heywood Distribution Park May 13.6 projects with two more approved internally and in Woodside Industrial Estate, active negotiations.
Bishop Stortford December 11.2 APP property.
100 per cent of gross proceeds shown.
