Shaftes 10 AW Reports Proof 6. qxp:Layout 3 22 12 10 12:17 Page 65 In accordance with the provisions of To the Directors of Shaftesbury PLC In accordance with PS 1.8 and UKPS 5.3, we are required to make certain disclosures Guidance Note 3 of the Red Book, in In accordance with your instructions, undertaking our valuations, we have lotted in connection with this valuation we have undertaken a valuation of the instruction and our relationship with the together certain individual properties to various commercial and residential form a separate property a Property or Company and the Subsidiary Companies.
freehold and long leasehold property John Bareham is the signatory of our Properties in the manner we consider interests as at 30 September 2010 the to be most likely to be adopted in the Reports and he has been the signatory date of valuation held by Shaftesbury of Reports addressed to the Subsidiary case of an actual sale.
We consider that Carnaby Limited, Shaftesbury Covent lotting the properties together on the Companies since September 2006.
DTZ Garden Limited, Shaftesbury Chinatown Debenham Tie Leung has been carrying basis reflected in our valuations would Limited, Shaftesbury Charlotte Street allow a purchaser to capitalise on the out this valuation instruction for the Limited and Covent Garden Central Company, and now the Subsidiary estate management advantages and Portfolio Limited, which are subsidiary opportunities available from such Companies, for a continuous period since companies collectively referred to as the 1996.
As well as preparing our Reports, comprehensive ownership.
Subsidiary Companies of Shaftesbury we also undertake valuations of certain PLC the Company, as referred to in A high proportion of the total value of of the properties referred to in our our Valuation Reports dated 19 November the Subsidiary Companies properties Reports for other purposes, such as 2010 our Reports.
Our Reports were and Properties is accounted for by secured lending and for inclusion in prepared for accounts purposes.
properties and Properties situated in shareholders circulars.
There are no adjacent and or adjoining locations in current fee-earning instructions between All properties have been subject to four specific areas of the West End of DTZ Debenham Tie Leung and the external inspections between August London: Carnaby Street and its environs, Company or the Subsidiary Companies and November 2010 and a number were Chinatown and the adjoining area other than valuation instructions.
immediately west of Wardour Street However, in addition to valuation south of its junction with Shaftesbury The valuations have been made in instructions, there are other previous feeAvenue, and the areas around Seven accordance with the appropriate sections earning relationships between DTZ Dials in the western part of Covent of the current Practice Statements PS, Debenham Tie Leung and certain of the Garden and a block of properties to the and United Kingdom Practice Statements Subsidiary Companies or the Company east of the Central Covent Garden Piazza UKPS contained within the RICS itself.
These relate to our previous with its main frontage to Wellington Valuation Standards, 6th Edition the appointment as property and asset Street.
These areas are all dominated by Red Book.
We confirm that we have managers in respect of the properties retail and restaurant uses.
In our opinion, sufficient current knowledge of the known as Wellington House 6-9 Upper at the date of valuation, this particular relevant markets, and the skills and St Martin's Lane, 6-8 Shelton Street & 7- unusual confluence of ownership and understanding to undertake these 13 Mercer Street, 10 11, 12, 13 14, 16-19 use characteristics may cause some valuations competently.
We also confirm & 20 Upper St Martin's Lane, 124, prospective purchasers to regard parts that where more than one valuer has 125 126, 127 130 inc 1-3 Slingsby of the portfolio when combined as contributed to the valuations the Place, 132 135, 136 137, 138 Beckett having a greater value than the requirements of PS 1.5.
4 of the Red Book House, 140-142 & 143 Long Acre, 1, 3-5 aggregate of the individual values of the have been satisfied.
Finally, we confirm & 15 17 Mercer Street, London WC2 all combined properties and Properties that we have undertaken the valuations of which are owned by Longmartin which make up those parts.
acting as External Valuers, qualified for Properties Limited, a joint venture the purpose of the valuation.
company owned in equal shares by the As required by the provisions of the Red Company and the Mercers' Company : to Book, in undertaking our valuations, we our previous involvement in advising the have valued each property or Property Company and Longmartin Properties separately, rather than valuing the Limited in respect of landlord and tenant portfolio as a whole or in combinations of and other matters: to our previous parts.
The total valuation figure below is involvement in advising the Company or the aggregated value of the separate some of the Subsidiary Companies in properties or Properties within the various connection with the acquisition or categories of tenure referred to below.
disposal of certain properties and to our All valuations were on the basis of previous involvement on behalf of the Market Value.
We have assessed Market Company, or certain of the Subsidiary Value in accordance with PS 3.2 of the Companies, in acting as letting agents in Red Book.
Our opinion of the Market respect of certain of the office Value of each of the properties or accommodation.
Properties has been primarily derived DTZ Debenham Tie Leung is a wholly using comparable recent market owned subsidiary of DTZ Holdings plc transactions on arm's length terms.
In the Group's financial year to 30 April 2010, the proportion of total fees payable by the Company and the Subsidiary Companies to the total fee income of the Group was less than 5%.
65 Shaftesbury PLC annual report 2010 valuers summary report valuers summary report Shaftes 10 AW Reports Proof 6. qxp:Layout 3 22 12 10 12:17 Page 66 We have not made any allowance for The Subsidiary Companies own a vendors sale costs nor for any tax liabilities number of properties on a freehold basis which may arise upon the disposal of any where they also hold long leasehold of the properties or Properties.
We have interests within the freehold and have made deductions to reflect purchasers not merged the interests.
For the normal acquisition costs.
purposes of the freehold long leasehold split below, we have included such A full explanation of the Assumptions properties within the freehold category.
made in our valuations and details of the sources of information are contained Having regard to the foregoing, we are within our Reports.
of the opinion that the aggregates of the Market Values, as at 30 September 2010, We have measured certain of the of the freehold and long leasehold property properties, or parts of properties, either interests owned by the Company and on site or by scaling from floor plans.
the Subsidiary Companies, subject to the The Company, its managing agents or Assumptions and comments in our professional advisers have provided us Reports dated 19 November 2010, were with the floor areas of the remaining as follows:- properties or parts of properties.
Freehold 1,285,700,000 We have read the majority of the leases properties One billion, two hundred and related documents provided to us in and eighty-five million, seven respect of the commercial properties.
hundred thousand pounds Where we have not read leases, we have relied on tenancy information provided Long 89,250,000 by the Company.
leasehold Eighty-nine million, properties two hundred and fifty Certain properties were subject to works thousand pounds of repair or refurbishment at 30 September 2010, or were subject to Total 1,374,950,000 outstanding retentions and fees in One billion, three hundred respect of projects already completed at and seventy-four million, that date.
In these instances, the nine hundred and fifty Company advised us of the amount of thousand pounds the outstanding costs.
The costs will be A long lease is one with an unexpired borne by the Company as they are not recoverable from tenants.
We have term in excess of 50 years.
reflected these costs in our valuations.
The contents of our Reports are The total amount of such costs is confidential to Shaftesbury PLC, 3,172,000 and details of the individual Shaftesbury Covent Garden Limited, sums are included in our Reports.
Shaftesbury Carnaby Limited, Shaftesbury Chinatown Limited, Shaftesbury Charlotte As referred to above, we have lotted Street Limited and Covent Garden Central together certain individual properties to Portfolio Limited, for the specific purpose form a number of separate Properties.
In to which they refer and are for their use the case of three Properties which only.
Consequently, and in accordance comprise a number of individual with current practice, no responsibility properties, the majority of such is accepted to any other party in respect properties are held freehold but certain of the whole or any part of the contents of them are held on long leases.
In order of our Reports or this summary report.
to divide our valuation of these Before our Reports or this summary Properties between the categories of freehold and long leasehold, we have report, or any part thereof, are reproduced or referred to, in any document, circular undertaken notional apportionments of value between the freehold elements or statement, the valuers written approval as to the form and context of such and the long leasehold elements which together comprise the relevant Properties.
publication or disclosure must first be obtained.
For the avoidance of doubt The amounts arising from these notional apportionments of value have been such approval is required whether or not DTZ Debenham Tie Leung are referred included in the figures representing the freehold and long leasehold categories to by name and whether or not the contents of our Reports or this summary below.
The amounts arising from the notional apportionments do not themselves report are combined with others.
represent the Market Value of the two John Bareham BSc Hons MRICS elements.
Director DTZ Debenham Tie Leung Limited 48 Warwick Street, London W1B 5NL 66 Shaftesbury PLC annual report 2010 valuers summary report
