8 CPPGroup Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2010 Overview: Our long term Business Partners DEVELOPING LONG-STANDING RELATIONSHIPS WITH GLOBAL BRANDS Our Business Partners The strength of our Business Partner relationships, as evidenced by the duration of many of our partnerships, provides a solid foundation for delivering sustained growth across the Group.
Many of our Business Partners are international businesses that help to support our strategy to expand internationally in new developing market economies.
Our Business Partners operate across multiple market sectors including financial services, mobile telecommunications, travel, membership afnity and retail.
CPPs top 10 Business Partner relationships have an average ongoing relationship length of 16 years.
16 years Average relationship top ten partners Building international relationships Our Life Assistance products are distributed and sold to our Business Partners customers either via their own sales and services channels or through sales channels managed directly by CPP.
Following the sale, CPP administers and services the policies, managing all aspects of customer service, on behalf of our Business Partners.
The benets of partnering with CPP include incremental revenue in the form of commission payments and access to specialist expertise.
specifically, our retention and renewal programmes deliver long term sustainable income for our Business Partners.
An example of this is debit and credit card activation the provision of this service is attractive for Business Partners because they replace an operational cost with a net profit income.
More than 200 Business Partners 48051 Blacksun.
pdf 10 01 04 2011 14:16 Overview Strategy Performance Governance Financial statements CPPGroup Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2010 9 Financial highlights & Group KPIs Chairmans statement Our products and services Our business model: a virtuous cycle Our long term Business Partners Our international markets Developing relationships for the future CPP has signed contracts with a range of new Business Partners helping to provide sustainable growth for the future.
