4 CPPGroup Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2010 Overview: Our products and services BROADENING OUR RANGE OF PRODUCTS AND SERVICES Our products CPP continues to diversify and broaden its Card Protection Identity Protection portfolio of Life Assistance products that are distributed across multiple market sectors, which help our mutual customers cope with the complexities and anxieties of modern life.
Over time we have increased the number of Life Assistance products that we present to our Business Partners customers.
Card Protection was the first product the Group introduced in the UK and it is now established in the majority of our international markets.
Other established products include Identity Prole Prole Protection, Packaged Accounts, Phonesafe, Purchase Shield and Legal Protection.
Report lost or stolen cards with one call Protects consumers against identity theft and from anywhere in the world.
Key features provides specialist support if the customer More recently we have introduced Travel include card cancellation and re-issue, becomes a victim of identity theft.
Assistance, Airport Angel and Home 3, our joint emergency cash advance, protection for Policyholders are helped to protect and venture with Mapfre Asistencia that provides home keys, fraud protection insurance, valuable restore their identity via access to credit emergency assistance.
document replacement, handbag and reports, e-mail or SMS alerts, on-line personal Customer service is key to the success of the wallet replacement and mobile phone data tracking, access to a caseworker and business.
We conduct agent training and service loss reporting.
insurance cover for out-of-pocket expenses monitoring through each stage of the sales, service such as legal and communication costs.
and claims process to strive to ensure that each customer contact is personal, professional and of the highest standard.
Our contact centre operations support more than 11 million policies Phonesafe Packaged Accounts across Europe, Asia and North America.
Revenue contribution by product Insurance products 39.0m 325.8m Assistance products Prole Prole 286.8m Comprehensive insurance cover for mobile Products and services sourced from CPPs devices.
The policy includes cover for loss, own product range and from third-party theft and breakdown outside warranty and providers to create a package tailored to accidental damage.
Products and services can range from roadside assistance to travel insurance and are primarily used in current accounts.
pdf 6 01 04 2011 14:16 Overview Strategy Performance Governance Financial statements CPPGroup Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2010 5 Financial highlights & Group KPIs Chairmans statement Our products and services Our business model: a virtuous cycle Our long term Business Partners Our international markets Home 3 Purchase Shield Airport Angel Prole Prole Prole Home emergency assistance for plumbing, A product that protects purchases made A travel service that provides customers drainage, gas, electrical and other home by customers in the event of damage, with access to more than 560 airport lounges emergencies through our joint venture with non-returns or discounting of an item in more than 320 airports worldwide with Mapfre Asistencia.
complimentary facilities such as food and drink, business facilities and a host of support services.
Travel Assistance Legal Protection Your Law New Product Development Prole Prole Prole Travel support services, including Legal assistance to support consumers in a CPP is committed to product development passport assistance, mobile phrasebook, range of legal matters including trades-person and innovation, which has seen the Group translation service, and a lost-and-found disputes, retail purchase disputes, boundary change from simply being a Card Protection luggage service.
disputes, medical and personal injury claims, business to a provider of Life Assistance and employment matters.
The on-going enhancement of our existing products, associated with price increases, helps drive the appeal and profitability of existing products and services.
