42 CPPGroup Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2010 Governance: Executive Committee EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE 1.
Richard Coates Chief Executive officer Chief Operating officer Group Marketing Director As Chief Executive officer of the Group, Eric Stephen Kennedy is responsible for the operational Richard Coates joined the Group in 2003 and has Woolley is responsible for developing and performance across the Group.
He joined the led the marketing function at CPP for the past executing the Groups business strategy across Group in February 2005 from HFC Bank where seven years.
Prior to joining the Group, Richard was Europe, North America and Asia.
The Groups he was a Director of several business units, Director of Marketing and Strategic Planning for a legal and compliance functions also report to Eric.
ranging from branch networks both in the UK major hotel brand, and previously held positions Eric joined the Group in 2003 from an oil services and Europe to, more latterly, lending and central with a number of high-prole US-owned marketing company, Expro International Group Plc, where he sales operations which included Hamilton Direct agencies.
Richards responsibilities extend across was Group Finance Director.
Prior to this, Eric was Bank, Marbles Loans and all group telemarketing corporate strategy, business planning, brand Group Finance Director of Vp Plc.
Stephen is a member of the Board of strategy, product portfolio, and channel and market in industry, Eric spent several years with Credit Leeds City Region Local Enterprise Partnership.
His qualications include an MBA Suisse First Boston where he was Vice President from Leeds University Business School.
is a member of the Board of Governors at York 4.
Neil Hamilton St. Johns University.
Shaun Parker Since joining the Group in 2002, Neil Hamilton Chief Financial officer has been responsible for the denition and Shaun Parker is responsible for the Groups implementation of a new IT platform capable of Finance, Tax, Treasury, Risk and Audit functions.
meeting the Groups ambitious growth plans.
Shaun joined the Group in 2003 from Diageo Prior to joining the Group, Neil was the Group IT where he was Chief Financial officer of Guinness Director for the business process outsourcing North America prior to leading the cross-functional division of Hays Group Plc.
Before this, Neil was team that completed the integration of the head of IT services for Perot Systems and has acquired Seagram Wines and Spirits business.
held a variety of other IT management positions.
Previously Shaun worked for ICI Plc, and then Mars Inc. Pedigree Petfoods where he held a number of senior finance roles in Germany and the UK.
Shaun has extensive international experience gained through a number of regional roles, and through working and living in Germany and the US.
pdf 44 01 04 2011 14:17 Overview Strategy Performance Governance Financial statements CPPGroup Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2010 43 Board of Directors Executive Committee Directors report Statement of Directors responsibilities Corporate Governance statement Remuneration report 6.
Dave Pearce Managing Director, UK and Ireland Managing Director, Southern Europe Managing Director, North America Mike Kneafsey has more than 20 years experience Angel fide Leon joined CPP in 2010 and has an Dave Pearce joined the Group in 2005, bringing of sales and marketing in the financial services extensive background in financial services.
with him extensive senior management experience industry.
Before joining the Group in 2008 he was Most recently he held the positions of Director of gained in the retail and financial sectors.
Prior to Regional Managing Director for retail banking at Private Banking and Director of Payment Systems joining the Group, Dave led marketing, consumer Barclays Plc in the North of England, Scotland and at Banesto.
Prior to this he worked for companies research and strategic planning at Liberty Northern Ireland, leading a team of 5,000 staff.
such as American Express and Visa International Enterprises and retail marketing at Wells Fargo Previously Mike spent 17 years at HSBC, holding and was Regional Director for Southern Europe at Home Mortgage.
senior-management positions in its branch and Kessler Financial Services, a leading company in contact centre businesses and with First Direct, loyalty programmes and co-branding agreements 9.
Grace Tsang before becoming Sales and Service Director for for financial institutions.
In addition, he was Managing Director, Asia Pacic M&S Money.
Managing Director for Western Union International Grace Tsang is responsible for the development for Spain and Portugal.
Based in Madrid, Angel is and performance of the Group across the Asia responsible for our Southern European and Latin Pacic region until 25 March 2011.
Prior to joining American countries.
the Group in 2008, Grace was Regional Director at Prudential Corporation Asia, responsible for the direct-marketing channel across Asia.
