6 CPPGroup Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2010 Overview: Our business model: a virtuous cycle APPLYING OUR PROVEN, INTERNATIONAL SCALABLE BUSINESS MODEL Business Partners CPP operates a  business model.
This proven model which we now operate across 15 geographical markets sees us sell and service annuallyrenewed products to our Business Partners Business Partner customers.
relationship Our customers benefit from the provision of Life Assistance products designed to make life less stressful.
Regular customer communications and 1. on-going service interactions encourage product New Business engagement with key features and benets, which help encourage retention and annual renewal.
Partners Our Business Partners benefit from commission payments and over time additional sales channels, 6. products and services can be introduced to the 2.
Develop trust relationship in Our business model is highly cash generative and with partner new channels drives our renewal rates.
Cross-sell Additional products data shared 4.
CPP is invited to tender for formal contracts as well as proactively target prospective Business Partners across multiple market sectors, leading to multi-year contracts, typically based on the provision of one product or service and a key sales channel 2.
During the initial phases of the relationship, CPP and the Business Partner work closely together to develop systems and processes necessary to full the Business Partners requirements 3.
As the relationship progresses, customer data subject to marketing permissions and data protection notices, performance data and market insight are shared 4.
Additional sales channels, such as Card Activation and service cross-sell, are typically introduced over time to broaden the distribution of the lead product 5.
Once the relationship is established, additional relevant products are introduced to the contract 6.
Over time, further developments will be pursued such as Packaged Account management, development of product variants and expansion into new geographical markets 48051 Blacksun.
pdf 8 01 04 2011 14:16 Overview Strategy Performance Governance Financial statements CPPGroup Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2010 7 Financial highlights & Group KPIs Chairmans statement Our products and services Our business model: a virtuous cycle Our long term Business Partners Our international markets Customers Customer service Customer service and interaction are key to the success of our business and our relationships with 1. Business Partners and customers.
To ensure that Customer each customer contact is personal, professional signs up and of the highest quality, we conduct agent training and service monitoring through each stage of the sales, service and claims process, combined with regular customer satisfaction feedback.
To help us improve our customer experience in the UK, we conduct detailed Treating Customers Fairly TCF research.
Business Partner service In addition to providing a portfolio of retail, wholesale and packaged products to Business Partners, CPP offers a range of support services that add value to our Business Partner relationships.
These services include product 4. development and marketing expertise, channel 2. management, technology development, training, Increased product Service call research and analytics, as well as the outsourced engagement management of Card Activation campaigns and Packaged Accounts.
A prospect is presented with a CPP product through their relationship with the Business Partner.
If they purchase the product they receive a fullment pack, with an appropriate cooling-off period 2.
During the year, the customer will interact with CPP for policy administration, such as updating cards, change of address notications, reporting lost or stolen cards or requesting Identity Protection support 3.
Customer holds the product for a year and is presented with a renewal notication on the anniversary of purchase, reminding them of the product features and benets.
Products are regularly upgraded to include enhanced cover and superior protection, at a higher price point 4.
In-life customer communications, on-going service interactions and cross-sales encourage engagement with the products features and usage, which helps encourage retention and renewal 48051 Blacksun.
