28 CPPGroup Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2010 Performance: Operating review SOUTHERN EUROPE Key data Regional highlights Organic, constant 2010 2009 currency m m Growth growth Revenue 46.7 47.5 2 % 1% Operating profit 10.5 11.2 7 % 3 % Key operating highlights Robust performance with revenue stable in challenging economic conditions Pursuing significant sales opportunities in Spain and Italy through Card Activation campaigns Introducing Identity Protection in Spain and France Making good progress in Mexico following launch in July 2009, including campaigns with HSBC and IXE Tarjetas Divisional prole Southern Europe consists of five geographical markets and contributes 14.3% of Group revenue.
These geographical markets are Spain, Portugal, France, Italy and Mexico.
Spain is the most established business having launched in 1995.
Our Portuguese business was established in 2000, after which Italy and France began operations in 2001 and 2003 respectively.
Mexico is the latest addition to this region having commenced business in 2009.
Based in Spain, Angel fide Leon is the regional Managing Director.
Our products t Card Protection t Legal Protection t Identity Protection t Gadget insurance t Phonesafe mobile phone insurance Strategy for future growth Secure new Business Partner contracts to drive Card Protection volumes Implement planned product upgrades and price increases on the renewal book Develop and grow Identity Protection Develop and launch Airport Angel Expand Card Activation and inbound telemarketing Angel fide Leon Managing Director, Southern Europe 48051 Blacksun.
pdf 30 01 04 2011 14:17 Overview Strategy Performance Governance Financial statements CPPGroup Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2010 29 Operating review: Northern Europe Operating review: Southern Europe Operating review: North America Operating review: Asia Pacic Corporate Social Responsibility Financial review Southern Europe has seen revenue increase France Mexico slightly excluding the impact of foreign currency In France our focus throughout 2010 has been to In Mexico we have continued to make good movements in challenging economic conditions.
maximise the benets from our existing Business progress since our launch in July 2009.
We believe Operating profit for this region of 10.5 million is Partner relationship with Cetelem.
As a result, that the expected growth in the bankable 7% lower than 2009, impacted by the costs of we have increased revenues year-on-year.
population and the number of financial cards in EMV Card Activation sales campaigns in Spain.
this country presents us with a significant and In November, we introduced Identity Protection sustainable growth opportunity.
through a pilot agreement with a new Business Spain Partner.
The development of Identity Protection will Card Protection sales in Mexico are growing well.
In Spain we have grown revenue marginally despite expand the portfolio of Life Assistance products we Since launch we have implemented new reduced consumer spending, high unemployment, can offer Business Partners.
campaigns with HSBC and IXE Tarjetas across difficult access to credit and financial instability.
Our EMV Chip and PIN Card Activations campaigns Italy Mexico ended 2010 with strong prospects and are presenting increased sales opportunities and In 2010 our priorities were to sign new Business important opportunities for the future, including enabling CPP to become a key player in card issue Partners and to maximise revenue through existing the planned launch of Identity Protection.
We now activate cards on behalf of products and services.
Banco Santander, Banesto, Carrefour and, most We have succeeded in winning contracts to sell Outlook recently, Banco Sabadell Spains fourth largest Card Protection with a number of new partners, After a challenging 2010, the outlook for Southern banking group and the largest bank in Catalonia.
including Deutsche Credit Card, Compass, Banca di Europe is good.
We hope to enter new Business Already delivering good performance, we hope our Legnano, Diners Club Italia and Banca di Cividale.
Partner relationships and believe we can continue new relationship with Banco Sabadell will provide to increase the penetration of our products in all additional sales opportunities across the wider To maximise revenue through existing products and geographical markets.
services, we launched a household version of Card Protection towards the end of the year.
The introduction of Identity Protection as a As in our Northern European region, the Card second core product, initially in Spain and France, Activation channel is expected to expand and As in other Southern European markets, we will provide new Business Partner acquisition generate growth in the medium term, but it has continue to offer our Card Activation service to opportunities.
had a temporary negative impact on margins and Business Partners including Barclays, Carrefour operating profits in the short term.
Further product developments will be investigated to meet demand for non-insured products, We have also increased our presence with Spains particularly in the mobile, travel and home sectors.
saving banks, after gaining a relationship with Caja Navarra.
As part of our strategy of diversifying through Case study product development and innovation, we have launched Identity Protection with Carrefour in Spain.
We have also developed CPP Alert, Aligned to our growth strategy of product a non-insured variant of Identity Protection.
development and innovation, our Southern European region was successful in developing Portugal Identity Protection one of our most successful 2010 was a good year for revenue growth in products across the Group.
We now have relationships with two We piloted Identity Protection with Carrefour major banks in this country, having implemented in Spain, with a product that incorporates a new outbound telemarketing campaigns with key comprehensive suite of prevention, detection and Business Partners.
Our conversion rates for these resolution services.
These include SMS and e-mail campaigns are among the best in our Southern alerts to proactively inform customers when a European region, demonstrating the effectiveness credit check is made in their name, access to an of our acquisition channels.
identity theft expert and insurance to cover the cost specifically, revenue is up due to new assistance of resolving identity fraud.
income and the contribution made to our business We have also piloted Identity Protection in France.
by new Business Partners like Banco Santander Totta.
Moreover our stable renewal rates and tight overheads have helped Portugal deliver good performance.
