30 CPPGroup Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2010 Performance: Operating review NORTH AMERICA Key data Regional highlights Organic, constant 2010 2009 currency 'm 'm Growth growth Revenue 38.5 34.8 11% 9% Operating profit 5.9 5.2 13% 12% Key operating highlights Growing US Business Partner portfolio with the important addition of Sovereign Bank Launching strategic contact centre partnership with two telemarketing vendors, Americall Group Inc. AGI and Call Assistant Establishing a new relationship with Barclaycard via L. L. Bean Visa cardholders Product innovation for new campaigns with Wells Fargo Wachovia and Best Buy Divisional prole North America consists of one geographical market, the United States, and contributes 11.8% of Group revenue.
Our US business was established in 2003 when we acquired the enhancement services division of Metris Inc, a medium-sized card issuer now owned by HSBC.
Since then, the business has grown by launching a new portfolio of Life Assistance products and services and working with major organisations in the financial and retail sectors.
Dave Pearce is the regional Managing Director.
Our products t IdentityProtector t PurchaseShield 360 t Lifestyle Perks Strategy for future growth Target new Business Partners in financial services and retail sectors Develop and grow new product variants Increase customer retention Develop Packaged Accounts and Promotional Marketing Expand in-house telemarketing capability Dave Pearce Managing Director, North America 48051 Blacksun.
pdf 32 01 04 2011 14:17 Overview Strategy Performance Governance Financial statements CPPGroup Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2010 31 Operating review: Northern Europe Operating review: Southern Europe Operating review: North America Operating review: Asia Pacic Corporate Social Responsibility Financial review North America has increased revenue by 9%, Our new Card Activation campaign with Wells Outlook excluding the impact of foreign currency Fargo Wachovia, including a voice-response Card We expect our North America region to continue movements.
Operating profit has increased by Activation channel, is delivering very good results.
to deliver year-on-year revenue growth.
Our new 13% to 5.9 million, driven by existing member Our double-digit conversion rates with another campaigns with Sovereign Bank and Wells Fargo revenues and more efficient acquisition costs on Business Partner, Alliance Data, are also Wachovia are expected to generate attractive new new sales.
encouraging and demonstrate our service-to-sales policy sales.
Our performance will be driven by our continued North America Overall, our performance has been helped by commitment to product development, customer CPP North America has delivered encouraging price increases for monthly policies, upgrades service and cost management.
year-on-year revenue and profit growth.
Key to our to existing products, such as IdentityProtector performance was new ways of doing business and PurchaseShield, and successful marketing which included operational and product innovation, campaigns, including direct mail and statement which have laid solid foundations for the North inserts to our Barclaycard portfolios.
Furthermore, our commitment to product The Operations team has changed the way we development and innovation, channel expansion approach customer relationship management, and Business Partner acquisition has enabled us to creating our first internal contact centre in the US, diversify our business, making us less reliant on supported by strategic partnerships with two any one campaign or Business Partner relationship.
telemarketing vendors, Americall Group Inc. AGI and Call Assistant.
We will continue to improve our telemarketing performance by developing our in-house capabilities.
During 2010 CPP North America signed new Business Partners, helped by product innovation and development.
A key achievement was securing Sovereign Bank, a Santander Group subsidiary, to add to our major Business Partners portfolio, which also includes Alliance Data, Wells Fargo Wachovia and HSBC.
The contract with Sovereign Bank gives CPP an exclusive agreement to cross-sell Identity Protection through debit card activation, in-branch, Case study customer service, outbound telemarketing and e-mail campaigns.
Product innovation also led the way to a new In 2010, CPP North America used product relationship with Barclaycard.
Our new product, development and innovation to deliver revenue Elite Extras, will provide travel, entertainment and profit growth, alongside new Business and fuel benets to L. L. Bean Visa cardholders Partner relationships and sales channels.
It will also provide Our new Elite Extras product will provide travel, warranty and price protection benets.
This new entertainment and fuel benets to L. L. Bean Visa partnership is significant as it represents a cardholders.
L. L. Bean, a private-label card issued by diversication into the retail sector, taking our US Barclaycard, is a large retailer specialising in clothing business outside its traditional financial services and outdoor recreation equipment.
Moreover we will benefit from the is significant for CPP as it represents an expansion branded endorsement of L. L. Bean a large-scale of our Business Partner portfolio and distribution of online catalogue retailer and relationship with Life Assistance products into the retail sector.
Most recently, we have been developing a new We have expanded our relationship with Wells product called eDefense that allows policyholders Fargo Wachovia, moving into its recently acquired to shop, bank, interact and transact securely online.
Wachovia portfolios with sales of our new Signicantly for the future, it allows members to purchase protection product, PurchaseShield 360. take control of their personal information and This updated product offers increased benefit identity online.
limits, and covers customer purchases with benets such as Repair Bill Rebate, Product Return Guarantee, Price Protection and Warranty Extension.
