12 CPPGroup Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2010 Strategy: Chief Executive Ofcers review CONTINUING TO GROW AND LEAD THE WAY IN OUR MARKETS I am pleased to report that CPP has delivered We are a fast growing strong growth, continuing the trend established over the past few years.
This year, Group revenue is international business up 12% and underlying operating profit is up 17%.
These results are testament to the quality of our people, our products and services, and our with a proven track long-standing relationships with Business Partners and customers.
We are especially proud of our record.
achievements given the backdrop of global economic and financial uncertainty.
Eric Rhys Woolley It is also gratifying that we are able to report this Chief Executive officer performance in our first results following our listing on the London Stock Exchange in March 2010. Business diversication has helped CPP to achieve this growth, and I am pleased to report that today the Group continues to pursue its ambition of operating across multiple market sectors, offering multiple products and services in an increasing number of geographical markets.
Although our geographical markets are at different stages of maturity, the basic premise remains that consumers, irrespective of where they live, are increasingly reliant on their payment cards and mobile devices, and continue to travel for both business and leisure.
CPPs Life Assistance products and services are well positioned to help consumers safeguard what is valuable to them and to cope with the anxieties and complexities of modern life.
At the same time, our products and services help Business Partners generate incremental revenue and reduce cost.
The opportunities from CPPs ongoing diversication are driving our business forward and creating the momentum to establish CPP as a leader in the evolving Life Assistance market.
Continuing to perform well CPP has grown Group revenue by 12% and underlying Group operating profit by 17% yearon-year.
Underlying operating profit margin has increased by 0.8% to 15.0%.
This increase in underlying Group operating profit and a reduction in legacy scheme share-based payments have generated reported operating profit growth of 44% year-on-year.
We have increased new assistance income by 10% year-on-year to 88.0 million through product, channel and market diversication, growth in Packaged Accounts and the roll out of higher-priced product variants.
Live policies have increased 12% to 11.2 million.
