Overview Strategy Performance Governance Financial statements CPPGroup Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2010 53 Directors report Remuneration report Statement of Directors responsibilities Corporate Governance statement Remuneration report This report has been prepared on behalf of the Board by the Remuneration Remuneration policy Committee and is in accordance with the provisions of the Companies Act The remuneration of Executive Directors comprises both fixed and variable 2006 the Act and schedule 8 of the Large and Medium-sized Companies elements.
Fixed remuneration is basic salary, pension and flexible benefits and Groups Accounts and Reports Regulations 2008.
The report also meets and variable performance-related remuneration is in the form of an annual the relevant requirements of the Listing Rules of the Financial Services cash bonus partly paid in cash and partly deferred and long term incentive Authority.
In accordance with the Regulations, a resolution will be proposed arrangements.
Significant weighting is given to the variable element of pay at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting of the Company to approve which will be derived from the Companys performance, which is strongly this report.
aligned to shareholder value creation.
This is evident in the chart below which shows the composition of the Chief Executives pay at target and maximum The Act requires the independent Auditor to report to the members of the levels of performance.
The breakdown for the Chief Financial Officer is very Company on certain information contained in the report and to state whether, similar except that his LTIP award is slightly lower.
in the Auditors opinion, that information has been properly prepared in accordance with the Act.
The report has, therefore, been divided into two Proportion xed and variable pay sections, showing the audited and unaudited information separately.
From the date of Admission Admission of its shares to the Official List of Maximum 35% 29% 36% the London Stock Exchange on 24 March 2010 and throughout the remainder of the accounting period the period the Remuneration Committee has complied with the Combined Code 2008.
This report sets out the policy for the financial year just ended, for the forthcoming year and, subject to ongoing Target 50% 21% 29% review, for subsequent years.
0% 20% 40% 60% 80% 100% UNAUDITED INFORMATION Fixed pay Short term variable pay Long term variable pay Role Target performance assumes 50% bonus payout and an expected value of long term The Remuneration Committee the Committee has responsibility for, on incentives of 55% of the face value of award.
Maximum performance assumes full behalf of the Board, determining the remuneration policies and practices for bonus payout and full long term incentive vesting.
the Executive Directors, the Executive Committee, the Company Chairman Both the Board and the Committee recognise the importance of an effective and the Group-wide remuneration policy more broadly.
In implementing these remuneration policy in the achievement of the Groups successful financial policies and practices the Company aims to support the implementation of a performance.
The aim of the remuneration policy is to: business strategy which continues to create value for shareholders over time.
Provide overall remuneration to Executive Directors that is competitive but The Committees terms of reference are available on the Companys website sufficient to attract, motivate and retain individuals of the quality required to or you can request a copy from the Company Secretary.
continue to deliver successful performance.
Membership Align rewards with the Groups performance.
Tim Kelly was Chairman of the Committee from Admission until 19 August It is the intention of the Committee to ensure the remuneration policy is 2010 at which point Patrick fide Smedt was appointed as a member and strongly aligned with the interests of the Directors, Shareholders and the Chairman of the Committee.
Tim Kelly remained as a member of the Company.
The Committee is satisfied that the overall remuneration structure Committee until 31 December 2010.
Other members of the Committee neither encourages nor rewards inappropriate operational risk taking and is are Charles Gregson, Peter Morgan and Les Owen who was appointed to fully compatible with the Companys risk management policies and systems.
All members of the Committee In determining executive remuneration, the Committee has regard to are considered by the Board to be independent Charles Gregson being pay levels and structures elsewhere in the Group in ensuring that pay is independent on his appointment as Chairman of the Board.
Advisers The Companys approach to Non-Executive remuneration is set by the Board Hewitt New Bridge Street HNBS has served as independent adviser to the with account taken of the time and responsibility involved in each role, Committee since Admission.
They also advised on remuneration matters prior including where applicable the Chairmanship of Board Committees.
to the Companys Admission to the Official List.
In addition to advising the In line with the Association of British Insurers Guidelines on Responsible Committee, HNBS also provides advice to the Company on implementing Investment Disclosure, the Committee will ensure that the incentive decisions made by the Committee.
HNBS does not provide any other services structure for the Executive Directors and senior management will not to the Company.
raise environmental, social or governance ESG risks by inadvertently The Chief Executive Officer and the Group Head of Tax assisted both the motivating irresponsible behaviour.
More generally, with regard to the Board and the Committee as required both pre and post the Companys overall remuneration structure, there is no restriction on the Committee Admission to the Official List, taking no part in discussions as to their own which prevents it from taking account of ESG matters.
The Company Chairman absents himself from discussions with respect to his own pay.
Since Admission, the Committee met three times in the year and is scheduled to meet three times in the forthcoming financial year.
Additional meetings may be held should any matters arise that require the consideration of the Committee.
