40 CPPGroup Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2010 Governance: Board of Directors BOARD OF DIRECTORS 1.
Shaun Parker Non-Executive Chairman, Chairman of the Chief Executive officer Chief Financial officer Nomination Committee and Member of the As Chief Executive officer of the Group, Eric Shaun Parker is responsible for the Groups Remuneration and Audit & Risk Committees Woolley is responsible for developing and Finance, Tax, Treasury, Risk and Audit functions.
Charles Gregson was appointed Non-Executive executing the Groups business strategy across Shaun joined the Group in 2003 from Diageo where Chairman of CPP in January 2010.
He has also been Europe, North America and Asia.
The Groups he was Chief Financial officer of Guinness North Non-Executive Chairman of ICAP plc since 2001 legal and compliance functions also report to Eric.
America prior to leading the cross-functional team and had been Executive Chairman since 1998.
Eric joined the Group in 2003 from an oil services that completed the integration of the acquired Between 1978 and 1998 he was responsible for company, Expro International Group Plc, where he Seagram Wines and Spirits business.
Previously the Garban businesses that demerged from was Group Finance Director.
Prior to this, Eric was Shaun worked for ICI Plc, and then Mars Inc. United Business Media in 1998 and merged with Group Finance Director of Vp Plc.
Before working Pedigree Petfoods where he held a number Intercapital in 1999 to become ICAP.
He was a in industry, Eric spent several years with Credit of senior finance roles in Germany and the UK.
Director of United Business Media plc and its Suisse First Boston where he was Vice President Shaun has extensive international experience predecessor companies from 1986 until 2007.
gained through a number of regional roles, and He is currently a Non-Executive Director of through working and living in Germany and the US.
International Personal Finance plc, Caledonia Investments plc and St Jamess Place plc.
Hamish Macgregor Ogston, CBE Founder and Non-Executive Director Hamish Ogston founded the Group in 1980, before becoming Non-Executive Chairman in 1999.
He acted in that capacity until Charles Gregsons appointment in January 2010.
Hamish continues to contribute to the Groups strategic thinking as a Non-Executive Director and acts in an ambassadorial role helping to introduce CPP to industry organisations and other inuential stakeholders.
He was awarded a CBE in the 2011 New Year Honours for his services to business and to the community in York.
pdf 42 01 04 2011 14:17 Overview Strategy Performance Governance Financial statements CPPGroup Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2010 41 Board of Directors Executive Committee Directors report Statement of Directors responsibilities Corporate Governance statement Remuneration report 5.
Duncan McIntyre Non-Executive Director, Chairman of the Non-Executive Director, Chairman of the Audit & Non-Executive Director Remuneration Committee and Member of the Risk Committee and Member of the Nomination Duncan McIntyre was appointed in January 2011.
Nomination Committee and Remuneration Committees Duncan has substantial experience of developing Patrick fide Smedt is Chairman of the Remuneration Peter Morgan is a chartered accountant and and growing businesses, having previously led Committee having been appointed in August 2010. is Chairman of the Audit & Risk Committee.
Morse plc as Chief Executive, taking it from a small Patrick joined Microsoft in 1983 as one of its first Until 2003, he was a partner in Deloitte LLP dealing private company to a fully listed substantial plc, and appointments in Europe and enjoyed a 23 year predominantly with entrepreneurial high-growth being a key architect in the building of Monitise plc, career there, culminating in the role of Chairman businesses, many of which were private-equity the global leader in Mobile Money solutions listed for Europe, Middle East and Africa from 2003 until backed or had public listings.
A qualied accountant, he is also Chairman his retirement in 2006.
Since then he has served as Peter was also responsible for managing the and Non-Executive Director of Monitise plc and Non-Executive Director on the Boards of a number London audit and assurance department at Spicer a Director of Profero Limited, Climate Risk of public and private European companies including & Oppenheim, chairing a committee overseeing Management Limited and Technetix Group Limited.
Option NV, Victrex Plc and Morgan Sindall Group the rms technical and training functions and Plc.
He also serves on the advisory Board of the for developing the marketing activity for rapidly corporate finance division at ING Bank N. V. growing companies at Deloitte.
Les Owen Non-Executive Director, Member of the Audit & Risk, Nomination and Remuneration Committees Les Owen was appointed in September 2010.
Les worked for 35 years in retail financial services including 11 years as CEO of companies listed in UK and Australia, including AXA Sun Life the life arm of Sun Life and Provincial Holdings Plc and AXA Asia Pacic Holdings.
He is a qualied actuary and serves as Non-Executive Director on the Boards of a number of international companies including Royal Mail Holdings Plc, Computershare Limited, Jelf Group plc, Just Retirement Holdings Limited and Discovery Group.
