16 CPPGroup Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2010 Strategy: Group strategy & KPIs STRATEGY FOR DELIVERING SUSTAINED GROWTH Our strategy Our vision Our vision is to be a leader in the Life Assistance market, offering customers a broad range of products and services.
We are here to help our customers cope with the anxieties associated with the challenges and opportunities of everyday life.
Our strategy To optimise relationships with existing Business Partners and customers.
To achieve growth through new products, channels, sectors and countries with new and existing Business Partner relationships.
Product Drive growth in International Pursue selected development existing channels expansion acquisitions andinnovation and develop new Expand internationally Selective acquisitions sales channels in new developing to drive incremental Roll out new and existing market economies.
products and services Develop Business incurrent markets.
Partner relationships through existing and newchannels to increase the number of customer sales opportunities.
For more information For more information For more information For more information see our strategy in see our strategy in see our strategy in see our strategy in action on page 18 action on page 20 action on page 22 action on page 24 Business Partner relationships Scalable infrastructure Global IT capability Experienced management 48051 Blacksun.
pdf 18 01 04 2011 14:17 Overview Strategy Performance Governance Financial statements CPPGroup Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2010 17 Chief Executive Ofcers review Group strategy & KPIs Strategy in action KPIs We use Key Performance Indicators to manage Annual renewal rate Cost income ratio performance and growth of our business, reecting the importance of both acquiring Denition Denition and retaining customers and control over The net amount of annual Cost of sales excluding our cost base.
retail policies remaining on commission, and other book 45 calendar days after administrative expenses as the scheduled renewal date a percentage of revenue.
as a proportion of those Performance remaining from 45 days Cost income ratio has after acquisition previous year renewal.
increased to 51% of revenues, reecting the Performance growth of our Packaged The Group annual renewal rate Account channels which do at 75.9% is lower than prior not generally incur Business year.
This results from a stable Partner commissions and UK renewal rate, the expected generally have a lower mix effect of lower renewal revenue per policy.
rates in the US and our new markets, as well as reductions in Southern Europe.
New assistance income Operating profit margin Live policies Denition Denition Denition Revenue from customers of Operating profit before Total number of policies assistance products within legacy scheme share based which are live on Group one year from the customer payments as a percentage policy databases.
Performance Performance Performance Live policies have increased New assistance income has Operating profit margin has by 12% during the year, grown by 10%.
Growth in driven by the expansion our Packaged Accounts gross profit and control of of Packaged Accounts in channel, product overheads in Northern the UK.
diversication including Europe has outweighed Airport Angel and roll out short term direct costs of higher priced product supporting Europay, variants contribute to this Mastercard and Visa EMV achievement, as does growth Card Activation campaigns of our new markets.
in Southern Europe and mix effects.
