48 CPPGroup Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2010 Corporate Governance statement Compliance with the Combined Code The Board comprises individuals with wide ranging business skills and The Board is responsible to shareholders for strategic direction, management experience and considers that the balance of skills and experience is and control of the Companys activities and is committed to the highest appropriate to the requirements of the business.
The Board considers that the standards of corporate governance in delivering in these areas.
balance between Executive and Non-Executive Directors allows it to exercise objectivity in decision making and proper control of the Companys business.
From the date of admission of its shares to the Official List of the London Each member of the Board has had access to all information relating to the Stock Exchange Admission on 24 March 2010 and throughout the Group, the advice and services of the Company Secretary who is responsible remainder of the accounting period the period the Board considers that for ensuring that Board procedures are followed and, as required, external the Company has complied with its relevant obligations under the Combined advice at the expense of the Group.
Code on corporate governance the Code, as published by the Financial Reporting Council in June 2008 and available on its website www.
uk Chairman and Chief Executive Officer except as described in the section entitled Compliance with the Combined The roles of the Chairman and the Chief Executive Officer are separate, clearly Code below.
defined in writing and have been agreed by the Board.
The Company was incorporated on 9 February 2010, and therefore prior The Chairman, Charles Gregson is responsible for leadership of the Board, to that date was under no obligation to comply with the Code.
During the ensuring its effectiveness on all aspects of its role and setting its agenda.
period between the date of its incorporation and the date of Admission the The Chairman has no involvement in the day-to-day business of the Group.
Company existed only as an off the shelf company, set up in anticipation of the Initial Public Offering.
During this period the Company was in the The Chief Executive Officer, Eric Woolley is the executive responsible for process of establishing its corporate governance arrangements conditional the day-to-day running of the business and is accountable to the Board for upon Admission, and which are further described below.
its operational and financial performance.
On his appointment as Chairman, Charles Gregson did satisfy the The Board independence criteria as set out in the Code.
However following his At the point of Admission the Board comprised of Charles Gregson as appointment as Chairman he is assumed, in accordance with the Code, not Non-Executive Chairman, Eric Woolley as Chief Executive Officer, Shaun to be independent.
The Board, whilst recognising the reasoning in the Code Parker as Chief Financial Officer and Hamish Ogston, Tim Kelly and Peter behind this assumption, has concluded that Charles Gregson is independent, Morgan as Non-Executive Directors.
being independent in character and judgement and being free from any During the relevant period and up to the date of this statement the following relationships or circumstances which are likely to affect, or could appear appointments were made: to affect, his judgement.
Patrick fide Smedt was appointed as a Non-Executive Director on 19 August Throughout the relevant period the Chairman has held regular informal 2010: meetings with Non-Executive Directors without the Executive Directors being present.
Les Owen was appointed as a Non-Executive Director on 21 September 2010: and Board balance, independence and appointments Duncan McIntyre was appointed as a Non-Executive Director on 1 January During the relevant period the Board has reviewed the structure, size and 2011. composition of the Board together with an evaluation of the Boards balance of skills, knowledge and experience : the membership of the various Board Tim Kelly resigned as a Non-Executive Director on 31 December 2010. committees and the expected time commitment: and the policy for Board Peter Morgan will retire as a Non-Executive Director on 31 March 2011. appointments for Executive and Non-Executive Directors.
Following the changes described above the Board is now comprised of The Directors aim is to ensure that the balance between Non-Executive the following: Directors and Executive Directors of the Board reflects the changing needs Charles Gregson as Non-Executive Chairman: of the Groups business.
Eric Woolley as Chief Executive Officer: The Board has reviewed the independence of each of the Non-Executive Directors that have served on the Board throughout the relevant period and Shaun Parker as Chief Financial Officer: and concluded that Tim Kelly, Peter Morgan, Les Owen and Patrick fide Smedt Hamish Ogston, Les Owen, Patrick fide Smedt and Duncan McIntyre as are independent.
Hamish Ogston, founder and largest shareholder, is not Non-Executive Directors.
As such, together with the two Executive Directors, Eric Woolley and Shaun Parker, the Board, during the relevant period, has The Board met 10 times during the relevant period.
satisfied the Code requirements that at least half the Board, excluding the The Board operates within a formal schedule of matters reserved to it.
Chairman, should comprise Non-Executive Directors determined by the Board This schedule is reviewed and updated on a regular basis.
Other powers to be independent.
The Non-Executive Directors are considered to be of are delegated to the various Board committees and senior management.
sufficient calibre and experience to bring significant influence to bear on the Details of Board and committee attendance during the relevant period are decision making process.
set out in the table under the section headed Directors attendance at Board Duncan McIntyre was appointed on 1 January 2011 and is considered by the and committee meetings set out on page 49.
Details of the various roles Board to be independent.
Appointments to the Board are the responsibility and responsibilities of the Board committees are set out on pages 49 to 52. of the full Board, on the recommendation of the Nomination Committee.
Papers for Board and committee meetings are circulated in advance of the On joining the Board, Non-Executive Directors receive a formal appointment relevant meeting and where a Director is unable to attend he continues to be letter, which identifies the time commitment expected of them.
A potential provided with a full copy of the papers and has the opportunity to comment director candidate is required to disclose all significant outside commitments on the matters to be discussed.
prior to appointment and the Board has approved a policy requiring disclosure The Board considers that its primary role is to provide leadership to the Group, and approval by the Board of all additional appointments for Executive or to set the Groups long term strategic objectives and to develop robust Non-Executive Directors.
The terms and conditions of appointment of corporate governance and risk management practices.
Non-Executive Directors and service contracts of Executive Directors are available to shareholders for inspection at the Group's registered office during normal business hours.
Biographical details of all Directors are given on pages 40 to 41.
