32 CPPGroup Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2010 Performance: Operating review ASIA PACIFIC Key data Regional highlights Organic, constant 2010 2009 currency m m Growth growth Revenue 5.7 4.9 15% 6% Operating loss 2.3 2.0 17 % 13 % Key operating highlights Contracts signed in China with Shenzhen Development Bank SDB and Guangdong Development Bank GDB to sell Card Protection Nine Business Partner relationships in India after signing Barclays, Deutsche Bank and Life Insurance Corporation of India Indian revenues now include renewals from existing customers Regulatory challenges impacting outbound telemarketing channel in Hong Kong and credit card tax in Malaysia negatively affecting the number of credit cards in circulation Divisional prole Asia Pacic consists of five geographical markets and contributes 1.7% of Group revenue.
These geographical markets are Hong Kong, Singapore, Malaysia, India and China.
Hong Kong is the most established CPP business in the region, having been launched in 2004.
Singapore 2005 and Malaysia 2006 were the next to launch.
Our India business commenced operations in 2008 and China in 2010.
Based in Hong Kong, Grace Tsang was the regional Managing Director in 2010.
Our products t Card Protection t Identity Protection Strategy for future growth Secure new Business Partner contracts to increase Card Protection volumes Implement planned product upgrades and associated price increases on the renewal book Development of Identity Protection Building the renewal book in India Grace Tsang Managing Director, Asia Pacic 48051 Blacksun.
pdf 34 01 04 2011 14:17 Overview Strategy Performance Governance Financial statements CPPGroup Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2010 33 Operating review: Northern Europe Operating review: Southern Europe Operating review: North America Operating review: Asia Pacic Corporate Social Responsibility Financial review Our Asia Pacic business has seen revenue Indian revenues now include renewals from Outlook increase 15% to 5.7 million.
Strong growth in existing customers, and are in line with our Building on the successful launch of CPP in China India and our launch in China was tempered expectations for a newly established geographical and the combined expansion of our Business elsewhere by a new credit card tax in Malaysia and market.
Our growing renewal book and low Partner relationships in other markets, notably new regulation for direct marketing in Hong Kong.
cancellation performance are helping to generate India, the prospects for CPP in this region are further growth.
Hong Kong Consistent with our Group strategy to develop new As we establish ourselves in the region we Performance in Hong Kong was affected following channels to market our Life Assistance products continue to incur losses as renewal volumes in heightened local concern over the transfer of and services, card stickering campaigns driving India and elsewhere are not yet sufciently large personal data to third parties for marketing leads through SMS have been launched with ICICI to offset the costs of acquiring new customers.
This has resulted in a temporary Bank and Citibank.
In addition, positive option, suspension of most direct marketing activities in We will look to secure new Business Partner inbranch and inbound sales are complementing this market.
Despite this we have maintained contracts to increase the penetration of Card our telemarketing channels.
stable renewal rates showing that our policyholders Protection and planned product upgrades and value our products and have chosen to retain them.
price increases will help to drive the performance China of our organisation in this important region.
In our first year we secured two Business Partner Singapore relationships with Guangdong Development Bank We remain hopeful about our long term prospects GDB and Shenzhen Development Bank SDB.
in this market as evidenced by new initiatives Our inaugural agreement with GDB provides Card such as an outbound telemarketing campaign Assistance services to its premium cardholders on with OCBC that was launched in December 2010. a wholesale basis.
We have since expanded this Policies were initially sold solely via the partners distribution to offer a retail version of this product in-house channels, but we successfully expanded to their customers.
the relationship to include our own outbound telemarketing activities.
This second retail contract builds on our relationship with SDB, our first retail distribution With other strategically important partners we have partner, to cross-sell Card Protection to selected expanded the number of agents certied to sell SDB cardholders via outbound telemarketing, our products.
Citibank in particular has resourced a conducted by the banks agents.
dedicated team to cross-sell CPP products to their existing customers, in addition to its direct sales channels for new card customers.
Case study Malaysia The impact of a new credit card tax in Malaysia, introduced at the beginning of the year, has CPP launched in India in December 2008 with negatively affected the number of credit cards in Card Protection.
A large bankable population and circulation and therefore our marketing opportunities increasing levels of disposable income meant the to sell relevant products.
As a result, revenue is country was a good t for our business model and lower, although the country operation remains our Life Assistance products.
To address reduced sales opportunities, we have introduced new channels with Business Since then, CPP has made great progress achieving Partners, including outbound telemarketing with policy sales from our Business Partners and Maybank, the largest financial services group in through multi-channel sales acquisition activities, Malaysia and e-acquisition with HSBC.
including outbound and inbound telemarketing activity.
Our list of Business Partners is impressive We aim to take our Life Assistance products and includes the likes of Citibank, Standard beyond financial services in this market and we Chartered, HSBC, Axis Bank and ICICI.
continue to run outbound telemarketing with BonusLink, a leading Malaysian loyalty programme.
Our management team in India has a clear strategy to deliver new channels, sales efficiency and India product value to grow the business.
Recent inbound We have continued to build our business through Card Activation campaigns to diversify our revenue expansion of our Business Partner base.
We now show that this strategy is working and will help work with nine financial institutions, having build a long term sustainable business in this launched here in December 2008.
we signed three new Business Partners.
