20 CPPGroup Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2010 Strategy in action continued DEVELOPING NEW CHANNELS Our primary route to market for our Life Assistance products CPP is a multi-channel and services is via our Business Partners.
Historically, CPP predominantly used outbound telemarketing to complement distributor of products sales by Business Partners through their own sales channels.
However, since the inbound Card Activation sales channel was fully rolled out in 2007, this has evolved into a major distribution utilising in-branch and channel in the UK, with increased prominence across the Group, particularly in the US, Spain and Germany.
Card Activation sales and Card Activation is a particularly effective sales channel because the call is initiated by the cardholder.
During the activation process, with more recently the web.
Business Partner and the customer's permission, Card Protection or Identity Protection is offered to the customer.
CPP has also developed a proven competency for cross-selling on an inbound customer service call.
In this sales channel, CPP sells products and services to customers calling for service on another CPP product or, potentially, a Business Partners product.
For example, our agent might introduce Identity Protection during a card cancellation and replacement call.
To help improve sales performance in our Business Partners own contact centres, our Business Sales Performance team delivers dedicated sales training and coaching.
Working at our Business Partners sites, the team trains managers and advisors across both contact centres and high-street branches.
Furthermore, the team works closely with our dedicated account management teams, helping to answer training requests and provide support on tactical marketing campaigns.
In addition to our other proven distribution channels including positive option and in-branch retail sales with Business Partners such as T-Mobile we are developing online and mobile channels.
Our online capability enables us to acquire new customers and to service policyholders online.
We execute joint online strategies with some Business Partners via their websites, as well as using e-mail and social media platforms.
pdf 22 01 04 2011 14:17 Overview Strategy Performance Governance Financial statements CPPGroup Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2010 21 Chief Executive Ofcers review Group strategy and KPIs Strategy in action 48051 Blacksun.
