26 CPPGroup Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2010 Performance: Operating review NORTHERN EUROPE Key data Regional highlights Organic, constant 2010 2009 currency m m Growth growth Revenue 234.9 204.9 15% 12% Operating profit 35.6 27.8 28% 27% Key operating highlights UK business grew strongly, with the Packaged Accounts market gaining momentum and continued strong performance from Identity Protection Continued Business Partner diversication in the UK with The Mileage Company in the travel sector and the AA in the afnity membership sector Turkey achieved full-year profits for the first time since launch in 2007 Expanded the Card Activation channel with Business Partners Divisional prole Northern Europe consists of four geographical markets and contributes 72.1% of Group revenue.
These geographical markets are the UK, Ireland, Germany and Turkey.
The UK is CPPs most mature market having established our business there in 1980.
Our German business was established in 1991.
Our Ireland business launched in 1993 and Turkey in 2007.
Mike Kneafsey leads the UK and Ireland business.
Our products t Card Protection t Airport Angel t Identity Protection t Travel Assistance t Phonesafe mobile phone t Home 3 through our joint venture insurance t Your Law t Packaged Accounts Strategy for future growth Driving increased Card Protection and Identity Protection volumes Growth in retail and wholesale mobile phone insurance Building scale in Packaged Accounts Volume growth for Airport Angel and Home 3 in the UK Implement planned product upgrades and price increases on the renewal book Mike Kneafsey Managing Director, UK and Ireland 48051 Blacksun.
pdf 28 01 04 2011 14:17 Overview Strategy Performance Governance Financial statements CPPGroup Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2010 27 Operating review: Northern Europe Operating review: Southern Europe Operating review: North America Operating review: Asia Pacic Corporate Social Responsibility Financial review Northern Europe has increased revenue by 15% Ireland Germany to 234.9 million, largely through the continued Irelands well publicised economic problems In Germany, we have continued to implement our expansion of Identity Protection, the roll-out of impacted our performance in 2010.
Central to this was developing new higher-priced product variants and the development we have maintained stable revenues.
sales channels with Business Partners, particularly of the UK Packaged Accounts business.
These have the Card Activation channel.
In 2010, we expanded We are encouraged by adding eMobile to our mobile combined to increase growth in new and renewal the number of Card Activation campaigns we manage phone insurance portfolio, which also includes income.
Northern Europe has grown operating profit from our Hamburg contact centre.
Together they have doubled the by 28% to 35.6 million, through increases in policy size of our mobile phone insurance book.
Product innovation has also helped to improve the volumes, higher-priced product variants and tight visibility and desirability of CPP in Germany.
In 2010, control of operating costs.
Turkey CPP launched a combined Identity and Card Consistent with our strategy of expanding Protection product with DZ WGZ Bank that will also UK internationally into growth markets, our Turkish give us greater exibility in other Business Partner Consistent with our Group growth strategy, our business has performed well.
UK business has delivered strong growth, helped by channel, sector and product diversication.
Increased sales of Card Protection are delivering new Outlook Our Packaged Accounts business has performed income with Business Partners including Akbank, The outlook for our Northern European region very well, launching a new premium account with DenizBank, Anadolu Insurance Company and Bank remains positive.
We will continue to pursue growth Santander and providing a range of mobile phone, Asya.
In the second half of the year, we increased through product innovation and development and gadget and handbag insurance variants for RBS our number of Business Partners in Turkey to five by establishing new sales channels.
The success of group packaged accounts.
with the announcement that insurance company our Packaged Accounts business in the UK points ERGO would sell Card Protection through its direct Targeting new sectors remains one of our strategic towards continued growth, as does the ongoing sales representatives.
In 2010, CPP began providing the AA with expansion of our Card Activation sales channel.
a range of products and services for their packaged Following losses in the first three years of trading as New assistance income will continue to be delivered accounts customers.
In the travel sector, we have we invested in our business, in 2010 Turkey achieved by products such as Card Protection and Identity developed a new relationship with The Mileage full year profits for the first time since launch in 2007.
Protection, as well as through growth in Packaged Company operators of the Airmiles scheme Accounts and Airport Angel.
The introduction of to provide Identity Protection.
Identity Protection in new markets is an exciting Our Home 3 joint venture with Mapfre Asistencia development, as are new variants of Card Protection, continues to expand its Business Partner which are helping to drive the appeal, penetration and relationships.
Building on our success in supporting profitability of this product.
the AA with part of the claims fullment of their home emergency product, we have secured partnerships with leading companies including Case study Homebase Retail Stores, BGL Budget Group Limited and Insure4Retirement.
The successful launch of CPP Travel Services In line with our strategy of growing existing sales and Promotional Marketing was helped by the channels, the UK has expanded its Card Activation successful integration of Leapfrog's product services.
This sales channel not only positions CPP portfolio during 2010. strongly in new debit and credit card issue programmes, but gives us incremental call volumes Based in Altrincham, England, the division was and builds a stronger relationship with Business created to bring together the Airport Angel product Partners, based on our proven service to sales with our portfolio of travel-related assistance competence.
In 2010, we also rolled out higher-priced and insurance products, such as lost and stolen variants of Card Protection and Identity Protection.
passport assistance, card loss cover, luggage Renewing our contract to provide mobile phone retrieval services and downloadable mobile insurance to T-Mobile until 31 December 2011 was phrasebooks.
important, and we continue to have high level In 2010 we secured a contract with Diners discussions with the merged T-Mobile business International to provide our Airport Angel lounge about potential future business opportunities.
More than six million Diners customers now have access to airport lounges across 68 countries as diverse as the UK, USA, Spain, Germany, Hong Kong, Kenya, Zimbabwe and China.
