43.8 34.7 33.0 32.7 31.1 21.6 21.2 19.8 17.5 11.7 9.3 7.1 5.0 4.0 3.1 3.0 2.2 2.3 1.7 1.4 0.9 Richard Marginson Outlook it is with sadness that i report to shareholders the death the Company is well positioned to meet the increasing during the year of Richard marginson.
Richard was one demand for UK pork products.
the business has developed of the original 23 shareholders, a founder Director of the significant expertise in the supply chain, building on its origins Company and the first Chairman.
he made an enormous in pig feed production and the rearing of pigs, and through contribution to the development of the business in those acquisitions, joint ventures and organic initiatives it now has early days and served as Chairman until retiring from the market leading positions in a number of categories.
the Board in 1991. on behalf of all at Cranswick we extend our past year has seen increased expenditure by the consumer sympathy to Richards wife Gladys and family.
on products such as air-dried bacon, premium sausages, fresh pork and ham and this looks set to continue as the Board value and versatility of pork, the alternative white meat, steven esom was appointed as a non executive Director are increasingly appreciated.
With experienced management during the second half of the year.
steven has a wealth of throughout the Group and a well invested asset base the experience within the food sector including twelve years at Board is confident in the successful long term development Waitrose where he was managing Director and at marks & of the business and is encouraged by the positive start made spencer where he was executive Director of Food.
in the current financial year.
Staff Cranswick is operated on a decentralised basis with a number of product categories each with its own management team.
Martin Davey the continued successful growth of the Company is a Chairman reflection of their expertise and commitment and on behalf 24 may 2010 of the Board i would like to thank them and their colleagues for their contribution in driving the business forward.
