G R o U P o P e R At i n G A n D FinAnCiAL RevieW nAtURe, oBJeCtives AnD stRAteGies Business objectives The Groups business it is the Boards view that meeting the following business objectives is key to achieving the financial and non-financial Following the sale of the pet activities on 24 April 2009, the measures that increase value to shareholders and other Groups operations are focused entirely on the production stakeholders: and supply of food products.
the Companys strategy to Delivering innovative, quality products to our customers focus on food production was further evidenced by the acquisition of the pork processing activities of Bowes of maintaining the highest level of service to our customers norfolk Limited, now renamed CCF norfolk, on 24 June improving operational efficiency 2009.
Both transactions are referred to in more detail below.
securing employee health and safety the performance of the business in the year is discussed in maximising returns on investment the Review of Activities.
the business operates entirely in the UK, although a small proportion of sales are exported.
Business strategies it produces a range of high quality, predominantly fresh the Groups market strategy is to focus primarily on the products including fresh pork, sausages, bacon and cooked growing quality end of the markets in which it operates, to meats for sale to the high street food retailers.
it also supplies establish meaningful and long-lasting relationships with its a range of pre-sliced, pre-packaged charcuterie products for major customers by a combination of product development sale into these same customers, together with a range of and high service levels and to invest in quality facilities and pre-packed sandwiches predominantly for sale into food service the latest equipment to enable it to operate as efficiently outlets.
the markets in which the food business operates are as possible.
operational management is given responsibility competitive both in terms of pricing from fellow suppliers and for developing plans to deliver the objectives of the Group the retail environment in general.
the UK food retail market with particular emphasis on growing sales through product is known to be amongst the most competitive in the world.
innovation and high service levels, improving operational Despite this, Cranswick has a long record of increasing sales efficiency and securing employee health and safety.
the and profits through a combination of investing in modern role of the Board in achieving Group objectives is to support efficient factories, developing a range of quality products operational management and to identify suitable acquisitions and making sound acquisitions.
the businesses are under that will take the Group into new and growing areas of the the control of stable, experienced and talented operational market, will open up new customer relationships to the Group management teams supported by a skilled workforce.
or will consolidate existing market positions.
PAGe 13 | CRANSWICK plc RePoRt & ACCoUnts 2010
