Net debt Distributions, capital raising and share repurchases net debt reduced by 11.9 million to 54.7 million 2009 - 66.6 the proposed final dividend for 2010 together with the million at the year end, resulting from strong operating cash flows interim paid in January 2010 amount to 25.0 pence per and the net cash inflow from acquisitions and disposals.
share which is 15 per cent higher than the previous year.
Pensions the increase in the share capital of the Group comprises the Company operates a number of defined contribution 504,196 of share options exercised during the year, 265,913 schemes, whereby contributions are made to schemes in respect of scrip dividends and 100,000 shares allotted to operated by major insurance companies.
Contributions to the Cranswick plc employee Benefit trust.
there were no these schemes are determined as a percentage of employees share repurchases during the year.
CCF norfolk operates a defined benefit scheme which has been closed to further accrual since 2004.
Under tReAsURY PoLiCies international Accounting standard iAs 19, the deficit at the Functional currency date of acquisition was 5.8 million and this had reduced to the functional currency of all Group undertakings is sterling.
5.4 million at 31 march 2010. the present value of funded obligations was 17.1 million and the fair value of plan assets Foreign currency risk was 11.8 million.
the major foreign exchange risk facing the Group is in the Capital structure purchasing of charcuterie products.
the major currency involved is the euro.
the policy of the Group is to seek the primary objective of the Groups capital management is to mitigate the impact of this risk by taking out forward to ensure that it maintains a strong credit rating and healthy contracts with UK banks for up to 12 months ahead and for capital ratios in order to support its business and maximise amounts that commence at approximately 25 per cent of value for shareholders and other stakeholders.
the requirement and move progressively towards full cover.
the Group regards its shareholders equity as its capital and At least 2 members of the main Board attend the monthly manages its capital structure and makes adjustments to it meetings of the subsidiary Board at which the key decisions in light of changes in economic conditions.
to maintain or on currency cover are taken.
adjust the capital structure, the Group may adjust the dividend Interest rate risk payment to shareholders, return capital to shareholders or issue new shares.
no changes were made in the objectives, the Groups policy is to manage its cost of borrowing using policies or processes during the years ended 31 march 2010 a mix of fixed and variable rate debt.
Whilst fixed rate and 31 march 2009. interest bearing debt is not exposed to cash flow interest rate risk, there is no opportunity for the Group to enjoy a the Groups capital structure is as follows: reduction in borrowing costs in markets where rates are 2010 2009 falling.
in addition, the fair value risk inherent in fixed rate m m borrowing means that the Group is exposed to unplanned net debt 54.7 66.6 costs should debt be restructured or repaid early as part of Cranswick plc shareholders the liquidity management process.
in contrast, whilst floating equity 193.6 166.5 rate borrowings are not exposed to changes in fair value, the Capital employed 248.3 233.1 Group is exposed to cash flow risk as costs increase if market rates rise.
Cover was implemented by taking out an interest rate swap agreement with three UK banks on the amortising portion 35 million of the medium term loan drawn down PAGe 18 | CRANSWICK plc RePoRt & ACCoUnts 2010
