GoinG ConCeRn the Groups business activities, together with the factors when the Group renewed its credit facilities in December 2008. this is being repaid at the rate of 2.5 million every likely to affect its future development, performance and 3 months from march 2009 to september 2011, with the position are set out in the Review of Activities.
the financial balance of 7.5 million repayable in December 2011. the position of the Group, its cash flows, liquidity position and hedging policy is reviewed from time to time as circumstances borrowing facilities are described above, as are the Groups change.
the monitoring of interest rate risk is handled entirely objectives, policies and processes for managing its capital: its at head office, based on the monthly consolidation of cash financial risk management objectives: details of its financial flow projections and the daily borrowings position.
instruments and hedging activities: and its exposure to credit risk and liquidity risk.
Credit risk Practically all sales are made on credit terms, the majority of the Group has considerable financial resources together which are to the major UK food retailers.
overdue accounts with strong trading relationships with its key customers are reviewed at the monthly Board meetings of the operations.
As a consequence, the Directors believe the incidence of bad debts is low.
For all major customers, that the Group is well placed to manage its business credit terms are agreed by negotiation and for all other risk successfully.
customers, credit terms are set by reference to external After making enquiries, the Directors have a reasonable credit agencies.
every attempt is made to resist advance expectation that the Group has adequate resources to payments to suppliers for goods and services: where this continue in operational existence for the foreseeable future.
proves impossible, arrangements are put in place, where For this reason, they continue to adopt the going concern practical, to guarantee the repayment of the monies in the basis in preparing the financial statements.
On behalf of the Board Liquidity risk the Group has historically been very cash generative.
the bank position for each operation is monitored on a daily basis and capital expenditure is approved at the monthly Mark Bottomley Finance Director Board meeting of each operation at which at least two 24 may 2010 members of the main Board are present and reported at the subsequent monthly main Board meeting.
major projects are approved by the main Board.
each operation has access to the Groups overdraft facility and all term debt is arranged centrally.
the facilities currently available to the Group are a term loan of 35.0 million 20.0 million of which was drawn down during the year repayable in December 2011, an amortising loan facility of 25.0 million repayable in seven quarterly instalments of 2.5 million, with a final repayment of 7.5 million in December 2011, a revolving credit facility of 30.0 million and an overdraft facility of 20.0 million.
Unutilised facilities at 31 march 2010 were 54.0 million 2009 - 53.0 million.
PAGe 19 | CRANSWICK plc RePoRt & ACCoUnts 2010
