RevieW oF ACtivities BY the ChieF eXeCUtive, BeRnARD hoGGARth it is very satisfying to report continued growth in sales.
total external sales increased by 22 per cent to 740 million.
Underlying sales grew by 11 per cent after stripping out the contribution from the CCF norfolk fresh pork business which was acquired during the year.
internal sales within the Group also grew strongly to 123 million.
internal sales are generated by the supply to the further processing sites of primal fresh pork for conversion into sausages and air-dried bacon, and fresh pork legs to be cured, cooked and processed into ham products.
During the second half of the year the pig price and the Air-dried bacon has created a new premium category in the price of most other proteins eased from the highs seen market.
this is still a developing and immature category and earlier in the year.
however, prices are now firming again new business wins coupled with growth of existing accounts, and with demand from the major UK grocery retailers for saw sales increase by 61 per cent in the year.
British pork products increasing, the requirement for British the extension of the Lazenbys sausage factory in hull on land pig meat is expected to remain strong.
the continued price purchased adjacent to the existing site is nearing completion.
competitiveness of pork against the other major proteins sales have grown strongly over the five years since the new including beef and lamb should also ensure that demand for factory was completed, and during the year grew by a further pork remains strong and that prices remain relatively firm.
the extension which includes new despatch the continuing volatility of sterling against the euro will be facilities is essential to meet peak volume requirements during one of the major factors in the competitiveness of imported the barbecue season and at Christmas.
the new extended pig meat going forward.
facility will provide a maximum weekly capacity of 700 tonnes, During the year the Board has approved several large capital an increase of 50 per cent.
Licensed brands including the projects to ensure that the Group continues to have sufficient Black Farmer and Weight Watchers have continued to grow headroom in production capacity to facilitate future growth.
strongly, helped by increased listings.
it is pleasing to see it is vital that the Company remains at the forefront of the that even in the current economic climate many consumers sector with some of the best invested and efficient plants in are continuing to trade up in the sausage category, looking the UK pork industry, so maintaining the Groups competitive for high meat content products with good flavour profiles edge going forward.
these are products which are trusted to provide a quality, simple, home meal solution, either for a one such project is the planned investment to expand the family meal, or a special dining-in occasion.
trading up and air-dried bacon facility at sherburn.
the factory, which was buying the best products for home consumption still appears commissioned just over two years ago, is already hitting to be a consideration for many families as they cut back on capacity during peaks in seasonal demand.
investment in expenditure and dining out occasions become less frequent.
the latest generation of high speed slicers, together with this is not to say that red label shoppers are any less active: doubling of throughput by the commissioning of the second they are still price focused and are quite prepared to switch adjacent unit, will ensure the business is well placed to meet between retailers to find the best value deals.
PAGe 7 | CRANSWICK plc RePoRt & ACCoUnts 2010 the largest project the Group has undertaken to date is capacity increased by 50 per cent.
specialist boning lines the redevelopment of the primary pork processing facility have been added to simplify the butchery process and at the Preston site near hull.
When completed later this increase efficiency and productivity.
management has been year, it will lift production capacity at the site by 50 per strengthened and it is pleasing to report the good progress cent.
this is an essential development for several reasons.
being made in integrating the norfolk site with the Groups the plant is situated in the middle of the largest pig rearing existing fresh pork operations.
area in the UK and with other factories in the region now Cooked meat sales were strong with growth of 13 per cent.
processing fewer animals than previously, the Preston site With sales to most of the multiple retailers it is vital that will be providing a first class local service to the areas pig new product development, which is essential in building farming community.
this also helps to reduce food miles new accounts, is of the highest standard.
this programme which is a high priority for the industry.
this, together with includes the development of an integrated supply chain by the growing requirement for British pork, as mentioned entering into longer term supply agreements with certain earlier, meant it was imperative that the business was able key pig producers which gives them security to develop with to satisfy the increasing demand from retail customers and Cranswick.
the supply of specific standards of British pork also ensure the shortest journeys for contracted livestock.
the legs including Freedom Foods and outdoor Reared is of continued development of specialist pig breeds for premium increasing importance to the Groups customers.
this, coupled lines has helped the business become the lead supplier of with work on the incorporation of certain rare breeds into fresh pork to the Groups largest customer.
in tandem with breeding programmes, forms part of the ongoing research the investment at Preston the norfolk facility is also being into eating quality.
investment to date has again seen production PAGe 8 | CRANSWICK plc RePoRt & ACCoUnts 2010 The sandwich category had a successful year and whilst A new and exciting project is the planned launch of a range sales were down 1 per cent for the year as a whole, they of charcuterie products under the Jamie Oliver brand in the recovered strongly and were ahead of the prior year for the autumn.
The range will also include fresh pasta, sausage, second half, with profitability also much improved.
Sales to fresh pork and bacon products.
Jamie is well respected by airline operators continued to grow, benefitting from some the public for his simple approach to food and cooking global agreements and contracts.
Frozen solutions for retail and the success of his television series and book sales bear and foodservice customers now account for more than 5 testament to this.
This new range has fantastic potential per cent of sales with a range of frozen sandwich platters to drive sales across all categories with many of the major launched with a retail customer at Christmas.
agreements with the Chicago Town Pizza and Reggae, Reggae brands will help drive sales going forward.
The sandwich filling category is very much a focus too and recently there have been business wins in the convenience sector with the new fillings range.
The trading environment now looks much healthier, with longer term contracts secured and new accounts growing strongly.
Continental products performed well during the year with sales up 8 per cent.
Round pound deals with retailer customers using the Premier Deli brand drove sales exceptionally well throughout the year.
There have been other notable successes during the year too, including sales of fresh olives and antipasti.
Following investment in a new production area and specialist equipment at the Guinness Circle site in Manchester, olive sales grew by over 50 per cent.
The business is now able to produce mixed packs and marinated products.
The choice and availability of Mediterranean products is exceptional at a time when the consumers interest in this style of food is so high.
New retail customers have been brought on board and business with existing customers has been increased These are exciting times for the Company.
The business through the addition of olives and Italian cheeses to the continues to grow and there are still many opportunities to category.
The Company was also first to market with a be developed.
Cranswick is one of the best invested meat premium offering of soft slice charcuterie products.
This based food producers in the UK and this, coupled with the range is produced without the need to deep chill prior to ongoing work on innovation, efficiency, service levels and, slicing and the impact of this process on eating quality and most importantly, with the quality of the people in the flavour has been exceptional.
businesses, should keep Cranswick as the supplier of choice for its customers.
Bernard Hoggarth Chief Executive 24 May 2010 PAGE 9 | CRANSWICK PLC REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2010
