Raw material prices the major exposure the Group Principal risks and uncertainties has to raw material price fluctuations is pig meat, part of the Group annually carries out a formal exercise to identify which is as a result of currency movements.
Purchasing of and assess the impact of risks on its businesses and the pigs and pig meat is co-ordinated centrally and whilst the exercise has recently been reviewed.
Company does not generally seek to hedge against pig the more significant risks and uncertainties faced by the price movements because of the downside risk, longer Group, in line with the rest of the food production sector, term contracts have been negotiated in certain instances are identified as competition and customer retention, food with key pig suppliers.
safety, business continuity, environmental matters, raw Legislation - Legislation in all the markets we serve changes material prices and legislation.
these are discussed in more on a regular basis, and interpretation of existing laws can also detail below.
change to create ever tightening standards, often requiring Competition and customer retention the Company additional human resources and the provision of new assets manages the risk of operating in a consolidated sector by and systems.
We are committed to respond positively to new maintaining strong customer relationships.
this process is regulation and ensure that our views are expressed during supported by delivering high levels of service and quality consultation exercises.
and by continued focus on product development and technical innovation.
FinAnCiAL Position AnD PeRFoRmAnCe Food safety the risk of food scares is mitigated by ensuring that all raw materials are traceable to source and Exceptional items that manufacturing, storage and distribution systems are the exceptional charge of 6.1 million in 2009 related to a continually monitored by experienced and well qualified one-off, non-cash, exceptional deferred tax charge arising site based and Group technical teams.
from a change in UK corporation tax legislation in the Finance Business continuity the Group faces the risk of incidents Act 2008 to phase out industrial Buildings Allowances and such as a major fire, which may result in significant and is referred to in more detail below.
prolonged disruption to its operating facilities.
Business Finance costs continuity plans are in place across the Groups manufacturing Finance costs of 2.1 million 2009 - 3.7 million were lower facilities and appropriate insurance cover is in place to mitigate than the previous year reflecting the strong cash generation in any financial loss.
Business continuity has been further the year and the full year benefit of the reduction in UK interest enhanced by the acquisition of a second pork processing rates seen in the second half of the last financial year.
site in norfolk during the year.
Environmental matters the Directors believe that good environmental practices support the Boards strategy by enhancing the reputation of the Group, the efficiency of production and the quality of products.
the industry is subject to a range of UK and eU legislation.
environmental standards are being tightened on a regular basis and require increasing levels of investment.
Compliance imposes costs and prolonged failure to comply could materially affect the Groups ability to operate.
Further details of these initiatives are set out in the Groups Corporate social Responsibility report and on the Groups website under the Greenthinking banner.
PAGe 16 | CRANSWICK plc RePoRt & ACCoUnts 2010
