D i R e C t o R s R e m U n e R At i o n RePoRt Bonus scheme inFoRmAtion not sUBJeCt to AUDit the bonus scheme in operation is based on the achievement Remuneration Committee of Group profit targets.
the targets are set having regard to the Remuneration Committee comprises the non-executive the Companys budget, historical performance and market Directors Patrick Farnsworth Chairman of the Committee, outlook for the year.
A small part of the bonus relates to John Worby and steven esom from 12 november 2009. the the achievement of a target performance for the first half executive Chairman attends the meetings in an advisory of the year where a fixed sum is paid with the remaining capacity as requested.
the Committee determines the element based on a percentage of the results in excess of remuneration of the Companys executive Directors and puts an annual target.
the total bonus is capped at 150 per cent forward its recommendations for approval by the Board.
non-executive Directors do not participate in the remuneration policy is reviewed and benchmarked the Groups bonus scheme.
incentive payments and benefits by external consultants every two to three years: it is the are not pensionable.
Committees intention to conduct a review during the next Share options and Long Term Incentive Plan financial year.
 were appointed by the basic salary and the bonus scheme are intended as the the Remuneration Committee and have given advice during most significant part of Directors remuneration: in addition, the year on share option awards.
the remuneration of the executive share options and the Long term incentive Plan non-executive Directors is determined by the executive LtiP can be proposed by the Remuneration Committee Directors and reflects the time, commitment and responsibility and are granted periodically to promote the involvement of their roles.
of senior management in the longer term success of the Remuneration policy Group.
even though both option awards are seen as an important part of rewarding the employee the Remuneration the Groups policy is that the overall remuneration package Committee is focusing on using the LtiP rather than the offered should be sufficiently competitive to attract, retain executive option scheme.
and motivate high quality executives and to align the rewards of the executives with the progress of the Group whilst giving options can only be exercised if certain performance criteria consideration to salary levels in similar sized quoted companies are achieved by the Group.
Under the LtiP half the shares in the sector and in the region.
the remuneration package is granted are subject to an earnings per share ePs target in two parts: a non performance part represented by basic measured against average annual increases in the retail price salary including benefits and, a significant performance index RPi over a three year period and the other half to related element in the form of a profit related bonus and a total shareholder return tsR target measured against share-based awards.
the share-based awards are granted a comparable group of food companies over a three year by the Remuneration Committee and only vest on the period.
the comparison companies are Carrs milling industries achievement of demanding targets aligned to shareholder plc, Dairy Crest Group plc, Devro plc, Glanbia plc, Greencore returns and earnings per share.
the details of individual plc, northern Foods plc, Robert Wiseman Dairies plc, Premier components of the remuneration package and service Foods plc and Uniq plc.
the ePs target allows 25 per cent of contracts are set out below: the shares subject to the target to be issued at nil cost at an average annual outperformance of 3 per cent and 100 per Basic salary and benefits cent of the shares at an average annual outperformance of the non performance related elements of remuneration 7 per cent with outperformance between 3 and 7 per cent which comprise basic salary, car allowance and benefits rewarded pro rata.
With the first three share awards, made are reviewed annually and are effective from the 1 may.
in previous years, the tsR target allowed 50 per cent of the Benefits principally comprise medical insurance, personal shares subject to the target to be issued at nil cost at the tax advice and car benefit.
50th percentile and 100 per cent at the 75th percentile with PAGe 35 | CRANSWICK plc RePoRt & ACCoUnts 2010
