D i R e C t o R s R e m U n e R At i o n RePoRt Bonus scheme inFoRmAtion not sUBJeCt to AUDit the bonus scheme in operation is based on the achievement Remuneration Committee of Group profit targets.
the targets are set having regard to the Remuneration Committee comprises the non-executive the Companys budget, historical performance and market Directors Patrick Farnsworth Chairman of the Committee, outlook for the year.
A small part of the bonus relates to John Worby and steven esom from 12 november 2009. the the achievement of a target performance for the first half executive Chairman attends the meetings in an advisory of the year where a fixed sum is paid with the remaining capacity as requested.
the Committee determines the element based on a percentage of the results in excess of remuneration of the Companys executive Directors and puts an annual target.
the total bonus is capped at 150 per cent forward its recommendations for approval by the Board.
non-executive Directors do not participate in the remuneration policy is reviewed and benchmarked the Groups bonus scheme.
incentive payments and benefits by external consultants every two to three years: it is the are not pensionable.
Committees intention to conduct a review during the next Share options and Long Term Incentive Plan financial year.
 were appointed by the basic salary and the bonus scheme are intended as the the Remuneration Committee and have given advice during most significant part of Directors remuneration: in addition, the year on share option awards.
the remuneration of the executive share options and the Long term incentive Plan non-executive Directors is determined by the executive LtiP can be proposed by the Remuneration Committee Directors and reflects the time, commitment and responsibility and are granted periodically to promote the involvement of their roles.
of senior management in the longer term success of the Remuneration policy Group.
even though both option awards are seen as an important part of rewarding the employee the Remuneration the Groups policy is that the overall remuneration package Committee is focusing on using the LtiP rather than the offered should be sufficiently competitive to attract, retain executive option scheme.
and motivate high quality executives and to align the rewards of the executives with the progress of the Group whilst giving options can only be exercised if certain performance criteria consideration to salary levels in similar sized quoted companies are achieved by the Group.
Under the LtiP half the shares in the sector and in the region.
the remuneration package is granted are subject to an earnings per share ePs target in two parts: a non performance part represented by basic measured against average annual increases in the retail price salary including benefits and, a significant performance index RPi over a three year period and the other half to related element in the form of a profit related bonus and a total shareholder return tsR target measured against share-based awards.
the share-based awards are granted a comparable group of food companies over a three year by the Remuneration Committee and only vest on the period.
the comparison companies are Carrs milling industries achievement of demanding targets aligned to shareholder plc, Dairy Crest Group plc, Devro plc, Glanbia plc, Greencore returns and earnings per share.
the details of individual plc, northern Foods plc, Robert Wiseman Dairies plc, Premier components of the remuneration package and service Foods plc and Uniq plc.
the ePs target allows 25 per cent of contracts are set out below: the shares subject to the target to be issued at nil cost at an average annual outperformance of 3 per cent and 100 per Basic salary and benefits cent of the shares at an average annual outperformance of the non performance related elements of remuneration 7 per cent with outperformance between 3 and 7 per cent which comprise basic salary, car allowance and benefits rewarded pro rata.
With the first three share awards, made are reviewed annually and are effective from the 1 may.
in previous years, the tsR target allowed 50 per cent of the Benefits principally comprise medical insurance, personal shares subject to the target to be issued at nil cost at the tax advice and car benefit.
50th percentile and 100 per cent at the 75th percentile with PAGe 35 | CRANSWICK plc RePoRt & ACCoUnts 2010 performance between the 50th and 75th percentiles rewarded Service contracts pro-rata.
For the LtiP issued in the year the tsR target was the service contracts for martin Davey, Bernard hoggarth and amended so that only 30% per cent of the shares subject to Derek Black up to his resignation include one year notice the target are to be issued at nil cost at the 50th percentile periods from 1 may 2006 except in the case of a takeover of and 100 per cent at the 75th percentile with performance the Company when the notice period is 2 years for the first six months following the take-over.
these conditions were between the 50th and 75th percentiles rewarded pro-rata.
incorporated into new contracts several years ago, when the Under the terms of the scheme an award to an individual directors changed from contracts which had notice periods cannot exceed 100% of that individuals annual salary except of up to three years.
the Remuneration Committees current in exceptional circumstances when up to 200% of the annual policy is not to enter into employment contracts with any salary is permitted.
the Remuneration Committee, which element of notice period in excess of one year.
Accordingly, decides whether performance conditions have been met, Adam Couch and John Lindop up to his retirement have considers these to be the most appropriate measures of the one year rolling contracts commencing 1 may 2006. mark long term performance of the Group.
Bottomley has a 1 year rolling contract which commenced on the criteria for executive options is based on total shareholder 1 June 2009. two year appointment letters have been issued return over a 3 year performance period and requires the Group to Patrick Farnsworth and John Worby from 1 January 2010 to be in the top half of a basket of food companies quoted and steven esom from 12 november 2009. the contracts on the London stock exchange.
the comparison companies for martin Davey, Bernard hoggarth, Derek Black up to his are ABF plc, Carrs milling industries plc, Dairy Crest Group resignation and John Lindop up to his retirement have plc, Devro plc, Glanbia plc, Greencore plc, northern Foods special provisions relating to liquidated damages requiring plc, Robert Wiseman Dairies plc, and Uniq plc that the notice period stipulated in the contract will be paid in full.
For the other contracts the Remuneration Committee Directors may also apply for sAYe options on the same terms will consider the circumstances of an early termination and as all other employees.
Pensions Performance graph executive Directors are members of the Group moneythe graph below shows the percentage change from a base purchase pension scheme.
employer contributions are of 100 in may 2000 in the total shareholder return with determined by service contracts.
in some cases there are dividends reinvested for each of the last ten years on a holding payments of pension contributions in lieu of salary and in of the Companys shares against the corresponding change other cases there are payments of salary in lieu of pension in a hypothetical holding in the shares in the Ftse 350 Food contributions, both at the option of the individual.
Producers and Processors Price index Ftse FPP and the Ftse All share index Ftse All share.
the Ftse FPP and the Ftse All share were chosen as representative benchmarks of Source: Investec the sector and the market as a whole for the business.
