Other disclosures Other disclosures Principal activities and Business review Croda International Plc is a holding company operating from headquarters at Cowick Hall, Snaith, Goole, East Yorkshire, and providing central direction for a speciality chemicals group with operations across the globe.
The Group carries out research and development activities in the main markets it serves, further details of which can be found in the Chief Executives review on pages 5 to 8.
The Companies Act 2006 requires the Company to set out in this report a fair review of the business of the Group during the financial year ended 31 December 2010 including an analysis of the development and performance of the Group during the year and the position of the Group at the end of the financial year, and a description of the principal risks and uncertainties facing the Group known as a Business review.
The information which makes up the Business review can be found in the following sections of the annual report: l Chairmans statement on pages 3 and 4 l Chief Executives review on pages 5 to 8 l Financial review on pages 9 to 12 l Corporate Social Responsibility report on pages 13 to 20 l Principal risks and uncertainties as discussed in the Financial review section on pages 11 and 12.
Further information on Corporate Social Responsibility CSR can be found in our full CSR report on our website at www.
com Pages 1 to 43 inclusive together with the sections of the Annual Report incorporated by reference constitute a Directors report that has been drawn up and presented in accordance with applicable English company law and the liabilities of the directors in connection with that report are subject to the limitations and restrictions provided by that law.
Research and development Research and development activities are undertaken with the prospect of gaining new scientific or technical knowledge and understanding.
Profit and dividends The results for the year are set out on page 45.
The directors are recommending a final dividend of 25.25p per share 2009: 15.0p.
If approved by shareholders, total dividends for the year will amount to 35.0p per share 2009: 21.5p per share.
Details of dividends are shown in note 9 on page 63 and details of the Companys Dividend Reinvestment Plan can be found on page 97.
Disposals During the year the Group sold its former oleochemical site at Bromborough on the Wirral which had been closed at the end of 2009.
It also ceased production at its manufacturing site at Wilton on Teesside and subsequently sold the site.
At the end of June the sale of its Emmerich oleochemical site and associated business in Germany was completed.
Since the year end, Crodas 60% shareholding in its Korean joint venture has been sold to the non-controlling shareholders.
Further details appear in note 7 on page 61.
Directors The Companys Articles of Association the Articles give the directors power to appoint and replace directors.
Under the terms of reference of the Nomination Committee, any appointment must be recommended by the Nomination Committee for approval by the board of directors.
The Articles also require directors to retire and submit themselves for election at the first annual general meeting AGM following appointment and all directors who held office at the time of the two preceding AGMs and who did not retire at either of them, to submit themselves for re-election.
Ordinarily this would mean that, at this years AGM, Mike Buzzacott and Stanley Musesengwa would be standing for re-election and Steve Williams and Steve Foots would be standing for election for the first time following their appointments on 1 July 2010.
However, the Board has taken note of the new provision in the UK Corporate Governance Code requiring directors of FTSE 350 companies to be subject to annual election and each director will be standing for election at the AGM.
The present directors of the Company are shown on pages 21 and 22.
Details of the directors service contracts are given in the directors remuneration report on pages 28 to 39.
Apart from the share option schemes, long term incentive schemes and service contracts, no director had any beneficial interest in any contract to which the Company or a subsidiary was a party during the year.
A statement indicating the beneficial and non-beneficial interests of the directors in the share capital of the Company, including share options, is shown in the directors remuneration report on page 34.
The directors are responsible for managing the business of the Company and may exercise all the powers of the Company subject to the provisions of relevant statutes, the Companys Memorandum and Articles and any directions given by special resolution.
Corporate Governance The directors corporate governance statement is set out on pages 23 to 27.
40 Directors report | Governance Other disclosures Directors indemnities The Company maintains directors and officers liability insurance which gives appropriate cover for any legal action brought against its directors.
The Company has also granted indemnities to each of its directors and the secretary which represent qualifying third party indemnity provisions as defined by section 234 of the Companies Act 2006, in relation to certain losses and liabilities which the directors or secretary may incur to third parties in the course of acting as directors or secretary or employees of the Company or of any associated company.
In addition such indemnities have been granted to other officers of the Company who are directors of subsidiary companies within the Group.
The Company has also granted an indemnity representing qualifying pension scheme indemnity provisions as defined by section 235 of the Companies Act 2006 to a paid director of the corporate trustee of the Groups UK pension scheme.
Share capital At the date of this report, 139,949,969 ordinary shares of 10 pence each have been issued and are fully paid up and quoted on the London Stock Exchange.
The rights and obligations attaching to the Companys ordinary shares are set out in the Articles, copies of which can be obtained from Companies House in the UK or by writing to the Company Secretary.
There are no restrictions on the voting rights attaching to the Companys ordinary shares or on the transfer of securities in the Company.
No person holds securities in the Company carrying special rights with regard to control of the Company.
The Company is not aware of any agreements between holders of securities that may result in restrictions on the transfer of securities or on voting rights.
Further information which fulfils the requirements of Section 992 of the Companies Act 2006 and which should be treated as forming part of this report by reference is included in the following sections of the annual report: l details of the structure of the Companys share capital and the rights attached to the Companys shares are set out on pages 76 and 81: and l details of the employee share schemes are set out on pages 77 to 80.
Power to issue or buy back shares At the 2010 AGM, authority was given to the directors to allot unissued shares in the Company up to a maximum amount equivalent to approximately one third of the issued share capital excluding shares held in treasury for general purposes, plus up to a further one third of the Companys issued share capital excluding shares held in treasury, but only in the case of a rights issue.
No such shares have been issued.
A further special resolution passed at that meeting granted authority to the directors to allot equity securities in the Company for cash, without regard to the pre-emption provisions of the then Companies Act 1985.
Both these authorities expire on the date of the 2011 AGM to be held on 28 April 2011 and so the directors propose to renew them for a further year.
Last year the members also renewed the Companys authority to purchase up to 10% of its ordinary shares.
No purchases were made during the year.
On 22 February 2011, the Company announced that it intends to purchase shares worth around 50m in the market in the following year and so the Company will be seeking to renew its authority to purchase its own shares at the 2011 AGM.
Shares will only be purchased if the Board believes that such purchases will improve earnings per share and be in the best interests of the shareholders generally.
It is the Companys intention that any shares purchased will be held as treasury shares.
Substantial shareholders As at 18 February 2011, the Company had been notified under DTR5 of the Financial Services Authoritys Disclosure and Transparency Rules of the following significant holdings of voting rights in its shares: Ordinary shares % of share capital Nature of holding Legal & General Group Plc 6,889,195 5.01% Direct Massachusetts Financial Services Company 6,722,481 4.89% Direct AEGON UK Group of Companies 4,322,054 3.15% Direct 3.14%, Indirect 0.01% Deadlines for exercising voting rights Votes are exercisable at a general meeting of the Company in respect of which the business being voted upon is being heard.
Votes may be exercised in person, by proxy or, in relation to corporate members, by corporate representatives.
The Articles provide a deadline for submission of proxy forms of not than less than 48 hours before the time appointed for the holding of the meeting or adjourned meeting.
Articles of Association Unless expressly specified to the contrary in the Articles, the Companys Articles may be amended by a special resolution of the Companys shareholders.
Significant contracts and change of control The Group has borrowing facilities which may require the immediate repayment of all outstanding loans together with accrued interest in the event of a change of control.
The rules of the Companys employee share plans set out the consequences of a change in control of the Company on participants rights under the plans.
Generally such rights will vest and become exercisable on a change of control subject to the satisfaction of performance conditions.
None of the executive directors service contracts contain provisions which are affected by a change of control and there are no other agreements to which the Company is a party which take effect, alter or terminate in the event of a change of control of the Company which are considered to be significant in terms of their potential impact on the Group.
The Company does not have any contractual or other arrangements which are essential to the business of the Group.
41 Other disclosures Other disclosures Employees Diversity Croda is committed to the principle of equal opportunity in employment and to ensuring that no applicant or employee receives less favourable treatment on the grounds of gender, marital status, race, ethnic origin, religion, disability, sexuality, or age, or is disadvantaged by conditions or requirements which cannot be shown to be justified.
Group HR Policies are clearly communicated to all 3,200 employees and are available through the Company intranet.
Recruitment & progression It is established policy throughout Croda that decisions on recruitment, career development, promotion and other employment related issues are made solely on the grounds of individual ability, achievement, expertise and conduct.
Croda gives full and fair consideration to applications for employment from disabled persons.
Should an employee become disabled during their employment with Croda, they are fully supported by its occupational health provision.
Efforts are made to continue their employment with reasonable adjustments being made to the workplace and role where feasible.
Retraining is provided if necessary.
Development & learning Croda recognises that the key to future success lies in the skills and abilities of its dedicated global workforce.
It is only through the continuous development of our employees that we will be able to meet the future demands of our customers in relation to enhanced creativity, innovation and customer service.
During 2010 our employees had an average of 30 hours of training.
Involvement Croda is committed to ensuring that employees share in the success of the Group.
Owning shares in the Company is an important way of strengthening involvement in the development of the business and bringing together employee and shareholder interests.
In 2010, 40% of our employees joined one of our SAYE schemes.
Employees are kept informed of matters of concern to them in a variety of ways, including Crodaway the Company magazine, quarterly updates, Croda Connect the Company intranet, team briefings and E-Lists email messages.
These communications help achieve a common awareness among employees of the financial and economic factors affecting the performance of Croda and of changes happening within the business.
Croda is also committed to providing employees with opportunities to share their views and provide feedback on issues that are important to them.
Employee surveys have been conducted in two of our three regions during 2010.
Corporate Social Responsibility Croda continue to believe that good corporate responsibility is essential to the long term success of the business.
Details of our corporate responsibility initiatives and activities are set out in the CSR section of this report and our full CSR report which is available online at www.
Under the supervision of the CSR Steering Committee, responsibility is now completely embedded within the regional business units, which are fully accountable for delivering business objectives.
Crodas CSR Steering Committee is comprised of representatives from all regional business units and is responsible for collating and reporting CSR data globally.
It is also responsible for identifying material issues relevant to the whole Group.
Community involvement Community involvement is an important undertaking that provides value to our employees, our business and to the local communities in which we live and operate.
Our involvement in the community highlights our commitment to our neighbours and also generates significant goodwill.
This commitment is most clearly illustrated through the 1% Club, an employee volunteering initiative that we started in 2003.
During 2010, we completed the implementation of the 1% Club at all of our global manufacturing sites, enabling every one of our 3,200 employees around the world to spend time actively involved in their communities.
Supplier payment policy Group policy concerning the payment of suppliers is that each operating unit agrees terms of payment at the beginning of business or makes the supplier aware of the standard payment terms, and pays in accordance with those terms or other legal obligations.
At 31 December 2010, the Group had an average of 35.8 days 2009: 38.8 days purchases outstanding in trade creditors.
The Companys trade creditors are not material.
Market value of properties The Groups property, plant and equipment are included in the financial statements at depreciated historic cost where the assets were acquired in the normal course of business or depreciated fair value if the assets were acquired as part of a business combination.
The properties are in continuing use and many of them were acquired when market values were substantially lower than at present.
The directors consider that a surplus over book value exists, but have not quantified the excess.
Charitable and political donations Charitable donations made by the Group in the year amounted to 13,000 2009: 38,000.
No donations were made for political purposes 2009: Nil.
Annual General Meeting The AGM will be held at Carlton Towers, Carlton, Goole, East Yorkshire DN14 9LZ on Thursday, 28 April 2011 at 12 noon.
The notice of meeting and explanation of the business to be considered at the AGM are contained in a separate document issued to shareholders with this annual report.
42 Directors report | Governance Other disclosures Independent auditors Our auditors,  LLP, have indicated their willingness to continue in office and, on the recommendation of the Audit Committee, a resolution regarding their reappointment and remuneration will be submitted to the AGM.
Directors responsibilities The directors are responsible for preparing the annual report, the directors remuneration report and the financial statements in accordance with applicable law and regulations.
Company law requires the directors to prepare financial statements for each financial year.
Under that law the directors have prepared the Group financial statements in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs as adopted by the European Union, and the Company financial statements in accordance with applicable law and United Kingdom Accounting Standards United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice.
Under company law the directors must not approve the financial statements unless they are satisfied that they give a true and fair view of the state of affairs of the Group and the Company and of the profit or loss of the Group for that period.
In preparing those financial statements, the directors are required to: l select suitable accounting policies and apply them consistently: l make judgements and estimates that are reasonable and prudent: l state whether IFRSs, as adopted by the European Union, and applicable UK Accounting Standards have been followed, subject to any material departures disclosed and explained in the Group and parent company financial statements respectively: and l prepare the financial statements on a going concern basis unless it is inappropriate to assume that the Company will continue in business.
The directors are responsible for keeping proper accounting records that are sufficient to show and explain the Companys transactions and disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the financial position of the Company and the Group and to enable them to ensure that the Group financial statements and the directors remuneration report comply with the Companies Act 2006 and, as regards the Group financial statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
They are also responsible for safeguarding the assets of the Group and the Company and hence for taking reasonable steps for the prevention and detection of fraud and other irregularities.
The directors are responsible for the maintenance and integrity of the Companys website.
Legislation in the United Kingdom governing the preparation and dissemination of financial statements may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
Each of the directors, whose details are set out on pages 21 to 22 confirms that, to the best of their knowledge: l the Group financial statements, which have been prepared in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the EU, give a true and fair view of the assets, liabilities, financial position and profit of the Group: and l the Business review contained in this report includes a fair review of the development and performance of the business and the position of the Group, together with a description of the principal risks and uncertainties that it faces.
Audit information The directors each confirm that, so far as they are aware, there is no relevant audit information of which the auditors are unaware and that each director has taken all the steps he ought to have taken as a director in order to make himself aware of any relevant audit information and to establish that the Companys auditors are aware of that information.
Approved by the Board Louise Scott Secretary 8 March 2011 43 Other disclosures
