Products and markets Croda is a world leader in the sale and manufacture of natural based speciality chemicals.
Our extensive range of products is sold to thousands of customers in a wide variety of markets.
Our activities can be broadly classified into two sectors, Consumer Care and Industrial Specialities.
The markets served by each of these sectors, along with the key product groups, are outlined below.
Consumer Care Personal Care Health Care Crop Care We create products for the skin care, Our high purity ingredients are used We provide inert ingredients and sun care, hair care, baby care, colour in the pharmaceutical, dermatological, adjuvants for the full spectrum of cosmetics, male grooming, bath and nutraceutical, functional food and agrochemical applications.
These include polymeric surfactants, These include inorganic UV absorbers, These include concentrated omega dispersants, wetting agents, emulsifiers, lanolins, emollients, polymers, proteins, fatty acids, ultra pure medical grade stabilisers, adjuvants and seed coating surfactants and skin care actives.
lanolins, Super Refined excipients binders.
and a wide range of surfactants, solubilisers, emulsifiers and fatty acid esters.
Industrial Specialities Sales by market 2010 Coatings and Polymers Home Care Polymer Additives n Consumer Care 52% We provide environmentally friendly, We supply ingredients for laundry, We provide speciality effects for a n Industrial Specialities 48% high performance solutions to paint household, industrial and institutional wide range of industrial and consumer formulators, resin manufacturers and cleaning applications, as well as for plastics, packaging and rubber additive producers.
wipes, tissues, nappies and hygiene applications.
This includes a wide range of naturally These include slip, anti-block, antiderived oleochemicals and speciality These include proteins and their static, anti-fog, mould and torque surfactants.
derivatives, softeners, surfactants, release agents as well as UV absorbers, solvents, emulsifiers, solubilisers, dispersants and concentrates.
hydrotropes, tissue lotions, botanical extracts, fatty acids and glycerine.
Lubricant Additives Geo Technologies Process Additives We supply ingredients based on We provide innovative, efficient We supply ingredients and additives for renewable raw materials to automotive solutions for the oil field, mining and use in a range of market applications and industrial lubricant markets.
including rubber, candles, textiles, leather and surfactants.
These multi-functional esters, These include demulsifiers for the polyalkylene glycols and speciality oil field industry, emulsifiers for These include the full range of our lubricant additive products deliver high explosives and water soluble polymer products: from base oleochemical fatty performance, energy efficient solutions components for the formulation of acids and glycerine to esters, polymeric to meet the challenging demands of the water treatments.
