Mr Egbert imomoh Non-Executive Chairman 8 Mr Imomoh, a founder of Afren, was previously 9 Managing Director and Executive Chairman of Afren 10 Energy Resources Limited.
He successfully led the growth 11 of Afrens Nigerian asset base, established anumber of successful indigenous partnerships and achieved the First 12 Oil milestone at the Okoro Setu project.
13 14 Prior to establishing Afrens Nigerian subsidiary, MrImomoh served as Deputy Managing Director of 15 Shell Petroleum Development Company Nigeria, one 16 of Shell Groups largest operating companies.
He is also 17 a member of the Society of Petroleum Engineers and 2 6 18 has served on its board as Regional Director for Africa.
Dr Osman Shahenshah 20 Chief Executive 21 Dr Shahenshah is a founder of Afren and has over 22 20 years experience in oil and gas finance.
His 23 international career began with Credit Suisse First 24 Boston and has included senior positions in the oil and gas finance groups of the International 25 Finance Corporation the private sector arm of 26 the World Bank, and the investment banking 27 divisions of Dresdner Kleinwort Wasserstein and MediocreditoCentrale.
28 3 7 29 Dr Shahenshah has been actively involved in the 30 African oil and gas sector for more than 15 years, 31 working with companies including Shell, Chevron, Total, Eni S. p. A and the Nigerian National Petroleum 32 Corporation.
He holds a PhD from the University 33 of Pennsylvania, a Masters Degree from Columbia 34 University and a Bachelors Degree from Brown University.
Mr Shahid Ullah 37 Chief Operating Officer 38 Mr Ullah has held senior management positions 39 4 8 atWestern Atlas and Baker Hughes, where he was 40 responsible for managing petroleum interests and assets.
In particular, he brings extensive technical and 41 commercial knowledge of the African petroleum 42 industry to Afren.
Mr Ullah holds a degree in Petroleum 43 Engineering from the University of Texas and received executive development training at Oxford University 44 and the London Business School.
He is a member 45 ofthe Engineering Advisory Board at the University 46 ofTexas.
Mr Darra Comyn Group Finance Director 49 Mr Comyn was previously the Group Finance Director 50 for ITE Group plc and Expomedia Group Plc both 51 international groups focused on emerging markets : 52 and in the oil industry with Chevron Oil UK and 53 Dragon Oil where he was Group Financial Controller and Company Secretary.
54 55 Mr Comyn is a Chartered Accountant with a degree 56 inEconomics from Trinity College, University of Dublin.
Mr Toby hayward Non-Executive Director Non-Executive Director Non-Executive Director Mr Bingham is a Non-executive Director of Afren.
Ennio Sganzerla, a senior oil industry practitioner A qualified Chartered Accountant, Mr Hayward With over 40 years experience in international financial with a wealth of African upstream experience, has has held a number of senior Equity Capital market markets, Mr Bingham began his career at Barclays been an adviser to the Afren Board since November positions in London.
As Head of Oil and Gas Equity Bank group.
He subsequently held a succession of 2006.
He was previously Senior Vice President E&P Capital Markets at Canaccord Adams he led a range Directorships, first in London at branch level, then in at ENI, having joined the group in 1971.
From 1997, of Initial Public Offerings IPOs, including Afrens IPO, Barclays merchant banking division and BZW now he was responsible for ENIs largest business unit before moving on to his post as Managing Director and known as Barclays Capital where he set up the credit encompassing the North Sea, America, Australasia Head of Corporate Broking at Jefferies International risk management team, all before becoming Head and Russia, with production in excess of 500,000 Limited, where he was responsible for all international of Banking at BZW and serving as a member of the boepd.
Over the course of his wide-ranging career at equity and equity linked transactions together with central Barclays Group Credit Committee.
ENI, he was instrumental in establishing and building corporate broking and Nomad responsibilities.
ENIs presence in Congo, and played an active role in increasing ENIs position in Nigeria and Gabon as 6.
Mr John St. John Regional VP for Africa.
Non-Executive Director John St. John was appointed to the Board of Afren Mr Sganzerla was also active in leading the groups in November 2006.
He was formerly Global Head M&A activities, including the acquisition of Lasmo plc of Equity Capital Markets at Dresdner Kleinwort, and British Borneo.
Commerzbank and Lehman Brothers and European Head of Equity Capital Markets at Citigroup, formerly Salomon Brothers.
He was also until recently the Chairman of Equity Capital Markets at Nomura International plc.
John is a founding Partner of STJ Advisers.
He has acted as an adviser on over $100 billion of equity and equity-linked issuance in all major markets worldwide.
Mr iain wright 1 Associate Director With over 25 years in the industry, Mr Wright has extensive international geosciences experience and has served in both development and exploration geology roles.
He has held senior positions with Randall & Dewey, Baker Hughes, Qatar Petroleum, Conoco UK and Anadrill Schlumberger.
Mr Wright received a BSc Hons from the City of London Polytechnic and is a Certified Petroleum Geologist CPG with the AAPG, a fellow with the Geological Society, the SPE and PESGB.
Mr Galib virani Associate Director 2 Mr Virani joined the Company in 2005 following a career in the City of London in Corporate Finance and Mergers & Acquisitions.
Mr Virani has played a key role in the Companys financing, in diversifying the shareholder base and to the overall growth of the Companys portfolio of assets.
Mr Virani is an East African national and a member of the JSE Africa Board Advisory Committee.
He is a Fellow of the Securities Institute, and has a Master of Finance & Investment with Distinction and a Master of Philosophy in Emerging Market Finance.
For more information see our website: www.
com Af Afr re en n plc plc 61 61 A An nnu nua al R l Re ep po or rt a t an nd A d Ac cc co ou un nt ts 2 s 20 01 10 0
