Directors Report The Directors submit their Annual Report on the affairs of the Group together with the financial statements and audit report of Afren plc for the year ended 31December2010.
PRinciPal acTiviTiEs The principal activities of the Group are oil and gas exploration, development and production in Africa.
The subsidiary and associated undertakings principally affecting the profits or net assets of the Group in the year are listed in notes 14 and 15 to the consolidated financial statements.
BusinEss REviEw and cORPORaTE gOvERnancE sTaTEmEnT The Company is required by the Companies Act to set out in this report a fair review of the business of the Group during the financial year ended 31 December 2010 andof the position of the Group at the end of the year and a description of the principal risks and uncertainties facing the Group business review.
The information that fulfils the requirements can be found within the Chairman and Chief Executives Statement, the Review of Operations and the Financial Review, which are incorporated into this report by reference.
These sections also include details of expected future developments in the business of the Group and details of Key Performance Indicators that management use.
The Corporate Governance Statement on pages 69 to 74 forms part of this Directors Report.
Information about the use of financial instruments by the company and its subsidiaries is given in note 21 to the financial statements.
Details of significant events since the balance sheet date are contained in note 34 to the financial statements.
gOing cOncERn The Groups business activities, together with the factors likely to affect its future development, performance and position are set out in the Review of Operations.
Thefinancial position of the Group at the year end, its cash flows, liquidity position and borrowing facilities are described in the Financial Review.
In addition note 21 to the financial statements includes the Groups objectives, policies and processes for managing its capital, its financial risk management objectives and details of its financial instruments and hedging activities: and note 3 describes its exposures to credit risk and liquidity risk.
Following the successful bond issue in January 2011, the company has considerable financial resources.
As a consequence, the Directors believe that the company iswell placed to manage its business risks successfully despite the uncertain economic conditions that remain.
The Directors have a reasonable expectation that the Company and Group have adequate resources to continue in operational existence for the foreseeable future.
Thusthey continue to adopt the going concern basis of accounting in preparing the annual financial statements.
REsulTs and dividEnds The Groups profit for the year was US$45.9 million 2009: US$16.8 million loss.
The Directors have not recommended the payment of a dividend 2009: US$nil.
ThE diREcTORs and ThEiR inTEREsTs The Directors who served during the year and subsequently, together with their and their families beneficial interests in shares in the Company, were asfollows: Committees Ordinary shares of 0.01 each At 25 At 31 At 31 Audit March December December Name and Risk Nomination Remuneration 2011 2010 2009 Egbert Imomoh Chairman 3,672,246 3,672,246 3,672,246 Osman Shahenshah Chief Executive 4,181,515 4,181,515 4,181,515 i 1,295,676 1,295,676 1,295,676 Constantine Ogunbiyi Director 3,268,961 3,268,961 3,081,461 Shahid Ullah Chief Operating Officer ii Darra Comyn Group Finance Director Peter Bingham Non-Executive Director Toby Hayward Senior Non-Executive Director 205,000 205,000 205,000 Ennio Sganzerla Non-Executive Director 24,000 24,000 24,000 John St. John Non-Executive Director 50,922 50,922 50,922 Or resignation, if earlier i Stepped down 04 January 2011 Or on appointment, if later ii Appointed 24 March 2010 Chairman of Committee Details of the Directors share options are provided in the Directors Remuneration Report.
66 Afren plc Annual Report and Accounts 2010 Governance suPPliER PaymEnT POlicy The Companys policy, which is also applied by the Group, is to settle terms of payment with suppliers when agreeing the terms of each transaction, ensure that suppliers are made aware of the terms of the payment and abide by the terms of the payment.
Trade creditors of the Group at 31 December 2010 were equivalent to30days purchases 2009: 34 days, based on the actual year end balance.
chaRiTaBlE and POliTical dOnaTiOns During the year the Group made charitable donations of US$581,665, the majority of which related to African-focused charities and institutions 2009: US$133,863.
No political donations were made in either 2010 or 2009. caPiTal sTRucTuRE Details of the authorised and issued share capital, together with details of the movements in the Companys issued share capital during the year are shown in note27.
The Company has one class of ordinary shares which carry no right to fixed income.
Each share carries the right to one vote at general meetings of the Company.
Theordinary shares reflect 100% of the total issued nominal value of all share capital.
There are no specific restrictions on the size of a holding nor on the transfer of shares, which are both governed by the general provisions of the Articles of Association and prevailing legislation.
The Directors are not aware of any agreements between holders of the Companys shares that may result in restrictions on the transfer ofsecurities or on voting rights.
Details of employee share schemes are set out in note 30.
No person has any special rights of control over the Companys share capital and all issued shares are fully paid.
Details of significant shareholdings are set out below.
With regard to the appointment and replacement of Directors, the Company is governed by its Articles of Association, the Combined Code, the Companies Acts and related legislation.
The Articles themselves may be amended by special resolution of the shareholders.
The powers of Directors are described in the Main Board Terms ofReference, copies of which are available on request, and the Corporate Governance Statement on page 69-74.
The Company currently has authority to make market purchases within the meaning of section 693 4 of the Companies Act 2006 of ordinary shares of the Company up to a maximum number of ordinary shares of 89,040,503.
This authority shall expire on 6th June 2011.
In respect of the Companys assets in Ghana, Block 10A in Kenya, the Seychelles and Ethiopia our partners may have a right of first refusal to acquire the Companys interest if a competitor directly or indirectly took control of the Company.
In relation to the Ebok asset, our partner Oriental would have a similar right of first refusal toacquire our interest upon a direct or indirect change of control.
In addition, under the terms on which the Senior Secured Notes of US$500 million, upon a change of control each holder of the notes has the right to require Afren to repurchase all or any part of its holding.
There are a number of agreements that take effect, alter or terminate upon a change of control of the company such as commercial contracts, bank loan agreements, property lease arrangements and employees share plans.
None of these is considered to be significant in terms of their likely impact on the business of the Group asawhole.
Furthermore, the Directors are not aware of any agreements between the company and its directors or employees that provide for compensation for loss of office or employment that occurs because of a takeover bid.
suBsTanTial shaREhOldings As of 29 March 2011 being the latest practicable date prior to publication of the Annual Report, interests notified to the Company in accordance with Chapter 5 ofthe Disclosure and Transparency Rules comprised: % AXA SA 9.98 Vidacos Nominees 8.18 JPMorgan Asset Management Holdings Inc 5.00 BlackRock Inc 4.98 HSBC Client Holdings UK Limited 4.93 GLG Partners LP 4.88 Investec Asset Management Limited 4.50 Percentages are based on the issued share capital at the date of notification.
acquisiTiOn Of ThE cOmPanys Own shaREs At the end of the year, the Directors had authority, under the shareholders resolutions of 29 April 2010, to purchase through the market 89,040,503 of the Companys ordinary shares at prices ranging between one penny and be the higher of i the amount equal to 105% of the average of the closing middle market quotations for an ordinary share as derived from the London Stock Exchange Daily Official List for the five business days immediately preceding the day on which the ordinary share is purchased and ii the amount stipulated by article 5 1 of the Buy-back and Stabilisation Regulations 2003 in each case exclusive ofexpenses : pershare.
This authority expires on 6 June 2011.
Afren plc 67 Annual Report and Accounts 2010 Directors Report continued audiTORs Each of the persons who is a Director at the date of approval of this Annual Report confirms that: so far as the Director is aware, there is no relevant audit information of which the Companys auditors are unaware: and the Director has taken all the steps that he ought to have taken as a Director in order to make himself aware of any relevant audit information and to establish thatthe Companys auditors are aware of that information.
This confirmation is given and should be interpreted in accordance with the provisions of section 418 of the Companies Act 2006.
Deloitte LLP have expressed their willingness to continue in office as auditors and a resolution toreappointment them will be proposed at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting.
annual gEnERal mEETing At the Annual General Meeting of the Company, resolutions will be proposed to receive these accounts and the Directors and auditors reports and to re-elect theDirectors who are retiring at the Annual General Meeting, in accordance with the Companys Articles of Association.
Resolutions to reappoint Deloitte LLP astheCompanys auditors, to authorise the Directors to fix Deloitte LLPs remuneration as auditors, to authorise the amendment and implementation of revised rules ofthe Companys employee share incentive plans, to authorise the establishment and operation of an employee benefit trust for the benefit of employees, to operate in conjunction with the Companys employee share incentive plans, to grant the Directors authority to allot ordinary shares, to buy back the Companys ordinary shares and to allow a general meeting to be held onnot less than 14 days notice will also be proposed.
For a more detailed explanation of these and other amendments, please refer to the Notes on Resolutions set out in the Notice of Annual General Meeting.
A copy of the draft trust Deed for establishing the employee benefit trust and the proposed rules of the Companys employee share incentive plans, that reflect these amendments will be available for inspection during normal business hours Saturdays, Sundays and public holidays excepted at the registered office of the Company Kinnaird House, 1 Pall Mall East, London SW1Y 5AU and the offices of White & Case, 5 Old Broad Street, London EC2N 1DW up until the close of the meeting.
On behalf of the Board Osman shahenshah Chief Executive 29 March 2011 68 Afren plc Annual Report and Accounts 2010
