History and Development Directors report other CSR plc is the holding company of an international group of companies the principal activities of which are the design information and supply of integrated circuits or silicon chips for wireless connectivity.
CSR is domiciled in England and Wales and its registered office and principal place of business is at Churchill House, Cambridge Business Park, Cowley Road, Cambridge CB4 0WZ and its telephone number is 44 0 1223 692000.
CSR was established in Cambridge in April 1999 by an engineering and marketing team that previously worked at Cambridge Consultants Limited, a technology and consulting firm based in Cambridge that transferred certain assets, including the assignment and license on a non-exclusive royalty free basis of intellectual property rights, to CSR in exchange for ordinary shares.
CSR plc the holding company was incorporated and registered in England and Wales on 26 March 2001 with the name Cambridge Silicon Radio Holdings Limited registered number 04187346, as a private company limited by shares under the Companies Act 1985.
On 10 July 2001, CSR was re-registered as a public company limited by shares with the name Cambridge Silicon Radio Holdings plc: on 25 October 2002, CSR was re-registered as a private company limited by shares with the name Cambridge Silicon Radio Holdings Limited: and on 19 February 2004, it was re-registered as a public company limited by shares with the name CSR plc.
CSR ordinary shares were admitted to the Official List of the U. K. Listing Authority and to trading on the main market of the London Stock Exchange in March 2004 and CSR is a constituent of the FTSE 250 Index.
Beginning in 2005, we have sought to broaden our technological base and product range through a series of acquisitions, as follows: In March 2005, we acquired Clarity Technologies, Inc. for $17.1 million, in cash.
Corporate In August 2005, we acquired the software business of UbiNetics VPT Limited for $48 million in cash.
In May 2008, as a result of an operational strategy assessment we decided to cease our ongoing investment in the and share UbiNetics protocol software development program, which had been acquired with the software business of UbiNetics in August 2005. information In January 2007, we acquired NordNav Technologies AB for an initial consideration of $40 million, in cash.
In 2008, we paid a further consideration of $17.5 million in cash: and up to an additional $17.5 million in cash may be payable subject to achievement of specified milestones.
Through this acquisition, we acquired early-stage GPS technology and intellectual property to develop a software-based GPS solution.
In January 2007, we also acquired Cambridge Positioning Systems Limited for $35 million in cash.
Through this acquisition, we acquired specialised location system technology to address solutions when GPS signals may be unavailable e. g. indoors.
In June 2009, we merged with SiRF, for a consideration of $136 million satisfied by the issue of shares in CSR plc to holders of SiRF Common Stock, as at 26 June 2009, at a ratio of 0.741 of a CSR ordinary share for each SiRF Share.
Through the merger, we acquired a leader in semiconductor-based GPS location platforms with strong hardware, software and system capabilities, as a further step towards building on our leading position in the Connectivity Centre.
In July 2010, we acquired APT Licensing Limited, a leading ultra-high quality codec developer, for an initial consideration of $4.25 million with a further $3 million consideration contingent on fulfillment of milestones.
Through this acquisition, we acquired technical capability in audio codecs to further strengthen our presence in mobile and wireless audio streaming.
Sales and Marketing CSRs sales and marketing function is centered in Cambridge with sales liaison offices in Dallas and Detroit, United States: Taipei, Taiwan: Seoul and Gumi, South Korea: Tokyo, Japan: and Shanghai and Shenzhen, China.
CSR markets to OEMs and ODMs, principally through its direct sales force and, in North America, through sales representatives.
CSR also markets its products through a global network of distributors.
CSRs marketing efforts are supported by a team of applications engineers who provide technical support and assistance to existing and potential customers in designing, testing and qualifying systems that incorporate its products.
This support is generally provided without charge to customers who have the potential to purchase large volumes of products.
An important part of CSRs marketing effort involves providing technical support to product developers to encourage them to design products using CSRs chips.
For this purpose, CSR provides a range of development kits and tools.
For a discussion of CSRs revenue by product segment, see Business and Financial Review Financial Performance Segment Analysis of this annual report.
For a discussion of CSRs revenues by geographic area, see Business and Financial Review Financial Performance Geographical Analysis of this annual report.
Manufacturing and Assembly CSR is a fabless semiconductor company.
Because CSR uses independent fabrication facilities to manufacture its products, we subcontract wafer fabrication, assembly and test to Taiwan Semiconductor Manufacturing Company, or TSMC, in Taiwan, IBM in the United States, Samsung in South Korea, STMicroelectronics in Italy and France, Advanced Semiconductor Engineering, or ASE, in Taiwan, STATS ChipPAC Limited and STATS in Korea and CSR plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2010 Corporate and share information continued Directors report Malaysia and also Global Uni Chip, a design foundary, to provide turnkey solutions for our system on chip, or SoC products.
We do other not have any long-term contracts with any of these third parties, and thus have no assurance as to their long-term availability or cost.
information Prior to the acquisition of SiRF, all wafer fabrication, test, assembly and packaging was subcontracted to TSMC and ASE.
As part of the integration of SiRF following the acquisition in June 2009, we added additional partners to our supply chain who had previously supported SiRF in order to enable the enlarged portfolio of products to be supplied to our customers.
Through all these subcontractors we work to ensure that the Group is able to maintain sufficient capacity to support the demand for our integrated circuits, which can be affected in the event of a loss of capacity at a supplier due to events affecting their business, or increased demand from our competitors which may mean we are unable to secure the volumes of products we require to meet customer demand.
Raw Materials CSR sources the manufacture of its silicon wafers, and sources the testing of wafers and packaging of its integrated circuits from various subcontractors named above, who have facilities spread across multiple locations, primarily in the Asia Pacific region.
CSR also purchases flash memory from a sole supplier, Microchip, and certain other passive components from other suppliers.
These passive components are standard components capable of being obtained through alternative sources, subject to the conduct of a product qualification process prior to adoption into manufacturing.
Seasonality CSR has historically experienced increased net revenue in its second and third quarters primarily due to seasonal demand related to the holiday season and end of calendar year spending patterns in corporate budgets.
Due to continued economic uncertainty and other factors, past historical patterns should not be considered a reliable indicator of CSRs future net revenue or financial performance and historical seasonal patterns may not recur.
Governmental Regulation CSR is not aware of any governmental regulations that would have a material effect on its business.
Intellectual Property Our success and ability to compete depends to a significant degree upon the protection of our proprietary technology.
As of 31 December 2010, we had 726 patents granted worldwide.
Of this total, CSR has 329 patents granted in the United States and 397 patents granted in other territories, with expiration dates ranging from 2015 to 2030, along with 287 pending patent applications in the United States and 524 pending patent applications in other territories.
We intend to continue to assess appropriate occasions for seeking patent protection for those aspects of our technology that we believe provides significant competitive advantage.
Although we file patents to protect our inventions, our revenue is not dependent on any particular patent.
We do not believe that the expiration or loss of a particular patent would materially harm our business.
CSRs Bluetooth products use the Bluetooth trademark, which is owned by the Bluetooth SIG, or special interest group, a trade association of which CSR is a member.
Any company incorporating Bluetooth wireless technology into products or services, or re-branding a product with Bluetooth technology, must become a member of the Bluetooth SIG.
The Bluetooth trademark is licensed on a worldwide, royalty-free, non-exclusive, non-transferable, personal basis for use by companies that are incorporating qualified Bluetooth wireless technology into their products.
CSR is a licensee of the Bluetooth trademark.
CSR plc Churchill House Cambridge Business Park Cowley Road Cambridge CB4 OWZ Registered in England and Wales 4187346 www.
com Advisors Auditors Deloitte LLP Corporate brokers JPMorgan Cazenove Limited, UBS Solicitors Slaughter and May Bank Lloyds TSB Bank plc Share Information at 1 March 2011 Shares outstanding 176, 917, 987 Trading Symbol CSR Country of Registration Great Britain Market London Stock Exchange SEDOL 3414738 Registrar Equiniti, Aspect House, Spencer Road, Lancing, West Sussex, BN99 6DA 130 131 Corporate and share information continued Directors report Capital Structure other information Number of % age of total Holding Shareholders shareholders 1 1,000 620 43.00 1,001 5,000 361 25.03 5,001 10,000 112 7.77 10,001 50,000 154 10.68 50,001 100,000 55 3.81 100,001 250,000 46 3.19 Over 250,000 94 6.52 Total 1,442 100 Market Prices The primary trading market for CSR ordinary shares is the London Stock Exchange, where CSR ordinary shares trade under the ticker symbol CSR.
L. As of 31 December 2010, there were 177,808,312 CSR ordinary shares outstanding.
The following table shows the high and low market prices for CSR ordinary shares in pounds sterling for the five most recent full financial years, for each full financial quarter for the two most recent full financial years and for each month within the last six months: CSR Ordinary Shares pence Year High Low 2010 505.00 280.90 2009 508.00 157.25 2008 600.00 150.25 2007 905.00 548.00 2006 1,512.00 613.00 CSR Ordinary Shares pence Quarter High Low Fourth Quarter 2010 356.80 309.60 Third Quarter 2010 414.70 280.90 Second Quarter 2010 472.00 363.90 First Quarter 2010 505.00 417.40 Fourth Quarter 2009 485.70 368.80 Third Quarter 2009 508.00 347.75 Second Quarter 2009 389.75 234.00 First Quarter 2009 260.25 157.25 CSR Ordinary Shares pence Month High Low February 2011 447.00 380.50 January 2011 417.10 350.30 December 2010 356.80 317.00 November 2010 325.00 313.70 October 2010 347.40 309.60 September 2010 359.00 297.00 Commencing in September 2010, the company undertook a programme for the buy-back of its ordinary share.
This is explained in more detail on page 18 of the Business Review.
The table below summarises the shares acquired under the programme: Total Number of Shares Purchased as Maximum Number or Approximate Issuer Purchases of Part of Publicly Dollar Value of Shares or Units that Equity Securities Total Number of Average Price Paid Announced Plans or May Yet Be Purchased Under the Period Start date End date Shares Purchased per Share pence Programs Plans or Programs September 2010 16-Sep 30-Sep 3,020,000 349.0 not applicable not applicable October 2010 27-Oct 29-Oct 372,000 313.0 not applicable not applicable November 2010 1-Nov 29-Nov 3,223,000 320.4 not applicable not applicable December 2010 1-Dec 15-Dec 530,000 325.2 not applicable not applicable Exchange rates The following table sets out, for the periods and dates indicated, the period end, average, high and low exchanges rates for pounds sterling expressed in US dollars per 1.00.
CSR plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2010 Corporate and share information continued Directors report Year ended 31 December Average High Low other 2010 1.55 1.64 1.43 information 2009 1.57 1.70 1.38 2008 1.85 2.03 1.44 2007 2.00 2.11 1.92 2006 1.84 1.98 1.72 Month High Low February 2011 1.63 1.59 January 2011 1.60 1.55 December 2010 1.58 1.53 November 2010 1.62 1.55 October 2010 1.60 1.56 September 2010 1.58 1.53 Major Shareholders Information regarding our major shareholders is disclosed on page 67.
None of the holders of CSR ordinary shares has voting rights that differ from those of other shareholders.
As of 1 March 2011, there were 131 shareholders with a US address on the register of shareholders, representing approximately 0.17% of CSRs outstanding share capital.
Because many of our ordinary shares are held by brokers and nominees, the number of recorded shareholders in the US may not be representative of the number of US beneficial shareholders of our ordinary shares.
CSR is not directly or indirectly owned or controlled by any government, person or other legal entity.
There are no arrangements known to CSR that could result in a change of control of CSR.
Agent in the United States The Companys agent for service in the United States is National Registered Agents, Inc, 160 Greentree Drive, Suite 101, Dover, Delaware 19904.
Documents on Display We previously filed with the United States Securities and Exchange Commission, or the SEC, a registration statement on Form F-4 File No.
333-159615 and a related prospectus with respect to an offering of our ordinary shares in the United States.
Under the Exchange Act, we are required to file reports and other information with the SEC.
Copies of these reports and other information, when so filed, including documents referred to in this Annual Report, may be inspected without charge and may be obtained at prescribed rates at the public reference facilities maintained by the SEC at Judiciary Plaza, 100 F Street, N. E. Washington, D. C. 20549.
For further information regarding the operation of the public reference room and the copy charges, please call the SEC at 1-800-SEC-0330.
The SEC maintains a web site at http: www.
gov that contains reports, proxy and information statements, and other information regarding registrants that make electronic filings with the SEC using its EDGAR system.
As a foreign private issuer, we are exempt from the rules of the Exchange Act prescribing the furnishing and content of quarterly reports and proxy statements, and our executive officers, directors and principal shareholders are exempt from the reporting and short-swing profit recovery provisions contained in Section 16 of the Exchange Act.
This Annual Report is also available, free of charge, at www.
You may also obtain copies of this Report, free of charge, by mail.
Memorandum and Articles of Association The following summarises certain provisions of the Companys Memorandum and Articles of Association and applicable English law, as currently in effect.
This summary is qualified in its entirety by reference to the Companies Act 2006 and the Companys Memorandum and Articles of Association, copies of which can be obtained from Companies House in the United Kingdom or by writing to the Company Secretary.
Copies of the Companys Memorandum and Articles of Association, as currently in force, are available from the U. S. Securities and Exchange Commission website at www.
Objects and purposes CSR plc was incorporated and registered in England and Wales on 26 March, 2001 with the name Cambridge Silicon Radio Holdings Limited, as a private company limited by shares under the Companies Act 2006.
On 10 July, 2001, CSR was re-registered as a public company limited by shares with the name Cambridge Silicon Radio Holdings plc: on 25 October, 2002, CSR was re-registered as a private company limited by shares with the name Cambridge Silicon Radio Holdings Limited: and on 19 February, 2004, it was re-registered as a public company limited by shares with the name CSR plc registered number 04187346.
In accordance with the Companies Act 2006, the Companys objects are unrestricted, as set out in clause 4 of the Companys Memorandum of Association.
Directors The business of the Company is conducted under the supervision of the Board.
132 133 Corporate and share information continued Directors report Conflicts of interest other The Companies Act 2006 requires a director of a company who is in any way interested, directly or indirectly, in a contract or information proposed contract with the Company to declare the nature and extent of his interest to the other directors of the Company.
The Companies Act 2006 also requires that a director must avoid a situation where a director has, or could have, a direct or indirect interest that conflicts, or possibly may conflict, with the companys interests.
It allows directors of public companies to authorise such conflicts where appropriate, if a companys articles of association so permit.
CSRs Articles of Association provide that the Board may in specified circumstances authorise any matter that would otherwise involve a director breaching his duty under the Companies Act 2006 to avoid a conflict of interest.
They also provide that, subject to authorisation of such conflict, a director may retain any benefit derived by reason of that interest.
Director compensation The Board sets the Companys remuneration policy.
The Remuneration Committee determines on behalf of the Board, specific remuneration packages for each of the executive directors and for the Chairman.
Only non-executive directors serve on the Remuneration Committee and the members of the Remuneration Committee are independent of executive management.
The Remuneration Committee monitors and provides guidance on the level and structure of remuneration for senior management who report to the Chief Executive Officer.
The Board itself determines the remuneration of the non-executive directors.
No director may participate in discussions relating to his or her own terms and conditions of service or remuneration.
Borrowing powers The Board may exercise the Companys borrowing powers.
Save with the previous sanction of an ordinary resolution, such borrowing powers are restricted where the principal amount outstanding of all borrowings is equal to the greater of 300,000,000 and three times the Companys adjusted capital and reserves.
Retirement The Companys Articles of Association state that a director shall retire from office and may offer himself for re-appointment when he has been appointed since the last annual general meeting, held office in the preceding two annual general meetings and did not retire at either of them or has been in office for a continuous period of nine years or more at the date of the meeting.
The UK Corporate Governance Code requires all directors of FTSE 350 companies to be subject to annual election by shareholders.
Accordingly, all directors will be retiring at the AGM and offering themselves for re-election.
This is explained in further detail in the AGM notice which is a separate document issued to shareholders.
Director qualifying shares Directors of the Company are not required by the Memorandum or the Articles of Association to hold any shares in the Company.
Rights and restrictions attaching to the shares Dividend rights The shareholders may by ordinary resolution from time to time declare dividends not exceeding the amount recommended by the Board.
The Board may pay interim dividends, and also any fixed rate dividend, whenever the financial position of CSR, in the opinion of the Board, justifies its payment.
If the Board acts in good faith, it is not liable to holders of shares with preferred or similar rights for losses arising from the payment of interim or fixed dividends on other shares.
The Board may withhold payment of all or any part of any dividends or other moneys payable in respect of CSRs shares from a person with a 0.25% interest if such a person has been served with a restriction notice after failure to provide CSR with information concerning interests in those shares required to be provided under the Companies Act 2006.
The Board may, if authorised by an ordinary resolution, offer shareholders excluding any member holding shares as treasury shares in respect of any dividend the right to elect to receive shares by way of scrip dividend instead of cash.
Any dividend unclaimed after a period of 12 years from the date when it was declared or became due for payment must be forfeited and revert to CSR.
CSR may stop sending cheques, warrants or similar financial instruments in payment of dividends by post in respect of any shares or may cease to employ any other means of payment, including payment by means of a relevant system, for dividends if either i at least two consecutive payments have remained uncashed or are returned undelivered or that means of payment has failed or ii one payment remains uncashed or is returned undelivered or that means of payment has failed and reasonable inquiries have failed to establish any new postal address or account of the holder.
In addition, CSR must resume sending dividend cheques, warrants or similar financial instruments or employing that means of payment if the holder requests such resumption in writing.
Voting rights Members will be entitled to vote at a general meeting or class meeting whether on a show of hands or a poll.
Under the Companies Act 2006: a on a show of hands every member who is present in person is entitled to one vote regardless of the number of shares he or she holds.
Every proxy present who has been duly appointed by a shareholder entitled to vote on the resolution has one vote on a show of hands, unless the proxy is appointed by more than one shareholder in which case the proxy has one vote for and one vote against if the proxy has been instructed by one or more shareholders to vote for the resolution and by one or more shareholders to vote CSR plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2010 Corporate and share information continued Directors report against the resolution.
The Articles of Association provide that, where a proxy is given discretion as to how to vote on a show of other hands, this will be treated as an instruction by the relevant member to vote in the way that the proxy decides to exercise that information discretion: and b on a poll every member has one vote per share held by him and he may vote in person or by one or more proxies.
Where he appoints more than one proxy, the proxies appointed by him taken together shall not have more extensive voting rights than he could exercise in person.
The Articles of Association provide that resolutions put to a vote at a shareholders meeting will be decided on a show of hands, unless a poll is demanded by: a the chairman of the meeting: b not less than five members present in person or by proxy and entitled to vote: c a member or members present in person or by proxy and representing not less than one-tenth of the total voting rights of all the members having the right to vote at the meeting: or d a member or members present in person or by proxy and holding shares in CSR conferring a right to vote at the meeting being shares on which an aggregate sum has been paid up equal to not less than one-tenth of the total sum paid up on all the shares conferring that right.
A demand for a poll may be withdrawn with the consent of the chairman of the meeting at any time before the close of the meeting or the taking of the poll, whichever is the earlier.
A demand so withdrawn shall not invalidate the result of a show of hands declared before the demand was made.
Under English law, any shareholder entitled to attend and vote at a meeting is entitled to appoint a proxy to exercise all or any of his rights to attend, speak and vote at a meeting of the company.
Generally under English law, two shareholders present in person or by proxy constitute a quorum for the purpose of a general meeting, unless the companys articles of association specify otherwise.
The Articles of Association specify that two members present in person or by proxy and entitled to vote constitute a quorum for all purposes.
Under the Articles of Association, no member is entitled to vote at any general meeting or class meeting in respect to any share held by him if any call or other sum then payable by him in respect of that share remains unpaid or if a member has been served with a restriction notice after failure to provide CSR with information concerning interests in those shares required to be provided under the Companies Act 2006.
Rights to share in profits Other than the provisions outlined above in relation to dividends that have been declared and the provisions below in relation to rights on a liquidation of CSR, shareholders have no rights to share in the profits of CSR.
Pre-emptive rights Subject to the Companies Act 2006, any equity securities issued by CSR for cash must first be offered to CSR shareholders in proportion to their existing holdings of CSR ordinary shares.
The Companies Act 2006 and the listing rules made by the UK Listing Authority, or the listing rules, allow for the disapplication of pre-emption rights, which may be waived by a special resolution of CSR shareholders, either generally or specifically, for a maximum period not exceeding five years.
Liquidation rights The rights of shareholders to share in any surplus in the event of liquidation are not expressly dealt with in the Articles of Association.
Under English law, if CSR is wound up whether the liquidation is voluntary, under supervision of the Court or by the Court, the liquidator is under a duty to collect in and realise the assets of CSR and to distribute them to CSRs creditors and, if there is a surplus, to CSR shareholders according to their entitlements.
This applies whether the assets consist of property of one kind or of different kinds.
Redemption provisions Subject to the provisions of the Companies Act 2006 and the listing rules, CSR may purchase or contract to purchase any of its ordinary shares on or off-market.
CSR may only purchase its ordinary shares out of distributable reserves or the proceeds of a new issue of shares made for the purpose of funding the repurchase.
Sinking fund provisions CSR shares are not subject to any sinking fund provision under its Memorandum or Articles of Association or under English law.
Capital calls Shareholders have no liability for capital calls by the Company except with respect to the unpaid amount, if any, respecting their shares consisting of the nominal value of the shares and any premium which may be payable on those shares.
The directors can call on shareholders to pay such amounts that have not yet been paid to the Company for their shares.
Provisions applicable only to significant shareholders There are no provisions in the Memorandum or Articles of Association discriminating against a shareholder as a result of his or her ownership of a substantial number of shares.
Variation of rights The Articles of Association provide that the rights attached to any class of shares may be varied with the written consent of the holders of not less than three-fourths in nominal value of the issued shares of that class calculated excluding any shares held as treasury shares, or with the sanction of a special resolution passed at a separate general meeting of the holders of those shares.
At 134 135 Corporate and share information continued Directors report every such separate general meeting except an adjourned meeting the quorum must be two persons holding or representing by other proxy not less than one-third in nominal value of the issued shares of the class calculated excluding any shares held as treasury information shares.
The rights conferred upon the holders of any shares are not, unless otherwise expressly provided in the rights attaching to those shares, deemed to be varied by the creation or issue of further shares ranking equally with them.
General meetings The Articles of Association rely on the Companies Act 2006 provisions dealing with the calling of general meetings.
An annual general meeting of shareholders must be held once in every year within a period of six months beginning with the day following CSRs accounting reference date.
CSRs Board may convene a general meeting of shareholders whenever they think fit or where they are requisitioned to do so by CSR shareholders in accordance with the Companies Act 2006.
General meetings may be held at such time and place as may be determined by CSRs Board.
An annual general meeting must be convened on at least 21 days written notice to shareholders entitled to receive notices.
General meetings must be convened on at least 21 days written notice unless the requisite majority of shareholders has agreed to short notice.
Two shareholders must be present in person or by proxy and entitled to vote to constitute a quorum for all purposes at general meetings of CSR.
Limitation on voting rights Persons who are neither residents in the UK nor UK nationals may freely hold, vote and transfer shares in the same manner as UK residents or nationals.
Any member whose registered address is not within the UK can give the Company a postal address within the UK at which notices may be served on him.
Otherwise, a member whose registered address is not within the UK is not entitled to receive any notice from the Company.
Change of control The Company can issue additional shares with any rights or restrictions attached to them as long as not restricted by any rights attached to existing shares.
These rights or restrictions can be decided by the directors so long as there is no conflict with any resolution passed by the shareholders.
The ability of the directors to issue shares with rights or restrictions that are different than those attached to the currently outstanding ordinary shares could have the effect of delaying, deferring or preventing change of control of the Company.
Disclosure of interests in shares The UK Financial Services Authority and Disclosure and Transparency Rules impose an obligation upon a person who acquires or ceases to have notifiable interest in the relevant share capital of a public company to notify the company of that fact within two days excluding weekends and bank holidays of his or her knowing of its occurrence.
In addition, the Companies Act 2006 provides that a public company may, by notice in writing, require a person whom the company knows or reasonably believes to be or to have been within the three preceding years, interested in the companys issued voting share capital to 1 confirm whether this is or is not the case, and 2 if this is the case, to give further information that the company requires relating to his interest or any other interest in the companys shares of which he is aware.
The Articles of Association provide that if the holder of any shares or a person who appears to be interested in those shares, fails to comply within the relevant period with any statutory notice in respect of those shares, or makes a statement in response to the notice which is false or inadequate in a material particular, CSR may restrict the rights relating to the identified shares, following a restriction notice.
The restriction notice will state that the identified shares no longer give the shareholder any right to attend or vote either personally or by proxy at a shareholders meeting or to exercise any right in relation to the shareholders meetings.
Where the identified shares make up 0.25% or more in amount or in number of the existing shares of a class at the date of delivery of the restriction notice, the restriction notice can also contain the following further restrictions: i the Board can withhold any dividend or part of a dividend or other money otherwise payable in respect of the identified shares without any right to the holder to receive any shares in lieu of dividend: and ii the Board can refuse to register a transfer of any of the identified shares which are certificated shares unless the Board is satisfied that they have been sold outright to an independent third party.
Once a restriction notice has been given, the Board is free to cancel it or exclude any shares from it at any time they think fit.
In addition, it must cancel the restriction notice within seven days of being satisfied that all information requested in the statutory notice has been given.
Also, where any of the identified shares are sold and the Directors are satisfied that they were sold outright to an independent third party, they must cancel the restriction notice within seven days of receipt of the notification of the sale.
The Articles of Association do not restrict in any way the provision of the legislation which apply to failures to comply with notices under the legislation.
The UK City Code on Takeovers and Mergers imposes rigorous disclosure requirements affecting parties to a proposed takeover, their associates and persons acting in concert in relation to the shares of a company.
These requirements also extend to dealings by persons who directly or indirectly own or control either before or as a result of the dealing 1% or more of the equity shares in an offeror or offeree company or of any other class of shares relevant to the offer in question.
Rule 13d-1 of the U. S. Securities Exchange Act of 1934 requires that a person or group acquiring beneficial ownership of more than 5% of equity securities registered under that Act discloses such information to the SEC within 10 days after the acquisition.
CSR is required by the listing rules of the UK Listing Authority to disclose in its annual report the identity and share interests of its directors and any persons connected with them, as defined in the Companies Act 2006, and of any person with an interest of 3% or more of its CSR ordinary shares.
CSR plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2010 Corporate and share information continued Directors report Persons discharging managerial responsibilities PDMRs primarily directors and some senior executives, and their connected other persons, must notify a public company such as CSR in writing of the occurrence of all transactions conducted on their own account information in the shares of the company, or derivatives or any other financial instruments relating to those shares within four business days of the day on which the transaction occurred.
The notification must contain specified information, including the name of the person involved, the type of transaction, the date on which it occurred, and the price and volume of the transaction.
The public company must notify a regulatory news service which will make the information public of any information notified to it in accordance with these provisions.
The notification to a regulatory news service must be made as soon as possible, and in any event by no later than the end of the business day following the receipt of the information by the company.
The Board has recently reassessed which members of the Companys executive should be regarded as PDMRs for the purposes of the Disclosure and Transparency Rules.
In light of developments in the business and reflecting existing roles and responsibilities, with effect from 1 January 2011, we regard as PDMRs, in addition to the directors, all those who report to the CEO with executive responsibility for each of our three business units, and the General Counsel.
Differences from law in host country With respect to the items described above, applicable UK law is not significantly different from applicable U. S. law.
Changes in share capital CSR may by ordinary resolution increase, consolidate, or consolidate and then subdivide its shares or any of them.
Subject to the Companies Act 2006, CSR, by resolution, may determine that, as between shares resulting from a subdivision, any of them may have a preference or advantage, or may be subject to restrictions as compared with the others.
CSR may, by special resolution, reduce its share capital, share premium account, capital redemption reserve or any other undistributable reserve.
Material contracts Excluding contracts entered into in the ordinary course of business, no contracts have been entered into in the two years preceding the date of this document by CSR or any other member of the Group that are considered material to its results or operations, other than the merger agreement with SiRF.
On 9 February 2009, CSR entered into an agreement and plan of merger with SiRF Technology Holdings, Inc. pursuant to which a subsidiary of CSR was merged with and into SiRF, with SiRF as the surviving corporation.
Under the merger agreement, CSR issued ordinary shares to SiRF shareholders with a total value of $281.5 million as of the date the acquisition was completed on 26 June 2009.
This transaction is discussed further in the section entitled Business and Financial Review on page 5.
Exchange Controls There are currently no foreign exchange control restrictions on CSRs ability to pay dividends on its ordinary shares or on the conduct of its operations imposed by English law.
There are currently no limitations on the right of non-residents or foreign owners to hold or vote CSR ordinary shares imposed by English law or CSRs Articles of Association.
Taxation US Holders US federal income tax matters The following general discussion describes the material US federal income tax consequences of the ownership of ordinary shares that are generally applicable to US holders as defined below.
However, this discussion does not address all aspects of taxation that may be relevant to particular US holders in light of their personal investment or tax circumstances or to persons that are subject to special tax rules.
In addition, this discussion does not address the tax treatment of special classes of US holders, such as banks, insurance companies, tax-exempt entities, financial institutions, broker-dealers, persons holding ordinary shares as part of a hedging or conversion transaction or as part of a straddle, US expatriates, persons subject to the alternative minimum tax, and non-US holders.
This discussion may not be applicable to holders who acquired ordinary shares pursuant to the exercise of options or warrants or otherwise as compensation.
Furthermore, this discussion of US federal income tax matters does not give a detailed discussion of any state or local tax considerations or tax considerations with respect to any non-US jurisdiction.
We urge you to consult your own tax advisor as to the specific tax consequences of the ownership of ordinary shares, including the applicable US federal, state, local and foreign tax consequences to you of the ownership of ordinary shares.
As used in this discussion of US federal income tax consequences, a US holder means a holder of ordinary shares who or that holds such stock as a capital asset within the meaning of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended, or the Internal Revenue Code, and is for US federal income tax purposes i a citizen or resident of the United States, ii a corporation or other entity taxable as a corporation organised under the laws of the United States, any State thereof or the District of Columbia, iii a trust if a court within the United States is able to exercise primary jurisdiction over its administration and one or more US persons have authority to control all substantial decisions of the trust, or iv any person that is subject to US federal income tax on its worldwide income.
As used herein, a non-US holder refers to any holder of ordinary shares other than a partnership who is not a US holder.
This discussion is based on the Internal Revenue Code, applicable Department of Treasury regulations, judicial authority, and administrative rulings and practice, all as of the date of this annual report.
This discussion is not binding on the US Internal Revenue Service, or the IRS, or the courts.
Future legislative, judicial, or administrative changes or interpretations, which may or may not be retroactive, may adversely affect the accuracy of this discussion.
Passive Foreign Investment Company Rules Special US federal income tax rules apply to US holders owning stock of a passive foreign investment company, or PFIC.
A foreign corporation generally will be considered a PFIC for any taxable year in which i 75% or more of its gross income is passive income, or ii 50% or more of the average value of its assets are considered passive assets generally, assets that generate passive 136 137 Corporate and share information continued Directors report income.
Based upon an analysis of CSRs holdings during the taxable year ended 31 December 2010 of cash and liquid assets other such as bank deposits and marketable securities all of which are passive assets for these purposes and CSRs share price for information such period which affects the valuation of certain assets, including goodwill, CSR believes that it did not qualify as a PFIC for its taxable year ended 31 December, 2010.
Moreover, based on current projections of CSRs passive assets and expected share price, CSR believes that it will not qualify as a PFIC for its taxable year ending 30 December 2011.
However, the determination of whether a company is a PFIC is highly factual, and will depend, among other things, upon CSRs actual holdings of passive assets and share price during such period.
Given CSRs significant holdings of passive assets such as cash and marketable securities, if CSRs share price were to decline for an extended time to levels comparable to its low point during August 2010, it is possible that CSR would be treated as a PFIC in a future taxable year.
CSR will continue to monitor whether it qualifies as a PFIC, and will notify US holders of ordinary shares if it determines that it is a PFIC for a given taxable year.
If CSR were classified as a PFIC for any taxable year during which US holders hold ordinary shares, US holders would be subject to special, adverse rules unless, as described below, they make either a QEF election or a mark-to-market election with respect to their ordinary shares.
Absent such elections, US holders gain from the sale or other disposition of ordinary shares and excess distributions received from CSR would be ordinary income.
Such income would be taxed as if the gain or excess distribution had been realised ratably over the US holders holding period and would be increased by an interest charge with respect to underpayments of tax as if the ratable portion of the gain or excess distribution with respect to a given prior taxable year had been subject to tax in such year.
An excess distribution generally would be any distribution to a US holder with respect to ordinary shares during a single taxable year that is greater than 125% of the average annual distributions received by such US holder with respect to ordinary shares during the three preceding taxable years or, if shorter, during his or her holding period with respect to the ordinary shares.
For these purposes, gifts, exchanges pursuant to corporate reorganisations, and pledges of ordinary shares for use as a security for a loan may be treated as taxable dispositions.
US holders who make neither a mark-to-market election nor a QEF election will be required to file an IRS Form 8621 if they own ordinary shares in any year in which CSR is a PFIC and they receive a distribution from CSR or dispose of their CSR shares and will also be required to file this form to make certain elections with respect to their CSR shares.
In addition, under recently enacted legislation, each US shareholder of a PFIC is required to file such annual information as is specified by the US Treasury Department, which has not yet enacted regulations or other authority specifying what information must be filed.
Mark-to-Market Election If ordinary shares are considered to be traded on a qualified exchange or other market, US holders would not be subject to the foregoing PFIC taxation rules if they make a mark-to-market election with respect to their ordinary shares.
Although the determination of whether shares are traded on a qualified exchange or other market is factual and there is no specific authority that designates certain non-US exchanges as qualified exchanges, CSR expects that US holders of ordinary shares will be able to make this election because CSRs shares are currently traded on the London Stock Exchange.
However, no assurance can be provided in this regard.
After making such an election, US holders generally would include as ordinary income in each year during which the election is in effect and during which CSR is a PFIC the excess, if any, of the fair market value of ordinary shares at the end of the taxable year over their adjusted basis in such ordinary shares.
US holders also would be allowed to take an ordinary loss in respect of the excess, if any, of their adjusted basis in ordinary shares over their fair market value at the end of the taxable year but only to the extent of the net amount of income that was previously included as a result of the mark-to-market election.
US holders tax basis in ordinary shares would be adjusted to reflect any income or loss amounts resulting from a mark-to-market election.
If made, a mark-to-market election would be effective for the taxable year for which the election was made and for all subsequent taxable years in which CSR is a PFIC unless the ordinary shares were not considered to be traded on a qualified exchange or other market or the IRS consented to the revocation of the election.
For any year for which CSR is not a PFIC, the mark-to-market election is inoperative.
US holders make the mark-to-market election on IRS Form 8621, which must be filed along with their tax return for the taxable year for which the election is to take effect on or before the due date for such return including extensions.
US holders who decide to make the mark-to-market election are advised to make the election for the first taxable year for which CSR is a PFIC.
US holders must report income and loss with respect to the election for each year for which CSR is a PFIC on IRS Form 8621.
QEF Election The PFIC taxation rules outlined above also would not apply to US holders that elect to treat CSR as a qualified electing fund or QEF.
US holders that are eligible for and timely make a QEF election, would include in income each year for which CSR is a PFIC and would be subject to current US federal income tax on their pro rata share of CSRs ordinary earnings, as ordinary income, and net capital gains, as long-term capital gain, for the taxable year that ends with or within their taxable year, regardless of whether such amounts are actually distributed.
Any such ordinary income would not be eligible for the favorable rates applicable to qualified dividend income.
Corporate US holders would not be eligible for a dividends received deduction in respect of such income or gain.
US holders adjusted tax basis in ordinary shares would be increased to reflect taxed but undistributed earnings and profits.
Distributions of earnings and profits that had been previously taxed would result in a corresponding reduction in US holders adjusted tax basis in ordinary shares and would not be taxed again.
US holders would not, however, be entitled to a deduction for their pro rata share of any losses that CSR incurred with respect to any year.
US holders may only make a QEF election if CSR provides them with the information needed to determine CSRs ordinary earnings and net capital gains.
If it is a PFIC, CSR will provide US holders with the information that is necessary in order to make a QEF election and to report their shares of ordinary earnings and net capital gains for each year for which CSR is a PFIC.
CSR has had substantial taxable income in prior years, and may have taxable income in 2010 or any future year in which it is a PFIC.
As CSR historically has not made cash distributions with respect to its stock, US holders may be taxed on significant phantom income if they make a QEF election.
A US holder may make a separate election to defer the payment of taxes on undistributed income inclusions under the QEF rules, but any taxes deferred would be subject to an interest change.
For any year for which CSR is not a PFIC, the QEF election would be inoperative.
If US holders make a QEF election, they would generally recognise capital gain or loss on the sale, exchange or other disposition of ordinary shares.
The QEF election is made by each US holder, and can only be revoked with the consent of the IRS.
US holders make the QEF election on IRS Form 8621, which must be filed along with their tax return for CSR plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2010 Corporate and share information continued Directors report the first taxable year to which the election will apply on or before the due date for such return including extensions.
US holders who other decide to make the QEF election are advised to make the election for the first taxable year for which CSR is a PFIC.
A US holder also information must file Form 8621 with the IRS for each subsequent year that the election is in effect.
US holders cannot make both a mark-to-market election and a QEF election.
US holders are urged to consult their own tax advisors concerning the potential application of the PFIC rules to their ownership and disposition of ordinary shares, including the availability and advisability of making a mark-to-market or QEF election.
Taxation of Dividends Subject to the PFIC rules described above, for US federal income tax purposes, a US holder will generally include in gross income the amount of any dividend paid by CSR to the extent paid out of CSRs current and or accumulated earnings and profits, as determined for US federal income tax purposes, as ordinary income when the dividend is actually received by the US holder.
Individual US holders currently are taxed at a maximum rate of 15% on dividends received from qualified foreign corporations, provided the US holders satisfy certain holding period and other requirements.
In order to be treated as a qualified foreign corporation, CSR must be eligible for benefits of the United States income tax treaty with the United Kingdom.
Although CSR believes that it is currently eligible for such treaty benefits, there can be no assurance that this will be the case for any taxable year.
Further, individual US holders will not be eligible for the reduced rates of dividend taxation if CSR is a PFIC for the taxable year of the dividend payment or the preceding taxable year.
Corporate US holders will be taxed on dividends received from CSR at a 35% tax rate.
Dividends generally will be income from sources outside of the United States for foreign tax credit limitation purposes, and generally will not be eligible for the dividends-received deduction that is allowed to US corporations in respect of dividends received from other US corporations.
Distributions in excess of CSRs current and or accumulated earnings and profits, as determined for US federal income tax purposes, will be treated as a non-taxable return of capital to the extent of the US holders tax basis in the ordinary shares and thereafter as capital gain.
The amount of the dividend includible in the income of a US holder will be the US dollar value of the dividend determined at the spot rate on the date that dividend is includible in the income of the US holder, regardless of whether the payment is in fact converted into US dollars at such time.
A US holder will have a basis in any GBP distributed by CSR equal to the US dollar value of the GBP on the date it is actually or constructively received by the US holder.
Generally, any gain or loss resulting from currency exchange fluctuations during the period from the date the dividend payment is includible in income to the date that payment is converted into US dollars will be treated as ordinary income or loss.
Taxation of Capital Gains Subject to the PFIC rules described above, upon a sale or other disposition of ordinary shares, a US holder will generally recognise gain or loss for US federal income tax purposes in an amount equal to the difference between the US dollar value of the amount realised and the US holders tax basis, determined in US dollars, in the ordinary shares.
Gain or loss recognised will be long-term capital gain or loss with respect to ordinary shares held for more than 12 months at the time of the sale or other disposition and any gain recognised generally will be income from sources within the United States for foreign tax credit limitation purposes.
The deductibility of capital losses is subject to significant limitations.
Backup Withholding and Information Reporting In general, dividend payments with respect to ordinary shares and proceeds from the sale or other disposition of ordinary shares made or deemed made within the United States may be subject to information reporting to the IRS and US backup withholding currently at a rate of 28%.
Backup withholding will generally not apply to a holder who: furnishes a correct taxpayer identification number and certifies, under penalties of perjury, that such holder is not subject to backup withholding on a Form W-9, and otherwise complies with applicable requirements of the backup withholding rules: is a corporation or otherwise exempt from backup withholding and, when required, demonstrates this fact: or provides a certification of foreign status on Form W-8BEN or a successor form.
Backup withholding is not an additional tax.
Amounts withheld under the backup withholding rules will be allowed as a refund or credit against a holders US federal income tax liability, provided the holder furnished the required information to the IRS.
In addition, for taxable years beginning after 18 March 2010, new legislation requires certain US holders who are individuals that hold certain foreign financial assets which may include ordinary shares to report information relating to such assets, subject to certain exceptions.
US holders should consult their tax advisors regarding the effect, if any, of this legislation on their ownership and disposition of ordinary shares.
UK tax matters The following paragraphs summarise the material UK tax consequences for investors who are not resident in the UK for UK tax purposes including US investors who are not resident in the UK for UK tax purposes regarding ownership and disposal of CSR ordinary shares.
The following paragraphs, which are intended as a general guide only, are based on current UK tax legislation and what is understood to be HM Revenue & Customs the UK tax authority practice which are both subject to change at any time, possibly with retrospective effect.
They summarise certain limited aspects of the UK tax treatment of holders of CSR ordinary shares and apply only to the position of holders of CSR ordinary shares who for UK tax purposes are beneficial owners of their CSR ordinary shares, hold their CSR ordinary shares as an investment and not as assets to be realised in the course of a trade and are not 138 139 Corporate and share information continued Directors report treated as having acquired their CSR ordinary shares by reason of their or anothers employment.
The following paragraphs do not other apply to individuals or companies that hold, directly or indirectly, 10% or more of the voting power in CSR.
Holders of CSR ordinary information shares who are in any doubt as to their taxation position should consult an appropriate professional adviser immediately.
Taxation of Dividends Under current UK taxation legislation, no tax will be withheld by CSR from cash dividend payments.
Holders of CSR ordinary shares who are resident outside the UK will generally not receive any payment from HM Revenue & Customs in respect of any tax credit on dividends paid by CSR.
Holders of CSR ordinary shares who are not resident, or, in the case of individuals, ordinarily resident, in the UK and who do not carry on a trade, profession, or vocation in the UK through a branch, agency or permanent establishment in connection with which their CSR ordinary shares are held, used or acquired will not generally be liable to pay any UK tax in respect of any dividends received on their CSR ordinary shares.
Holders of CSR ordinary shares who are resident or, in the case of individuals, ordinarily resident, in the UK or who carry on a trade, profession or vocation in the UK through a branch, agency or permanent establishment in connection with which their CSR ordinary shares are held, used or acquired are encouraged to consult appropriate professional advisers.
In a change to previous policy, it is proposed that a dividend be paid in respect of the 52 weeks ended 31 December 2010 2009: nil.
The Board believes that an appropriate final dividend in respect of 2010 would be $0.065 0.04 per share, being 2 3 of a notional $0.098 0.06 per share full year dividend.
The dividend is payable following approval by the Companys shareholders at the AGM to be held in May 2011.
Taxation of Capital Gains A holder of CSR ordinary shares who is not resident, or, in the case of an individual, ordinarily resident, in the UK will not ordinarily be liable for UK tax on capital gains realised on the disposal of CSR ordinary shares, unless, at the time of the disposal, he or she carries on a trade, profession or vocation in the UK through a branch or agency in the case of an individual shareholder or a permanent establishment in the case of a corporate shareholder and those CSR ordinary shares are, or have been, used, held or acquired for the purposes of that trade, profession or vocation or branch or agency or permanent establishment as the case may be.
A holder of CSR ordinary shares who is an individual and who is temporarily resident outside the UK, may be liable on his return to the UK to taxation on chargeable gains arising during the period of absence, subject to any available exemption or relief.
Stamp Duty and Stamp Duty Reserve Tax No UK stamp duty or UK stamp duty reserve tax UK SDRT will generally be payable on the issue of CSR ordinary shares.
Subject to the paragraph below, where CSR ordinary shares are issued or transferred i to, or to a nominee or agent for, a person whose business is or includes the provision of clearance services a Clearance Service or ii to, or to a nominee or agent for, a person whose business is or includes issuing depositary receipts a Depositary Receipt System, UK stamp duty or UK SDRT will generally be payable at the rate of 1.5% of the consideration paid rounded up to the nearest multiple of 5 in the case of UK stamp duty.
The UK stamp duty or UK SDRT will generally be paid by the Clearance Service or the Depositary Receipt System, as the case may be, but will, in practice, generally be reimbursed.
A Clearance Service can elect under section 97A of the Finance Act 1986 Section 97A, provided certain conditions are satisfied, for the normal rate of UK stamp duty or UK SDRT generally no charge on issue and a charge at 0.5% of the amount or value of the consideration paid, rounded up to the nearest 5 in the case of UK stamp duty, on transfer to apply to issues or transfers of CSR ordinary shares into, and transactions within, such Clearance Service instead of the higher rate of 1.5% generally applying to an issue or transfer of CSR ordinary shares into the Clearance Service and the ability to transfer CSR ordinary shares while in the Clearance Service without there being UK stamp duty or UK SDRT.
Following a recent decision of the European Court of Justice, HM Revenue & Customs have announced that they will not seek to apply the 1.5% UK SDRT charge where new shares are first issued into an EU Clearance Service or an EU Depositary Receipt System.
In light of that announcement, it would seem that, in the view of HM Revenue & Customs, the 1.5% UK stamp duty or UK SDRT charge will continue to apply to the transfer of existing shares to Clearance Services or Depositary Receipt Systems, in each case whether or not in the EU and that the 1.5% UK SDRT charge will continue to apply to the issue of new shares to non-EU Clearance Services or non-EU Depositary Receipt Systems.
However, a charge to UK SDRT at 1.5% on the issue of new shares to a non-EU Clearance Service or a non-EU Depositary Receipt System is arguably not consistent with the aforementioned decision of the European Court of Justice.
No UK stamp duty or UK SDRT will generally be payable on the issue of CSR ordinary shares into CREST the London Stock Exchanges paperless trading system, but, subject to the paragraph above, UK SDRT will be payable to the extent that the CSR ordinary shares are issued to, or into the CREST account of, a Clearance Service or a nominee or agent for a Clearance Service which has not made an election in relation to the CSR ordinary shares under Section 97A or to, or into the CREST account of, a Depositary Receipt System or a nominee or agent for a Depositary Receipt System.
Subject to an exemption for certain low value transactions, the transfer on sale of CSR ordinary shares in certificated form, or a right to such shares, will generally give rise to a liability, usually met by the purchaser, to ad valorem UK stamp duty at the rate of 0.5% rounded up to the nearest multiple of 5 of the amount or value of the consideration paid.
An agreement to transfer such shares, or a right to such shares, which is or becomes unconditional will generally give rise to UK SDRT at the rate of 0.5% of the amount or value of the consideration paid, such UK SDRT generally being payable by the transferee or purchaser.
The liability to UK SDRT will generally be cancelled or any UK SDRT paid will be refunded if the agreement is completed by a duly stamped transfer within six years of either the date of the agreement or, if the agreement was conditional, the date when the agreement became unconditional.
A transfer of CSR ordinary shares on a paperless basis through CREST will generally be subject to UK SDRT at the rate of 0.5% of the amount or value of the consideration paid, which will be collected and accounted for to HM Revenue & Customs by CREST such UK SDRT generally being borne by the transferee or purchaser.
No UK stamp duty or UK SDRT will arise on a transfer of CSR ordinary shares into CREST provided that, in the case of UK SDRT, the transfer is not for money or moneys worth.
CSR plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2010 Corporate and share information continued Directors report Generally, a gift of CSR ordinary shares or a transfer of such shares from a nominee to the beneficial owner will give rise to neither other UK stamp duty nor UK SDRT.
information The above statements are intended only as a general guide to the current UK stamp duty and UK SDRT position.
Transfers to certain categories of person are not liable to UK stamp duty or UK SDRT and others may be liable at a higher rate.
Risks related to owning CSR ordinary shares The following risk factors have been identified in connection with a US investor holding ordinary shares in CSR plc.
As we do not currently intend to list our ordinary shares on any U. S. national securities exchange or create a sponsored ADR program, a U. S. trading market for our ordinary shares may not develop.
As we do not currently list our ordinary shares on any U. S. securities exchange, or have a sponsored American Depositary Receipt program for our ordinary shares a U. S. trading market for our ordinary shares may not develop.
Furthermore, it may be timeconsuming and expensive for U. S. holders of our ordinary shares to dispose of their ordinary shares.
We may decide in the future to terminate our reporting obligations under the Exchange Act.
We may decide to deregister the ordinary shares with the SEC and terminate our reporting obligations under the Exchange Act if we comply with the SEC requirements to effect such termination.
For example, because we have filed this Annual Report on Form 20-F with the SEC, following twelve months after the effective date of the registration statement on Form F-4 that we filed in June 2009, we will have the ability to terminate our registration under the Exchange Act if there are less than a certain number of resident U. S. holders of our ordinary shares or if the trading volume of such shares is below a certain level.
Were we to terminate our registration under the Exchange Act, we would no longer be subject to SEC reporting requirements for example, the requirement to file annual reports on Form 20-F and information regarding certain material events on Form 6-K and other obligations for example, those arising under the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 of an SEC reporting company.
We may be treated as a passive foreign investment company.
As a company domiciled outside of the United States with substantial cash assets, there is an ongoing risk that the Company may be treated as a passive foreign investment company often referred to as a PFIC for U. S. federal income tax purposes depending on the ratio of our share price which affects the valuation of certain assets including goodwill to our holdings of cash and liquid assets such as bank deposits and marketable securities.
S. corporation generally will be considered a PFIC for any taxable year in which 75% or more of its gross income is passive income, or 50% or more of the average value of its assets are considered passive assets generally, assets that generate passive income.
This determination is highly factual, and will depend upon, among other things, our market valuation and future financial performance.
We believe we were not a PFIC for the taxable year ended in December 2009, but if we were to be classified as a PFIC for any future taxable year, holders of CSR ordinary shares who are U. S. taxpayers would be subject to adverse U. S. federal income tax consequences.
Shareholders in countries other than the United Kingdom will suffer dilution if they are unable to participate in future pre-emptive equity offerings.
Under English law, shareholders usually have pre-emptive rights to subscribe on a pro rata basis in the issuance of new shares for cash.
The exercise of pre-emptive rights by certain shareholders not resident in the United Kingdom may be restricted by applicable law or practice in the United Kingdom and the United States.
In particular, the exercise of pre-emptive rights by U. S. shareholders would be prohibited unless the rights offering is registered under the Securities Act or an exemption from the registration requirements of the Securities Act applies.
If no exemption applies and we do not wish to register the rights offering, shareholders in the United States may not be able or permitted to exercise their pre-emptive rights.
We are also permitted under English law to disapply pre-emptive rights subject to the approval of our shareholders by special resolution and investor committee guidance on the limits of any such disapplication and thereby exclude certain shareholders, such as overseas shareholders, including in the United States, from participating in a rights offering usually to avoid a breach of local securities laws.
Your rights as a CSR shareholder will be governed by English law, which may differ from the laws of other jurisdictions.
Because CSR is a public limited company incorporated under the laws of England and Wales, your rights as a shareholder will be governed by English law and by CSRs Memorandum and Articles of Association.
These rights differ from the typical rights of shareholders in companies in other jurisdictions.
For further information with respect to our ordinary shares, see Memorandum and Articles of Association.
Shareholders in countries outside of the United Kingdom may have difficulty suing us or our directors, or in enforcing judgments obtained outside of the United Kingdom.
CSR is domiciled in the United Kingdom, and most of our directors are residents of the United Kingdom.
As a result, it may not be possible for shareholders in other countries to begin litigation against us or our directors, or to obtain discovery of relevant documents and or the testimony of witnesses.
Shareholders in other countries may have difficulties in enforcing judgments obtained outside of the United Kingdom.
The market value of our ordinary shares may be adversely affected by fluctuations in the exchange rate between the pound sterling and other currencies.
Fluctuations in the exchange rate between the pound sterling and other currencies will affect the market value of our ordinary shares when expressed in that other currency.
If the relative value of the pound sterling to another currency declines, the equivalent value against the pound sterling price of our ordinary shares traded on the London Stock Exchange will also decline.
Although our current policy is not to pay dividends, any dividends we may decide to pay in the future would be paid in pounds sterling, which would be subject to the same risks.
Shareholders outside the United Kingdom who sell their shares must do so on the London Stock Exchange against payment in pounds sterling.
As a result of any fluctuations in the exchange rate between the currency of choice of the shareholder and the pound sterling, non-U.
K. resident shareholders may receive a reduced value upon the sale of their ordinary shares and will also incur transaction costs when converting the pound sterling into another currency.
140 141 Corporate and share information continued Directors report The market price of our ordinary shares is volatile.
Our shareholders may be unable to resell their shares at or above the price at other which they acquired them.
information The stock market in general and our ordinary shares in particular have recently experienced significant price and volume volatility.
Our ordinary shares are subject to significant fluctuations due to many factors, including but not limited to fluctuations in operating results, announcements regarding new products, product enhancements or technological advances by us or our competitors, changes in earnings estimates by market analysts, and general market conditions or market conditions specific to particular industries.
Our share price is subject to speculation in the press and the analyst community, changes in recommendations by financial analysts, changes in investors or analysts valuation measures for our stock, changes in global financial markets and global economies and general market trends unrelated to our performance.
Technology stocks have experienced wide fluctuations in prices, which sometimes have been unrelated to their operating performance.
The market price of our ordinary shares could be adversely affected by these factors and fluctuations.
Property CSRs corporate headquarters is located on the Cambridge Business Park, Cambridge, Cambridgeshire, England, where it occupies approximately 51,000 square feet under a lease expiring in September 2014.
CSR also leases property in the following areas, which serve as its research and development, sales and customer support and administration offices: Location Sq.
feet Lease Expiration Purpose Churchill House, Cambridge, England 51,000 September 2014 R&D St Johns House, Cambridge, England 33,100 September 2016 Sales and administration Unit 400, Cambridge, England 24,100 September 2016 17,151 sq ft sublet Phoenix, Arizona, 85044 USA 26,300 September 2012 Engineering and product development Richardson, Texas 75080 USA 18,828 May 2011 Sales and administration San Jose, California, USA 48,000 November 30, 2013 Engineering and product development and sales Santa Ana, California, USA 12,643 December 2012 Engineering and product development Cedar Rapids, Iowa, USA 7,400 April 2013 Engineering and product development Stockholm, Sweden 5,167 September 2011 R&D and administration Bangalore, India 26,516 May 2012 R&D and administration 1 Noida, India 9,200 March 2014 Engineering and product development Shanghai, China 44,447 Aug 2012 Engineering and product development Chungli City, Taiwan 4,340 March 2011 Operations Sophia Antipolis, France 10,140 February 2017 R&D 1 We may terminate this lease upon six months notice.
CSR plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2010
