The directors submit this Annual Report and the audited consolidated financial statements of the Company and its Directors report subsidiaries for the 52 week period ended 31 December 2010.
Activities and business review CSR is a leading developer and provider of single chip wireless solutions designed to support data and voice communications between a wide range of products over short range radio links.
More detailed information on the principal activities of CSR plc and its subsidiaries, together with a review of the businesses and a description of the principal risks and uncertainties facing the Group along with other information that fulfils the requirements of the Business and Financial Review are set out on pages 5 to 33 and 34 to 41.
Some information required by applicable US securities laws is set out in the section entitled Corporate and Share Information.
The use of financial instruments is covered within the Directors Report Business and Financial Review.
Details of the subsidiaries and branches of the Company are set out in note 46 to the financial statements.
Financial results For a discussion of our financial results, please refer to the Directors Report Business and Financial Review on pages 5 to 33.
Our operating loss for 2010 was $6.3 million compared to a loss of $15.9 million in 2009 2008: loss of $8.5 million.
The underlying operating profit for 2010 increased to $79 million compared to $26.9 million in 2009 2008: underlying operating profit of $72.8 million.
Underlying operating profit is a non-GAAP measure: an explanation of our use of nonGAAP measures is given on page 10.
Revenue for the period to 31 December 2010 showed an increase of 33% to $800.6 million from $601.4 million for the 52 week period to 1 January 2010 and underlying diluted earnings per share were $0.43 up from $0.20 for the 52 week period to 31 December 2010.
Basic and diluted earnings per share were a Other profit of $0.09 for 2010, compared to basic and diluted loss per share of $0.07 for 2009. statutory As announced on 27 October 2010, in a change to previous policy, the Board will at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting, be proposing that a final dividend be paid in respect of the 52 weeks ended 31 December 2010 of 4 pence information per ordinary share 2009: nil.
Subject to shareholder approval, the dividend will be paid on 3 June 2011, to shareholders of record on 13 May 2011.
Future development It remains the Boards intention to develop the Group through organic growth and selective acquisition.
Directors of the Board The directors who served during the year are detailed on page 45 of the Directors Report Corporate Governance.
Change of control All of the Companys share schemes contain provisions relating to a change of control of the Company following a takeover.
Outstanding options and awards would, subject to satisfaction of applicable performance conditions and certain rules of the particular schemes, normally vest and become exercisable on a change of control subject to a pro-rata adjustment reflecting the time elapsed since the month in which the grant was made.
Share capital The Companys ordinary shares have a nominal value of 0.1p per share and are quoted on the London Stock Exchange.
The rights and obligations attaching to the Companys ordinary shares are set out in the Companys Articles of Association, copies of which can be obtained from Companies House in the UK or by writing to the Company Secretary.
On 13 September 2010, the Board announced a share buy-back programme of up to $50 million in light of the return on capital opportunity implied by the prevailing share price and the fact that the Company is significantly cash generative and has the financial flexibility both to act opportunistically for potential acquisitions that meet its strict investment criteria and to drive its organic development.
The last purchase prior to the end of the financial year was made on 15 December 2010.
As at that date 7,145,000 ordinary shares had been repurchased and 7,145,000 shares were held in treasury.
There are no restrictions on the voting rights attaching to the Companys ordinary shares.
No person holds securities in the Company carrying special rights with regard to control of the Company.
The Company is not aware of any agreements between holders of securities that may result in restrictions on the transfer of securities or on voting rights.
Unless expressly stated to the contrary in the Articles of Association of the Company, the Companys Articles of Association may be amended by special resolution of the Companys shareholders.
A summary of the Companys Articles of Association are set out on pages 132 to 137.
During the 52 weeks ended 31 December 2010, options were exercised pursuant to the Companys share schemes.
The number of shares allotted and the consideration received in respect of such allotments are detailed in note 35 of the Financial Statements.
ABI Guidelines relating to directors power to allot share capital and disapply pre-emption rights, are reflected in Resolution 17 the Section 551 Authority and Resolution 18 respectively, in the Notice of Meeting.
The directors propose Paragraph A of Resolution 17 in the Notice of Meeting to renew the authority granted at the 2010 Annual General Meeting to authorise the directors to allot equity or grant rights in respect of equity shares up to an aggregate nominal value of 58,660 representing approximately one-third of the ordinary shares issued as at the latest practicable date.
In accordance with ABI Guidelines, the directors also propose Paragraph B of Resolution 17 in the Notice of Meeting to renew the authority granted at the 2010 Annual General Meeting to authorise the directors to allot or grant rights in respect of equity shares representing two-thirds of the Companys issued share capital as at the latest practicable date 64 65 Other statutory information continued Directors report as reduced by the nominal amount of any allotment or grant made under paragraph A of Resolution 17 in the case of a compensatory rights issue.
This authority, if renewed, will represent in total an aggregate nominal value of 117,320.
This Section 551 Authority, if approved, will expire at the conclusion of the Annual General Meeting to be held in 2012 or 18 August 2012, whichever is the earlier.
The limited power granted to the directors at the 2010 Annual General Meeting to allot equity shares for cash other than pro-rata to existing shareholders expires on the conclusion of this years Annual General Meeting to be held on 18 May 2011.
Subject to renewal of the Section 551 Authority, the directors recommend Resolution 18 in the Notice of Meeting that this authority also be renewed so as to give the directors the ability until the earlier of 18 August 2012, or the conclusion of the Annual General Meeting to be held in 2012 to issue equity shares for cash other than pro-rata to existing shareholders, in connection with a rights issue or up to a limit of 5% of the ordinary shares issued at 9 March 2011.
The directors have no present intention to issue equity shares for cash other than pursuant to the Companys employee share schemes.
The directors recommend that you vote in favour of Resolutions 17 and 18 to maintain the Companys flexibility in relation to future share issues, including any issues to finance business opportunities should appropriate circumstances arise.
A Special Resolution will be proposed Resolution 19 in the Notice of Meeting to renew the directors limited authority to repurchase ordinary shares in the market.
This authority will be limited to a maximum of 17,599,800 ordinary shares representing 10% of the Companys issued share capital as at the latest practicable date and also sets the minimum and maximum prices which may be paid.
The directors believe it is advantageous for the Company to continue to have the flexibility to make market purchases of its own shares.
As at 9 March 2011, the Company had bought 9,059,000 ordinary shares and there were 9,059,000 ordinary shares held in treasury.
In the event that additional shares are purchased, they would either be cancelled and the number in issue would be reduced accordingly or, subject to the legislation referred to below, retained as treasury shares.
The directors will only make purchases after consideration of the possible effect on earnings per share, the long term benefits to shareholders and consultation with advisers.
The Companies Acquisition of Own Shares Treasury Shares Regulations 2003 allow shares repurchased by the Company to be held as treasury shares that may be cancelled, sold for cash or used for the purpose of employee share schemes.
As at 9 March 2011, the Company held 9,059,000 shares in treasury.
The authority contained in the Special Resolution will expire at the earlier of 18 August 2012, or the conclusion of the Annual General Meeting to be held in 2012.
It is the current intention of the directors to renew this authority annually.
Notice required for shareholder meetings The Shareholders Rights Directive was implemented in the UK by the Companies Shareholders Rights Regulations 2009 on 3 August 2009.
The Regulations implementing this Directive increase the notice period for general meetings of the Company to 21 days, unless shareholders agree to a shorter notice period.
On the basis of a resolution passed at the 2010 Annual General Meeting, the Company is currently able to call general meetings other than an annual general meeting on 14 days notice.
The Company would like to preserve this ability and Resolution 20 seeks such approval.
The approval will be effective until the Companys next annual general meeting, when it is intended that a similar resolution will be proposed.
In accordance with the Directive, the Company will offer an electronic voting facility for a general meeting called on 14 days notice.
Employee Benefit Trust The CSR Employee Benefit Trust was established in 2007 to facilitate satisfying the issue of shares to employees within the Group on exercise of vested options under the various share option plans of the Company.
During 2010, no ordinary shares in CSR plc were acquired by the Trust.
The details of the purchases in prior years of ordinary shares in CSR plc is shown in note 29 to the Financial Statements on page 104.
As at 31 December 2010, the Trust held a total of 4,519,140 ordinary shares in CSR plc representing 2.5% of the issued share capital at the date of this report.
As participants in the share options plans, the executive directors of the Company are potential beneficiaries from the shares held by the Trust and are therefore regarded for the purposes of the Companies Act as being interested in ordinary shares held by the Trust.
Directors Details of the directors of the Board who served during the year are contained on page 45.
Biographies of the directors in office at 31 December 2010 are on pages 42 and 43.
The Companys Articles of Association state that a director shall retire from office and may offer himself for re-appointment when they have been appointed since the last annual general meeting, held office in the preceding two annual general meetings and did not retire at either of them or has been in office for a continuous period of nine years or more at the date of the meeting.
The UK Corporate Governance Code requires all directors of FTSE 350 companies to be subject to annual election by shareholders.
Accordingly, all the directors will be retiring at the AGM and offering themselves for re-election.
This is further explained in the AGM notice which is a separate document issued to shareholders.
The interests of the executive directors in the options of the Company are detailed in the Remuneration Report on page 62.
CSR plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2010 Other statutory information continued Directors report Directors interests in shares The directors in office at 31 December 2010 and their families had the under-mentioned interests in the ordinary shares of the Company.
31 December 1 January 2010 2010 Andrew Allner 5,700 2,850 Teresa Vega Joep van Beurden 25,000 Anthony Carlisle 4,000 4,000 Kanwar Chadha 860,914 633,510 James Collier 1,123,846 1,019,163 Will Gardiner 28,409 Sergio Giacoletto-Roggio 5,000 5,000 Chris Ladas 86,234 86,234 Ron Mackintosh 125,000 125,000 There were no changes to the directors shareholdings between 31 December 2010 and 8 February 2011.
The foregoing holdings do not include the ordinary shares held by the CSR Employee Benefit Trust in which the executive directors are potential beneficiaries as disclosed earlier.
Conflicts of interests The Company has procedures in place to deal with conflicts of interests and believes that procedures are operated efficiently.
Payment of creditors The Group agrees payment terms with its suppliers when it enters into binding purchase contracts to ensure that suppliers are made aware of terms of payment.
The Company abides by these terms of payment.
At 31 December 2010 the number of creditor days outstanding for the Company was 30 2009: 30 and for the Group was 49 2009: 61.
Donations The Company and employees support a number of charities for a variety of causes.
For the period ended 31 December 2010, the Company made charitable donations totalling $92,450 to charities local to the Groups operations.
The Company did not make any political donations during the year.
Directors responsibility statement The directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Report and the financial statements in accordance with applicable law and regulations.
Company law requires the directors to prepare financial statements for each financial year.
Under that law the directors are required to prepare the Group financial statements in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs as adopted by the European Union and Article 4 of the IAS Regulation and have also chosen to prepare the Company financial statements under IFRSs as adopted by the EU.
The financial statements are also prepared in accordance with the IFRS as issued by the International Accounting Standards Board.
Under company law the directors must not approve the accounts unless they are satisfied that they give a true and fair view of the state of affairs of the company and of the profit or loss of the company for that period.
In preparing these financial statements, International Accounting Standard 1 requires that directors: properly select and apply accounting policies: present information, including accounting policies, in a manner that provides relevant, reliable, comparable and understandable information: provide additional disclosures when compliance with the specific requirements in IFRSs are insufficient to enable users to understand the impact of particular transactions, other events and conditions on the entitys financial position and financial performance: and make an assessment of the companys ability to continue as a going concern.
The directors are responsible for keeping adequate accounting records that are sufficient to show and explain the Companys transactions and disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the financial position of the Company and enable them to ensure that the financial statements comply with the Companies Act 2006.
They are also responsible for safeguarding the assets of the Company and hence for taking reasonable steps for the prevention and detection of fraud and other irregularities.
The directors are responsible for the maintenance and integrity of the corporate and financial information included on the Companys website.
Legislation in the United Kingdom governing the preparation and dissemination of financial statements may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
Each of the persons who is a director at the date of the approval of this report confirms that: so far as the director is aware, there is no relevant audit information of which the Companys auditors are unaware: 66 67 Other statutory information continued Directors report the director has taken all the steps that he ought to have taken as a director to make himself aware of the relevant audit information and to establish that the Companys auditors are aware of that information: the Financial Statements, prepared in accordance with the applicable set of accounting standards, give a true and fair view of the assets, liabilities, financial position and profit of CSR and the undertakings included in the consolidation taken as a whole: and the report includes a fair review of the development and performance of the business and the position of the Company and the undertakings included in the consolidation taken as a whole together with a description of the principal risks and uncertainties that they face.
The directors, having prepared the Financial Statements, have permitted the auditors to take whatever steps they consider appropriate for the purpose of enabling them to give their audit opinion.
Substantial shareholdings As at 1 March 2011, the Company had received the following notifications of substantial interests 3% or more in the total voting rights of the Company, as disclosed to the Company under the Disclosure and Transparency Rules.
% of issued Ordinary share Disclosed Holding capital Schroders Plc 21,747,463 12.29 BlackRock Group 16,822,296 9.51 Majedie Asset Management Limited 9,837,131 5.56 Artemis Investment Management 8,392,180 4.74 Legal & General Plc 6,223,559 3.52 Clients of Aberforth Partners LLP 6,084,524 3.44 The disclosure provided at 1 March represents total interest in the Company, including voting rights.
Going concern The Financial Statements have been prepared on the going concern basis.
The directors have considered future cash forecasts and revenue projections, based on prudent market data, in their consideration of going concern.
The Groups business activities, together with the factors likely to affect its future development, performance and position are set out on pages 5 to 41.
The financial position of the Group, its cash flows and liquidity position are described in the Business and Financial Review on pages 17 to 20.
In addition, note 37 to the Consolidated Financial Statements includes the Groups objectives, policies and processes for managing its capital: its financial risk management objectives: details of the financial instruments and hedging activities: and its exposure to credit risk.
The principal risks and uncertainties which could adversely impact the long term performance of the Group are discussed on pages 34 to 41 in the Business and Financial Review.
All of these matters have been taken into account by the directors in coming to their conclusions on going concern.
Management is currently of the opinion that the Group has adequate financial resources to continue to operate and a robust policy towards treasury risk and cash flow management.
The directors believe that the Group is adequately placed to manage its business risks successfully despite the current uncertain economic outlook and challenging macro economic conditions.
After making enquiries, the directors have a reasonable expectation that the Company and the Group have adequate resources to continue in operational existence for the foreseeable future.
Accordingly, they continue to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the Annual Report and Financial Statements.
Auditors Deloitte LLP are the Companys auditors and have expressed their willingness to continue in the office of auditors and therefore, in accordance with Section 489 of the Companies Act 2006, a resolution for their re-appointment will be proposed at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting.
By Order of the Board Brett Gladden, Company Secretary 8 February 2011 CSR plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2010
