Audit Committee Directors report Remuneration Committee Nomination Committee Directors Biographies Beurden was appointed a director of had revenues of $2.5 billion.
He is Will Gardiner the Global Semiconductor Alliance, also a former director of Gemplus Mr Gardiner age 46, Chief Financial GSA a not-for-profit organisation SA, and the former chairman of each Officer, joined CSR as Chief Financial supporting collaboration, supply of Smartstream Technologies Ltd, Officer in June 2008.
Prior to joining chain integration and innovation in Northgate Information Solutions plc CSR, Mr Gardiner was Finance the global semiconductor industry.
In and also of Differentis, a privately Director for Technology and December 2009 the GSA appointed owned IT consultancy which, he Enterprise at BSkyB plc.
Before its Mr van Beurden as a Vice Chairman.
co-founded in July 2000. acquisition by BSkyB in 2006, Mr van Beurden holds a Masters Mr Mackintosh is Chairman of the Mr Gardiner had since 2001 been degree in Applied Physics from Nomination Committee and a CFO of Easynet Group plc, a Twente University of Technology in member of the Remuneration pan-European broadband telecoms Enschede, The Netherlands.
Between 1991 and 2001, Mr Gardiner held a number of senior Kanwar Chadha Andrew Allner roles within JPMorgans investment Mr Chadha age 51, Chief Marketing Mr Allner age 57, a non-executive banking division, specialising in the Officer joined CSR on 26 June 2009, director, joined CSR as a telecoms and technology sectors.
following the acquisition of SiRF Board of non-executive director on 1 October Mr Gardiner has a BA from Harvard Technology Holdings Inc. where he 2008.
Mr Allner was appointed College and MA from Johns Hopkins was a founder, head of marketing Chairman of the Audit Committee on Directors University.
and a member of the Board of 27 May 2009 and is also a member Directors.
Mr Chadha has over 25 of the Remuneration and Nomination years of experience in various Anthony Carlisle Committees.
Mr Allner is currently marketing and management Mr Carlisle age 63, a non-executive Chairman of Marshalls plc, and also positions.
Prior to founding SiRF, director and our Senior Independent serves as non-executive director and Mr Chadha served as general Director, was appointed a Chairman of the Audit Committee at manager of the multimedia group non-executive director of CSR in July AZ Electronic Materials SA, The and director of strategic marketing at 2005 and was appointed as Senior Go-Ahead Group plc and Northgate S3 Inc. where he led the Independent Director on 27 May plc.
Mr Allner was Group Finance development of innovative audio and 2009.
He is also a member of our Director of RHM plc, taking a lead video processing technologies.
audit, remuneration and nomination role in its flotation in July 2005 on the Before joining S3 Inc. Mr Chadha committees.
Mr Carlisle is the Chief London Stock Exchange.
Prior to co-founded AQuesT Inc. a Executive of Citigate Dewe Rogerson joining RHM plc, Mr Allner was CEO developer of multimedia and 3D Consultancy.
He has over 30 years of Enodis PLC.
Mr Allner has also graphics acceleration products and experience in marketing and served in senior executive positions served as its chairman.
Prior to his communications, advising major with Dalgety PLC, Amersham entrepreneurial ventures, he served companies in the UK and International PLC and Guinness at Intel in various product marketing internationally.
He is a former partner of Price positions, including product line Economics.
Waterhouse and is a Fellow of the manager for the i860 RISC Institute of Chartered Accountants in processor and floating point England and Wales.
Joep van Beurden of Oxford University.
in Mr van Beurden age 50, Chief electrical engineering from the Indian Executive Officer, was appointed Institute of Technology, New Delhi Chief Executive Officer on James Collier and later his MS in CIS from the 1 November 2007.
Prior to joining Mr Collier age 52, a non-executive University of Pennsylvania CSR, Mr van Beurden was Chief director, co-founded the Company in simultaneously with an MBA from the Executive of NexWave Inc. a 1999.
He served as CSRs Chief Wharton School of Business at the provider of embedded software Technical Officer from 1999 and University of Pennsylvania.
solutions for the consumer following public listing of CSR plc in electronics market based in France.
March 2004 as an executive director Before joining NexWave, Mr van Ron Mackintosh until 31 August 2010.
Mr Collier is Beurden held senior positions at Mr Mackintosh age 62, Chairman, currently Chief Executive of Neul Ltd, Canesta Inc. a fabless has served as a non-executive a mobile wireless data service semiconductor company in San director since May 2004 and was provider, which was founded in Jose, California and Philips appointed Chairman with effect from September 2010.
Mr Collier has over Components also in San Jose.
Mr Mackintosh is a 25 years experience of working in to that, Mr van Beurden had worked non-executive director of software companies developing and supplying for five years for management and company Fidessa Group plc.
advanced technology concepts and strategy consultants McKinsey & Mr Mackintosh has held a number of products with executive and Company in Amsterdam.
Mr van senior executive positions in technical positions at Cambridge Beurden has also worked as a crude European technology companies.
Consultants Ltd where he worked oil trader for Royal Dutch Shell in Between 1992 and 2000, between 1984 and 1999 and prior to Rotterdam and lectured in Physics Mr Mackintosh was chief executive that at Schlumberger.
Mr Collier has and Electronics at the University of of Computer Sciences Corporations a degree in Physics from the Zambia.
In January 2009, Mr van CSC European business, which University of Oxford.
42 43 Board of Directors continued Directors report Christopher Ladas December 2008, Mr Giacoletto- 27 October 2010.
Ms Vega has over Mr Ladas age 65, Operations Roggio retired from Oracle 30 years experience gained working Director, was appointed a director of Corporation, where he had been in the technology and CSR on 1 January 2008.
He has executive vice president of Oracle telecommunications industries for served as CSRs Senior Vice Corporation, Europe, Middle East leading global companies, including President, Operations since May and Africa and a member of Motorola Inc. where she served as 2000.
Between January 1996 and Oracles executive committee.
Prior senior vice president between June May 2000, Mr Ladas served as the to joining Oracle in 1997, 2005 and July 2007, leading their vice president of operations at Micro Mr Giacoletto-Roggio was global CDMA handset business, and Linear Corporation.
Prior to 1996, President, value added services at Lucent Technologies Inc. where Mr Ladas held several managerial AT&T, before which he spent 20 she served as Chief Operating and technical positions at National years with Digital Equipment Officer of the wireless infrastructure Semiconductor, Fairchild, Harris, Corporation in various senior unit.
In each of these organisations, Sperry, Motorola and Signetics.
Ms Vega led and built multi-billion Mr Ladas holds a B. S. in Chemistry Mr Giacoletto-Roggio has served on dollar divisions and spearheaded from Arizona State University, US.
multiple company boards and IT major product launches.
Between He is also a member of the Institute industry associations.
He is currently 2002 and 2005, Ms Vega also of Electrical and Electronics non-executive director and the served as Group President, Wireless Engineers and a member of the senior independent director of Cable and Emerging Markets at Europe, Middle East and Africa Logica plc, a non-executive director Telecordia Technologies Inc. a Leadership Council of the Global of Colt Telecom SA and the leading global provider of Semiconductor Alliance.
chairman of Sophis Holding telecommunications software and Luxembourg SCA.
Mr Giacolettoservices for network operators.
Ms Sergio Giacoletto-Roggio Roggio holds a Masters in Vega is presently non-executive Mr Giacoletto-Roggio age 61, a Computer Science from the chairman of UK-based Cambridge non-executive director, joined CSR University of Turin.
Broadband Networks Limited, and as a non-executive director on also is non-executive chairman of 4 January 2007.
He is Chairman of Teresa Vega Arieso Ltd Newbury UK.
More the Remuneration Committee and a Ms Vega age 56, a non-executive recently she has been appointed as member of the Audit and director, joined CSR as a non-executive chairman of ip.
In Non-Executive Director on Limited, also based in Cambridge.
CSR plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2010
