6 Dairy Crest Annual Report 2010 Market analysis WE LISTEN CONSUMERS ARE AT THE HEART OF OUR BUSINESS We listen to our consumers Health Pleasure to understand what they want Nearly a third of consumers are Eating for pleasure is still the main avoiding processed food and are reason why we choose to eat and and how they decide which looking for more natural products drink what we do and 35% of foods are right for them and such as dairy.
Milk was the worlds consumers are still willing to invest their families first super food and consumers in quality products that deliver food understand and trust the benefits pleasure despite tightened economic of dairy products including calcium circumstances.
We know from our research and protein.
At the same time, Our products champion taste with consumers that health, some consumers want to reduce and quality.
But its not just us that pleasure and convenience the amount of saturated fat in their say so.
rated Cathedral City Vintage 20 as are long-standing factors in We ensure that any added the epitome of modern cheddar and their selection process.
More ingredients in our products are as Cornish Quartz Cheddar, which we recently, consumers are natural as possible and are committed make for Waitrose at our Davidstow interested in the environment to promoting the benefits of dairy.
creamery, won the gold medal for We have responded to consumers best hard cheese at the Grocers and the ethics behind food concerns about saturated fats annual Own Label Food & Drink manufacture and concerned by offering lighter variants of our Awards 2010. about issues affecting their core brands, by launching Weight We have also seen the alcoholic Watchers cream and by championing cream category rejuvenated by home life and the origin of 1% fat milk.
In total we estimate that consumer response to our indulgent products we have saved British consumers Baileys cream and in France St 6,400 tonnes of saturated fat.
Hubert and Le Fleurier spreads are We supply products that aim In France our St Hubert Omga 3 consistently in the top three in blind range has become the market leader taste tests.
to meet consumers needs as consumers look for better heart and earn their loyalty.
We will health and in Italy we make our fresh continue to listen to consumers dough with no cholesterol and no and innovate in order to grow hydrogenated fat.
Mintel Oxygen Nielsen Homescan t n e m H n o o m r i e v n Dairy Crest Annual Report 2010 7 Dairy for health Dairy for life Dairy Dairy for for now pleasure Convenience Ethics and the Environment Home and Local A quarter of adults in the UK are There is increasing concern from Consumers are increasingly interested cooking from scratch more often consumers on both sides of the in where their food comes from.
In and want conveniently packaged English Channel for ethical and fact 62% of UK consumers actively try food to help them do this.
In the UK to buy British products.
that planned top-up trips are now a 44% of consumers say they are In the UK, we only source key part of shopping habits and the willing to make compromises for the milk from British farms.
We have number one top-up item is milk.
environment and in France retailers championed British butter with our By their very nature many dairy have collectively agreed to increase Country Life advertisements and products are easy to consume direct the weight of organic food sales by want the law to be changed so that from the fridge and are a key ingredient 15% per annum.
Consumers want to consumers can more readily identify for many family favourite meals.
Our take positive steps and are looking to where the food they buy comes products are conveniently packed.
In France we are working with In UK we led the way with resealable Dairy Crest has pioneered more universities, hospitals and government cheese packaging and offer cooking environmentally friendly milk packaging on health and nutrition.
from scratch help through products with its JUGIT milk in a bag and by Our milkmen visit 1.3 million such as Cathedral City grated.
In Italy using recycled material in its plastic homes and are seen by many as a we produce Vall ready made dough milk bottles.
We have also grown key part of the local community.
products and have recently started our organic milk sales and in France packing pies in single portions.
have launched St Hubert Bio, the first All our spreads and spreadable organic spread in the French market.
butters can be used straight from We have a continuous programme the fridge.
of improving the efficiency of our For top-up shopping, milk&more manufacturing processes.
Consumers can order from a range of 200 products through the internet up to 9pm for their next doorstep delivery from their milkman.
