Dairy Crest Annual Report 2010 45 Directors report The Directors of Dairy Crest Group plc the Company present Having reviewed and taken into account the Liquidity Risk: their fourteenth Annual Report to shareholders together with the Guidance for Directors of UK Companies 2009, published by audited financial statements of the Company and its subsidiaries the Financial Reporting Council in October 2009, the Directors for the year ended 31 March 2010.
The purpose of the Annual are satisfied that the Company and the Group have adequate Report is to provide information to members of the Company.
resources to continue operating for the foreseeable future.
For this The Company, its Directors, employees, agents and advisers reason they continue to adopt the going concern basis in preparing do not accept or assume responsibility to any other person to the accounts.
whom this document is shown or into whose hands it may come and any such responsibility or liability is expressly disclaimed.
It Business review contains certain forward-looking statements with respect to the S417 of the Companies Act 2006 requires that the Company sets operations, performance and financial condition of the Group.
out in this report a fair review of the business of the Group during By their nature, these statements involve uncertainty since future the 2009 10 financial year, including balanced and comprehensive events and circumstances can cause results to differ from those analysis of the development and performance of the Group anticipated.
The forward-looking statements reflect knowledge during the financial year and the position of the Group at the end and information available at the date of preparation of this Annual of the year: together with information relating to environmental, Report and except to the extent required by applicable regulations employee, social and community matters.
In addition, the Company or by law, the Group undertakes no obligation to update these is required to provide a description of the principal risks and forward-looking statements.
Nothing in this Annual Report should uncertainties facing the Group and to the extent necessary for an be construed as a profit forecast.
understanding of the business, the main trends and factors likely to affect the future development, performance and position of As the 2009 10 financial year commenced after 28 June 2008, the Companys business.
The information satisfying the business references to the Code in this report are to the Combined Code review requirements is set out in this report: the Chairmans on Corporate Governance of June 2008.
The relevant parts of this statement on page 13: the Chief Executives review on pages report have been reviewed by Ernst & Young LLP and their opinion 14 15: the Business Review on pages 18 36: the review of is set out on page 111. the principal risks and uncertainties on pages 16 17: and the Group Key Performance Indicators KPIs on page 5: all of which Principal activities are incorporated into this report by reference.
The Corporate The principal activities of the Group are the manufacture, Governance Report forms part of this Directors Report and is processing and distribution of milk and dairy products.
Further incorporated into it by reference.
information can be found within the Business Review section at pages 18 36.
Group results The Groups consolidated income statement set out on page 55 Going concern shows a profit for the financial year of 52.5m compared with The Group and Companys business activities, together with 74.3 million in 2008 09. factors likely to affect future development, performance and position are set out in the Chief Executives review on pages 14 Dividends to 15, the business reviews on pages 18 to 28 and the review of The Directors are recommending a final dividend of 13.6 pence principal risks and uncertainties on pages 16 to 17.
The financial 2008 09: 13.0 pence per ordinary share, which if approved, will be position, cash flows, liquidity position and borrowing facilities are paid to members on the register at the close of business on described in the Financial Review on pages 34 to 36.
Together, the final dividend and interim dividend notes 31 and 32 to the financial statements include the Group 5.3 pence per ordinary share paid on 28 January 2010 make total and Companys objectives, policies and processes for managing dividends for the year of 18.9 pence per ordinary share 2008 09: its capital: its financial risk management objectives: details of its 20.1 pence.
financial instruments and hedging activities: and its exposures to credit risk and liquidity risk.
Share capital The authorised and issued share capital of the Company together As highlighted in note 31, the Company and Group meet day-to-day with details of movements in the Companys issued share capital working capital requirements through syndicated revolving credit during 2009 10 are shown in note 25 to the financial statements.
As facilities and ensure that forecast net borrowings plus a reasonable at the date of this report, 133.3 million ordinary 25p shares were in operating headroom are covered by committed facilities which issue and fully paid with an aggregate nominal value of 33.3 million.
mature at least 12 months after the year end.
At 31 March 2010, effective headroom was 295 million and the earliest facility to expire The holders of ordinary shares are entitled to receive the was a 100 million revolving credit facility in November 2011.
Should Companys reports and accounts: to attend and speak at this 100 million facility not be renegotiated and fall away, forecasts General Meetings of the Company: to appoint proxies and to show that facility headroom would remain adequate.
To be effective, electronic and paper proxy appointments and voting instructions must be received at the There were no breaches of bank covenants in the year ended Companys registered office, or such other place in the United 31 March 2010 and projections do not indicate any breaches in Kingdom specified in the relevant notice of meeting, not later the foreseeable future.
Since the reduction of Euro denominated than 48 hours before a general meeting.
Subject to applicable borrowings in the year ended March 2009, exchange rate statutes, there are no restrictions on transfer or limitations on fluctuations no longer materially impact our bank covenant tests.
the holding of any class of shares and no requirements for prior approval of any transfers.
None of the shares carries any special Forecasts and projections, taking into account reasonably possible rights with regard to control of the Company.
There are no known changes in trading performance, show that the Company and arrangements under which financial rights are held by a person Group will be able to operate within the level of current facilities.
other than the holder of the shares and no known agreements on restrictions on share transfers or on voting rights.
Shares Governance 46 Dairy Crest Annual Report 2010 Directors report continued acquired through Company share schemes and plans rank pari Borrowing facilities passu with the shares in issue and have no special rights.
The Non-compliance with the change of control clauses in the Groups Company established an employee benefit trust in 1996 which in funding arrangements, or failure to reach agreement with the certain circumstances holds shares in connection with the Groups parties on revised terms, would require any acquirer to put in place employee share incentive plans.
As the registered holder the voting replacement facilities.
rights in the shares are exercisable by the trustee.
However, the trustee does not ordinarily exercise those rights.
Changes to the Essential contracts Articles must be approved by the shareholders in accordance with It is vital that the Group is able to source high quality raw milk at the legislation in force from time to time.
The Company does not the most competitive prices.
To that end the Group has numerous have agreements with any Director or employee that would provide contracts for its supply.
While these contracts are collectively compensation for loss of office or employment resulting from a essential to the business, no single contract nor any single supplier takeover except that provisions of the Companys share schemes of raw milk is critical to the Companys business.
and plans may cause options and awards granted to Directors and employees under such schemes and plans to vest on a takeover.
The Company also has strong relationships with certain major retailers to supply them with liquid milk.
Individually these contracts Issue of shares are important to the business but not essential.
At the AGM on 16 July 2009, shareholders renewed the authority for the Board under the Articles to exercise all powers of the Substantial shareholdings Company to allot relevant securities up to an aggregate nominal As at 14 May 2010, the Company has been notified in accordance amount of 11,105,294. with the Disclosure and Transparency Rules issued by the Financial Services Authority of the following interests of 3% or more in the Purchase of own shares Companys existing issued ordinary share capital.
Percentage At the AGM on 16 July 2009 shareholders granted the Company of issued authority to make market purchases of up to 13,326,354 of its No.
of shares share capital issued ordinary shares of 25 pence each, provided that: the Prudential plc group of companies 6,690,526 5.02% minimum price which may be paid for any such ordinary share is 25 JP Morgan Asset Management Holdings Inc. 6,647,567 4.99% pence exclusive of expenses and appropriate taxes : the maximum price exclusive of expenses and appropriate taxes which may be Directors paid for any such ordinary share shall be not more than 5% above The names and biographical details of the current Directors of the the average of the middle market values for an ordinary share in the Company are given on pages 10 11.
The names of those persons Company as taken from the London Stock Exchange Daily Official who were Directors during the year but have retired or resigned List for the five business days immediately preceding the date of from the Board are included in the table on page 11, together with purchase.
The Company did not exercise this authority during the dates on which they left the Board.
the year and made no market purchases.
Except in relation to a purchase of ordinary shares, the contract for which was concluded The rules on appointment, reappointment and retirement by before this authority expires and which will or may be executed rotation of Directors are contained in the Articles.
A Director may be wholly or partly after such expiry, the authority granted shall expire appointed by shareholders ordinary resolution or by the Board.
The at the conclusion of this years AGM.
current Articles require that all Directors are subject to election at the first AGM following appointment and thereafter to re-election at The Directors believe it advisable to seek renewal of both of the least every three years.
Andrew Carr-Locke was appointed during above-mentioned authorities or replacement of them with suitable the year and in accordance with the current Articles, he will retire alternatives annually at the AGM.
Approval will be sought from the at the 2010 AGM and offer himself for election.
In the spirit of best shareholders at the AGM to renew the authorities for a further year.
practice the Board has decided that starting with this years AGM, all Directors will retire from the Board annually and other than in Pensions the case of any Director who has decided to stand down from On 31 March 2010 the Groups defined benefit pension fund was the Board, will offer themselves for re-election.
Neil Monnery has closed to future accrual.
Accordingly, the fund is now in run-off.
decided not to offer himself for re-election at the forthcoming AGM.
It remains under the control of a corporate trustee, Dairy Crest The Directors have decided to adopt this policy in advance of any Pension Trustees Limited, the board of which comprises two requirements on them to do so.
It will be enshrined in the new nominees from Dairy Crest Limited and two employee members Articles which shareholders will be asked to consider and adopt at elected by all members irrespective of whether they were active, this years AGM.
deferred or pensioners at the time.
The pension funds assets are held separately from those of the Group and can only be used in Directors interests accordance with the rules of the pension fund.
Pension provision Details of the interests in the shares of the Company of the for employees is made through a defined contribution pension Directors holding office as at the date of this report, along with scheme.
those of the Directors who held office during the year but retired or resigned from office, and their immediate families appear in the Significant agreements change of control Remuneration Report on page 43.
A change of control of the Company following a takeover bid may cause a number of agreements to which the Company or Details of the Directors service contracts and letters of its subsidiaries are party to take effect, alter or terminate.
The appointment appear in the Remuneration Report on page 42. agreements that are considered significant are as follows: No Director had a material interest in any significant contract with the Company or any of its subsidiaries during the year.
Procedures for dealing with Directors conflicts of interest are in place and are operating effectively.
Dairy Crest Annual Report 2010 47 Directors and officers indemnities and insurance Charitable and political donations The Company maintains liability insurance for its Directors and No political donations or expenditures were made or incurred officers.
At its AGM held on 14 July 2005 shareholder approval during the year.
Charitable donations amounted to 0.1 million was given for the amendment of the Articles giving Directors and 2008 09 : 0.1 million.
The Corporate Responsibility section of the officers the benefit of a qualifying third party indemnity provision.
Business Review at pages 31 33 provides additional detail on the That indemnity provision has been in force throughout the year and charitable activities of the Group and its employees.
Disclosure of information to the auditor Employees So far as each Director in office at the date of approval of this The Group employs approximately 7,000 people throughout the report is aware, there is no relevant audit information of which the United Kingdom, Republic of Ireland, France and Italy and depends Companys external auditor Ernst & Young LLP is unaware.
on the skills and commitment of its employees in order to achieve its objectives.
Personnel at every level are encouraged to make Each of the Directors has taken all steps that they ought to have their fullest possible contribution to Dairy Crests success.
taken in performing their roles as directors to exercise due care, skill and diligence in order to make themselves aware i of any Employees are kept regularly informed on matters affecting them relevant audit information and ii to establish that the Companys and on issues affecting the Groups performance through a variety external auditor is aware of such information.
of communications tools, including the Group intranet and the inhouse magazine.
For the purposes of this statement on disclosure of information to the external auditor, relevant audit information is the information The Group has well-established consultation and negotiating needed by the Companys external auditor in connection with the arrangements with established trade unions.
preparation of its report at page 111.
Employees are encouraged to acquire shares in the Company Directors responsibility statements through participation in the Dairy Crest Sharesave Scheme.
The responsibility statements required under Disclosure and Details of this scheme are set out at page 40 of the Directors Transparency Rule 4.1 are set out on page 54.
Annual general meeting The Board is committed to ensuring that a culture free from The AGM will be held at Eversheds LLP, 1 Wood Street, discrimination and harassment remains embedded within the Group London EC2V 7WS on Tuesday, 20 July 2010 at 11.00 am.
The and discrimination of any sort is not tolerated.
Proper consideration notice convening the meeting will be issued separately, together is given to applications for employment from disabled people with details of the business to be considered and explanatory notes who are employed whenever suitable vacancies arise.
Wherever relating to each of the resolutions being proposed.
practicable, staff who become disabled during employment are retained.
The Group practices equality of opportunity for all Auditor employees, irrespective of ethnic origin, religion, political opinion, Ernst & Young LLP has expressed its willingness to continue as gender, marital status, disability, age or sexual orientation.
A resolution to reappoint Ernst & Young LLP as the Companys auditor will be put to the forthcoming AGM.
Financial instruments The Groups financial risk management objectives and policies are Responsibility statements under the Disclosure and discussed in the Financial Review on page 36 and in notes 31 and Transparency Rules 32 to the financial statements on pages 97 to 109.
Each of the current Directors listed on pages 10 11 confirm that to the best of their knowledge: Research and development The Group has adopted a target of delivering part of its annual The financial statements, prepared in accordance with IFRS as turnover through new product development.
Focus continues to adopted by the European Union, give a true and fair view of the be on offering consumers a wide product mix and especially, the assets, liabilities, financial position and profit of the Company development of lower fat variants of existing products.
Dairy Crest and the undertakings included in the consolidation taken as a remains at the forefront of dairy industry developments to reduce whole: and packaging waste through innovation such as our patented JUGIT The Directors Report and the Group Operating and Financial and milk bag.
reviews include a fair review of the development and performance of the business and the position of the Company Land and buildings and the undertakings included in the consolidation taken as Having obtained an informal valuation of the Groups land and a whole, together with a description of the principal risks and buildings the Directors are of the opinion that the current market uncertainties that they face.
value in existing use of the Groups land and buildings slightly exceeds their book value.
By order of the Board: Supplier payment policy The Company is a holding company and had no amounts owing Robin Miller Company Secretary to trade creditors at 31 March 2010 2008 09 : Nil.
The Groups Claygate House, Littleworth Road, Esher, creditor days outstanding at 31 March 2010 were 22.5 2008 09 Surrey KT10 9PN 24.8 of purchases.
The Group has standard payment terms of 60 Registered in England and Wales No.
3162897 days of receipt of invoice.
Payment terms for purchases under major 17 May 2010 contracts are agreed as part of the contract negotiations.
