Dairy Crest Annual Report 2010 20 Business review | Foods continued Spreads million 2009 10 2008 09 Our Spreads portfolio comprises St Hubert, in France and Italy, Revenue 277.7 284.2 and the UK Spreads business.
Profit 54.0 59.5 During the year our Spreads portfolio had to contend with Margin 19.5% 20.9% market declines in the UK, France and Italy, as well as significant increases in input costs - most notably the cost of cream.
Despite this pressure, we have increased our investment in brand advertising and at least matched competitive levels of promotion in order to provide value to our consumers and compete for in-store display space.
Impacted by market declines, our segment revenue has reduced by 2%, and our segment operating profit at 54.0 million has reduced by 9%.
However, with a margin of 19%, Spreads remains a key driver of profitability for the Group, and the market share gains from our key brands gives us a good platform for future growth Share of UK retail butters and Share of French retail non-butter Share of Italian non-butter spreads market by value spreads by value spreads by value Other 8% Other 7% Dairy Crest Other 20% Lactalis Private St Hubert 16% label 15% St Hubert 20% 36% 60% Unilever 29% Unilever Arla 28% 20% Unilever 41% Source: AC Nielsen 52 w e 20 March 2010 Source: IRI 52 w e 4 April 2010 Source: IRI 52 w e 4 April 2010 St Hubert No1 brand in French spreads grow by 4%, our leading brand variant, St Hubert was acquired in January 2007 St Hubert Omga 3, has strengthened its from Uniq, and has now become an market leadership, with value growth of integral part of the Dairy Crest Group.
We 9% volume 11% to achieve an all time manufacture our spreads at Ludres in North high value share of 21% of the French Eastern France, for distribution across spreads market.
The business continues Building on last years launch of two to strengthen its leading market positions products targeted at health-conscious in France and Italy, through increased consumers, St Hubert Omga 3 Leger investment in marketing activity, funded by in France and Vall Leggera in Italy, we strong cost control.
Despite difficult market have further expanded our offering this conditions, St Hubert continues to perform year.
St Hubert Bio is the first mainstream ahead of our expectations.
organic spread in the French market and The total non-butter French spreads has been well received by both retail and market declined by 2% in value to 376 consumers.
Overall the St Hubert business St Huberts subsidiary, Vall Italia, has held market share, with the St Hubert remains the undisputed leader of the total brand in growth, and now the number Italian spreads market.
With continued one brand in the French spreads market media support, Vall has achieved a with 29% value market share.
Within the record value market share of 57%.
health segment, which continues to Dairy Crest Annual Report 2010 21 UK Spreads Further share growth for our key with sales up 4% in value and 6% in 27% in value and 21% in volume.
brands, Clover and Country Life volume.
The brand has continued with To remain competitive we have Our UK butters and spreads are the highly successful television and radio recently reduced the number of employees manufactured in two factories at Kirkby near advertising campaign, which emphasizes at our Kirkby factory.
Liverpool, and Crudgington in Shropshire, the provenance of Country Life as the only and distributed to UK retailers via our major British butter brand.
national distribution centre in Nuneaton.
Both of our leading brands reduced Despite unprecedented levels of fat options, Clover Lighter and Country Life consumer promotion, the 1.1 billion UK Lighter Spreadable, have seen good growth market for butter and spreads was flat in during the year with value sales up by 13% volume 0.6%, and declined by 2% in and 12% respectively.
Clover Lighter has value in the year to March 2010.
The only been confirmed as the most successful significant sector in value growth was dairy launch in the butters and spreads market in spreads at 1%, driven in large part by the the last 5 years and its sales are now 13% performance of our Clover brand.
Country Life Lighter We have focused our efforts behind Spreadable sales are 26% of total Country Clover and Country Life.
The Clover brand had a very In addition to our main brands, Clover Clover has had a very successful year, growing 13% by volume supported by television advertising.
successful year, growing by 5% in value and Country Life, we also continue to Our latest advertisement sets out the proposition and 13% in volume.
The mid-year remanufacture and sell Vitalite, Willow and that Clover is churned like butter but has half the launch activity, based on the proposition of Utterly Butterly.
Although Vitalite and saturated fat churned like butter with half the saturated Willow have maintained prior year sales fat, has been very successful, with the volumes, Utterly Butterly has seen a advertising scoring well in consumer decline this year.
Despite solid base rates tracking studies.
of sale, based on strong consumer loyalty, Our butter brand, Country Life, has the brand has suffered from distribution continued to grow strongly, out-performing losses due to increased competition.
Sales the butter and spreadables segments, have declined from last years peak by Business review
