10 Dairy Crest Annual Report 2010 Executive Directors In my 19 years at Dairy Crest we have transformed the business from a commodity dairy company to a modern, innovative European food company.
Since I took over as Chief Executive 3 years ago I have been determined to ensure that the business has a strong consumer focus.
This has meant that innovation takes on a much Mark Allen more important role as support to our marketing Chief Executive 50 and promotional campaigns.
This focus will Appointed a Director in July 2002 and became Chief Executive in January 2007.
He joined Dairy benefit all our stakeholders.
I am proud to be part Crest in August 1991 and was formerly with Shell U. K. Ltd.
He is also Chairman of Dairy UK Ltd and of this process and look forward to the business a member of the leadership team and a trustee for the Princes Countryside fund.
building on the strong momentum we now have In my seven years at Dairy Crest we have made great strides to improve the quality of our earnings and reduce risk in the business.
During my time as Finance Director we have disposed of the commodity businesses that made earnings so unpredictable and given ourselves much greater stability.
Dairy Crest is now a broadly based Alastair Murray business that is as likely to prosper whether milk Finance Director 49 prices go up or down.
We have also made real Appointed in September 2003.
He was Finance Director of The Body Shop International plc progress in how we use information technology from January 1999 and was previously Finance Director of Dalgety Food Ingredients Limited.
as amply demonstrated by milk&more I joined Dairy Crest because I was excited by the challenge of developing some potentially strong food brands at an important time in their history.
The progress we have made is most encouraging.
We are doing the right thing by increasing our investment in marketing despite a challenging macro-economic background and in both UK and Martyn Wilks France our brands are well placed to continue to Executive Managing Director 52 perform strongly.
At the same time we continue to Appointed in January 2008.
He was President of the Snackfood Division of Masterfoods USA, strengthen our manufacturing capability and our and has held senior management positions within the Mars and Masterfoods Groups including systems and processes for innovation Managing Director of Mars, France.
Dairy Crest Annual Report 2010 11 Non-Executive Directors and Advisers Anthony Fry Andrew Carr-Locke Howard Mann O.
B. E Chairman 54 Non-Executive Director 56 Non-Executive Director 63 Appointed as a Non-executive Director in July 2007 and as Chairman on 1 January 2010.
He Appointed as a Non-executive Director in Appointed as a Non-executive Director in May is Senior Adviser of Evercore Partners in the August 2009.
A Fellow of the Chartered Institute 2003 and was President and Chief Executive firms London office.
He has previously held of Management Accountants he is Executive of McCain Foods Limited, Toronto, Canada senior appointments at Lehman Brothers, Credit Chairman of Countryside Properties plc.
He previously Suisse and the Rothschild Group in a career previously held senior finance positions at held a number of senior positions with Rank in merchant banking which has spanned more Courtaulds Textiles, Diageo, Bowater Scott and Hovis McDougall and has held non-executive than 30 years.
He is currently a non-executive Kodak and was Group Finance Director at directorships with The Body Shop International director of Control Risks and the BBC Trust George Wimpey plc until 2007.
He has previously plc, Endurance Speciality Insurance USA and and has served on the boards of Mowlem, The held non-executive directorships at Royal Mail Wild Group GmbH Germany.
He is non-executive British Standards Institution and Southern Water Holdings, Venture Production and AWG.
chairman of Reconomy Holdings Limited.
as well as numerous not-for-profit organisations.
Neil Monnery Carole Piwnica Robin Miller Non-Executive Director 48 Non-Executive Director 52 Company Secretary and General Counsel 39 # Appointed as a Non-executive Director in Appointed as a Non-executive Director in July Appointed in April 2008.
He is a solicitor having July 2007 and is the Group Strategy Director 2007.
A member of the Bars of New York and worked in private practice and in-house in both of W H Smith.
He was previously Head of of Paris, and Managing Director of Naxos UK.
retail and international manufacturing, latterly UK Consumer and Retail Practice at Boston She is a non-executive director of Aviva and with Gallaher Group Plc.
Consulting Group and BCGs European Toepfer, as well as a member of Monsantos Corporate Development practice.
He was also Sustainable Yield Advisory Council.
Previous chairman of WH Smith News until 2006. senior appointments include chairmanship of Amylum and vice chairmanship of Tate&Lyle.
Auditors Board and main Committee meetings Ernst & Young LLP The following Directors held office during the year.
The number of Board and main Committee meetings attended by Board or appropriate Committee members in the year is shown in the table below.
The Solicitors numbers in brackets show the maximum number of meetings members could have attended in the period.
Eversheds LLP Board Audit CR Nomination Remuneration 1 8 8 1 1 Mr M Allen Principal Bankers 2 Mr A Carr-Locke 5 5 2 2 1 1 3 3 The Royal Bank of Scotland plc 3 Mr A Fry 7 8 3 3 1 1 2 2 5 5 Mr H Mann 8 8 4 4 1 1 2 2 5 5 Rabobank International, London Branch Mr N Monnery 8 8 4 4 1 1 2 2 5 5 Mr A S N Murray 8 8 Lloyds TSB plc 4 6 6 2 2 Mr S M D Oliver 5 Ms C Piwnica 7 8 4 4 1 1 2 2 5 5 BNP Paribas 6 Mr D H Richardson 3 3 2 2 0 0 2 2 2 2 Corporate Brokers Mr M Wilks 8 8 Citigroup Global Markets Limited Audit Committee Member 1 Mr Allen was appointed a member of the Corporate Responsibility Committee on 28 January 2010.
Nomination Committee Member RBS Hoare Govett Ltd 2 Mr Carr-Locke was appointed to the Board on Remuneration Committee Member 1 August 2009.
Registered Office 3 Mr Fry was unable to attend the Board meeting on Corporate Responsibility Committee Claygate House, 24 September 2009.
Member Littleworth Road, 4 Mr Oliver retired from the Board on 31 December 2009.
Esher, Surrey KT10 9PN Member of the Management Board 5 Ms Piwnica was unable to attend the Board meeting on 24 September 2009.
# Not a Board member 6 Mr Richardson resigned from the Board on 1 August 2009.
