28 Dairy Crest Annual Report 2010 Business review | Dairies continued Household A MODERN APPROACH TO A TRADITIONAL SERVICE Dairy Crests Household business delivers Country Life fresh milk and a wide range of other products.
It has 1.3 million residential customers, 20,000 business customers ranging from coffee shops to hospitals, and supplies milk to around 600 independent dairymen, most of whom have their own residential customers Having previously carried out local trials milk&more.
We implemented a strong cost of milk&more, we launched nationally in reduction programme, including closing September 2009 and set ourselves the our glass bottling operation in Fenstanton, challenging target of recruiting 250,000 Cambridgeshire, and the reorganisation of registered users by 31 March 2010.
We our non-milk supply chain.
Milk costs were reached our target with one day to spare!
also lower following purchase price cuts milk&more users already spend more with early in 2009. us and our milk&more website allows us Furthermore we have identified that we to target promotions of milk and other may be able to make further cost savings products which will further drive doorstep by leveraging recent investments in IT sales.
For many years these have been systems.
In February 2010 we initiated a declining as consumers choose to buy pilot programme to evaluate the potential more of their milk from other outlets.
This project is progressing well However a successful implementation and will lead to substantial savings in our of milk&more could reverse this trend.
has already made a significant difference We continue to innovate around to the annual decline rate which fell back Dairy Crests key themes of health and from 10% at the start of the year to 6% at the environment.
During the year we The business has an extensive distribution 31 March 2010.
We have maintained this started delivering 1% fat milk, a lower network across England and Wales, with improved performance since the year end.
fat alternative to semi-skimmed, to our over 3,000 employees and another 1,500 milk&more moves us from being a residential and business customers, and franchised milkmen, 130 depots and 3,000 somewhat outdated delivery service firmly we have also trialled the milk packed in vehicles.
Milk is bottled at dairies located into the modern day and the feedback bags, described more fully in the Liquid at Aintree in Liverpool and Hanworth in we are getting suggests our customers Products and Ingredients section of the London.
love the modern approach to a familiar Business Review.
The bags use 75% less The year ended 31 March 2010 tradition.
Our milkmen have adapted well packaging than polybottles and further may turn out to be a pivotal one for our to the different demands that milk&more enhance the environmental credentials of business.
During the year we completed places on them and appreciate the benefit our doorstep delivery service, which also the national roll out of our internet-based, of having to collect less cash because offers milk in returnable glass bottles and doorstep delivery service, milk&more.
customers using milk&more pay either by electrically powered milk floats.
This gives our residential customers electronic card or direct debit.
Looking forward our focus will a contemporary shopping experience During the year turnover in the continue to be on making milk&more delivered by the traditional milkman.
It Household business fell due to the ongoing successful.
We will aim to provide service allows consumers to order over 200 decline of doorstep deliveries and the excellence so that on-line customers products through the internet up to 9pm in sale of sixteen unprofitable middle ground spend more with us and continue to the evening for their next doorstep delivery delivery depots in June 2009.
However recruit more customers for milk&more.
and puts us firmly in competition with profitability has improved, despite higher We will also continue with our cost convenience stores for top-up purchases.
marketing costs arising from the roll out of reduction projects.
