26 Dairy Crest Annual Report 2010 Business review | Dairies continued Liquid Products DRIVING EFFICIENCY TO PROVIDE EXCELLENT QUALITY AND SERVICE Dairy Crests Liquids Products business processes and delivers Share of UK retailers own brand conventional milk fresh conventional, organic and flavoured milk to major UK retailers.
It also manufactures, markets and sells FRijj, the leading Dairy Wiseman Arla fresh flavoured milk brand as well as potted creams including Crest Sainsburys 50% 50% speciality and seasonal offerings and milk powders.
Morrisons 50% 50% The business has four milk packing dairies located at Waitrose 100% Severnside in Gloucestershire, Chadwell Heath in London, M&S 100% Fenstanton in Cambridgeshire and Foston in Derbyshire.
A large Co-op 15% 65% 20% Tesco 50% 50% proportion of our potted cream and our retail milk powders are Asda 100% made at our creamery in Chard in Somerset.
FRijj is produced at Total 20% 38% 42% our Severnside dairy Source: DC estimates March 2010 The Liquids Products business has a and reducing wastage.
We also intend to Committed to an additional sustainable business model based on replace our potted cream equipment and driving efficiency and cost reduction which commission a new milk bag line and are provides customers and consumers with investing in extended shelf life technology.
75 million excellent quality and service through At Chadwell Heath we will invest over investment in our liquid milk innovation and investment.
4 million in 2010 11 in processing and dairies over the next three Lower milk costs, improved site cold storage capacity in preparation for operating efficiencies, reductions in new filling lines in 2011 12.
We have already years in the three key areas milk and packaging wastage and lower prepared the production areas for the first of capacity, infrastructure and distribution costs have contributed to a of these new lines.
The Foston site is also innovation much improved financial performance.
now ready for an additional high speed We will build on this performance filling line when the business needs it.
by accelerating investment in our liquid As our production facilities continue milk dairies.
In addition to the recent to become more efficient and we drive investment of 34 million at our Foston down costs we will also increase our focus site and our new regional distribution on inbound and outbound distribution.
centre at Aldridge in West Midlands, we We have a unique opportunity to use conventional milk market with a volume have now committed to additional capital our national network of Household growth of 8% against a market decline of expenditure of 75 million over the next depots as regional distribution centres.
In Sainsburys, we are pleased to have three years in the three key areas of By investing in advanced route planning secured a 3 year contract for conventional capacity, infrastructure and innovation.
systems we will integrate our dairies, milk as well as national distribution for The capital plan will deliver new lines at regional distribution centres and selected JUGIT and milk bags.
This innovative new our sites, driving efficiencies and creating household depots into a single supply product, which reduces packaging by capacity, and allow us to innovate through chain from which we can offer customers 75%, has won the best product innovation packaging and product technology.
efficient solutions whatever their store at the 2010 Sainsbury supplier awards.
We The first phase of the programme has formats and sizes.
This should allow us to are delighted by this and are excited about already commenced.
In total we expect reduce food miles, building on the recent its future prospects.
to commit around one third of the total improvements in vehicle fuel consumption.
Our leading milkshake brand FRijj, cost during 2010 11.
At Severnside we will We have grown milk sales to our which now represents over 50% of the invest around 13 million in the coming major retail customers again this year.
fresh flavoured milk market, increased its year.
This will allow us to upgrade and We have won new business with Lidl and volume by 14%, again outperforming the expand milk processing and end of line the Co-op in the Midlands and this has market which grew by 10%.
Innovative capabilities, increasing the sites capacity helped increase our share of the retailer marketing targeted at young consumers Dairy Crest Annual Report 2010 27 has helped increase its retail sales to 44 retailers and achieved strong sales in its million.
Around a theme of swamp soccer, first year.
FRijj has sponsored Soccer AM and We were particularly pleased by our has used augmented reality technology service performance over the difficult to allow computer generated Swamp winter conditions and the ability of our Soccerettes to appear from the bottles.
business to deliver the new Co-op Since the year end the launch of the St conventional milk business that was George special edition has performed very acquired at short notice in June 2009.
Our investment of around 7 million are also proud to have halved the number over the next two years in packaging of reported safety incidents in the year.
formats, processing capacity and new Our Ingredients operation, which is We have developed a patented milk jug, JUGIT, which reduces packaging by 75% and makes lines will allow further growth.
also based in Severnside, provides the recycling easier.
Sainsburys awarded JUGIT its We have also been successful Dairies Division with a flexible balancing 2010 best product innovation award and we are in improving the quality and health solution and deals with the Groups byexcited about its future prospects credentials of our range of own label products such as whey and buttermilk.
flavoured milks as recipes move from This operation has had a successful year using full fat milk to semi-skimmed.
on the back of rising commodity markets.
Investment in our production facilities at Through careful management of seasonal Chadwell Heath in London has enabled supply and demand, the amount of milk us to grow capacity and secure new and skimmed milk to balance was reduced business, which has helped generate significantly from the previous year and volume growth of 55% for own label year end stocks were almost half the value flavoured milk sales.
of the previous year at less than 3 million.
The organic milk market continued its During the year, we acquired the decline with volume dropping 2% over the balance of the equity in Fayrefield Foodtec, last year.
However, new listings of Country which provides added value products in Life Organic helped to drive growth in our the ingredients arena and we have driven organic milk volumes by 6%.
new branded opportunities in products All of our 5 key brands were advertised on television Addressing both health and indulgence such as Equilibrium stress relief tablets in the year ended 31 March 2010.
Our FRijj markets, the WeightWatchers cream range based on milk protein.
milkshake also uses innovative on-line marketing.
has more than tripled in volume and the Looking forward, our focus remains on FRijj is sponsoring a swamp soccer tournament and newly launched range of Baileys creams increasing efficiency and improving quality has recruited Swamp Soccerettes to cheer the teams on has secured listings in all of the major and service.
