Dairy Crest Annual Report 2010 29 Business review | Milk Procurement SUSTAINABLE MILK SOURCING Dairy Crests Milk Procurement team is responsible for providing an efficient and sustainable source of British milk for the companys requirement of 2.2 billion litres of raw milk per annum.
Around 70% of this milk comes direct from 1,350 direct supplying dairy farmers located across England and Wales A strong relationship with our farmers is identified the key priorities for action.
and drive efficiency throughout the supply fundamental to our business as we work In comparison to previous years, chain for the benefit of all parties.
to capture new market opportunities and 2009 10 saw relatively little movement in improve efficiencies.
Our aim is to continue UK milk prices.
However we have seen Considerable progress has been made to develop and enhance this relationship in the past that dairy markets and milk over the past 12 months with our suppliers and find new ways of prices can be subject to significant shortMilk supply contracts have been a working together.
term price movements and the value of major focus.
In reviewing the terms under Over the past year we have price stability is recognised by both our which we buy milk from farmers we have undertaken an extensive consultation suppliers and ourselves.
We have worked responded to their requests for greater programme with all groups of our suppliers closely with DCD to deliver stable, market flexibility and choice.
We are working to to gain feedback and debate new ideas.
related milk prices to increase confidence introduce a portfolio of contract options to Together with Dairy Crest Direct DCD, and therefore future investment on farm.
suit different farm business models.
The who represents our direct milk suppliers, By taking a partnership approach with first new initiative was the launch of an we have reviewed and challenged all our farmer suppliers, we are building a innovative contract aligned to our doorstep aspects of our operation and jointly shared strategy to deliver sustainability delivery initiative milk&more.
This has Business review 30 Dairy Crest Annual Report 2010 Business review | Milk Procurement continued provided a fixed price option to liquid Supporting Suppliers the operational specialist carbon measurement tool, which suppliers seeking additional price stability service we provide to suppliers centrally will specifically focus on generating farm and security.
This has been very well and through local field based managers efficiencies and improved profitability.
received with over 100 of our suppliers is a key feature of the Dairy Crest offer.
Agri assist represents a first for the dairy opting to sign up to this opportunity.
We also provide additional benefits and industry as it brings together a farmer support including the funding of the unique group and a plc in a relationship outside of Adding Value the development of our and independent White Gold Service, the traditional milk operation.
retailer pools continues as we work with which provides individual advice on how Consumers are becoming increasingly supplier representatives to explore how to to maintain farm assured status and meet interested in where their food comes from implement on-farm initiatives to improve legislative requirements efficiently.
We and how it is produced and we recognise efficiency and demonstrate best practice in aim to communicate regularly and openly that we have to maintain their confidence agriculture, particularly in animal husbandry with suppliers, through activity including in the dairy supply chain.
We continue and the protection of the environment.
In routine publications, meetings and events.
to work with industry organisations, addition to the ongoing development of Work continues on improving the speed including DairyUK and DairyCo, as well as existing milk pools, our aim is to maintain and quality of communication channels our suppliers and customers to meet our our approach to add value and introduce through new technologies.
further alignment of suppliers to customers, The Direct Supply Managers are highly Looking forward we will continually products or services.
valued for their operational expertise and challenge how we operate and seek as part of our strategic review their role to develop innovative solutions for the Milk Supply total UK milk production has been developed - enabling them future.
Over time we intend to increase has declined in recent years.
Although this to provide individual business support the amount of milk we buy direct from trend has not been seen within our direct based on efficiency and optimum contract dairy farmers.
We also have a role to play supply pool, the market for direct supply performance.
in developing the next generation of dairy remains competitive.
We continue to work In addition, we are working to promote farmers and we are involved in a number to develop new contract opportunities awareness of environmental initiatives of training initiatives and awards for and establish clear points of difference for on farm as we continue to explore how young people, along with educational and both existing and potential new suppliers.
we can reduce the environmental impact business skills for farm managers and their The volume of milk we purchase from of dairy farming and our milk collection employees.
direct suppliers has grown to 70% of operation.
In summary, we aim to develop and the businesss total requirement and our maintain aspirational partnerships with aim is to increase this further through a Agri assist is the innovative new joint our direct supplying farmers, with shared staged recruitment process to reduce our venture established with DCD.
This benefits and positive outcomes for all.
exposure to third party supply.
was launched in January 2010 with the Direct Supply Manager DSM, Chris Mayo, with long-standing supplier Andrew Farrant on his farm in Oxfordshire.
Our DSMs provide advice to our suppliers on how they can optimise the returns from their supply contracts
