12 Dairy Crest Annual Report 2010 Experienced and motivated management Appointed to current role in Four years ago we recognised that we December 2008.
He joined Dairy needed to make improvements in cost, Crest in 1998 and held a number quality and service and we have done this, of finance roles before becoming but there is more to do.
I am delighted Finance Director of Dairies Division.
Previously worked in retail and we have committed to a major capital healthcare sectors, most recently investment programme in our dairies that with PPP healthcare.
will ensure continued progress and allow Toby us to grow.
I am also pleased with our increased focus on innovation in particular Brinsmead our flavoured milk brand FRijj and our milk Managing Director, Liquid Products bag packaging solution Worked for Dairy Crest for 17 years Dairy Crest has an established model that in senior roles in Purchasing and has enabled us to consolidate doorstep Liquids Products before being deliveries across England and Wales.
Despite appointed to current position this, doorstep sales have been falling.
Previously worked for Pepsico Foods International.
milkmen we have a delivery capability that cannot be matched by anyone else in the country and milk&more, our internet-based Mike Sheldon doorstep delivery service, has the potential to Managing Director, reverse the downward trend, create growth Household and simplify the business Appointed in October 2006, having The need to drive efficiencies and to previously been HR Director of reduce the risks associated with the Travis Perkins plc and Director of defined benefit pension scheme could Personnel for Celesio AG.
have put a significant strain on our relationship with our employees.
I am delighted that the work we have done to maintain a strong relationship with Rob Tansey our workforce and their representatives Group HR Director has prevented this.
I want to make Dairy Crest an employer of choice and we look to the future with hopes high Has spent career in food industry, I am confident that the UK can support covering roles from field to fork.
a thriving dairy sector and believe that After spells with Diageo and Dairy Crest, having been at the forefront Northern Foods, joined Dairy Crest of developing added value milk pools and in 2000 and held a number of senior roles before being appointed as the largest purchaser of British milk, to current role in February 2009. has an important role to play.
My team and I are committed to finding innovative Mark Taylor solutions that will continue to benefit both Group Milk customers and suppliers Procurement Director
