daily mail and general trust plC annual report 2010 euromoney institutional investor Key figures 330m 96m 29% revenue operating profit operating margin 2009: 318m 2009: 77m 2009: 24% most of euromoneys biggest Key DevelOpMenTS subscription businesses have seen The resilience of subscription income combined with a good revenues and renewal rates return to pre-credit crisis levels earlier than recovery in advertising and sponsorship revenues.
Strong cash flows leave headroom for increased investment in advertising revenues were the first to new products, most of them with digital platforms, as well as suffer during the credit crisis, and the first to recover.
advertising budgets and small strategic acquisitions.
campaigns tend to be linked to the calendar year, although the rate of euromoney increased its operating with a view to driving revenue growth recovery has improved each quarter as profit by 25%, on revenues up 4%.
global financial institutions became record profits underline the success of more confident about the outlook for in august, euromoney acquired arete its strategy to build a more robust and financial markets.
in addition, the Consulting, the definitive global data higher quality information business.
financial year closed with a particularly and news source for structured retail strong september, the key month of the Whilst the first half of the year benefited investment products.
euromoney will year for many of euromoneys from the cost cuts made the year continue to pursue its successful advertising-led businesses.
before, the second half brought a strategy in 2011, with an emphasis on return to revenue growth earlier and investing in technology and new revenues from events, which comprise faster than expected.
this better than subscription-based electronic both sponsorship and paying expected revenue performance information services, supplemented delegates, experienced the most rapid helped to offset euromoneys significant with small strategic acquisitions, to drive recovery in 2010. event revenues were investment in new products and the revenue growth.
hit hard during the credit crisis as online migration of its print businesses.
customers exercised tight controls over trading revieW training, event attendance and travel.
strategy at the same time euromoney cut event traditionally the recovery in revenue at volumes by eliminating many of its euromoneys strategy is to build a more the end of a downturn tends to be smaller, low margin events, and resilient and better focused global slower than the fall at the start, but this continued to invest to enhance the information business, with a strong has not been the case following the market leading positions of its annual emphasis on emerging markets.
While credit crisis, when the recovery has conferences and meetings.
as markets tight cost management was happened much earlier and faster than have recovered, so attendance at maintained throughout the year, the expected.
these events has returned rapidly to strategic focus has shifted to driving the faster than expected recovery of pre-credit crisis levels or better.
revenue growth, both from existing subscription revenues was the most products as markets recover, and from emerging markets, which account for encouraging trading sign during the investment in technology platforms and more than a third of the groups second half.
the pick up in subscription new products as part of the migration revenue, continued to hold up renewal rates began in the summer of to an online information business.
reasonably well, with asia and latin 2009, and has been followed by a during the year, euromoney invested in america providing the main sources recovery in sales of new subscriptions.
online products and started to execute of growth.
this reflects a combination of stronger long-term investment programmes for markets, increased investment in two of its most important electronic marketing and electronic publishing, as information businesses: bCa, the well as many new customers identified independent economic research in the aftermath of the credit crisis.
business, and CeiC, the provider of subscriptions continue to account for emerging market databases for nearly 50% of revenues.
adjusted operating profit before exceptional economists and analysts around the items and amortisation and impairment of world, with a view to building rapidly intangible assets.
the quality and coverage of their underlying revenue or profit is revenue or profit on a like-for-like basis, adjusted for acquisitions products as well as expanding their and disposals made in the current and prior year global sales resources.
this increased and at constant exchange rates.
level of investment is being undertaken percentages are calculated on actual numbers to one decimal place.
22 Chairmans statement direCtors report finanCial statements business revieW Corporate governanCe shareholder information Corporate responsibility remuneration report finanCial publishing ConferenCes and seminars outlooK revenues increased by 3% to 77 revenues comprise both sponsorship the recent strength of equity and million.
margin improved partly due to and paying delegates and increased commodity markets, and the the cost cuts made in 2009 and partly by 4% to 79 million.
the recovery in positive outlook for emerging to the strong end to the year as many of margin demonstrates the success of the markets, all provide momentum for the titles publish their biggest issue of groups strategy to cut low margin further recovery.
however, the the year in september.
among the best events in a downturn, while continuing broader outlook for global performers were euromoney, euroWeek to focus on building its larger, musteconomic growth remains and latin finance, all of which have a attend annual events in niche markets.
this, together with significant emerging market exposure.
as markets have recovered, the groups lingering concerns over sovereign bigger events have seen a sharp debt levels in europe, and the business publishing recovery in demand and attendance effectiveness of measures to avoid has improved.
growth has come across a repeat of the credit crisis, creates euromoneys activities outside finance all sectors, with some, such as uncertainty over the outlook are less volatile, reflecting the spread of structured finance and hedge funds, beyond december.
sectors covered, including metals, rebounding faster than expected, and commodities, energy, telecoms and nevertheless, euromoney expects others, such as metals, coal and law, and the higher proportion of its good second half revenue telecoms, with their strong emerging revenues derived from subscriptions.
performance to continue into the markets exposure, achieving record these sectors held up relatively well first quarter of the new financial attendance and revenues.
during the credit crisis and were not year.
furthermore, subscriptions subject to significant costs cuts, leaving provide support for further revenue databases and information limited margin upside.
revenues growth in 2011. serviCes increased by 5% to 59 million.
metal the level of spending on bulletin was again the best performer as revenues are predominantly derived technology and new product subscription revenues continued to from subscription contracts of 12 months investment will increase further in grow, driven by a combination of or longer, and the performance of this 2011. in the short term, this may product investment and increased division therefore tends to lag the reduce operating margins.
revenues increased by 3% to euromoney will also continue to nearly 90 million.
revenue growth execute significant long-term training recovered in the second half.
bCa investment programmes for bCa returned to growth from the third this division predominantly serves the and CeiC with a view to building quarter, earlier than expected.
CeiC global financial sector and was the rapidly the quality and coverage of continued to experience strong growth hardest hit by the credit crisis and cuts their products as well as expanding in revenue from its emerging markets in training spend, headcount and travel their global sales resources.
data service, which helped offset budgets.
training revenues, which are euromoney will continue to pursue weaker demand for isis emerging mostly derived from paying delegates, its successful strategy in 2011, with markets information service.
fell by 6% to 30 million, as the impact of an emphasis on investing in the credit crisis continued into the early technology and new subscriptionpart of the financial year.
from January, based electronic information as customer training budgets returned, services, supplemented with small delegate bookings gradually improved, strategic acquisitions.
although course volumes have been held back until there is more certainty over the recovery.
