daily mail and general trust plC annual report 2010 a&n media revenues for the year totalled 1,144 million, an underlying increase of 1%, though 5% lower on a reported basis, reflecting various portfolio changes.
higher national advertising revenues, together with a&n medias focus on cost control, led to its operating profits increasing by 39 million 46% to 125 million.
a&n medias margins rose from 7% to 11%.
the results of the uK operations of associated and northcliffe include one fewer weeks trading, as the prior year was a 53 week year, but all underlying year on year comparisons are on a like-for-like basis, comparing 52 weeks with 52 weeks and exclude discontinued operations.
assoCiated neWspapers Key figures 850m 95m 1 1% revenue operating profit operating margin 2009: 876m 2009: 62m 2009: 7% growth from most other categories.
Key DevelOpMenTS underlying classified advertising fell by Sharp rebound in profits through growth in national advertising just 1% to 52 million.
underlying digital revenue from the newspaper titles and cost containment.
companion sites increased by 54% to Daily Mail and Metro record highest ever operating profits.
Strong growth in digital audience, revenues and profits across the daily mail increased its share of the national daily newspaper market by 1% titles companion sites and pure play website businesses.
to 21%, which represented a record Acquisition of 50% of Globrix and disposal of DMR, Allegran percentage share during a period of sustained price discounting by a and loot.
daily circulation Closure of london lite and Teletext Information Services along averaged 2,120,000 copies, which was only 2% down year on year compared with greater benefit this year from loss-making businesses to a contraction in the overall market, disposed of during the prior year.
excluding the daily mail, of 6%.
the mail on sundays average Challenging economic conditions produced a significant improvement in circulation for the year was 1,987,000 continued during the first quarter, but operating margins up 4% to 11%.
an copies which, at 4% down year on year, improved thereafter.
total revenues exceptional operating charge of 20 comfortably outperformed the rest of were down 26 million, mainly due to million was made for restructuring and the sunday market decline of 8%.
the the impact of closed or sold businesses closure costs, the largest portion mail on sundays share of the total and the extra weeks revenue in last relating to print site restructuring and market increased to a new high of 19%.
improved revenues in display closures.
this was a significantly in January the mail on sundays format advertising, digital and developing improved and very satisfactory result.
revenue streams offset decreases in circulation and classified advertising neWspaper operations adjusted operating profit before exceptional items and amortisation and impairment of and resulted in underlying revenues intangible assets.
underlying circulation revenues fell by up 39 million 5%.
total underlying underlying revenue or profit is revenue or profit 2% to 351 million.
underlying on a like-for-like basis, adjusted for acquisitions advertising revenues rose by 6% to advertising revenues were up 7% at and disposals made in the current and prior year 442 million.
and at constant exchange rates.
for a& n 347 million, driven by a strong media, the underlying percentage movements operating profit for the year grew by performance by metro in particular.
compare 52 weeks with 52 weeks and exclude the evening standard, london lite, the 33 million to 95 million.
Continued underlying display advertising was up discontinued television activities of teletext, the control on costs, further operating 7% to 283 million.
retail, our largest digital dating and data businesses and the slovakian print publishing companies efficiencies and the actions taken to category, performed particularly percentages are calculated on actual numbers eliminate loss-making activities strongly, up 14%, but there was good to one decimal place.
24 Chairmans statement direCtors report finanCial statements business revieW Corporate governanCe shareholder information Corporate responsibility remuneration report Revenue by source m second half of the year.
the benefit of 71% since the beginning of 2010, lower newsprint prices and further making it the fastest growing 2010 2009 reductions in the cost base resulted in a newspaper in its market.
although still Circulation 351 357 20% rise in operating profit for the two loss-making, this has already had a advertising display 283 264 national titles with the daily mail clear impact on revenues which have advertising classified 52 52 recording its highest ever profit whilst grown by over 42% year on year in the digital 12 8 profitability of the mail on sunday more last 6 months.
the strategy of investment other 23 9 than doubled.
in circulation growth will continue for Week 53 13 2010 11. the mail digital division, which hosts the newspaper operations 721 703 newspapers companion websites, had printing digital only businesses 95 94 another strong year of growth, discontinued 12 63 recording a 57% improvement in Changes to the printing requirements in Contract print 22 16 advertising revenue.
there was a the south West led to the closure of our 850 876 significant rise in traffic to its primary print centre in plymouth.
some site, mail online, thereby securing it as production was transferred to the four the uKs most popular newspaper remaining sites.
harmsworth printing Revenue by source % website with a daily average of 1.13 continuously looks for opportunities for million unique visitors in september, up further operational efficiencies.
on a global basis advertising 33% display traffic to mail online grew to 47 million digital operations unique visitors during the same month, advertising 6% Classified revenue across the portfolio of digital making it the worlds second largest companies was up 1% year on year to digital 2% english language online newspaper.
95 million with particularly strong other 3% the free newspaper division growth in the property sector.
the digital only businesses 11% experienced a strong recovery this digital only businesses grew profit by discontinued 1% year.
this was achieved through a 5 million to 6 million and improved combination of the closure of london their margin whilst continuing to invest Contract print 3% lite, cost control and record revenues.
in their products and marketing across all metro maintained its daily circulation businesses and supporting international base at 1,331,000 down less than 1% expansion in the Jobs sector.
year on year and experienced during the final quarter, the associated advertising revenue growth of 21%.
northcliffe digital central functions Costs, excluding those directly related were integrated with a&n media, to increased paginations, increased by producing significant cost savings.
in march, metro digital only businesses now report renewed its agreement to distribute in directly into a&n media and head london underground stations for a office support functions are leveraged further seven and a half years.
traffic to across all a&n media businesses.
co. uk has seen strong growth during the year following a redesign of Jobs the site, up 163% to an average of 2.8m the flagship recruitment portal, Jobsite, uK unique visitor per month in the last maintained its commitment to invest in quarter.
digital revenue grew by 68% in brand building with multiple tv was changed to provide a new review the year.
campaigns and sponsorship of newspaper supplement and a metro ireland, in which associated held portsmouth fC, resulting in record traffic redesigned live magazine.
these a 45% share, merged in January with and uploaded Cvs.
the decline in changes have been well received by herald am, owned by independent vacancy volumes experienced during readers and advertisers.
the mail on news and media, following clearance the prior year reversed with consistent sundays other magazine supplement, from the irish Competition authority.
growth throughout the year, and also a you, won supplement of the year at associated holds 33% of the new marked increase in client numbers.
the the british press awards for an operation, metro herald, and our share number of vacancies advertised in unprecedented third successive year.
of losses on the product has reduced by september was 24% higher than the although there were no cover price 83% this year with revenue growth of 29% previous year, and this was reflected in rises, total revenues for the combined year on year.
7days in dubai saw a sustained revenue and profit delivery for national titles were flat year on year.
recovery in revenues, up 16% year on the uK digital recruitment division.
despite a contraction in combined year for the full year, but stronger later in Considerable strategic investment was display and Classified advertising the year, up 58% in the final six months.
incurred in rolling out the international revenues during october to december mail today, the delhi-based daily expansion plans for some of the key 2009, revenues increased annually by newspaper, in which associated holds a specialist recruitment businesses.
2% with particularly strong growth in the 26% interest, has grown its circulation by broadbean, a leading multi-poster of 25 daily mail and general trust plC annual report 2010 assoCiated neWspapers Continued vacancies and tracking information for travel motors recruiters, expanded its interests into the loss-making teletext information the motors digital division continued to both the us and europe.
oilcareers, a services business, provided under the grow, with underlying revenues up 9% leading job-board in the energy sector, terms of the public teletext licence, was year on year, and has built market share also opened offices in the us and is closed in december 2009. the to move ahead of ebay motors and exploring opportunities in the continuing business, teletext holidays, establish itself as a clear number two to middle east.
operates as an aggregator within the autotrader.
dealer numbers were up 5% travel sector and has gone from and vehicle numbers increased by 19%.
property strength to strength, despite the signing of partnership agreements the digital property group tdpg challenging market conditions with the with four regional newspaper groups at incorporating findaproperty.
com and value of uK spend on foreign holiday the beginning of 2009 10 is starting to primelocation.
com, continues to travel falling by 12%.
teletext holidays contribute to overall growth.
more provide a distinct and differentiated reported online profit growth of 18% strategic partnerships are planned.
the offering, delivering substantial value to driven primarily by online revenue software and services offerings have our customers through increased buyer increases in both yield 23% and been re-launched, with dedicated leads and seller instructions.
at villarenters online, the sales teams now focusing on growing difficult property market, revenues grew holiday villa letting portal, new this part of the business.
the business by 16% and margins remained stable management took over from the has been restructured under a new at 17%.
in addition, tdpg grew the outgoing founders.
trading was up with leadership team which launched a new number of estate agent branches using the conversion rate on the new motors.
co. uk brand and website, its services by 29%.
com website improving by resulting in an 11% year on year growth million home searches used tdpgs 6% and an increase in bookable in reach of online used car searches websites, a 14% increase on last year.
January saw the acquisition of 50% of the profitable elements of teletext tv globrix.
com, the uKs largest free to list services have been retained, operating property portal, extending the reach of as a&n media mobile and tv.
as part of this acquisition, we business has core expertise in entered into a joint venture with its monetising mobile channels, including founders to start up a software sms, and has supported the extension development company, artirix.
artirix of our brands via mobile services, with supplies services to the globrix business outlooK particular focus on launching a series of and also has contracts with media iphone apps, having achieved one it is still very difficult to predict companies in ireland and in the us.
future revenue trends: however, million downloads by the year end.
the strength of our key brands, efficiency programme, fast growing Associated Newspapers circulation performance vs market trend 1994 95 2009 10 digital businesses and focused cost control, leave associated well 150 140 placed to capitalise on any further 130 recovery in the economy.
it is, 120 however, facing upward pressure 110 on newsprint prices.
although 100 90 cautious about the revenue outlook 80 for 2011, we will continue to seek 70 out opportunities to leverage our 60 brands and deliver an excellent 50 customer experience.
