Chairmans statement direCtors report finanCial statements business revieW Corporate governanCe shareholder information Corporate responsibility remuneration report dmg events Key figures 110m 30m 27% revenue operating profit operating margin 2009: 175m 2009: 37m 2009: 21% Key DevelOpMenTS Underlying revenue reduced by 9%, with trend substantively improving late in the year.
While underlying revenue reduced by summary outlooK 9% in the year, the most significant dmg events reported revenues were the recent attendance and reductions were experienced early in down 37% to 110 million and operating bookings trends have been the year and by the final quarter we profit down 19% to 30 million, due in moderately encouraging and, were seeing year on year increases.
large part to the divestment of with our portfolio of marketunderlying operating profit fell by only businesses in the prior year.
these results leading events, we anticipate 7%, despite the high operating leverage also reflect the inclusion of one large these trends continuing to of exhibitions due to cost saving biennial event in June, the global improve in 2011. the forthcoming initiatives.
petroleum show, but the absence of year also benefits from two out of the largest show, the bi-annual new two others, gastech and adipeC.
our three major biennial shows york international gift fair, had a good during the year the restructuring of our taking place, with adipec in year with the summer show showing exhibitions division was completed.
dubai in november and gastech year on year increases in both revenue the performance of the reshaped and in amsterdam in march 2011. and visitor attendance.
the other major renamed group has been pleasing.
shows in the year were big 5, held in although profits are lower, this is due in dubai and serving the regions part to the late-cycle nature of construction sector, which grew exhibitions and also to the timing of strongly, and the biennial global some of our biennial shows.
these four margins have significantly improved by shows generated 45% of our underlying 6% to 27% as a consequence of revenue in the year.
reducing central costs, simplifying elsewhere, in the division we have operations and focusing on market continued to expand aggressively the leading b2b events.
programme of successful sponsorshipthe division is now organised into five driven leadership conferences under operating units, covering the sectors of the evanta brand and now have events retail gift, surf & Jewellery energy, for financial and human resource leadership Conferences, digital professionals, in addition to Chief marketing and a regional unit in the information officers initially served.
dmg events operating profit m adjusted operating profit before exceptional 06 items and amortisation and impairment of intangible assets.
07 underlying revenue or profit is revenue or profit 08 on a like-for-like basis, adjusted for acquisitions 09 and disposals made in the current and prior year 10 and at constant exchange rates.
0 5 10 15 20 25 30 35 40 percentages are calculated on actual numbers to one decimal place.
