daily mail and general trust plC annual report 2010 direCtors report the directors present their report and downturn in the global economy in the newspaper divisions and certain senior accounts for the year ended 3rd past two years, although in recent executives.
reported earnings may be october, 2010. months we have seen some recovery, adversely affected by changes in our especially in our uK national newspaper pension costs and funding requirements aCtivities titles.
a similar, although reduced, due to lower than expected investment effect has been seen in our businesses returns, changes in bond yields and the principal activities of the group are that rely on non-advertising revenues in changes in demographics, particularly set out on pages 14 and 15 of this the financial and property markets.
double dip recession gives rise to a risk approach and a revised asset the analysis of turnover and operating of not achieving the groups forecast allocation strategy, designed to reduce profit for the years ended 3rd october, results.
our experience in the past two and diversify the risk inherent in the 2010 and 4th october, 2009 are years has demonstrated how our investment portfolios have been included as note 3 to the Consolidated long-term strategy of diversifying the agreed and implemented and a risk income statement.
groups portfolio, into business management working group has been information and subscription revenue established to consider all aspects of business revieW streams, along with investment in strong financial risk and potential solutions.
brands, puts us in a robust position both the schemes remain neutral in cash flow the information that fulfils the now or if growth slows or falls in the terms and so do not currently need to Companies act requirements of the future.
further, management of costs sell assets.
the next triennial valuation of business review is included in the over the last two years has reduced the the schemes, as at 31st march, 2010, will business review on pages 4 to 33. this groups cost base.
be completed by June 2011. includes a review of the development of the business of the group during the the impaCt of teChnologiCal impaCt of a maJor disaster or year, of its position at the end of the and marKet Changes on our outbreaK of disease year and of likely future developments Competitive advantage in its business.
details of the principal any disaster, such as a geopolitical risks and uncertainties facing the group our businesses operate in highly event or outbreak of disease which are set out below.
competitive environments that can be significantly affects the wider subject to rapid change.
our products environment or the infrastructure in an prinCipal risKs and unCertainties and services, and their means of area where we have material delivery, are affected by technological operations, could adversely affect the the principal risks and uncertainties the innovations, competitor activity and group.
the importance of travel to many group faces vary across the different changing customer behaviour.
this has of our event businesses was highlighted businesses and are the focus of the risk been seen most obviously in our regional when during the year the eruption of the Committee.
these risks are identified in newspapers which have seen revenues, eyjafjallajkull volcano in iceland the dmgt group risk register.
the especially in classified advertising, grounded all european and some materiality of each risk is assessed migrate to online portals.
although business against a framework to determine continuity plans and procedures are in its significance and likelihood of all of our businesses are alert to market place to mitigate the impact of disaster occurrence.
the risk register is used to changes and emerging technologies risks, a terrorist attack, a major fire or determine the agenda and activity of that could disrupt their products and pandemic might affect our ability to the risk Committee.
the autonomous culture of the deliver products, reduce the demand risks identified in the risk register, group encourages an entrepreneurial for them or increase our cost base.
together with the steps taken to approach to the development of new mitigate them, are described below.
opportunities in response to these threats relianCe on Key management the operation of the risk Committee and we continue to invest and adapt to and staff retention is described on pages 44 and 45. remain competitive.
our strategy of diversification and willingness to take a We employ successful and talented the geographic spread and diverse long-term view helps us to react to these management and staff across all of our portfolio of businesses within the group challenges and opportunities when they businesses.
although we cannot predict help to dilute the impact of some of the arise.
in particular we have developed with certainty that we will enjoy groups key risks.
Certain of these risks an internet strategy for each of our main continued success in our recruitment are interdependent and should not be segments of advertising revenue and, as and retention of high quality considered in isolation.
such, our print and online businesses are management and creative talent, our working closely together to maximise group human resources director works exposure to Changes in the the synergies that exist between these with divisional and executive eConomy and Customer two formats.
management across the group on a spending patterns formal approach to talent a significant although decreasing pension sCheme shortfalls management and succession planning.
proportion of our revenue is derived this includes payment of competitive although closed to new employees in from advertising, largely from the uK rewards, employee performance and 2009, we continue to operate defined newspaper division, a&n media.
this turnover monitoring and a variety of benefit pension schemes for our revenue was heavily affected by the approaches to staff communication.
38 Chairmans statement direCtors report finanCial statements business revieW Corporate governanCe shareholder information Corporate responsibility remuneration report dedicated project management teams fluctuations impacting on the groups CommerCial relationships are used to manage the risk in any reported earnings, liquidity risk, interest inCluding volatility of neWsprint development or change project and rate risk and debt levels.
in addition We are reliant on a number of business continuity plans are in place the treasury function within dmgt commercial relationships with key and are regularly tested in each division undertakes high value transactions and suppliers and third parties.
a significant to protect existing systems.
therefore there is inherently a risk of change to the commercial terms under treasury fraud or error.
the policies and which we trade, or the loss of any of information seCurity procedures in place to manage these these key relationships, could have a risks are discussed in the financial and information security continues to be an material impact on the groups results.
treasury review on page 32. important issue for all businesses across in response to this, significant time and the group.
losses of data in the past resources are committed to developing tax risK have highlighted the importance of these relationships to ensure they information security.
our divisions our operations are global and therefore continue to operate satisfactorily.
manage information security risks our earnings are subject to taxation at an example of this is newsprint which locally with support and oversight from differing rates across a number of represents a significant proportion of the risk Committee on areas such as jurisdictions.
Whilst we endeavour to our costs.
newsprint prices are subject policy, training and technology.
any manage our tax affairs in an efficient to volatility arising from variations in future breach in our data security could manner, due to an ever more complex supply and demand.
the groups have a harmful impact on our business international tax environment there will newsprint requirements are managed and reputation.
always be a level of uncertainty when by a dedicated newsprint buying team provisioning for our tax liabilities.
there is and monitored by the board of legal and regulatory also a risk that changing tax laws would harmsworth printing.
Where possible, have an adverse effect on our financial our businesses are subject to varying long-term arrangements are agreed results.
Working with divisional legislation and regulation in the with suppliers to limit the potential management and external experts we jurisdictions in which we operate.
have a team of in-house specialists who these typically cover such areas as: review all tax arrangements within the competition: data protection: privacy: aCQuisition and disposal risK group and keep abreast of changing health and safety: and employment legislation.
as well as launching and building new law.
the recently enacted uK bribery businesses, an integral part of our act which comes into force in april forWard-looKing statements success has, and will continue to be, 2011 is notable as having multithe acquisition of businesses that jurisdictional reach i. e. all of our this annual report contains certain complement our existing products or businesses across the globe are forward-looking statements with respect expand the scope of our expertise.
it also extends to the principal risks and uncertainties a number of risks are inherent within beyond the groups direct subsidiaries, facing the group.
by their nature, these any strategy to acquire.
the majority of covering associates, joint ventures and statements involve risk and uncertainty acquisitions are in related markets and sales agents.
additionally we are party because they relate to events and are smaller businesses with a high to more specific regulations such as depend on circumstances that may or potential for growth.
this reduces the from the office of fair trading and the may not occur in the future.
there are a size of the risk of each acquisition to audit bureau of Circulation.
number of factors that could cause the group.
actual results or developments to differ We take compliance with laws and materially from those expressed or there are risks to our ability to achieve regulations seriously throughout the implied by these forward-looking optimal value from disposals including group.
our dmgt Code of Conduct statements.
no assurances can be given the incorrect timing of any sale, the and supporting policies sets that the forward-looking statements are inability to identify and agree a deal appropriate standards of business reasonable as they can be affected by with a purchaser, the unsuccessful behaviour and highlights the key legal a wide range of variables.
the forwardseparation of a business and and regulatory issues affecting our looking statements reflect the management of any related costs, as businesses and is available to all staff.
knowledge and information available well as the failure to realise any other training and further guidance is at the date of preparation of this annual anticipated benefits of a disposal.
Controls are report, and will not be updated during also in place surrounding compliance the year.
nothing in this annual report relianCe on it infrastruCture with the audit bureau of Circulations should be construed as a profit forecast.
regulations and other regulatory bodies all of our businesses are dependent on to which we adhere.
technology to some degree, either results and dividends through internal systems or software treasury risK the profit after taxation of the group products.
disruption to our information amounted to 219 million.
after technology infrastructure or failure to there are a number of risks arising from charging minority interests of 19 million, implement new products systems the groups treasury operations the group profit for the year amounted effectively could result in lost revenue including currency exchange rate to 200 million.
39 daily mail and general trust plC annual report 2010 direCtors report Continued an interim dividend of 5.0 pence per the Company also purchased 2,862,747 donations share was paid on the ordinary and a a ordinary non-voting shares for Charitable donations made by the ordinary non-voting shares and the holding in treasury, having a nominal group in the year amounted to directors recommend that a final value of 357,843 in order to match 860,000 2009 700,000. this excludes dividend of 11.0 pence per share be obligations under various incentive the cost of publicity, often provided free paid on 11th february, 2011 making plans.
the consideration paid for of charge by the groups titles, and 16.0 pence per share for the year these shares was 12.3 million.
shares funds raised by them, further details 2009 14.7 pence.
purchased during the year represented on which are given in the Corporate 0.77% of the called up a ordinary responsibility report on page 35 of this direCtors non-voting share capital at annual report.
no political donations 3rd october, 2010. biographical details of the directors of were made by the group.
the Company at 3rd december, 2010 full details of the Companys share are set out on page 37. the directors capital are given in note 36. substantial shareholdings remained unchanged during the year.
as set out in note 36, the Company has employees the number of shares of the Company two classes of share capital ordinary and of securities of other group under the groups general policy of shares and a ordinary non-voting companies, in which the directors or decentralised management, it is the shares.
on 3rd december, 2010 the their families had an interest at the year responsibility of the management in following were interested in more than end, are stated in the remuneration each subsidiary to encourage the 3% of the issued ordinary shares: report on pages 60 and 61. involvement and participation of rothermere Continuation limited 63.1% employees in their company.
the in accordance with the articles of and other parties to an agreement methods used vary company by association, the viscount rothermere which comes within section 824 of company, but the linking to and messrs hemingway, Williams, the Companies act 2006 performance targets of a significant dacre, dunstone and beatty are due to portion of remuneration is one widely Codan trust Company ltd and 29.3% retire by rotation at the annual general used means.
Codan trustees bvi ltd trustees meeting on 9th february, 2011. the of the esmond harmsworth 1998 board has, however, decided to adopt the group gives full and fair family settlement the provision in the new uK Corporate consideration to suitable applications governance Code, applicable for the from disabled persons for employment.
direCtors responsibilities Companys 2010 11 financial year, if existing employees become disabled statement whereby the entire board should stand they will continue to be employed, for re-election annually.
each director wherever practicable, in the same job the directors are responsible for being eligible, therefore offers himself or, if this is not practicable, every effort preparing the annual report and the for re-election.
will be made to find suitable alternative financial statements in accordance employment and to provide with applicable law and regulations.
Company law requires the directors to the Companys principal subsidiaries prepare financial statements for each poliCy on payment of suppliers are set out on pages 148 and 149. financial year.
under that law the the groups policy on supplier directors are required to prepare the post balanCe sheet events payments varies across its subsidiaries.
group financial statements in these companies have no formal code accordance with international there were no material post balance or standard which deals specifically financial reporting standards ifrss as sheet events.
with the payment of suppliers.
however, adopted by the european union and their policy is to ensure that the terms of article 4 of the ias regulation and have share Capital payment, as specified by, and agreed elected to prepare the parent details of allotments of share capital with the supplier at the outset, are Company financial statements in during the year, which arose solely from not exceeded.
accordance with united Kingdom the exercise of options, are given in generally accepted accounting the Company had no trade creditors note 36. practice united Kingdom accounting at the year end date.
at the annual general meeting on standards and applicable law.
under the groups average payment period, 10th february, 2010, the Company was Company law the directors must not calculated on the basis of year end granted the authority to purchase up approve the accounts unless they are trade creditors, is 66 days 2009 to 10% of its own shares.
satisfied that they give a true and fair 66 days, although this is dependent view of the state of affairs of the during the year, the Company on the year end date and cannot Company and of the profit or loss of the transferred 2,942,161 shares out of therefore be regarded as meaningful.
treasury, representing 0.79% of called up a ordinary non-voting shares, in order to satisfy incentive schemes.
40 Chairmans statement direCtors report finanCial statements business revieW Corporate governanCe shareholder information Corporate responsibility remuneration report in preparing the parent Company the directors are responsible for the annual general meeting financial statements, the directors are maintenance and integrity of the the agm of the Company will be held required to: corporate and financial information on 9th february, 2011 at 9.00 a. m. at the included on the Companys website.
select suitable accounting policies Kensington roof gardens, 99 Kensington legislation in the united Kingdom and then apply them consistently: high street, london W8.
details of all governing the preparation and make judgments and accounting resolutions, including those to be put dissemination of financial statements as special business, are set out in the estimates that are reasonable may differ from legislation in other and prudent: enclosed circular to shareholders.
state whether applicable uK Corporate governanCe responsibility statement accounting standards have been followed, subject to any material the following pages 42 to 46 on We confirm that to the best of our departures disclosed and explained Corporate governance also form part knowledge: in the financial statements: and of this directors report.
the financial statements, prepared by order of the board prepare the financial statements on in accordance with international the going concern basis unless it is financial reporting standards, give inappropriate to presume that the a true and fair view of the assets, Company will continue in business.
liabilities, financial position and profit or loss of the Company and N D Jennings, FCA in preparing the group financial the undertakings included in the secretary statements, international accounting consolidation taken as a whole: and 3rd december, 2010 standard 1 requires that directors: the business review, which is properly select and apply incorporated into the directors accounting policies: report, includes a fair review of the present information, including development and performance of accounting policies, in a manner the business and the position of the that provides relevant, reliable, Company and the undertakings comparable and understandable included in the consolidation taken information: as a whole, together with a description of the principal risks provide additional disclosures when compliance with the specific and uncertainties that they face.
requirements in ifrss are insufficient to enable users to understand the auditors impact of particular transactions, each of the persons who is a director at other events and conditions on the the date of approval of this annual entitys financial position and report confirms that: financial performance: and so far as the director is aware, there make an assessment of the is no relevant audit information of Companys ability to continue which the Companys auditors are as a going concern.
unaware: and the directors are responsible for the director has taken all the steps keeping adequate accounting records that he ought to have taken as a that are sufficient to show and explain director in order to make himself the Companys transactions and aware of any relevant audit disclose with reasonable accuracy at information and to establish that the any time the financial position of the Companys auditors are aware of Company and enable them to ensure that information.
that the financial statements comply this confirmation is given and should with the Companies act 2006. they are be interpreted in accordance with the also responsible for safeguarding the provisions of s418 of the Companies assets of the Company and hence for act 2006. taking reasonable steps for the prevention and detection of fraud the Companys auditors, deloitte llp, and other irregularities.
have indicated their willingness to continue in office and, in accordance with section 489 of the Companies act 2006, a resolution proposing their reappointment will be put to the annual general meeting.
