Chairmans statement direCtors report finanCial statements business revieW Corporate governanCe shareholder information Corporate responsibility remuneration report northCliffe media Key figures 294m 30m 1 0% revenue operating profit operating margin 2009: 328m 2009: 24m 2009: 7% although the increase in Key DevelOpMenTS unemployment levels showed some Underlying decline in UK revenues of 16 million 6%.
early signs of slowing, recent budget cut announcements have, as expected, Continuing weak economic climate and UK Government had a heavy impact on our private austerity measures impact key categories.
and public sector recruitment spend.
recruitment revenues declined by an Restructuring activities delivered underlying year on year underlying 19%.
in the property category, revenues Investment continues to improve the quality of our titles grew by 5% with year on year growth recorded each month since quarter and platforms.
residential advertising has been Systems investments strengthen our ability to serve robust despite recent market intelligence indicating a reduction in our customers.
the level of mortgage approvals.
motors advertising benefited from a northcliffes portfolio of titles continued newspaper sales revenues fell on a strong digital performance.
the to be affected by weak advertising like-for-like basis by 6% or 4 million.
underlying decline was only 3% in 2010. markets.
recruitment and notices modest cover price increases were retail advertising, northcliffes largest categories in particular were affected implemented in the year on specific category in 2010, fell by an underlying by low private sector demand and titles.
for the January to June 2010 abC 4% in the full year and the final quarter.
the period, circulation of our dailies was company continued its programme of down 7.7% compared with an industry all other categories combined restructuring and process innovation average of 6.7%.
the weekly titles contracted by an underlying 8%.
and delivered year on year underlying recorded a fall of 4.4%, a result which despite the challenges of a contracting cost savings of 27 million.
outperformed the industry average by advertising market, northcliffe has 1.5 percentage points.
total headcount reduced by a further continued to invest in the development 7%, or 280 people.
despite the fall in revenues, northcliffe and roll out of a customer relationship has continued to innovate to improve management Crm system to harvest uK the quality and quantity of its business leads and improve sales newspaper content.
all northcliffe centres will northcliffe increased its uK operating 2009, 10 daily titles have introduced a be using the system by early 2011. profits by 6.7 million 34% to 26.5 total redesign and four have adopted northcliffe also completed the million.
underlying revenues were partial redesigns.
fourteen weekly development of new circulation down 16 million or 6%, offset by cost newspapers have also introduced software, which will be implemented reductions.
exceptional costs of 15 significant design changes.
the volume in the new financial year.
this will allow million were incurred on restructuring of community provided news and us to adopt more efficient and agile activities, including asset impairments.
photography continues to increase in processes for fully paid, part paid all titles to add unique content and and free newspaper distribution, celebrate local life.
using consolidated structures at reduced cost.
after unprecedented advertising declines in 2009 and a year on year decline of 17% in the first quarter, advertising trends improved to reach a full year result of 7% down year on year on a like-for-like basis.
adjusted operating profit before exceptional items and amortisation and impairment of intangible assets.
underlying revenue or profit is revenue or profit on a like-for-like basis, adjusted for acquisitions and disposals made in the current and prior year and on a 52 week comparable basis.
percentages are calculated on actual numbers to one decimal place.
27 daily mail and general trust plC annual report 2010 northCliffe media Continued our digital audience continued to at the end of the year.
the number of visitors across the northcliffe to serve local advertisers uK advertising revenues into the thisis digital network was 4.9 million in and users better through the thisis and new financial year have continued september, up 10% on the previous localpeople networks.
technical to track the year on year trend year.
the strength of our digital offering investment in the localpeople digital experienced in 2009 10. the and continued audience growth has platform will be leveraged across all outlook for the first quarter is not enabled revenue increases in all of our digital products to improve user expected to improve on this trend.
key categories, apart from recruitment experience.
and notices, where market pressures as with associated, northcliffe will northcliffe has continued to innovate were universally felt.
be affected by higher newsprint and change processes to drive down prices.
although cost reduction digital advertising revenue of 17 million operational costs.
these have reduced initiatives will continue during the grew by an underlying 13%.
in property, by 26m or 10% compared to the same current year, we are now focused our digital property offering of period last year.
on revenue opportunities as we findaproperty and primelocation staff costs fell by 14 million underlying build on our digital strengths and continued to gain estate agent support as headcount was reduced by 242 or sales capability.
progress 7% since september 2009. greater was also made by motors.
co. uk through efficiency has been delivered across increased inventory and higher yields.
services production and distribution costs have revenue, which doubled in 2009, reduced by an underlying 15 million.
recorded further growth of 57% in 2010 some savings were as a consequence as the digital directory on the local thisis of lower activity levels.
however, more network gained market traction.
significant reductions have been made last year, a&n media launched a through rationalisation of the product hyperlocal initiative, localpeople, portfolio, distribution changes and the aimed at communities of up to 60,000 full year impact of prior year print people where there is a strong plant closures.
the portfolio of sites reached 120 by international september 2010. localpeople was a&n internationals operating profits transferred into the northcliffe portfolio fell by 0.6 million to 3.7 million on Revenue analysis m UK revenues down 24% to 33 million.
2010 2009 trading conditions continued to be challenging and in february, a decision advertising 169 184 was taken to dispose of the divisions Circulation 65 69 print business in slovakia.
Within the digital 19 17 continuing business underlying print other 8 9 and digital advertising revenues were Week 53 6 respectively 30% and 12% lower than 261 285 last year.
headcount has been reduced and significant cost savings were made.
Revenue analysis the year on year decline in print revenues slowed towards the end of the advertising 65% year.
the performance of digital Circulation 25% revenues has improved significantly and digital 7% unique visitor engagement with all of our digital businesses continues to grow.
