Chairmans statement direCtors report finanCial statements business revieW Corporate governanCe shareholder information Corporate responsibility remuneration report dmg information Key figures 231m 53m 23% revenue operating profit operating margin 2009: 230m 2009: 46m 2009: 20% other marKets Key DevelOpMenTS 64% of dmgis revenue was generated Operating profit increased by 14% to 53 million by companies operating in the Margins improved by 3% to 23% financial, education, energy and geospatial markets.
pleasing growth was experienced in all of these with the profit.
edr continues to enhance its summary exception of geospatial where the position in the lender market and also continuation of tough market in a year that saw a fragile recovery in introduced a property monitoring conditions, driven by tight us state and some of our markets, dmgis profits product during the year.
federal budgets, led to a reduction in increased by 14% to 53 million with landmark information group also sanborns revenue.
in total, revenue in margins improving by 3% to 23% as a these other markets was up 2% at 148 increased both revenues and operating consequence of both good expense profits, despite the continuing million and they contributed operating control across the division and the profits of 36 million, representing 11% difficulties in the uK housing market.
We operating leverage of our information saw some improvement in the early growth.
the underlying revenue and businesses.
operating profits were higher by 1% and part of the year, enhanced by the reported revenue was up 1 million at stamp duty holiday that expired on 9% respectively.
underlying revenues grew 31st december, 2009, but throughout in the financial information market, by 4%, with strong performances in the the remainder of the year housing trepp is the market leader of property, financial, energy and transaction volumes remained similar to information to the Commercial education sectors which in aggregate the prior year levels, hovering around mortgage-backed securities Cmbs grew by 8%, in part mitigated by a half of the long-term average.
the market and once again grew revenue decline in our geospatial revenues.
abolition of home information packs and operating profit strongly.
trepp underlying operating profits grew by following the general election in may successfully acted as the collateral 16% year on year.
further disrupted the market, although monitor for Cmbs for the federal landmark accrued limited margin from reserve bank of new york as part of the property information this relatively short-lived product line.
us federal governments term assetoperating profit from the property landmark made two small acquisitions backed securities loan facility talf.
information companies increased by to enhance our offerings to the trepp also developed its core Cmbs 20% to 20 million, with revenues up 10% property information market in the uK.
products significantly during the year at 83 million.
underlying revenues and Calnea, a leading provider of and started to expand into adjacent operating profits grew by 10% and 28% automated valuation models, was areas.
respectively due to strong product acquired in July and the argyll lewtan, offering products to both performance and a slight improvement environmental acquisition was investors and issuers in the asset-backed in residential and commercial property completed shortly after the end of the securities market, also enjoyed a good activity.
year with record profits buoyed by the in the us our market-leading provider of successful launch of its abs loan dmgi also has a significant investment in environmental information, builderadius, a property information product line.
a major upgrade of its environmental data resources edr, absnet product is to be launched in business.
builderadius has built the benefited from a slight improvement in largest database of building permit early 2011. commercial property transactions data in the us with in excess of 70 million enhancing revenue and this, together records from cities and counties across with the full effect of cost saving the us.
it also provides building permit initiatives made in 2009, led to a and inspection software blueprince significant improvement in operating to municipal governments.
adjusted operating profit before exceptional items and amortisation and impairment of intangible assets.
underlying revenue or profit is revenue or profit on a like-for-like basis, adjusted for acquisitions and disposals made in the current and prior year and at constant exchange rates.
percentages are calculated on actual numbers to one decimal place.
19 daily mail and general trust plC annual report 2010 dmg information Continued hobsons, our education information dmg information revenue m business, increased underlying 01 revenues by 7%.
hobsons provides 02 products to education professionals to 03 assist in the preparation, recruitment, 04 management and advancement of 05 students and continues to increase its 06 market share.
in the year almost 200 07 new clients of its core products were 08 09 added pushing the customer base to in 10 excess of a thousand colleges in the us.
0 50 100 150 200 250 naviance, the division providing solutions to us high schools, enjoyed an excluding rms and study group sold 2006. outstanding year adding 890 additional high schools to its client list, taking the total to 4,370 high schools across the us.
the energy trading markets have dmg information operating profit m remained turbulent, with customer consolidation and lower energy price 01 volatility reducing activity.
despite this 02 backdrop, genscape was able to 03 increase revenues by 8%.
the product 04 range offered by genscape continues 05 06 to expand and of particular note was 07 the success of its new oil product line.
08 09 10 outlooK 0 10 20 30 40 50 60 dmgi companies are all market leaders in their respective excluding rms and study group sold 2006. segments and we expect that the combination of continuing investment in core growth initiatives, combined with continuing improvements in market conditions, will drive a modest acceleration of our revenue growth.
