SECTION 2 Business Review Operating business and financial review KEy PERFoRMAnCE inDiCAToRs Definition source Performance SALES: Like-for-like sales growth Like-for-like sales are calculated based on stores that have been 09 10 open for a full year and the first full four weeks of trading have passed.
1.5% Stores where retail space has been added or where a complete format redesign including addition of mezzanine floor has taken place, which involves material capital expenditure, are excluded from 6.2% like-for-like sales calculations.
Sales through internet sites are included.
Internet sales growth Percentage increase in web-generated sales.
2010: 23% Cross channel Web-generated sales as a percentage of total product sales.
2010: 9.1% PROFITABILITY: 28.1% Retail profit 10 Retail profit represents total operating profit before the share of joint 45.5% venture and associates interest and taxation, valuation gains and losses on options to acquire minority interests, profit on disposal 09 of business operation, exceptional restructuring costs and amortisation and impairment of acquisition related intangible assets.
Adjusted earnings per share growth 55.6% Excludes the effects of valuation gains and losses on options to acquire minority interests, profit on disposal of business operation, exceptional 10 71.7% restructuring costs, exceptional finance costs and amortisation of acquisition related intangible assets.
09 CASH FLOW: 147.4m Free cash flow 119.3m Free cash flow defined as cash generated from operations less net capital expenditure and investments.
09 10 The Group manages its performance using these Key Performance Indicators in place at a Group and business level.
Further non-financial measures are considered in the corporate responsibility report on page 19.
14 Kesa Electricals plc | Annual report 2009 10 SECTION 2 Business Review Other financial matters Interest rate risk Financial risk management The Group is exposed to the risk of fluctuation in interest rates on Kesa Group treasury manages liquidity and exposure to funding, credit, its borrowings and manages this exposure using interest rate swaps.
price, interest rate and foreign exchange rate risks.
Group treasury The Group policy requires that at least 30 per cent, but no more than uses a combination of derivative and conventional financial instruments 70 per cent, of long-term debt in the Group must be at a fixed rate.
to manage these underlying financial risks.
Treasury operations are As at 30 April 2010, the Group did not have any drawn long-term conducted within a framework of Board-approved policies and debtbalances.
guidelines, which are recommended and monitored by the Treasury Committee.
These policies and guidelines include bank exposure limits Credit risk and hedge cover levels for each of the key areas of treasury risk.
Interest rate swap agreements, foreign exchange contracts and The Board and Treasury Committee receive monthly reports covering deposits transacted by the Group are only entered into with the activities of Group treasury.
counterparties possessing a long-term credit rating of A or better.
Group treasury regularly monitors the Groups credit exposure to The main elements of treasury activity and related risks are its counterparties together with their credit ratings.
outlinedbelow: Capital management Liquidity and funding The principal sources of capital to fund the Groups operations are It is the policy of the Group to maintain sufficient committed financial equity, bank borrowings and operating leases on properties.
Group resources to meet its business objectives.
The interest rate, currency policy is to borrow centrally to meet funding requirements: funds and maturity profiles of the Groups borrowings are disclosed in notes are then lent or contributed as equity to certain subsidiaries.
2 and 23 to the financial statements.
In considering the balance of sources of finance used by the Group, The Groups principal facility is a 500 million revolving credit facility the Group seeks to maintain financing from equity, debt and property expiring in 2013.
Peak borrowing under the 500million revolving leases relative to earnings and cash flows at levels consistent, credit facility was 180million in November 2009.
As at 30 April 2010, over time, similar to companies rated investment grade by publicly 60million of this facility was drawn down.
Currency Change of reporting currency The Group publishes its financial statements in sterling and conducts For the 2010 11 financial year, the Group will change its reporting the majority of its business in several foreign currencies.
As a result, it is currency from sterling to euros.
This will provide a better reflection of subject to foreign currency exchange risk from exchange movements the underlying performance of the Group as nearly two thirds of total affecting the Groups sterling transactions and the translation of the revenue and over 90 per cent of the retail profit are generated in euros.
results and underlying net assets of its foreign subsidiaries.
Dividends will be offered in either sterling or euros with reference to euro earnings.
Proforma financials will be provided with the Q1 IMS The Group hedges a substantial proportion of its exposure to on 16September 2010.
The first reporting in euros will be the half year fluctuations on the translation into sterling of its foreign currency assets results in December 2010. by holding net borrowings in foreign currencies, primarily the euro.
The Group does not hedge the translation of overseas earnings Going concern intosterling.
The Directors have performed a review of revenue and profit forecasts, expected cash flows, available borrowing facilities and expected The Group adopts a centralised approach to foreign exchange risk compliance with related covenants.
This has provided reasonable management.
It is Group policy that no foreign exchange transaction expectation that the Kesa Electricals Group has adequate resources may be undertaken without the express permission of Group treasury, to continue in operational existence for the next financial year and the which is responsible for all hedging transactions.
Any foreign exchange foreseeable future.
transaction must be demonstrably linked to an underlying exposure and, where hedge accounting is applied, the hedge must be continually Accordingly, the Directors continue to adopt the going concern basis monitored through the life of the transaction to ensure it remains in preparing the financial statements.
effective and appropriate in accordance with IAS 39.
Dominic Platt Finance Director The Group treasury policy requires that all committed and measurable transactional foreign exchange risks must be hedged, up to a maximum of 12 months forward, using forward foreign exchange contracts.
The gain or loss on the hedge is recognised in income at the same time as the underlying transaction.
Kesa Electricals plc | Annual report 2009 10 15
