SECTION 2 Business Review BCC in Holland was impacted by very difficult trading conditions.
Vanden Borre in Belgium again strongly outperformed its market.
Other established businesses Gross margin improved and overall losses reduced by 35 per cent to While Vanden Borre in Belgium strongly outperformed its market, BCC 33.1 million from 51.1 million in 2009, helped by good progress at in Holland and Datart in the Czech Republic were impacted by very Darty Italy and Darty Turkey, our restructuring plan at Menaje del Hogar difficult trading conditions.
As a result, total revenue fell by 4.7 per cent and the sale of Darty Switzerland in July.
Free cash outflow reduced in local currency and 8.3 per cent on a like-for-like basis.
The segment delivered an improvement in gross margin over the year Both Darty Italy and Darty Turkey continued to build scale with both but due to the fall in revenue, retail profit was 16.1 million, compared businesses finishing the year with 17 stores.
We opened three new to 23.3 million for the same period last year.
Retail profit margin stores in Italy and six new stores in Turkey.
In the coming year we plan reduced to 2.1 per cent compared with 2.9 per cent last year.
to open a further eight stores in Italy and six stores in Turkey.
Free cash flow was 19.0 million.
The restructuring programme at Menaje del Hogar to stabilise the The store development programme continued with the opening of four business and reduce losses continued throughout the year.
All the new stores and one relocation in Holland and one new store opening planned store closures for the year have been completed and we now in Belgium.
Overall a total of six new stores are planned for this year.
have 50 stores in the network.
33 stores have been refurbished in line In the Czech Republic, Datart relocated its central warehouse during with the Darty concept with improved product ranges and better the first half of the year and, in Belgium, Vanden Borre relocated its in-store merchandising and these stores delivered encouraging results.
head office and central warehouse.
In addition, the management team continues to develop the service-led concept and the rebranding programme to Darty is on schedule to be With the help of a newly revamped website at BCC, overall weblargely completed this financial year.
During 2010 11, three new stores generated sales continued to grow strongly throughout the year and will open, three relocations will be completed and four stores will close.
increased by 33.8 per cent during the period and now represent nearly 6 per cent of total product sales.
Outlook While we have started the year in line with our expectations, we Developing businesses anticipate our major markets remaining challenging for the rest of the Total revenue for the Developing businesses, Darty Switzerland, current financial year.
We remain focused on delivering our strategic Darty Italy, Darty Turkey and Menaje del Hogar, fell by 1.6 per cent, plan further rolling out our specialist business model and improving due to the impact of the Darty Switzerland sale and the planned profitability across the Group.
In addition, we will maintain our track closure of 20 stores at Menaje del Hogar.
On a like-for-like basis record of strong cash generation while increasing investment in revenue grew by 2.6 per cent following a strong performance in thebusinesses.
the second half of the year, particularly in Spain, with share gains in all three markets.
Thierry Falque-Pierrotin Chief Executive Kesa Electricals plc | Annual report 2009 10 9 SECTION 2 Business Review Operating business and financial review sOlving all the cOnnectivity and usage needs in yOuRhOme helping to demystify the digital revolution by developing our paid for after sales services offer.
10 Kesa Electricals plc | Annual report 2009 10
