SECTION 2 Business Review We were the first UK retailer to test the energy efficiency of the computers we Last year, 90.3 per cent of the fridge freezer products we sold were A-rated, sell and then promote the better performing products.
compared to 81.6 per cent two years earlier.
Additional projects from around the Group include: the introduction Whether we are dealing with major brands or sourcing from elsewhere of a centrally based Building Management system at Comet to control we ensure that our products have been tested for safety, health and all energy usage in the stores but without affecting customers in-store environmental issues.
At the same time our policy is to work in experience: campaigns to enable the reduction of plastic bag usage partnership with our suppliers to help them reduce their impact on at Vanden Borre, over a period where revenue increased by 4 per the environment and to manage the challenges of sustainable growth.
cent, total bag usage decreased by 38 per cent: the opening of a brand new warehouse with solar panels that produce enough power for over The Group sources its own label products from factories that are 270 households.
committed to improving workers welfare and reducing environmental impact.
We believe that every link of the supply chain should benefit Supply chain from the trade in our products.
Customers increasingly expect that retailers should have procedures in place to ensure that the products they sell have been ethically We have two kinds of audit procedures which are designed to ensure produced from beginning to end of the supply chain.
proper environmental standards in our factories and to monitor the quality of our products in this respect.
These are known as the Factory Many of our electrical products are sourced through the major Audit and the Final Random Inspection.
international brands who have their own strong ethical and environmental policies in place.
We have an experienced quality team based in China which carries out regular factory audits to ensure that they meet the strict social, We do not have significant operations or retail outlets in countries that environmental and supply chain standards we require.
We know the present a material risk from bribery or corruption, poor labour standards identity of all our suppliers and where their products are being made.
or protection of civil or political rights.
However, some of our suppliers do.
We are determined that the respect for human rights in our own operations should be matched by the companies and organisations with whom we do business.
Kesa Electricals plc | Annual report 2009 10 17
