SECTION 2 Business Review Operating business and financial review Comet gained market share in what remained a tough environment for Total revenue at Darty France grew by 2.7 per cent compared to the same thesector.
Comet Comet grew market share in what remained a tough environment for the sector, which is estimated to have declined by 2 per cent.
Significant gains were made in large white goods.
As a result total revenue was 1,650.2 million, a fall of 0.6 per cent compared to the same period last year and a fall of 1.4 per cent on a like-for-like basis.
Following successful trials of a tailored With an easing of the gross margin pressure through the year and a continuing strong focus on costs, Comets retail profit increased refurbishment of three smaller stores, to 11.5 million from 10.1 million last year.
This was helped by the programme was extended to a further the merger of two regions and the completion of the restructuring programme with the closure of a regional distribution centre.
Free four stores in the last quarter of the financial cash flow was 22.0 million after funding its investment programme year.
Under this programme, 40 further and pension contributions.
stores will be refurbished during 2010 11.
During the year, Comet continued the optimisation of its store portfolio with the opening of one new store and the closure of three stores.
Following successful trials of a tailored refurbishment of three smaller stores, the programme was extended to a further four stores in the last quarter of the financial year.
Under this programme, 40 further stores will be refurbished during 2010 11.
Also during the current year three new stores and three relocations will be completed whilst nine stores will be closed.
In merchandising, new format laptop and digital camera tables were introduced to 40 stores with an immediate positive impact.
They will be rolled out to a further 30 stores during the coming year.
Web-generated sales grew by 8.9 per cent and now account for 13.6per cent of total product sales.
This reflects the continued development of Comets online offer ahead of the launch of its new web platform before the next peak season.
These included enhanced navigation, a Q&A facility and a dedicated mobile website.
8 Kesa Electricals plc | Annual report 2009 10
