OTHER STATUTORY INFORMATION Payments to suppliers Statement of Directors responsibilities in respect of the The Company and Groups policy is that suppliers be paid on the Annual Report and the Financial Statements basis of monthly summary invoicing plus 60 days subject to local The Directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Report laws or other exceptions.
The average number of days credit and the Group and Parent Company Financial Statements provided by suppliers to the Group has been calculated at 35 days in accordance with applicable law and regulations.
The Company does not have any trade Company law requires the Directors to prepare Group and Parent payables.
Company Financial Statements for each financial year.
Under that Change of control law they are required to prepare the Group Financial Statements in A number of agreements take effect, alter or terminate upon a accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the EU and applicable law change of control of the Company following a takeover bid, such and have elected to prepare the Parent Company Financial as bank loan agreements and employee share plans.
None of these Statements in accordance with UK accounting standards and is deemed to be significant as a whole except for the following: applicable law UK Generally Accepted Accounting Practice.
The 175m credit facility dated 11 March 2010 between the Under company law the Directors must not approve the Financial Company and four of its key relationship banks contains a provision Statements unless they are satisfied that they give a true and fair such that in the event of a change of control, any lender may, if it so view of the state of affairs of the Group and Parent Company and of requires, notify the agent that it wishes to cancel this commitment their profit or loss for that period.
In preparing each of the Group and whereupon the commitment of that lender will be cancelled and all Parent Company Financial Statements, the Directors are required to: its outstanding loans, together with accrued interest, will become Select suitable accounting policies and then apply them immediately due and payable.
consistently A change of control will be deemed to have occurred if any person Make judgments and estimates that are reasonable and prudent or persons acting in concert as defined in the City Code on Takeovers and Mergers at any time is are or become interested For the Group Financial Statements, state whether they have been in more than 50 per cent of the issued ordinary share capital prepared in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the EU of the Company.
For the Parent Company Financial Statements, state whether Political donations applicable UK accounting standards have been followed, subject There were no political donations made during the year.
The Groups to any material departures disclosed and explained in the Parent policy is not to make any.
The Company will propose to shareholders Company Financial Statements at this years Annual General Meeting AGM that the precautionary Prepare the Financial Statements on the going concern basis authority granted at the 2009 AGM, pursuant to the Companies Act unless it is inappropriate to presume that the Group and the 2006, be renewed and details are included in the Chairmans Letter Parent Company will continue in business and Notice of Meeting.
The Directors are responsible for keeping adequate accounting Essential contracts or other arrangements records that are sufficient to show and explain the Parent fide La Rue confirms there are no persons with whom the Group Companys transactions and disclose with reasonable accuracy has contractual or other arrangements which fide La Rue considers at any time the financial position of the Parent Company and enable are essential to its business.
them to ensure that its Financial Statements comply with the Annual Report and the Financial Statements Companies Act 2006.
They have general responsibility for taking Going concern such steps as are reasonably open to them to safeguard the assets The Groups business activities, together with the factors likely to of the Group and to prevent and detect fraud and other irregularities.
affect its future development, performance and position are set out Under applicable law and regulations, the Directors are also on pages 16 to 23 of the Business Review.
The financial position of responsible for preparing a Directors Report, Directors the Group, its cash flows, liquidity position and borrowing facilities Remuneration Report and Corporate Governance Statement are described in pages 28 to 30 of the Business Review.
The that comply with that law and those regulations.
accounting policies used in the preparation of the financial results are described in pages 60 to 65.
The Directors are responsible for the maintenance and integrity of the corporate and financial information included on the Groups As described on page 29 of the Annual Report, the Group meets website.
Legislation in the UK governing the preparation and its funding requirements through a main corporate borrowing facility dissemination of financial statements may differ from legislation of 175m which runs until September 2013 and cash generated in other jurisdictions.
The Groups forecasts and projections, taking into account reasonably possible changes in trading performance, show that the Group should be able to operate with its currently available facilities.
The Group has sufficient financial resources together with assets that are expected to generate cash flow in the normal course of business.
As a consequence the Directors have a reasonable expectation that the Company and the Group are well placed to manage their business risks and to continue in operational existence for the foreseeable future, despite the current global uncertain economic environment.
Accordingly, the Directors continue to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the Annual Report and Accounts.
40 fide La Rue Annual Report 2010 Business Review Corporate Governance Report Group Financial Statements Company Financial Statements Shareholders Information Directors Responsibility Statement in respect of the Disclosure and Transparency Rules We confirm to the best of our knowledge: The Financial Statements prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards as adopted by the EU adopted IFRS, give a true and fair view of the assets, liabilities, financial position and profit of the Company and the undertakings included in the consolidation taken as a whole The Parent Company Financial Statements in this report, which have been prepared in accordance with UK accounting standards UK Generally Accepted Accounting Practice and applicable law, give a true and fair view of the assets, liabilities, financial position and profit of the Company The Directors Report includes a fair review of the development and performance of the business and the position of the Company and the undertakings included in the consolidation taken as a whole, together with a description of the principal risks and uncertainties that they face Provision of information to auditors The Directors who held office at the date of approval of this Directors Report confirm that, so far as they are each aware, there is no relevant audit information of which the Companys auditors are unaware: and each Director has taken all the steps that he or she ought to have taken as a Director to make himself or herself aware of any relevant audit information and to establish that the Companys auditors are aware of that information.
Auditors A resolution to reappoint KPMG Audit Plc as auditors to the Company will be proposed at the Annual General Meeting.
By order of the Board Edward Peppiatt Company Secretary 24 May 2010 fide La Rue Annual Report 2010 41
