Section 2 The Business Groundbreaking News 18 18 Debenhams Annual Report and Accounts 2010 Groundbreaking News Debenhams Debenhams became the first high street retailer to break with the taboo of using disabled models in campaign photography during 2010.
Following an approach from Nikki Fox and Natasha Wood, both disability campaigners and presenters of the hit Channel 4 show How To Look Good Naked With A Difference, Shannon Murray, who has used a wheelchair since breaking her neck in her teens, appeared in photography in our store windows and online.
Debenhams first with disabled model Shannon joined three other models Kate Fullman, a size 16 model, Tess Gok Wan added: We in the UK have the best high street in the world.
Its a Montgomery, a petite model, and Tokumbo Daniel, a size 10 model in multi-million pound industry that needs to recognise all shapes, sizes and imagery to promote the new Principles by Ben fide Lisi range.
Filming How To Look Good Naked has been a life-changing huge response, further campaigns using disabled models are planned.
experience for me, because I have learnt so much about a community I knew existed but have never been involved with.
Debenhams is pushing Nikki Fox said: I am so happy and proud that Debenhams has used the boundaries by producing the first ever disabled fashion campaign our disabled model for such a massive campaign.
in conjunction with How To Look Good Naked and I hope that one day If seeing Shannon helps another disabled person, then weve done well.
disabilities will be recognised by every chain in the high street.
Debenhams Debenhams unveils beauty untouched Debenhams broke ranks with the rest of the high street in 2010 by using un-airbrushed photography to launch this summers swimwear lines.
We believe that overuse of some digital technology to create unrealistic body shapes and awless skin may make women feel insecure about their natural looks and size.
As a responsible retailer, we want to help our customers make the most of their beauty without bombarding them with unattainable body images.
We have been canvassing customers opinions and will use their feedback when creating future campaigns.
Caryn Franklin, fashion commentator and broadcaster, said: Retailers do have the power to take a stance on digital manipulation.
Fashion and beauty imagery that is honest is absolutely crucial for all women to see.
Im delighted that Debenhams has taken the lead here and customer feedback will no doubt validate this important step.
Natural beauty: before airbrushing Unrealistic: after airbrushing Groundbreaking News Section 2 The Business 19 Debenhams Annual Report and Accounts 2010 Groundbreaking News Debenhams Size matters In February 2010 we trialled the 16, do you want to see more of use of size 16 mannequins in me?
Debenhams routinely stocks our store windows and asked womenswear up to size 26. customers what they thought.
Like most retailers, we generally Susan Ringwood, Chief Executive use standard size 10 mannequins: of the charity Beat that aims to however, the majority of British combat eating disorders, said: women are either size 14 or size 16.
Women often feel it is their fault Signage next to the mannequins, that clothes dont look as good which were dressed in the newly on them as in the shop window, launched Principles by Ben fide so we congratulate Debenhams Lisi collection, read Im a size on taking this initiative.
Section 2 The Business Debenhams gained market share in childrenswear throughout 2010, including Designers at Debenhams ranges such as Rocha.
[Quotes or image] 20 Debenhams Annual Report and Accounts 2010
