Section 3 Management and Governance Directors Report Principal Activities Debenhams is a leading department stores group with a strong presence in key product categories including womenswear, menswear, childrenswear, home and health and beauty.
Debenhams is the second largest department store chain in the UK.
Debenhams operates 167 stores in the UK, Republic of Ireland and Denmark, comprising 154 full department stores and 13 Desire by Debenhams stores, which is a small store concept featuring an edited product range.
Debenhams also has 60 international franchise stores in 23 countries.
Debenhams trades over approximately 12,250,000 sq ft of trading space and has around 29,000 employees.
Debenhams extends its customer reach via its online store at www.
Business Review This review has been prepared in accordance with The Companies Act 2006 which requires the Company to set out in this report a fair review of the business of the Group during the financial year ended 28 August 2010, including an analysis of the position of the Group at the end of the financial year and the trends and factors likely to affect the future development, performance and position of the business.
The purpose of the Business Review is to enable shareholders to assess how the directors have performed their duty under section 172 of The Companies Act 2006.
The contents of this Directors Report, together with the Chairmans Statement and Chief Executives Review on pages 4 to 16, the Finance Directors Review, the Corporate Responsibility Review and The Board on pages 21 to 37, Risk Management, the Remuneration Report and the Statement of Directors Responsibilities on pages 45 to 59 constitute the Business Review and are therefore incorporated into this report by reference.
Any liability is restricted to the extent prescribed by the Companies Act 2006.
Events Since the Year End Since the year end Debenhams has opened a department store in Bath.
Additionally, the Group has disposed of the long leases on six stores and entered into new lease contracts for these stores.
Further details of this disposal can be found in note 36 to the Financial Statements.
profit and Dividends The profit after tax for the financial year ending 28 August 2010 was 97.0 million 2009: 95.1 million.
The directors are not recommending the payment of a final dividend.
No dividends will therefore have been paid during the year 2009: nil.
Major Shareholders As at 21 October 2010, Debenhams plc has received notication of the following significant holdings of voting rights pursuant to the Disclosure and Transparency Rules: Issued Number of share capital Shareholder shares % Bestinver Gestion, S. A.
60,803,116 4.7 Legal & General Group plc 42,075,474 3.3 Share Capital and Control The issued share capital of the Company is shown in note 29 to the Financial Statements on page 98 and consist of ordinary shares of 0.01 pence each.
All the shares rank pari passu.
The rights and obligations attaching to the Companys ordinary shares, in addition to those conferred on their holders by law, are set out in the Companys Articles of Association, a copy of which can be obtained by writing to the Company Secretary.
The Company was authorised by shareholders at the January 2010 Annual General Meeting to purchase in the market up to 128,680,629 ordinary shares.
Although this authority was not utilised by the Company during the last financial year, approval will be sought from shareholders at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting to renew this standard authority for a further year.
It is the Companys present intention, should shares be bought back, for them to be cancelled or retained in treasury pending a subsequent sale, cancellation or transfer.
The Company does not currently hold any shares in treasury.
The Company will only buy back shares if the directors believe that it is in shareholders best interests and will increase earnings per share.
38 Debenhams Annual Report and Accounts 2010 Section 3 Management and Governance Changes to the Articles of Association must be approved by special resolution of the Company.
New Articles are being proposed at this years Annual General Meeting to include a provision that will allow the Company to continue to function in circumstances where an insufficient number of directors are elected or re-elected at one of the Companys general meetings, thereby leaving the board inquorate.
Explanatory notes relating to these changes are included in the appendix to the Notice of Meeting which accompanies this report.
The Debenhams Retail Employee Trust 2004 holds 1,413,536 ordinary shares in the Company 0.10 per cent : any voting or other similar decisions relating to those shares are taken by the trustees, who may take account of any recommendations of the Company.
There are no significant agreements to which the Company is a party which take effect, alter or terminate in the event of change of control of the Company except that the supplier agreements with certain major cosmetic suppliers contain termination provisions on change of control and the Credit Agreement dated 19 April 2006 as amended by supplemental agreements dated 28 November 2007, 3 June 2009 and 19 August 2010 contains mandatory prepayment as does the new 650 million Senior Facility which starts in April 2011.
There are no agreements providing for compensation for directors or employees on change of control.
Details concerning the impact on share options and share awards held by directors or employees in the event of a change of control are set out on page 55 of the Remuneration Report.
Market Value of Properties The Group has a small number of properties for which it owns the freehold.
The directors are of the opinion that the market value of these properties at 28 August 2010 exceeded their net book value by approximately 23 million.
Essential Contracts We have contractual arrangements with many organisations but no one contract is so material as to be essential to our business, with the exception of our warehouse operators.
Board of Directors The membership of the board and biographical details of the directors are given on page 37 and are incorporated into this report by reference.
The rules governing the appointment and replacement of the board members are set out in the Companys Articles ofAssociation.
Directors Indemnities In addition to the indemnity provisions in their Articles of Association, the Company and other Group companies have entered into a direct indemnity agreement with each of the directors and certain other ofcers or senior employees of the Group.
The Company also maintains directors and ofcers liability insurance which gives appropriate cover for any legal action brought against its directors.
Directors Interests The beneficial and non-beneficial interests of the directors and their connected persons in the shares of the Company are shown on page 57 of the Remuneration Report.
Their interests in options and awards over shares in the Company are shown on page 58 of the Remuneration Report.
No director had, during or at the end of the year, any material interest in any contract of signicance in relation to the Groups business.
Payment of Suppliers It is the Companys policy to pay suppliers in accordance with the agreed payment terms provided that the invoice is properly presented and not subject to dispute.
The ratio, expressed in days, between the amounts owed by the Company to trade creditors at the end of the year and the amounts invoiced by suppliers in the financial year ended 28 August 2010 was nil days 2009: nil days.
The ratio, expressed in days between the amounts owed by the Group to trade creditors and the amount invoiced by suppliers in the financial year ended 28 August 2010 was 61 days 2009: 57 days.
Financial Instruments Debenhams does not enter into financial instruments for speculative trade.
Details of financial instruments entered into for underlying risks are set out in note 23 on page 91.
39 Debenhams Annual Report and Accounts 2010 Section 3 Management and Governance Directors Report continued Political Donations There were no disclosable expenses made during the financial year which fall within the denition of a political donation under the Political Parties, Elections and Referendums Act 2000.
It is the Groups policy not to make donations to political organisations or independent election candidates or incur political expenditure.
Charitable Giving During the year the Group made charitable donations totalling 0.7 million 2009: 0.5 million.
Details of the Companys charitable activities are given in the Corporate Responsibility Review on pages 24 to 35.
Going Concern After making enquiries, the directors consider that the Group has adequate resources to continue in operation for the foreseeable future.
For this reason, they have adopted the going concern basis in preparing the Financial Statements.
Corporate Governance Statement In accordance with the Financial Services Authoritys Disclosure and Transparency Rule DTR 7.2.
1, the disclosures required by DTR 7.2.
7 are within the Corporate Governance Review on pages 41 to 44 and Risk Management on pages 45 to 49 and are therefore incorporated into this report by reference.
Disclosure of Information to Auditors Each of the directors of the Company at the time when the Directors Report was approved confirms that: a so far as the director is aware, there is no information needed by the Companys auditors in connection with preparing their report of which the Companys auditors are unaware: and b s he has taken all the steps that s he ought to have taken as a director in order to make themself aware of any information needed by the Companys auditors in connection with preparing the report and to establish that the Companys auditors are aware of that information.
Auditors  LLP have indicated their willingness to continue in ofce and a resolution dealing with their reappointment as auditors of the Company will be proposed at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting.
Annual General Meeting The Annual General Meeting of Debenhams plc will be held at Holborn Gate, 26 Southampton Buildings, London WC2A 1PB on Tuesday 11 January 2011 at 2.00pm.
The Notice is given, together with explanatory notes, in the booklet which accompanies this report.
By order of the board Paul Eardley Company Secretary 21 October 2010 40 Debenhams Annual Report and Accounts 2010
