Section 3 Management and Governance The Board 1 6 2 7 3 8 4 9 5 36 Debenhams Annual Report and Accounts 2010 Section 3 Management and Governance t. FNCFS PG UIF 1 Nigel Northridge 6 Martina King Audit Committee Chairman p 54 Independent Non-Executive Directort p 49 Nigel Northridge joined the Company on Martina King joined the Company on 1 August 2009.. FNCFS PG UIF 1 January 2010 as an Independent Non-Executive Ms King is currently a non-executive director of Nomination Committee Director and was appointed Chairman of the Capita Group Plc, Independent Media Distribution p. FNCFS PG UIF Company and of the Nomination Committee on Plc, Johnston Press Plc, Cineworld PLC, Goodpak LLP Remuneration Committee 1 April 2010.
Mr Northridge is currently Chairman and Trade Doubler AB.
Her former appointments of Paddy Power plc and a non-executive director include Managing Director, Europe of Yahoo Limited of Inchcape plc.
Previously he was senior and Sales Director and then Managing Director of independent director of Aggreko, Chief Executive Capital Radio.
Ms King is also a trustee of Coram of Gallaher Group plc and a non-executive director and Suffolk Foundation and Governor of Seekford of Thomas Cook Group plc.
2 Rob Templeman 7 Dennis Millard Chief Executive 53 Independent Non-Executive Directort p 61 Rob Templeman became Chief Executive of the Dennis Millard became a director of the Company Company in May 2006.
Prior to the IPO he in April 2006, is Chairman of the Audit Committee was Chief Executive of Debenhams Limited having and became the Senior Independent Nonbeen appointed in December 2003.
Previously Mr Executive Director on 1 May 2010.
Mr Millard is also Templeman was Chief Executive and subsequently Chairman of Halfords Group plc and Smiths News Chairman of Halfords Group plc, Chief Executive plc and a non-executive director of Xchanging PLC officer of Homebase Group plc and Chief Executive and Premier Farnell plc.
His former appointments officer of Harveys Furnishing plc.
include Group Finance Director of Cookson Group plc, Finance Director of Medeva plc and non- 3 Michael Sharp executive director of Exel plc, Arc International and Deputy Chief Executive 53 EAG Ltd. Mr Millard is a member of the South African Michael Sharp was appointed Deputy Chief Institute of Chartered Accountants.
Executive in November 2008 having previously held the post of Chief Operating officer since May 2006.
8 Mark Rolfe From 1997 to 2004, Mr Sharp was Trading Director of Independent Non-Executive Directort p 51 Debenhams Limited and from January 2004 to May Mark Rolfe joined the Company on 1 October 2010.
He previously He is currently a non-executive director of Barratt worked in various capacities within the Burton Developments plc, Hornby plc and The Sage Group Group, including as Managing Director of Principles plc.
He is also chairman of Lane, Clark and Peacock and Racing Green, and Buying and Merchandising LLP.
Mr Rolfe spent 20 years with Gallaher Group plc Director of Topshop and Top Man.
in various finance and executives roles, latterly in the role of Finance Director for seven years until the 4 Chris Woodhouse company was acquired in 2007.
Finance Director 49 Chris Woodhouse has been the Finance Director of 9 Sophie Turner Laing the Company since May 2006.
Prior to the IPO in Independent Non-Executive Directort p 50 May 2006 he was Finance Director of Debenhams Sophie Turner Laing joined the Company on Limited having been appointed in December 2003.
She is currently Managing Director, Mr Woodhouse is currently Group Non-Executive Entertainment and News at British Sky Broadcasting Chairman of Gondola Group Limited.
In addition, she is a trustee of BAFTA, previously Deputy Chairman of Halfords Group and The Media Trust and The National Film & TV School.
Commercial Director and Deputy Chief Executive at Her previous roles include Controller, Programme Homebase Group.
He is a former Finance Director Acquisition at the BBC and Vice-President, of Birthdays Group and Superdrug Stores.
Mr Broadcasting at Flextech now Virgin Media Woodhouse is a Fellow of the Institute of Chartered Television.
Ms. Turner Laing was also Co-founder Accountants in England and Wales and an and Managing Director of HiT Entertainment.
Associate of the Association of Corporate Treasurers.
5 Adam Crozier Independent Non-Executive Directort p 46 Adam Crozier became a director of the Company in April 2006 and was appointed Chairman of the Remuneration Committee in April 2009.
Mr Crozier is currently Chief Executive of ITV plc.
He was previously Chief Executive of Royal Mail Holdings plc and the Football Association Limited, a nonexecutive director of Camelot Group plc and has held a number of senior positions at Saatchi & Saatchi UK including Joint Chief Executive.
37 Debenhams Annual Report and Accounts 2010
