Directors and senior management Board 22 Steve Hannam 62 Chairman Steve was appointed Chairman of Devro in May 2009.
He is a Non-Executive Director of Low & Bonar plc.
Until 2000 Steve was Chief Executive of chemical group BTP plc.
Since that time Steve has held a number of Non-Executive Director or Chairman positions with both public and private companies, mainly in the food and chemical sectors.
These have included Clariant AG, ABF plc, Aviagen International Inc. and AZ Electronic Materials Ltd. Steve chairs the Health and Safety Committee.
Peter Page 47 Chief Executive Peters career started in Uganda, where he was involved in agrifood industry financing and reconstructions.
He then joined Ross Breeders Limited, part of Hillsdown Holdings plc.
For four years he was Divisional General Manager and then Executive Director at Adnams plc, dealing with wines, hotels and retail, before moving to Aviagen Group, a poultry breeding and genetics company, as Group Vice President Europe, a position which he held until joining Devro as Chief Executive in June 2007.
He is Chairman of the Non-Executive Directors Remuneration Committee.
Peter Williams 59 Finance Director From 1997 until he joined Devro as Finance Director in May 2008, Peter was Divisional Finance Director then Chief Financial Officer at Cermaq ASA.
A chartered accountant, he started his career with Coopers & Lybrand, working in Edinburgh and Madrid from 1975 to 1983, and subsequently held senior financial positions with BICC Group, Coloroll Group, Courtaulds Textiles, and Pringle of Scotland.
In December 2010, Peter announced his intention to retire in April 2011.
Paul Neep 57 Non-Executive Director Paul joined Devro in February 2005 as a Non-Executive Director.
He was Chief Executive of Glenmorangie plc and holds the same position now that that company is part of LVMH.
He has previously held senior positions within the Granada Group and United Distillers.
He is the Senior Independent Director and is Chairman of the Executive Directors Remuneration Committee.
Stuart Paterson 53 Non-Executive Director Stuart, a chartered accountant, joined Devro in March 2006 as a Non-Executive Director.
He was recently appointed as Group Finance Director of Forth Ports PLC.
Former roles include Finance Director of Aggreko plc and Chief Financial Officer of Johnston Press plc.
He is Chairman of the Audit Committee.
Simon Webb 47 Finance Director Designate Simon Webb joined Devro at the start of 2011 as Finance Director Designate and will take over from Peter Williams on his retirement in April 2011.
He previously worked as Chief Financial Officer of fide La Rue plc and has held senior finance positions at Enodis plc, Paxar Inc and British American Tobacco plc.
He is a chartered accountant and started his professional career with Price Waterhouse, London.
Devro plc Annual Report & Accounts 2010 BUSINESS REVIEW DIRECTORS REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION Executive Committee 23 Mike Cooke 59 Director, Group Strategic Development Mike joined Devro in September 2001 after 25 years with ICI.
He brought with him a wide experience of senior technical, project and manufacturing roles in different businesses, both in the UK and overseas.
Since that time he has held a number of senior positions, including Regional Director Europe, and he is now responsible for the groups strategic development.
He has been Chairman of the Collagen Casings Trade Association since 2006, and is a member of the CBI Innovation Committee.
Mike is a Fellow of the Institution of Chemical Engineers.
Gordon Frame 51 Business Director Gordon joined Devro in 1986 in the Technical Department, becoming Development Manager in the UK before his first overseas assignment as Vice President of Technical at Devro Inc. in the US.
This was followed by his first corporate assignment as Group Head of Development for both the Collagen and former Cellulose businesses.
Gordon returned to the US in 2000 as Business Director Americas, and in 2006 was appointed Business Director Western Europe.
In January 2008 he was appointed Director, Group Technology and Marketing, in charge of leading the groups corporate activities in these areas.
In 2011, Gordon will move to Hong Kong, taking responsibility for the groups activities in China and South East Asia.
Alan Kilpatrick 45 Business Director Alan, a chartered accountant, started his career with Coopers & Lybrand in Glasgow and Sydney, latterly as a Corporate Finance Senior Manager.
His first role at Devro plc was as Group Finance Manager.
He held various senior finance roles within Devro plc before being appointed Finance Director of Devro Scotland Limited and then, in January 2008, Business Director Western Europe.
In 2011, Alans role will be expanded to cover UK and Ireland, Australasia and Japan.
Outside Devro, Alan is a director of Friends of the Beatson, a West of Scotland cancer charity which he co-founded in 1995.
Graham McGilchrist 60 Business Director Graham joined Devro in 1981 as Head of Finance for our Australian operation, before taking responsibility for manufacturing in Australia in 1985.
He transferred to the US in 1986 as Vice President of Finance, before becoming General Manager of Devro Inc in 1988, and then President of Devro North American Operations in 1991.
Graham was in charge of Devro Worldwide Manufacturing after the management buy-out in 1991, returning to Australia in 1995 as Regional Director Asia Pacific.
His current area of responsibility includes Japan and South East Asia as well as the Australian and New Zealand markets.
After 30 years with Devro, Graham has announced his intention to retire in 2011.
Douglas Stewart 48 Business Director Since joining Devro in 1994, Douglas has worked both domestically and internationally in a number of senior positions covering a wide range of disciplines, including Director of Sales Asia Pacific based in Australia.
In December 2005 he relocated to South Carolina, US to become Business Director Americas, and has responsibility for leading the groups business activities in that region.
Prior to joining Devro, Douglas worked for British Steel.
Michal Stocek 51 Business Director Michal joined Cutisin in the process and product development department in 1984 straight from university in Prague, where he studied chemical engineering.
Since that time he has played a key role in the development of the Cutisin product range.
He was appointed to the Czech management team in 1997 and became a member of the Executive Committee of Devro and Business Director with responsibility for Eastern Europe in August 2006.
In 2011, his remit has been expanded to include all of Continental Europe and Africa.
Devro plc Annual Report & Accounts 2010
