Directors report Research and development The directors present their report and the audited consolidated financial statements for the year ended 31 December 2010.
The group is committed to research and development activities, principally in relation to product and process development, in Principal activities order to secure its position as a world leader in the casings The principal activities of the group are the production and industry.
The research and development expenditure incurred in the year is set out in note 8 to the financial statements.
sale of manufactured casings for the food industry.
The company is a limited liability company and is incorporated Directors in Scotland under number SC129785.
The names and brief biographical details of the directors of the company at the date of this report are set out on page 22.
Mr S C Webb was appointed as a director on 17 January 2011.
Following The companys principal subsidiary undertakings and branches, including those located outside the UK, are listed in note 15 to Mr P C Williams retirement as Finance Director on 7 April 2011, the financial statements.
Mr Webb will assume the position of Finance Director.
Review of business In accordance with provision B.
7.1 of the UK Corporate Governance Code, the directors have resolved that they will all The consolidated income statement for the year is set out on page 37.
The information that fulfils the requirements of the offer themselves for election or re-election at the Annual General review of business is contained in the Chairmans Statement Meeting AGM.
24 and Business Review on pages 4 to 8.
The company maintains insurance for its directors in respect of their duties as directors.
Following shareholder approval, the Dividends Reflecting the improvement in the groups performance, the company has also provided an indemnity for its directors and Board is proposing a final dividend of 5.0 pence per share 2009: the company secretary which is a qualifying third party indemnity 3.575 pence, making a total dividend for the year of 7.0 pence provision for the purposes of the Companies Act 2006.
This per share 2009: 5 pence, an increase of 40%.
The final dividend indemnity was in force throughout the year and remains in place at the date of this report.
will be payable to shareholders on the register as at 1 April 2010.
Based on the proposal for the full year, dividend cover excluding exceptional items will be 2.5 times.
None of the directors had or has an interest in any material contract relating to the business of the company or of any Share capital of its subsidiary undertakings.
The share capital of the company consists entirely of ordinary shares of 10 pence each, all of which have equal voting rights.
The interests of the directors in the share capital of the company are shown on page 36.
The company had 163,609,007 shares in issue at 31 December 2010 2009: 162,866,277, as shown in note 25 to the financial Charitable and political contributions The contributions made by the group during the year for statements.
During the year, 742,730 shares were issued under the rules of The contributions were mainly made to charities where the the Devro 2003 Performance Share Plan.
groups operations are based and can be analysed as follows: Share options 2010 2009 Details of all options granted but not exercised or lapsed at 31 December 2010 are shown in note 27 to the financial statements.
Local Community Groups 29,000 25,000 Substantial shareholdings Schools and colleges 11,000 10,000 At 18 March 2011, the company had been notified of the following Health care and medical research 14,000 7,000 material interests in the issued ordinary share capital of the company: 54,000 42,000 Number of Percentage ordinary of issued There were no contributions for political purposes 2009: nil.
shares capital Employees Artemis Investment Management Ltd 17,778,016 10.87 Details of the groups employment policies are given under the Employee heading within the Corporate Social Responsibility Marathon Asset Management 15,525,590 9.49 Report on pages 19 and 20.
The Corporate Social Responsibility Schroder Investment Management Ltd 11,627,271 7.11 Report forms part of this directors report and is incorporated into it by cross-reference.
Standard Life Investments Ltd 8,174,900 5.00 M & G Investment Management 6,682,726 4.08 Policy on payment of suppliers The group agrees terms and conditions with suppliers before Legal & General Investment Management 5,250,087 3.21 business takes place.
The groups policy is to pay agreed invoices in accordance with the terms of payment.
At 31 December 2010, the amount owed to trade creditors by the company was equivalent to 40 days of purchases from suppliers 2009: nil, and by the group was equivalent to 30 days of purchases 2009: 30 days.
Devro plc Annual Report & Accounts 2010 BUSINESS REVIEW DIRECTORS REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION Financial instruments Item 11: Pre-emption rights Details of the groups financial risk management policies are Resolution 11, which will be proposed as a special resolution, included in note 22 to the financial statements.
seeks to renew the authority conferred on the directors at the last AGM to issue equity securities of the company for cash without Change of control application of the pre-emption rights as provided by section The company has a number of financial agreements with major 561 of the Companies Act 2006 the Act.
The authorities banks, containing certain termination rights for our counterparties being sought provide for non-pre-emptive allotments of equity upon a change of control of the company.
securities i to ordinary shareholders in proportion to their existing shareholdings: ii to holders of other equity securities as required All of the companys share plans contain provisions relating to a by, or subject to as the directors consider necessary, the rights change of control.
Outstanding options and awards may become of those securities, and to deal with treasury shares, fractional exercisable, subject to the rules of the relevant schemes.
entitlements and legal and practical problems in any territory, for example on a rights issue or other similar share issue: and iii Annual General Meeting for cash up to an aggregate nominal value of 810,000 which The AGM of the company will be held on 28 April 2011 at represents slightly less than 5% of the issued ordinary share 10.00 am at the Radisson Blu Hotel, 301 Argyle Street, Glasgow capital of the company as at 18 March 2011, which is the latest G2 8DL.
The Notice of Meeting is set out on pages 79 and 80. practicable date before publication of this notice.
This authority In addition to the ordinary business of the meeting under items will expire at the earlier of the conclusion of the next AGM of the 25 1 to 8, shareholders will be asked for their approval of the company and 30 June 2012. following matters: The authorities sought and the limits set by the resolution will also Item 9: Remuneration Report disapply the application of section 561 of the Act from a sale of Shareholders will be invited to approve the Remuneration Report treasury shares to the extent also specified in this resolution.
In accordance with the guidelines issued by the Pre-Emption Item 10: Allotment of new shares Group, the Board confirms its intention that no more than 7.5% This resolution is to renew, for a further year, the general authority of the issued share capital will be issued for cash on a non-preto allot shares given to the directors at the last AGM of the emptive basis during any rolling three year period.
Paragraph a of the resolution will give the directors a general authority to allot up to 54,000,000 Item 12: Authorising market purchase of its own shares ordinary shares of 10 pence each, representing approximately by the company one third of the companys issued ordinary share capital The authority for the company to purchase its own ordinary excluding any shares held in treasury as at 18 March 2011, shares of 10 pence each granted at last years AGM will expire which is the latest practicable date before publication of this on the date of the forthcoming AGM.
The directors wish to notice.
The company did not hold any of its own shares as renew this authority and a special resolution will be proposed as treasury shares as at 18 March 2011. special business at the forthcoming AGM to give the company the authority to purchase its own ordinary shares in the market Paragraph b of the resolution proposes that a further authority as permitted by the Act.
The authority limits the number of be conferred on the directors to allot unissued shares or rights shares that could be purchased to a maximum of 16,000,000 to subscribe for shares in favour of holders of equity securities representing less than 10% of the issued ordinary share capital which would include ordinary shareholders as required by of the company as at 18 March 2011, which is the latest the rights of those securities or as the directors may otherwise practicable date before publication of this notice and sets consider necessary, up to a maximum aggregate nominal amount minimum and maximum prices.
This authority will expire no later of 10,800,000 such amount to be reduced by the nominal than 15 months after the date of the forthcoming AGM.
amount of any shares or rights to subscribe for shares issued under the authority conferred by paragraph a of this resolution, Although the directors have no present intention of exercising which represents an amount which is approximately two thirds the authority to purchase the companys ordinary shares, they of the aggregate nominal value of the issued and unconditionally consider that it is in the best interests of the company to have allotted ordinary share capital of the company as at 18 March available this authorisation, in case of circumstances when it 2011, which is the latest practicable date before publication of would be appropriate to use it.
They would only use it when this notice.
satisfied that this would result in an increase in earnings per share and was in the best interests of shareholders generally.
This resolution complies with the latest institutional guidelines issued by the Association of British Insurers ABI and, if the Any ordinary shares purchased pursuant to this authority may directors do exercise the authority conferred by paragraph b either be held as treasury shares or cancelled by the company, of this resolution, they intend to follow emerging best practice as depending on which course of action is considered by the regards its use including as regards the requirement for directors directors to be in the best interests of shareholders at the time.
to stand for re-election as recommended by the ABI.
As at 18 March 2011, there were options over 18,000 ordinary Other than in relation to the companys employee share plans, shares in the capital of the company, which represents 0.01% of the directors have no present intention to use these authorities, the companys issued ordinary share capital.
If the authority to which will expire at the earlier of the conclusion of the next purchase the companys ordinary shares were exercised in full, AGM of the company and 30 June 2012.
As is normal practice, these options would represent 0.01% of the companys issued the directors intend to seek renewal of these authorities at ordinary share capital.
As at 18 March 2011, the company did subsequent AGMs.
not hold any treasury shares in the company and no warrants over ordinary shares in the capital of the company existed.
Devro plc Annual Report & Accounts 2010 Directors report continued Item 13: General meeting notice state whether applicable IFRSs as adopted by the European Changes made to the Act by the Shareholders Rights Union have been followed, subject to any material departures Regulations increased the notice period required for general disclosed and explained in the financial statements: and meetings of the company to 21 days unless shareholders approve a shorter notice period, which cannot however be less prepare the financial statements on the going concern basis than 14 clear days, and certain requirements are satisfied.
AGMs unless it is inappropriate to presume that the company will will continue to be held on at least 21 clear days notice.
Before the coming into force of the Shareholders Rights The directors are responsible for keeping adequate accounting Regulations on 3 August 2009, the company was able to records that are sufficient to show and explain the companys call general meetings other than AGMs on 14 clear days notice transactions and disclose with reasonable accuracy at any without obtaining such shareholder approval.
At the last AGM, time the financial position of the company and the group and the shareholders approved a notice period of not less than 14 enable them to ensure that the financial statements and the clear days other than for AGMs effective until the forthcoming directors remuneration report comply with the Companies Act AGM.
The directors believe it is in the best interests of 2006 and, as regards the group financial statements, Article 4 of shareholders to preserve this ability and resolution 13 seeks such the IAS Regulation.
They are also responsible for safeguarding approval.
The approval will be effective until the companys next the assets of the company and the group and hence for taking AGM, when it is intended that a similar resolution will be proposed.
reasonable steps for the prevention and detection of fraud and 26 other irregularities.
It is intended that this flexibility will only be used for non-routine business and where merited in the interests of shareholders generally.
The directors are responsible for the maintenance and integrity of the companys website.
Legislation in the United Kingdom It should also be noted that the changes to the Act mean that, governing the preparation and dissemination of financial in order to be able to call a general meeting on less than 21 clear statements may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
days notice, the company must make a means of electronic voting available to all shareholders for that meeting.
Directors statement pursuant to the Disclosure and Transparency Rules Independent auditors and disclosure of information Each of the directors, whose names and functions are listed on to auditors page 22 of this annual report, confirm that, to the best of each In the case of each person who is a director at the date of persons knowledge and belief: approval of this report, each director is satisfied that the auditors are aware of all information relevant to the audit of the groups the financial statements, prepared in accordance with IFRSs financial statements for the year ended 31 December 2010 and as adopted by the European Union, give a true and fair view that they have taken all the steps necessary to make themselves of the assets, liabilities, financial position and profit of the aware of the relevant audit information and to establish that the group and company: and auditors are aware of that information.
the directors report contained in the annual report includes The auditors,  LLP, have indicated their a fair review of the development and performance of the willingness to continue in office, and a resolution that they be business and the position of the company and group, re-appointed will be proposed at the AGM.
together with a description of the principal risks and uncertainties that they face.
Statement of directors responsibilities The directors are responsible for preparing the annual report, the The directors are responsible for the maintenance and integrity of remuneration report and the financial statements in accordance the group website, www.
with applicable law and regulations.
Corporate governance Company law requires the directors to prepare financial The companys statement on corporate governance can be statements for each financial year.
Under that law, the directors found in the corporate governance report on pages 27 to 31 have elected to prepare the group and parent company financial of these financial statements.
The corporate governance report statements in accordance with International Financial Reporting forms part of this directors report and is incorporated into it by Standards IFRSs as adopted by the European Union.
company law, the directors must not approve the financial statements unless they are satisfied that they give a true and fair By order of the Board view of the state of affairs of the group and the company and of the profit or loss of the group for that period.
In preparing these J Meredith, Company Secretary financial statements, the directors are required to:- 22 March 2011 select suitable accounting policies and then apply them consistently: make judgements and accounting estimates that are reasonable and prudent: Devro plc Annual Report & Accounts 2010
