Performance summary Business description Business review Governance Financial statements Additional information 77 Board of directors and company secretary Betsy Holden H Todd Stitzer Non-executive Independent non- 1,3, 4 1,3, 4 director executive director American 54 American 58 Nicholas Nick Rose Appointed a non-executive Appointed a non-executive director of Diageo plc in director of Diageo plc in June Chief fi financial offi cer, 2 September 2009.
During the year, he executive director senior adviser to McKinsey resigned as chief executive of British 52 & Company and a director Cadbury plc following its Dr Franz Humer Peggy Bruzelius Appointed chief fi financial of MediaBank LLC, and holds takeover by Kraft Foods having offi cer of Diageo plc in July non-executive directorships been appointed to that Chairman, nonNon-executive 3 1999.
He will retire as chief 1,3, 4 of Tribune Company and positionin 2003 and having executive director director fi financial offi cer and be Western Union Company, all formerly held a number of Swiss Austrian 64 Swedish 60 succeeded by Deirdre Mahlan in the United States.
She is marketing, sales, strategy and Appointed chairman of on 1 October 2010, and will Appointed a non-executive chairman of the board of general management posts Diageo plc in July 2008, having retire as a director of Diageo director of Diageo plc in April visitors at Duke University, after joining Cadbury in 1983 been a non-executive director plc at the AGM on 14 October 2009.
She is chairman of Trinity College and a member as an assistant general counsel.
He has served in a Lancelot Asset Management of the Deans advisory board He is a member of the board of chairman of F. Hoff mann-La number of fi finance roles since and deputy chairman of AB at the Kellogg School of trustees of Business in the Roche Ltd in Switzerland and joining GrandMet in June 1992, Electrolux, both in Sweden, Management.
She was Community and recently chairman of INSEADs board including group treasurer and and sits on the boards of Akzo formerly president, global became a member of the of directors.
He was formerly group controller and was Nobel NV in the Netherlands, marketing and category Advisory Board of Hamlin chief operating director of appointed to the Diageo plc Syngenta AG in Switzerland, development and co-chief Capital Management, LLC, a Glaxo Holdings plc and has board in June 1999.
He is Axfood AB and Husqvarna AB executive offi cer of Kraft New York based investment held a number of other also a member of the Main in Sweden and the Stockholm Foods, Inc. advisory fi rm.
Committee of the 100 Group School of Economics.
She was During the year, he resigned of Finance Directors and formerly managing director as a non-executive director during the year, was appointed of ABB Financial Services of Allianz Versicherungs AG a non-executive director of AB and headed the asset in Germany.
management arm of Skandinaviska Enskilda Banken AB.
During the year, she resigned as a non-executive director of Scania AB.
Philip Scott Paul Walker Non-executive Non-executive director 1,3, 4 1, 3,4 director British 56 British 53 Paul Walsh Lord Clive Hollick Appointed a non-executive Appointed a non-executive Chief executive, of Notting Hill director of Diageo plc in June director of Diageo plc and 2 chairman of the Audit 2002.
He is chief executive of Executive director Senior non-executive 1,3, 4 Committee in October 2007.
The Sage Group plc to which director British 55 Laurence Danon offi ce he was appointed in He retired during the year as 1,3, 4 Appointed chief executive of British 65 Non-executive director chief fi financial offi cer of Aviva 1994, having previously been Diageo plc in September 2000, fi finance director and was Appointed a non-executive plc, having begun his career French 54 having been chief operating director of Diageo plc in with Norwich Union as a formerly a non-executive Appointed a non-executive offi cer since January 2000.
December 2001 and senior trainee actuary in 1973 and director of MyTravel Group plc.
director of Diageo plc in He has served in a number During the year, he was non-executive director and subsequently held a number January 2006.
She is chairman of management roles since chairman of the remuneration of senior roles with that appointed a non-executive of the executive board of joining GrandMets brewing director of Experian plc.
committee in September company and its successor Edmond fide Rothschild division in 1982, including 2004.
He is a member of the Aviva, including that of group Corporate Finance and a chief executive offi cer of The supervisory boards of executive director.
During the non-executive director of Pillsbury Company.
1 Media AG and year, he was appointed a Groupe BPCE and Rhodia SA, appointed to the GrandMet BMG Music Rights GmbH, both non-executive director of all in France.
Formerly she board in October 1995 and in Germany, a non-executive The Royal Bank of Scotland served with the French to the Diageo plc board in director of Honeywell Group plc.
Ministry of Industry and December 1997.
He is a International Inc in the United Energy, held a number of non-executive director of States, and a founding trustee senior management posts Unilever PLC and is also of the Institute of Public Policy with Total Fina Elf and was chairman of the Scotch Research.
He was formerly chairman and chief executive Whisky Association and a chief executive of United Paul Tunnacliff e offi cer of France Printemps.
non-executive director of Business Media plc and has Company secretary During the year, she resigned FedEx Corporation in the held a number of other British 48 as a non-executive director of United States.
Experian Group Limited and year he retired as a member Appointed company During the year, he was was recently appointed a of the Council of the secretary of Diageo plc in appointed a partner of GP non-executive director of University of Reading.
He was formerly Bullhound, and he retired TF1 and resigned as a company secretary of Hanson Key to committees as a partner and subsequently non-executive director of PLC to which offi ce he was senior adviser to Kohlberg 1.
Audit Plastic Omnium, both in France.
appointed in 1997 where he Kravis Roberts.
Executive comprising previously served as assistant senior management company secretary, having 3.
Nomination joined the company in 1983.
Remuneration non-executive director of Chairman of committee Diageo plc in October 2009.
Diageo Annual Report 2010 78 Executive committee Gilbert Ghostine President, Diageo 2 Asia Pacifi c Key to committees Lebanese 50 2.
Executive comprising Appointed president, Diageo senior management Asia Pacifi c in July 2009, having previously been managing director, Diageo Continental Europe, since Ronald Ron Anderson July 2006.
He was formerly 2 managing director, Northern Chief customer offi cer Europe, and president, US British 54 Major markets and held Appointed chief customer various senior managerial offi cer of Diageo plc in July positions in Africa, Asia, 2008, having previously held Europe and the United States, various senior sales and having joined International general management roles in Distillers & Vintners in 1995. the UK, Canada and the United States.
He joined the company Andrew Andy Fennell in 1985, and prior to that 2 Chief marketing offi cer worked for Tesco and Gillette.
James Jim Grover British 43 Global Business Support Appointed chief marketing 2 offi cer of Diageo plc in Director September 2008.
Held a British 52 number of marketing roles Appointed Global Business in the UK and internationally Support director in February with Guinness and Diageo, David Gosnell 2004, having been strategy prior to which he worked in Managing director, director since December 1997. various sales and marketing Formerly he held a number of Global Supply and Global roles with Britvic and Bass plc.
senior strategy positions in 2 Nicholas Nick Blazquez Procurement GrandMet and worked as a Managing director, British 53 management consultant with 2 Booz-Allen & Hamilton Inc and Diageo Africa Appointed managing director, OC&C Strategy Consultants.
Global Supply and Global British 49 Procurement, Diageo plc in Appointed managing director, July 2003.
He joined Diageo Diageo Africa in August 2004, in 1998 as European supply prior to which he was director, then headed up managing director, Diageo Guinness & European RTD Asia Key Markets.
He held Stuart Fletcher various managerial positions supply, prior to which he spent in United Distillers between President, Diageo 20 years in various roles with 1989 and 1998.
He resigned as a International non-executive director of British 53 Brambles plc during the year.
Deirdre Mahlan Appointed president, Diageo Deputy chief fi financial International in October 2004, 2 having been president, Key offi cer Markets since September American 48 2000.
He held a number of Appointed deputy chief senior management positions fi financial offi cer of Diageo plc with Guinness, after joining in May 2009, prior to which she the company in 1986, was head of tax and treasury including managing director and before that, chief fi financial of Developing and Seed offi cer, Diageo North America.
Markets, and previously held She joined the company in various fi financial positions 2001, having held various with Procter & Gamble and senior fi finance positions in United Glass.
Joseph E Seagram & Sons Inc since 1992, having formerly been a senior manager with .
She will succeed Nick Rose as chief fi financial offi cer and become a director of Diageo plc on 1 October 2010.
Performance summary Business description Business review Governance Financial statements Additional information 79 Timothy Tim Proctor 2 General counsel American British 60 Appointed general counsel of Diageo plc in January 2000.
Formerly he was director, worldwide human resources of Glaxo Wellcome and senior vice president, human resources, general Ivan Menezes counsel and secretary for President, Diageo North Glaxos US operating America, chairman, company.
He has over 2 Diageo Asia Pacifi c 25 years international legal experience, including American 51 thirteen years with Merck Appointed president, North and six years with Glaxo America: in January 2004, Wellcome.
having been chief operating offi cer, North America since July 2002.
In October 2008, he was also appointed chairman, Diageo Asia Pacifi c. Formerly John R Randy Millian he held various senior Managing director, Gareth Williams management positions with Diageo Latin America Human Resources Guinness and then Diageo and 2 2 and Caribbean director worked across a variety of sales, marketing and strategy American 57 British 57 roles with Nestl in Asia, Appointed managing director, Appointed human resources Larry Schwartz Booz-Allen & Hamilton Inc in Diageo Latin America and director in January 1999.
2 President, Diageo USA North America and Whirlpool Caribbean in 2005, having Formerly he held a number in Europe.
He is also a American 57 joined United Distillers & of senior personnel non-executive director of Vintners Brazil in 1995 as its Appointed president, Diageo management positions with Coach Inc. in the USA.
Prior to USA in September 2008, prior GrandMet and then United joining Diageo, he held senior Distillers & Vintners and spent to which he was president, management positions with Diageo North America key ten years with Ford of Britain American Express, Scheringin a number of personnel and market hub, and president of Plough, Personal Care Group Diageos US spirits business.
USA and Pepsi in a number of joined the company in 2001, as territories, including Latin president of Joseph E Seagram America, Europe, Asia and & Sons Inc, having held a the USA.
variety of senior management positions with Seagram.
Ian Wright Corporate Relations 2 director British 52 Andrew Morgan 2 Appointed corporate relations President, Diageo Europe director of Diageo plc in July British 54 2004, having previously held Appointed president, Diageo positions with a number of Europe in October 2004, public relations consultancies having been president, and The Boots Company.
He joined United Distillers in 1987 and held various senior management positions with Guinness and then Diageo, including group chief information offi cer and president, New Business Ventures for Guinness United Distillers & Vintners and director, global strategy and innovation for United Distillers & Vintners.
