Performance summary Business description Business review Governance Financial statements Additional information 19 Business description Strategy Diageo is one of a small number of promoting eff ective and targeted premium drinks companies that alcohol policies through operate globally across spirits, beer stakeholder dialogue.
Diageo is the leading premium spirits business in the Market participation world by volume, by net sales and Diageo manages its business by operating profi t. It manages through four regions: North America, Europe, International and eight of the worlds top 20 spirits brands as defi ned by Impact Asia Pacifi c. The North American Databank.
Diageos beer brands region, comprising the United include the only global stout States and Canada, accounts for the largest proportion of Diageos brand, Guinness, and beer in total accounts for approximately 22 % net sales and operating profi t. The of Diageos net sales.
Diageos second largest, Europe, is wine brands are sold comprised of Great Britain, Ireland, Iberia, Northern Europe, Southern predominantly in North America and Europe and they comprise Europe, and Russia and Eastern approximately 6 % of Diageos Europe.
The International region is net sales.
made up of three distinct business On 24 September 2009, units: Latin America and the Diageos size provides for as part of Guinnesss scale effi ciencies in production, Caribbean including Mexico, th 250 Celebration, distribution, selling and marketing.
Africa and Global Travel and Diageo orchestrated a simultaneous music In addition to these cost Middle East GTME.
The Asia event in key markets Pacifi c region comprises South effi ciencies, Diageo is committed around the world.
to the dissemination of best Korea, Japan, the Peoples Republic practice in business operations of China, India and other Asian Diageo plc is incorporated as a across markets and brands, markets, Australia and New Diageo is the worlds public limited company in England Zealand.
In the past fi financial year allowing Diageo to serve its leading premium and Wales.
Diageo plcs principal customers and consumers better.
roughly two-thirds of net sales drinks business, executive offi ce is located at All of the above factors were derived from developed Lakeside Drive, Park Royal, London enable Diageo to attract and retain markets mainly North America operating globally NW10 7HQ and its telephone and Western Europe and talented individuals with the across spirits, beer number is 44 0 20 8978 6000. capabilities necessary to deliver one-third from developing and wine.
Diageo is a major participant Diageos strategy of growing its markets mainly Latin America and in the global beverage alcohol premium drinks business the Caribbean, Africa and Asia industry.
It brings together world Pacifi c. In 2005 approximately organically while looking to class brands and a management selectively acquire premium drinks four-fi fths of net sales arose in team that seeks to maximise brands that add long term value developed markets and one-fi fifth shareholder value over the long for shareholders.
The management team Diageos brands have expects to continue the strategy broad consumer appeal across of investing behind Diageos geographies.
The company and global brands, launching its employees are proud of the innovative new products, and responsible manner in which the seeking to expand selectively brands are marketed and the either through partnerships or positive role that moderate acquisition that add long term consumption of these brands value for shareholders.
plays in the lives of many people.
Diageo produces and Diageo acknowledges that distributes a leading collection of when misused, alcohol like many branded premium spirits, beer and other products may lead to wine.
These brands include health or social problems for the Johnnie Walker, Smirnoff, Baileys, individual or society as a whole.
Captain Morgan, J&B, Tanqueray Diageo seeks to be at the forefront and Guinness.
In addition it also of industry eff orts to promote has the distribution rights for the responsible drinking and works Jose Cuervo tequila brands in with other stakeholders to combat North America and many alcohol misuse.
is based on three strategic approaches: setting high company and industry standards in responsible marketing, implementing initiatives to minimise alcohol misuse and
