Diageo Annual Report 2010 102 Directors report The directors have pleasure in submitting their Annual Report Corporate governance statement for the year ended 30 June 2010.
The corporate governance statement, prepared in accordance with rule 7.2 of the FSAs Disclosure and Transparency Rules, Annual General Meeting comprises the following sections of the Annual Report: the Governance The AGM will be held at The Institution of Engineering and Corporate governance report and the Additional information for shareholders.
Technology, Savoy Place, London WC2R 0BL at 2.30pm on 77 Board of directors and Thursday, 14 October 2010. executive committee Signifi cant agreements change of control 80 Dividends Directors The following significant agreements contain certain termination remuneration Diageo paid an interim dividend of 14.6 pence per share on and other rights for Diageos counterparties upon a change of report 6 April 2010.
The directors recommend a final dividend of 23.5 control of the company.
93 Corporate Under the agreement governing the companys 34% pence per share.
Subject to approval by shareholders, the final governance report dividend will be paid on 19 October 2010 to shareholders on the investment in Mot Hennessy SNC MH and Mot Hennessy 102 register on 10 September 2010.
Payment to US ADR holders will International SAS MHI, if a competitor as defined therein Directors be made on 25 October 2010.
A dividend reinvestment plan, directly or indirectly takes control of the company which, for report these purposes, would occur if such competitor acquired more which enables ordinary shareholders to invest their dividends in ordinary shares, is available in respect of the final dividend than 34% of the voting rights or equity interests in the company, and the plan notice date is 27 September 2010.
LVMH Mot Hennessy Louis Vuitton SA LVMH may require the company to sell its shares in MH and MHI to LVMH.
The master agreement governing the operation of the Directors groups regional joint ventures with LVMH states that upon a The directors of the company who served during the year are change of control of the company being, for these purposes, shown in the section Board of directors and executive the acquisition by a third party of 30% or more of the issued share committee above.
capital having voting rights in the company, LVMH may either In accordance with the UK Corporate Governance Code, all appoint and remove the chairman of each joint venture entity the directors retire by rotation at the AGM and offer themselves governed by such master agreement, who shall be given a for re-election, with the exception of NC Rose who will retire casting vote, or require each joint venture entity to be wound up.
immediately after the AGM and will therefore not seek Agreements for the distribution of the Jose Cuervo tequila re-election.
DA Mahlan, who was appointed since the last brands allow Casa Cuervo SA fide CV Cuervo the right to AGM, retires in accordance with the articles and, being eligible, terminate such agreements upon a change of control of the offers herself for election at the AGM.
The non-executive company, if Cuervos advance written consent to the change directors proposed for re-election do not have service contracts.
of control is not obtained.
Further details of directors contracts, remuneration and their interests in the shares of the company at 30 June 2010 are given in the directors remuneration report above.
Auditor The auditor, KPMG Audit Plc, is willing to continue in office and a resolution for its re-appointment as auditor of the company will be submitted to the AGM.
Disclosure of information to the auditor The directors who held office at the date of approval of this directors report confirm that, so far as they are each aware, there is no relevant audit information of which the companys auditor is unaware: and each director has taken all the steps that they ought to have taken as a director to make themselves aware of any relevant audit information and to establish that the companys auditor is aware of that information.
Business review The review of the business of the company and the description of the principal risks and uncertainties facing the company, prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 2006, comprises the following sections of the Annual Report: the Chief executives review, the Business description and the Business review.
Performance summary Business description Business review Governance Financial statements Additional information Directors report 103 Other information Other information relevant to the directors report may be found in the following sections of the Annual Report: Information Location in Annual Report Amendment of memorandum and articles Additional information for shareholders Articles of association of association Charitable and political donations Corporate governance report Corporate citizenship Corporate governance report Directors appointment and powers Additional information for shareholders Articles of association Directors indemnities and compensation Directors remuneration report for loss of office Employment policies Business description Premium drinks Employees Events since 30 June 2010 Financial statements note 35 Post balance sheet events Future developments Business review Trend information Purchase of own shares Business review Liquidity and capital resources and Financial statements note 28 Share capital and reserves Principal activities of the company and its subsidiary undertakings in the course of the year Financial statements Principal group companies Research and development Business description Premium drinks Research and development Share capital structure, voting and Additional information for shareholders Share capital and other rights Articles of association Share capital employee share plan Financial statements note 34 Employee share compensation voting rights Shareholdings in the company Additional information for shareholders Share capital Supplier payment policies and performance Corporate governance report The directors report of Diageo plc for the year ended 30 June 2010 comprises these pages and the sections of the Annual Report referred to under Directors, Business review, Corporate governance statement and Other information above, which are incorporated into the directors report by reference.
The directors report was approved by a duly appointed and authorised committee of the board of directors on 25 August 2010 and signed on its behalf by PD Tunnacliffe, the company secretary.
Diageo Annual Report 2010 104 Financial statements contents 105 Independent auditors report to the members of Diageo plc 106 Consolidated income statement 107 Consolidated statement of comprehensive income 108 Consolidated balance sheet 109 Consolidated statement of changes in equity 110 Consolidated statement of cash fl ows 111 Accounting policies of the group 115 Notes to the consolidated fi financial statements 161 Independent auditors report to the members of Diageo plc 162 Company balance sheet 163 Accounting policies of the company 164 Notes to the company fi financial statements 167 Principal group companies Focused execution Diageo strives to execute everything it does to the highest possible standard, whether that be best-inclass production or working closely with its customers to build better businesses.
Diageo aims to execute everything it does to the highest possible standard across the board.
The company prides itself in best-in-class production, industry-defi ning practices and tools and self-imposed governance structures.
Moreover, it creates a working environment that is built upon a strong set of values.
These also provide the basis for an equitable relationship between Diageo and all its stakeholders.
