26 Dignity plc Annual Report & Accounts 2010 Board of Directors 1 23 a Member of the Audit Committee n Member of the Nomination Committee r Member of the Remuneration Committee 4 5 6 78 9 n a n r 1.
James Newman 61 Non-Executive Chairman Senior Independent Director Peter has extensive experience of the industry having been James has a portfolio of non-executive directorships in both the appointed Chief Executive of Plantsbrook Group plc in 1991. private and public sectors.
He is currently Chairman of Straight Following the acquisition of Plantsbrook Group plc and Great plc and Brulines Group plc and senior Non Executive Director of Southern Group plc by SCI in 1994, he was appointed CEO of Bglobal plc.
He is also Chairman of Finance Yorkshire, Deputy SCI UK.
He subsequently led a management buy out of the Chairman of the Governors of Sheffield Hallam University and Group from SCI in 2002.
The Company was then floated on the has just been appointed the first Chairman of the Sheffield City Stock Exchange in 2004.
Peter became Non-Executive Chairman Region Local Enterprise Partnership Board.
He was formerly in January 2009.
Before entering the funeral service industry, Deputy Chief Executive and Finance Director of Kelda Group plc Peter spent 25 years in retailing, holding senior positions in and a number of other public companies.
He has also been Debenhams, Burtons and Harris Queensway.
Chairman of Waste Recycling and a Non-Executive Director of Scott Wilson Group plc and Richmond Foods plc, before their 2.
James is a Fellow of the Institute of Chief Executive Chartered Accountants in England and Wales and a Member of the Association of Corporate Treasurers.
Mike joined Dignitys former parent, SCI, in 1995 from KPMG a n r Corporate Finance in London.
He was appointed Finance Director 7.
Bill Forrester 70 at the end of 2001 and became Chief Executive at the beginning Non-Executive Director of 2009.
He has a law degree from Birmingham University LL.
B, is a solicitor and also holds an MBA from Warwick University.
Bill is the Chairman of Nuaire Group Ltd and a Director of Brittpac Limited.
Prior to this he was Group Chief Executive of SIG plc, 3.
Steve Whittern 36 Europes largest distributor of insulation, ceiling, partitioning and Finance Director roofing products and Chairman of John Laing plc, the infrastructure investment group.
He was also the Managing Director at Kuwait Steve joined the Group in 1999 from KPMG.
He was appointed Insulation Manufacturing Company and the Sales and Marketing Finance Director at the beginning of 2009, having spent the Director at BP Rockwool Limited.
previous two years as Financial Controller, being responsible for the Group's finance function.
Steve led the further debt a n r 8.
Ishbel Macpherson 50 issue and Return of Value in 2010.
Steve is an FCA and holds Non-Executive Director a mathematics degree from Warwick University.
Ishbel was appointed to the Board on 12 January 2009.
Andrew Davies 49 is a Non-Executive Director of GAME Group plc and May Gurney Operations Director Integrated Services plc, Senior Independent Director of Hydrogen Group plc and Chairman of Speedy Hire plc.
Prior to those roles Andrew joined his family owned business in 1979 and worked she held senior positions with Barclays fide Zoete Wedd, Hoare as a funeral director and embalmer until the business was Govett and Dresdner Kleinwort Wasserstein.
sold to Great Southern Group in 1993.
He then held various management positions within Great Southern Group and following a n r 9.
Alan McWalter 57 the acquisition by SCI in 1994, held senior operational positions Non-Executive Director within SCI UK.
He became Operations Director in 2001 and was a member of the management buy out team in 2002.
Alan was appointed to the Board on 12 January 2009.
Alan is a Non-Executive Director of Churchill China plc, Haygarth 5.
Richard Portman 49 Group Ltd, Fabris Lane Ltd and is Non-Executive Chairman of Corporate Services Director Constantine Group plc and Kornicis Group Ltd.
Prior to these roles Alan was Marketing Director of Marks and Spencer plc Richard joined SCI from HSBC as Chief Accountant in 1999. and prior to that held senior positions with Kingfisher plc and In 2001 he was appointed Head of Finance and was responsible Thomson Consumer Electronics.
for the running of Dignity's finance department.
Richard was part of the team that took Dignity through the management buy out in 2002, the whole business securitisation in 2003 and the IPO in 2004.
Following the IPO Richard was appointed as Company Secretary and became Corporate Services Director in 2006.
Richard is an FCA, holds a geography degree from Birmingham University and is a Member of the Chartered Management Institute and of the Investor Relations Society.
