27 Dignity plc Annual Report & Accounts 2010 Directors report The Directors present their report and the audited Each of the Directors, whose names and functions are consolidated financial statements for Dignity plc listed on page 26 of the Annual Report, confirm that, and its subsidiaries for the 53 week period ended to the best of each persons knowledge and belief: 31 December 2010.
The Group and parent Company financial statements, The company registration number of Dignity plc prepared in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the is 4569346.
EU and UK GAAP respectively, give a true and fair view of the assets, liabilities, financial position and profit of Statement of Directors responsibilities the Group: and The Directors are responsible for preparing the Annual The Directors report contained in the Annual Report Report, the Report on Directors Remuneration and the includes a fair review of the development and performance financial statements in accordance with applicable law of the business and the position of the Company and and regulations.
Group, together with a description of the principal risks and uncertainties that they face.
Company law requires the Directors to prepare financial statements for each financial year.
Under that law the Principal activities and business review Directors have prepared the Group financial statements The principal activity of the Group is the provision of in accordance with International Financial Reporting funeral services including funeral directing, crematoria Standards IFRSs as adopted by the European Union, operation and the marketing and administration of and have elected to prepare the parent company financial pre-arranged funeral plans.
The principal activity of the statements in accordance with United Kingdom Generally Company is that of a holding company.
Accepted Accounting Practice United Kingdom Accounting Standards and applicable law.
Under company law the The principal activities and key performance indicators Directors must not approve the financial statements of the Group are also described on pages 22 to 24 of unless they are satisfied that they give a true and fair the Financial Review.
A review of the development of the view of the state of affairs of the Group and the Company business in 2010, events affecting the Group since the and of the profit or loss of the Group for that period.
end of the financial year and likely future developments In preparing these financial statements, the Directors are referred to in the Business Review, which is are required to: incorporated into this Directors Report by reference.
Select suitable accounting policies and then apply The review of business activities in the Business Review, them consistently: Financial Review and the Directors Statement of Corporate Make judgements and estimates that are reasonable Governance are in line with the requirements of the and prudent: and Companies Act 2006.
State whether applicable IFRSs as adopted by the Principal risks and uncertainties European Union and applicable UK Accounting Standards Operational risks are considered on page 25. have been followed, subject to any material departures disclosed and explained in the Group and parent An assessment of the Groups exposure to financial risks Company financial statements respectively.
and a description of how these risks are managed are included in note 2 to the consolidated financial statements.
The Directors are responsible for keeping adequate accounting records that are sufficient to show and explain Capital reorganisation the Companys transactions and disclose with reasonable On 27 September 2010, Dignity Finance PLC, a accuracy at any time the financial position of the subsidiary of the Group, issued 48.7 million Class A Company and the Group and enable them to ensure that Secured 6.31 per cent Notes due 2023 and 33.1 million the financial statements and the Report on Directors Class B Secured 8.151 per cent Notes due 2031.
This Remuneration comply with the Companies Act 2006 and, raised a total of 81.8 million after expenses.
The as regards the Group financial statements, Article 4 of the Company returned 63.9 million 1 per Ordinary Share IAS Regulation.
They are also responsible for safeguarding to shareholders through the issue and redemption of the assets of the Company and the Group and hence for a class of one B or C Share for each existing Ordinary taking reasonable steps for the prevention and detection Share.
This was approved at an Extraordinary General of fraud and other irregularities.
Meeting of the Company on 8 October 2010.
The Company also completed at the same time a consolidation of its The Directors are responsible for the maintenance share capital on the basis of six new Ordinary Shares of and integrity of the Groups websites and legislation 10.5 pence for every seven old shares of 9 pence each.
in the United Kingdom governing the preparation and dissemination of financial statements may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
28 Dignity plc Annual Report & Accounts 2010 Directors report continued Share capital and installing the cremator abatement equipment.
If this During the period, the Group issued 143,974 Ordinary company ceased to trade, the Group may have difficulties Shares of 9 pence each.
143,713 Shares of 9 pence each in installing the necessary equipment by the end of 2012. were issued to satisfy Long Term Incentive Plan share awards vesting in the period and 261 shares were issued Employment policies to satisfy options exercised under the Save As You Earn During the period the Group has maintained its obligations Scheme.
The Long Term Incentive Plan awards were made to develop and improve arrangements aimed at involving in 2007 and the SAYE options were granted in 2007. employees in its affairs.
Methods of communication used include an in-house newsletter, an employee website, Following the share consolidation referred to above, the bulletins and management briefings.
This is discussed issued share capital of Dignity plc at 31 December 2010 in more detail in the Corporate and Social Responsibility consisted of 54,757,002 Ordinary Shares of 10.5 pence Report on pages 12 to 21. each.
All the Ordinary Shares carry the same rights and obligations.
There are no other class or type of voting Employment policies are designed to provide equal share in issue.
Subsequent to the share consolidation opportunities irrespective of age, sexuality, colour, ethnic a further 1,322 shares were issued to satisfy options or national origin, religion, nationality, sex or marital exercised under the Save As You Earn Scheme.
Full consideration is given to the employment, options were granted in 2007. training and career development of disabled persons, subject only to their aptitudes and abilities.
The Group A special resolution passed at the last Annual General endeavour, as far as practicable, to treat disabled persons Meeting on 4 June 2010 gives Dignity plc the authority equally with others and will also endeavour to help and to purchase up to 3,194,068 Ordinary Shares of 9 pence accommodate persons who become disabled whilst each at not less than nominal value and not more than working for Dignity.
5 per cent above the average middle market quotation for the preceding 5 business days.
At the same meeting the Directors and their interests Company was also given authority to allot Ordinary Shares Details of the Directors of the Company who were in up to an aggregate nominal value of 1,916,441 of which office during the period and up to the date of signing the up to 287,466 may be for cash.
These authorities will financial statements are shown in the Report on Directors expire at the conclusion of the next Annual General Remuneration on page 33.
In accordance with the Articles Meeting on 9 June 2011.
It is the intention of the of Association and the UK Corporate Governance Code Directors to seek renewal of these authorities at that 2010 Code, at the Annual General Meeting, all Directors Annual General Meeting.
will retire as Directors of the Company and, being eligible, offer themselves for re-election at the Annual General Results Meeting on 9 June 2011.
The results for the period are set out in the Consolidated Income Statement on page 43.
Group profit before tax During the period, the Company maintained liability amounted to 39.8 million 2009: 37.5 million.
insurance for its Directors and Officers.
The Directors of each of the Companys subsidiaries, have the benefit Dividends of an indemnity provision in the Companys Articles of The planned interim dividend of 4.43 pence per share Association.
The indemnity provision, which is a qualifying which was due to be paid on 29 October 2010 was third party indemnity provision as defined by section 234 declared but cancelled following the decision to return of the Companies Act 2006, was in force throughout the capital to shareholders.
The Board has proposed a final period and is currently in force.
dividend of 8.88 pence per share, which, subject to approval at the Annual General Meeting, will be paid on Substantial shareholdings 24 June 2011 to shareholders on the register at close As at 7 March 2011, the Company had been notified of of business on 27 May 2011. the following interests of 3 per cent or more of the issued share capital: Payments policy Number of % of issued The Group has no formal code or standard that deals Holder Ordinary Shares share capital specifically with the payment of suppliers.
However, the Franklin Templeton Institutional 5,428,056 9.91% Groups policy on the payment of all creditors is to ensure Tiger Global Management LLC 3,640,829 6.65% that the terms of payment as specified by, and agreed Standard Life Investments 2,704,738 4.94% with, the supplier are not exceeded, provided all trading Baillie Gifford and Co 2,688,153 4.91% terms and conditions have been complied with.
The average BlackRock Inc 2,670,275 4.88% creditor payment period for the Group was 32 days 2009: BAM & Oppenheimer Funds 2,366,066 4.32% 25 days.
The Company has no trade creditors.
Montanaro Group 2,190,334 4.00% Legal and General Group plc 2,182,083 3.99% Key contractual arrangements UBS Global Asset Management Ltd 1,864,533 3.41% The Directors consider there to be one key contractual arrangement in relation to the supply and maintenance of cremators.
This company is responsible for supplying 29 Dignity plc Annual Report & Accounts 2010 The Takeover Directive In the case of each of the persons who are Directors at The Group has one class of voting share capital, Ordinary the time when the report is approved, the following applies.
All of the shares rank pari passu.
There are no special control rights in relation to the Groups shares.
So far as the Director is aware, there is no relevant The rules governing the appointment and replacement of audit information of which the Companys auditors are Board members and changes to the Articles of Association unaware: and accord with usual English company law provisions.
The Board has authority to purchase its own shares and is The Directors have taken appropriate steps to make seeking renewal of that power at the forthcoming Annual themselves aware of any relevant audit information General Meeting within the limits set out in the notice and to establish that the Groups auditors is aware of that meeting.
There are no significant agreements of that information.
to which the Group is party which take effect, alter or terminate in the event of change of control of the Group.
Corporate Governance Statement The information that fulfils the requirements of a Health and safety policy corporate governance statement in accordance with The Groups operations are designed at all times in such rule 7.2 of the Disclosure and Transparency Rules can a way as to ensure, so far as reasonably practical, the be found in this Directors Report and in the Directors health, safety and welfare of all of our employees and all Statement on Corporate Governance on pages 37 to 41, other persons who may be attending our premises.
This is which is incorporated by reference.
discussed in the Corporate and Social Responsibility Report on pages 12 to 21.
By order of the Board Corporate Social Responsibility Maintaining the quality of the environment in which we all live is an important concern for the Group.
This is discussed Richard Portman in the Corporate and Social Responsibility Report on pages Company Secretary 12 to 21 alongside other social and ethical considerations.
10 March 2011 Donations The Group made charitable donations amounting to 0.1 million 2009: 0.1 million during the period.
There were no political donations.
Further information can be found on page 20.
Going concern The Directors receive and review regularly management accounts, cash balances, forecasts and the annual budget together with covenant reporting.
After careful consideration, and mindful of the current market conditions, the Directors confirm they are satisfied that the Group has adequate resources to continue operating for the foreseeable future.
The Directors formally considered this matter at the Board meeting held on 3 March 2011.
For this reason, they continue to adopt the going concern basis for preparing the financial statements.
Post balance sheet events Please refer to note 32 of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements for further details.
Independent Auditors and disclosure of information to Auditors A resolution for the reappointment of  LLP will be proposed at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting.
