Directors Report: Strategic Summary Risks to Achieving the Groups Objectives Risk management is an integral part of business management and its something that DSGi takes seriously.
The Groups approach to risk management combines a top-down understanding with bottom-up activity to gain a complete view of risk.
For example, the Board undertakes a regular review of risks facing the business, which included a thorough risk assessment from first principles at the beginning of 2010.
Some of the key risks facing the business, along with illustrations of mitigating actions are set out below: Key risks Risk Examples of mitigating action Economic environment Ongoing monitoring by Finance and the Executive Committee, including review of the portfolio of businesses Risk that a prolonged economic downturn, particularly in the UK, severely impacts our business Renewal and Transformation plan to improve our business performance irrespective of macroeconomic factors Strategy and business planning which takes into account varying economic scenarios Meeting customer needs Understanding our customers and monitoring our level of service through mystery shopping, customer exit surveys and analysis of purchase data Risk that our retail brands fail to meet the expectations of our customers Delivery of the Renewal and Transformation plan to improve our stores across the Group FIVES customer service training for all colleagues and product workshops to improve product knowledge Implementation of the Customer Plan in the UK to improve the customer journey a clear and focused plan at the heart of the business see Chief Executives Statement Innovations in service propositions and improved customer service levels across the Group Clearer and easier navigation of our e-commerce websites Competition Renewal and Transformation plan improving our stores, cost structure and service proposition Risk that competitors reduce the Groups market share and or drive down margins in specific markets Continuing development of strong online brands, notably PIXmania and Dixons.
co. uk Ensuring our prices offer good value, including a customer price index Market margin pressure Continued focus on ensuring we have an excellent range across all price points, including own label brands Risk that margins are reduced due to falling consumer demand, manufacturer supply, Continuing to take money out of our cost base competitors, regulation and tax Building ever stronger relationships with suppliers Ongoing engagement with suppliers and credit insurers Changes in supplier credit Risk that credit insurance is no longer available Improvements in stock turn to electrical and computing suppliers Innovations in, and close scrutiny of, working capital together with regular monitoring and review Employees Group-wide standardised performance management Risk that we fail to attract, develop and retain Talent reviews across the business the necessary talent for our business Store structures which provide a clear career path for all employees Improved quality of training courses and development programmes with specialist focus on service, product, commercial and technical Bonus plans, which include a component relating to individual performance and business performance Reward strategy aligned to retain best talent Strong supplier relationships e. g. UK launch partner for Apple iPads Changing technology consumer preferences Delivery of Customer Plan to respond to identified changes in technology Risk that we fail to capitalise on new technology Store transformations to take into account emerging trends in store layouts or emerging trends to maximise revenues Exciting product launches to make our stores the destination for the latest technology e. g. 3D TVs 22 DSG international plc Annual Report and Accounts 2009 10 Business Overview Strategic Summary Performance Review Corporate Governance Financial Statements Information for Shareholders Risk Examples of mitigating action Finance and treasury Detailed group hedging policies reviewed through a separate Tax and Treasury Committee Risk that the Groups exposure to exchange rate, Balance sheet management and reviews interest rate, liquidity and credit risks have an Regular monitoring of receivables balance adverse or unexpected impact on results, funding Strong preand post-investment appraisal processes requirements or purchasing ability.
Central control of treasury activity Pension risk and policies Deficit reduction activities in place Risk that the pension funding policy fails to react to Defined benefit section of UK scheme closed to future accrual or address deficits, which may arise on the Groups pension schemes Systems failure Contingency plans developed that are tested regularly Evaluation, planning and implementation analysis carried out before updating Risk that a key system becomes unavailable for a period of time or introducing new systems that have an impact on critical functions Ongoing systems implementation in key areas of the business Legislative, contractual, reputational and In-house legal teams communicate on a regular and frequent basis and legal regulatory risks reports are submitted to the Board Risk that we suffer reputational and or financial Launch of Group Ethical Conduct policy, supported by annual declaration damage as a result of an exposure in our of compliance by colleagues compliance activities e. g. competition, consumer Monitoring changes in legislation regulation rights, intellectual property, contractual obligations, Corporate Responsibility Committee meets regularly to discuss reputational and health and safety or compromise of customers regulatory risks confidential data Quality checks and factory audits for own-branded product assembly Compliance Committee approves activity that may impact the terms of Group credit facilities Project delivery The portfolio plan is clearly defined and is managed and governed through regular processes and meetings Risk that a project delivering an element of our Post-investment analysis and performance tracking put in place including financial Renewal and Transformation plan does not deliver its anticipated benefits and customer measures Projects under the Customer Plan are aligned to our UK budget Seasonality Financial planning takes into account expected peaks and troughs during the year A substantial proportion of revenue and operating profit and the business is run accordingly is generated during the third financial quarter, which The proportion of services related business provides a regular stream of income includes the Christmas and New Year season.
In addition, over the course of the year in southern Europe a second peak exists in the summer period through sale of air conditioning units Price deflation Effective launches of new technology as it becomes available to the market Price deflation has been a common feature across Growth of services related business to increase the number and value of most electrical goods categories for a number of non-product sales years, primarily driven by technological advances Improve gross profit uplifts in transformed stores and improved efficiencies in production throughout the life cycle of a product Quality and location of store portfolio The store portfolio is reviewed on a regular basis with a view to optimising our retail estate presence This is a key contributor to the Groups performance and growth strategy Damage to property and consequential Disaster recovery plans are in place business interruption Insurance is purchased to mitigate against business interruption The Groups ability to distribute merchandise to its Preventative measures are constantly being updated to reduce the likelihood stores and to sell and distribute merchandise to its of an incident customers is reliant on its operational infrastructure, particularly the efficient functioning of its distribution centres and distribution network Change in government policy A number of committees exist to help DSGi manage its regulatory risks.
There is a Corporate Responsibility Committee and a Compliance Committee, both of which The Group is subject to a range of legal and regulatory are supported by our Legal and Company Secretarial functions requirements originating from the UK and EU DSG international plc Annual Report and Accounts 2009 10 23 Directors Report: Performance Review Overview Financial highlights Operational highlights 1 2 Total Underlying Group sales up 4% to 8,531.6 million Renewal and Transformation plan improving the offer 2008 09 8,180.2 million.
Total Group sales, including those from closed businesses, Store transformation programme on track: up 3% to 8,532.5 million 2008 09 8,317.8 million.
Over 200 stores had been reformatted across the Group 3 Group like for like sales up 2% in the full year and up 6% by the year end: in the second half.
Additional 80 reformatted stores to be opened by Peak Underlying Group gross margins flat across the full year.
in the UK, including 21 Megastores: 4 Underlying EBIT up 60% at 133.2 million Two thirds of store portfolio by sales will be transformed 2008 09 83.0 million.
in the UK by October 2010: Significant profit improvements including UK & Ireland Nordic store reformatting continues, with 16 Megastores up 21% and Nordics up 28%.
now open: 2 Underlying pre-tax profit up 61% at 90.5 million Portfolio review completed with over 160 stores exited 2008 09 56.1 million.
2 5 Underlying diluted earnings per share up 50% at Reformatted stores continue to perform strongly: 1.5 pence 2008 09 1.0 pence.
Basic earnings per share Average gross profit uplifts of 20% versus the rest of for continuing operations of 1.7 pence 2008 09 loss per the chains: share of 10.2 pence.
Average gross profit uplifts of 50% achieved in the Total profit before tax after net non-underlying items was Megastores and 2-in-1s: 112.7 million 2008 09 loss 123.6 million.
Second year trading for reformatted stores remains strong.
6 Free Cash Flow of 28.1 million before restructuring items Significant improvements to services for customers: 2008 09 outflow of 340.0 million.
Further compelling services for customers launched As at 1 May 2010 the Group had net debt of 220.6 million including free delivery slots, next day timed delivery slots 2008 09 477.5 million.
and follow-me-home services from Megastores: New 360 million revolving credit facility signed with syndicate Better availability of stock in store with stock turn up 12% of banks, providing the Group with flexibility.
year on year: Satisfaction measures rising, due to focus on service, connectivity, delivery, installation and repair.
Good progress with online operations: Internet sales of 1.4 billion, representing 16% of total Group sales: Successful roll-out of e-merchant operating platform to UK internet sites.
International plans making progress: Turnaround plans in Italy ahead of schedule with positive like for like sales and margin improvements: Businesses in Greece and Spain weathering economic challenges well and gaining market share.
200 million four year cost saving programme on track, delivering 50 million reduction in the year.
UK defined benefit pension scheme closed to future accrual thereby reducing risk for the Group.
On track for medium term target of a 3%-4% EBIT return on sales.
24 DSG international plc Annual Report and Accounts 2009 10 Business Overview Strategic Summary Performance Review Corporate Governance Financial Statements Information for Shareholders Business performance Underlying sales and profit analysis 1 2 Underlying sales Underlying profit loss 52 weeks 52 weeks 52 weeks 52 weeks ended ended ended ended 3 1 May 2010 2 May 2009 Like for like 1 May 2010 2 May 2009 Note million million % change million million UK & Ireland Electricals 8 2,650.6 2,657.8 1 % 32.0 17.7 UK Computing 9 1,362.9 1,570.8 9 % 39.1 41.0 UK & Ireland 4,013.5 4,228.6 3 % 71.1 58.7 Nordics 10 2,093.7 1,625.2 13% 97.4 76.1 Other International 11 1,503.2 1,519.0 flat 8.3 23.7 e-commerce 12 921.2 807.4 11% 11.3 15.0 Central costs 19.5 25.0 Total Group Retail 8,531.6 8,180.2 2% 152.0 101.1 Property losses 18.8 18.1 EBIT 133.2 83.0 Underlying net finance costs 42.7 26.9 Group underlying profit before tax 90.5 56.1 Notes 1 Underlying Group sales exclude sales from closed businesses and discontinued operations.
Closed businesses comprise the operations of PC City in Sweden and Markantalo in Finland.
2 Throughout this statement, references are made to underlying performance measures.
Underlying results are defined as excluding trading results from closed businesses, the amortisation of acquired intangibles, net restructuring and business impairment charges and other one-off non-recurring items, profit on sale of investments, net fair value remeasurements of financial instruments and, where applicable, discontinued operations.
These excluded items are described as non-underlying.
The financial effect of these items is shown in the analyses on the face of the income statement and in note 4 to the financial statements.
3 Like for like sales are calculated based on stores that have been open for a full financial year both at the beginning and end of the financial period and are calculated using constant exchange rates.
Customer support agreement sales are excluded from all UK like for like calculations.
Operations that are subject to closure have sales excluded as of the announcement date.
Stores subject to a refurbishment are excluded during the period of refurbishment.
4 Earnings Before Interest and Tax EBIT, or Operating Profit, are defined as underlying earnings before deduction of net finance costs and tax.
5 The weighted average number of shares used in the calculation of earnings per share for the periods prior to the Rights Issue, which completed on 9 June 2009, has been multiplied by an adjustment factor to reflect the bonus element of the shares issued under the terms of the Rights Issue as described in note 8 to the financial statements.
The adjustment factor used was 1.2138.
6 Free Cash Flow relates to continuing operations and comprises net cash flow from operating activities before special pension contributions, less net finance costs, less income tax paid and net capital expenditure.
7 Unless otherwise noted, throughout this statement figures relate to continuing operations, excluding the results of closed businesses.
Total revenue including discontinued operations and closed businesses was 8,543.4 million 2008 09 8,415.1 million.
8 UK & Ireland Electricals comprises Currys, CurrysDigital and Dixons Travel in the UK as well as the operations in Ireland.
9 UK Computing comprises PC World, DSGi Business and TechGuys.
Like for like sales are for PC World only.
10 Nordics comprises the Elkjp group Elkjp, El Giganten, Gigantti and Lefdal.
11 Other International comprises Greece Kotsovolos and Electro World, Italy UniEuro, PC City and Dixons Travel Italy, Spain PC City, Turkey Electro World, the Czech Republic Electro World and Slovakia Electro World.
12 e-commerce division comprises PIXmania and Dixons.
co. uk DSG international plc Annual Report and Accounts 2009 10 25
