Business Overview Strategic Summary Performance Review Corporate Governance Financial Statements Information for Shareholders Executive Committee The Executive Committee is an international cross functional executive Sebastian James team responsible for the implementation of strategy and the day to day Group Operations Director management of the Groups business.
Sebastian James 43 was appointed as Group Operations Director leading both the Retail and Services teams in January 2010, having previously been Services Director until that date.
As Group Development Director he Steve Ager managed the Currys Transformation Programme.
Prior to working at the Commercial Director Group he was Chief Executive of Synergy Insurance Services Limited, a Steve Ager 50 joined the Group in October 2008 from Tesco, where private equity backed insurance company.
He has wide retail experience he held a number of commercial and buying roles both in the UK and as Strategy Director responsible for developing and implementing the globally.
While at Tesco, he set up operations in Asia and Central Europe: turnaround strategy at Mothercare plc.
He started his career at The Boston he was responsible for the creation of the Tesco Express format and he Consulting Group having completed an MBA at INSEAD.
masterminded the Tesco Finest range.
Mario Maiocchi Katie Bickerstaffe Managing Director Southern Europe Group People, Marketing and Property Director Mario Maiocchi 54 was appointed as Managing Director South Europe Katie Bickerstaffe 43 joined DSGi as Group People, Marketing and on 14 March 2010 having joined the Group in February 2008 as Managing Property Director in June 2008.
She was previously Managing Director of Director of UniEuro.
Prior to joining the Group, he held the position of Kwik Save, and Group Retail Director and Group HR Director at Somerfield.
President and General Manager of Metro Italia, CFO of Metro France and Her earlier career included roles at Dyson, PepsiCo and Unilever.
MD of EMI Financial Services.
He holds a BA from Bocconi University in Milan and has attended several programmes at Harvard University, MIT Ronny Blomseth and INSEAD.
He is also a visiting Professor in Retail Marketing and Retail Managing Director Nordics Brands Strategy at Parma University.
Ronny Blomseth 41 was appointed as Nordics Managing Director in January 2009.
He has worked for Elkjp for 20 years, having previously Andrew Milliken held positions as Managing Director and Sales Manager in Elkjp Norway Transformation Director and various positions in different stores for eight years.
Prior to this, Andrew Milliken 39 was appointed Transformation Director in January he completed a full time Economics degree at the Norwegian School 2009.
He joined the Group in 2002 as Corporate Development Director, of Management.
moving to Managing Director of Airport Retail in 2004.
He spent his early career with The Boston Consulting Group and BBC Worldwide, and holds John Browett an MBA from INSEAD.
Chief Executive See page 40 Steve Rosenblum Prsident PIXmania Nicholas Cadbury Steve Rosenblum 36 joined the Executive Committee in January 2007.
Group Finance Director He has been Prsident of PIXmania since buying out the business with See page 40 his brother and investment fund support in 2001.
PIXmania was acquired by the Group in 2006.
He holds a Bachelors degree in Commerce from Helen Grantham Concordia University, Montreal, Canada.
Company Secretary & General Counsel Helen Grantham 45 is the Groups Company Secretary and General Jean-Emile Rosenblum Counsel.
She joined the Group in 2007 from William Hill plc, where she Vice Prsident PIXmania was Company Secretary and General Counsel.
She has also served Jean-Emile Rosenblum 32 has been Vice Prsident of PIXmania since as Company Secretary at Chubb plc and Hepworth plc.
Earlier in her buying out the business with his brother and investment fund support career she was an in-house lawyer at Boots and qualified as a solicitor in 2001.
Bachelors degree in Commerce from ISG, Paris.
DSG international plc Annual Report and Accounts 2009 10 41
