Directors Report: Business Overview Its an exciting place to be and shopping is so easy.
Signage Signage 10,000 Our new format stor Our new format stor ees s Our Megastores stock have better signage to have better navigation up to 10,000 products.
help you find your pr and signage to help you oduct.
We make sure that there find your product.
is always availability, especially on the most popular items.
Clarity We are improving our point of sale information, making it easier to see the features and benefits, as well as compare products.
2 DSG international plc Annual Report and Accounts 2009 10 Business Overview Strategic Summary Performance Review Corporate Governance Financial Statements Information for Shareholders We are transforming our stores.
Clearer signage and better navigation makes it easier to find the right product for your needs.
With products on playtables, powered up to try out, with 3D TV demonstrations, audio rooms, gaming stations and experts on hand, there is plenty that makes our stores an exciting place to be.
Combined 2-in-1 Currys & PC World Megastore, Fulham, London Brands All the best products are clearly visible in distinct areas, making it easier to find the products you want.
Our 2-in-1 Currys & PC World stores give you the best of both brands with more expertise across all categories.
Bilal Chudhary PC World, Staples Corner DSG international plc Annual Report and Accounts 2009 10 3 Directors Report: Business Overview Were here to help you work out whats right for you.
Play With all our products powered up and available to road test, come and try before you buy to make sure you get the best product for your needs.
We have improved our ranges to give you great choices and our FIVES training means we can help you better, as well as explaining the features and benefits.
Ben Edwards Combined 2-in-1 Currys & PC World, Hemel Hempstead, Herts 4 DSG international plc Annual Report and Accounts 2009 10 Business Overview Strategic Summary Performance Review Corporate Governance Financial Statements Information for Shareholders Were really interested in working out whats right for you.
Using our innovative FIVES service model, our colleagues are able to understand your needs better with great product knowledge to help you make the right choice and get the most out of it.
Whats important is that our customers are appreciating the changes were making, with 87% of customers saying they are likely or very likely to recommend our stores to their friends and family.
Theres still more to do and we will continue to improve the shopping trip for our customers every day however they wish to shop with us.
Digital cameras ready to try before you buy Value Our commitment to value ensures you can get the best price in our stores and on our websites.
Our price promise means we wont be beaten on price.
Help Choice More ticket information Wider ranges mean more and How to Choose choice of products to suit boards, combined with your needs.
our colleague training, will help you choose the right product.
DSG international plc Annual Report and Accounts 2009 10 5 Directors Report: Business Overview People appreciate great service wherever they are.
Share We are improving the shopping trip for our customers in all of our operations across Europe, helping us to grow market share.
UK & Ireland Nordics Other International 6 DSG international plc Annual Report and Accounts 2009 10 Business Overview Strategic Summary Performance Review Corporate Governance Financial Statements Information for Shareholders As an international Group, our customers, wherever they are, benefit from the improvements we are making across the business.
We are taking all the best bits of our businesses and sharing them across our Group.
We are improving the store environments, ranges and product knowledge, as well as introducing Megastores and providing better after-sales services in all our operations across Europe.
Combined UniEuro & PC City Megastore, Muratella, Rome, Italy We are rolling out best practices from each operation across Europe to offer our customers an unbeatable combination of value, choice and service.
Claudia Zanzarri Combined UniEuro & PC City Megastore, Muratella, Rome, Italy DSG international plc Annual Report and Accounts 2009 10 7 Directors Report: Business Overview Its easier than ever to shop online.
Navigate We are revamping our websites, making them easier to navigate and to see the features and benefits of all the exciting products available today.
e-commerce 8 DSG international plc Annual Report and Accounts 2009 10 Business Overview Strategic Summary Performance Review Corporate Governance Financial Statements Information for Shareholders PIXmania is Europes leading specialist electrical retailer, operating in 26 countries, and with good reason, it has the market leading operating platform, e-merchant, leveraging the Groups scale.
With customer friendly navigation, great ranges and deals and better product information we are rolling this platform out to our other websites.
co. uk customers are already benefiting from this with improved websites.
Great deals Our websites make it easy to see the great deals and packages we have for delivery direct to you or for you to pick up in store.
Reserve & Collect Combining the ease of the internet with the convenience of our stores gives you greater choice of how you shop with us.
DSG international plc Annual Report and Accounts 2009 10 9 Directors Report: Business Overview We make things work and keep them working.
Recycle Well even take away your old product and recycle it for free.
We offer the UKs biggest range of after-sales services, from next-day delivery to home set-up and support, as well as fix and repair facilities.
Sandeep Gurram TechGuys, Watford 10 DSG international plc Annual Report and Accounts 2009 10 Business Overview Strategic Summary Performance Review Corporate Governance Financial Statements Information for Shareholders We have made significant improvements to our after-sales services.
You can now have your products delivered either for free or at a time to suit you, next day in a three-hour time slot or, at our Megastores, well even follow you home with your product.
We have also introduced a wider choice of services to ensure that you get the most out of your product and when the unfortunate does happen, were on hand to help you get it sorted quickly and smoothly.
Advice In-store, at home, online or on the phone, our TechGuys are here to help.
Install We have re-engineered our delivery and installation network to ensure your product can be up and running as soon as it is delivered.
Set-up Fix Technology gets more Our new state-of-the-art complicated every day.
facility in the UK repaired over We can help you get your 1 million TVs last year.
We product up and running have over 2,500 engineers and show you how to in our TechGuys operation, get the most out of it.
DSG international plc Annual Report and Accounts 2009 10 11
