Directors Report: Strategic Summary Group Overview The objectives of the Group are described in the Chief Executives Overview of products and services Statement on pages 16 to 19.
Products The market in which the Group operates The principal products sold by the Group are categorised as brown goods, white goods, computing products and mobile phones.
Specialist electrical retailers are the predominant destination Brown goods include: vision products, such as televisions and for customers in the European market.
Buying groups, general DVD players: audio products, such as stereos, iPods and MP3 merchants and independents also have a retail presence across players: imaging products, such as cameras and camcorders: Europe.
The market is served by a relatively small number of gaming products, such as games consoles: and related global manufacturers supplying goods to local, regional, national essentials and accessories.
White goods include: major domestic appliances such as The internet delivers enhanced product information and washing machines, dryers, refrigerators, freezers as well as gas facilitates price comparability for consumers.
Whilst this creates and electric cookers: and small domestic appliances such as new challenges, it also provides a significant opportunity.
The microwave ovens, vacuum cleaners, kettles, coffee makers, Group believes that over time internet demand will polarise toasters, irons and bread makers.
towards the larger retailers with scalable distribution and systems, together with proven after-sales service and support.
Computing products include desktop computers, laptop computers, iPads, netbooks, printers and a wide range of related essentials and accessories.
Principal activities Mobile phones include pre-paid and contract mobile phones, mobile broadband modems and related accessories.
DSGi is a specialist electrical and computing retailer which sells consumer electronics, personal computers, domestic appliances, Brown goods, computing products and mobile phones are photographic equipment and communication products.
It is generally characterised by rapid technological advances that offer a multi-channel retailer, selling products in stores, over the major improvements in quality, functionality, interactivity and design.
internet and by phone and provides product support services White goods tend to benefit from innovation, fashion and improved to customers.
It also undertakes business to business B2B design and are typically heavily dependent on the replacement sales and services.
The Group is organised into four divisions: UK & Ireland, In addition to selling third party branded products, the Group sells Nordics, Other International and e-commerce.
Each division a number of own-branded products such as Advent in computing.
offers a full range of the Groups products and services.
The activities of each division are described as follows: Services The Group offers a broad range of product support services.
UK & Ireland division comprises UK & Ireland Electricals The most important of these, which represent a substantial and UK Computing.
Both UK & Ireland Electricals and UK proportion of the revenue from support services provided by Computing engage in multi-channel retail sales and provide the Group, are customer support agreements for repairs and product support services to their customers.
In addition, UK protection against breakdown and mishap, and after-sales Computing also engages in B2B sales of computer hardware, support for products bought from the Group.
In addition, the software and services: Group provides a range of technical support, repair, installation Nordics division, which operates primarily in Norway, Sweden, and other services, predominantly in relation to computing Finland and Denmark, engages in multi-channel retail sales and products.
The Group also offers a range of home delivery and provides related product support services to its customers.
It installation services for its products, including deliveries within also engages in B2B sales of computer hardware, software and specified time frames, collection of customers old appliances, services.
Across the region, the division operates a successful appliance installation as well as television installation and set-up.
franchise business, typically in smaller markets: In the UK these services are provided through a network of Other International division comprises operations in Italy, customer service centres: TechGuys clinics in PC World stores: Greece, Spain, Turkey, the Czech Republic and Slovakia.
laptop and TV repair centres: and a dedicated TechGuys The Other International division engages in retail sales including telephone support team.
The Group also has arrangements multi-channel sales in some countries and provides related with a number of third parties for the repair of products product support services to its customers in all its markets.
purchased at DSGi stores, particularly white goods.
It also engages in B2B sales of computer hardware, software and services in Italy, Spain and Greece and has franchise operations in Italy and Greece: and e-commerce division is engaged in pure-play internet retail sales, primarily through the PIXmania brand which operates in 26 countries across Europe and the Dixons.
20 DSG international plc Annual Report and Accounts 2009 10
