Directors Report: Corporate Governance Board of Directors 123 4 567 Member of the Audit Committee Member of the Nominations Committee Member of the Remuneration Committee Independent non-executive dir ector 1 John Allan 5 Rita Clifton Chairman Non-Executive Director John Allan 61 joined the Board on 23 June 2009 and was appointed Rita Clifton 52 joined the Board in September 2003.
She is Chairman of Chairman on 2 September 2009.
He is a non-executive director of National Interbrand, non-executive Chairman of Populus Ltd, the opinion pollster to Grid plc and 3i Group plc.
He was previously CFO of Deutsche Post, The Times, and a non-executive director of Bupa.
She was a non-executive having been appointed to the Management Board following its acquisition director of Emap plc prior to its sale in 2008 and had previously spent 18 of Exel plc in December 2005 where he had been Chief Executive since years in the advertising industry, including positions with Saatchi & Saatchi September 1994.
He started his career in marketing, at Lever Brothers, and J Walter Thompson.
She has been a member of the UK Governments moving to Bristol-Myers Company Ltd and then Fine Fare Ltd.
He joined Sustainable Development Commission, is a Trustee of WWF World Wide BET plc in 1985 and was appointed to the board in 1987.
He is a member Fund for Nature and is on the Assurance and Advisory board for BPs of the University of Edinburgh Campaign Board.
He was previously carbon offset programme targetneutral.
She is also a Visiting Professor Chairman of Samsonite Corporation and a non-executive director of PHS at Henley Management College and has recently been appointed Group plc, Wolseley plc, Hamleys plc and Connell plc and a member of President of the Market Research Society.
the Supervisory Boards of both Lufthansa AG and Deutsche Postbank.
6 Prof. Dr. Utho Creusen 2 John Browett Non-Executive Director Chief Executive Utho Creusen 54 was appointed to the Board on 1 February 2010.
He John Browett 46 joined the Group as Chief Executive in December 2007. has extensive international retail experience having spent the early part of He is also a non-executive director of easyJet PLC.
He was formerly his career at OBI AG a leading European DIY retailer and he was Chief Operations Development Director at Tesco plc, responsible for the design Human Resources Director of Media-Saturn Holding GmbH part of the and improvement of the Tesco operating model.
Prior to this, he was Metro AG Group from 2002 2008.
He is currently a non-executive CEO of Tesco.
com, Group Strategy Director of Tesco plc and held a senior director of M. Video a leading Russian consumer electronics retailer.
position at Boston Consulting Group, where he worked with a variety of He also holds a number of advisory and academic positions.
clients specialising in consumer goods and retail.
A graduate of Cambridge University, he has an MBA from the Wharton Business School.
7 Tim How Non-Executive Director 3 Nicholas Cadbury Tim How 59 was appointed to the Board on 8 September 2009 and was Group Finance Director appointed Chairman of the Remuneration Committee on 31 March 2010.
Nicholas Cadbury 44 was appointed to the Board in July 2008 and took He is a non-executive director of Henderson Group plc, Framlington AIM over the role of Group Finance Director in August 2008.
He joined the VCT PLC and Framlington AIM VCT 2 PLC.
He was Chief Executive of Group in 1993 and has held various roles including Finance Director and Majestic Wine plc from 1989 to 2008, having initially led the management Commercial Director of PC World, Managing Director of Dixons Tax Free, buy-out of the business in 1989 and subsequently leading the flotation and, most recently, International Finance Director.
He qualified as a of the business on the London Stock Exchange Alternative Investment chartered accountant with Price Waterhouse.
He was previously Managing Director of Bejam Group plc.
He holds an MA from Cambridge University and a Masters Degree in Business Studies from London Business School.
4 Andrew Lynch FCA Non-Executive Director Andrew Lynch 53 joined the Board in May 2003.
He is Chairman of the Audit Committee and the Boards designated Senior Independent Director.
He is Chief Executive Officer of SSP, the travel concessions catering company formerly part of Compass Group PLC.
He was a director of Compass Group from 1997 to 2005 where he held the position of Group Finance Director from 1997 to 2003 and Chief Executive Officer of SSP from 2003.
His earlier career included corporate finance and financial management positions with Prudential Corporation plc and KPMG.
He is a Fellow of the Institute of Chartered Accountants in England and Wales.
40 DSG international plc Annual Report and Accounts 2009 10
