Directors Report: Corporate Governance Statutory Information Pages 1 to 62, together with any sections of this Annual Report and Accounts which have been incorporated by reference, comprise the Directors Report which has been drawn up and presented in accordance with and in reliance upon applicable company law in England and Wales.
The liabilities of the directors in connection with that report shall be subject to the limitations and restrictions provided by such law.
The Performance Review, which can be found on pages 24 to 39, is based on many of the principles contained in the best practice statement Reporting Statement: Operating and Financial Review issued by the Accounting Standards Board ASB.
Reference to information that fulfils the business review requirements of Section 417 of the Companies Act 2006 together with other disclosures required in the Directors Report are set out below: Section of Directors Report Page Appointment and retirement of directors Statutory Information 43 Auditors and disclosure of information to auditors Statutory Information 44 Business performance Performance Review 24-34 Charitable donations Corporate Responsibility Review 39, 44 Chairmans Statement Business Overview 15 Chief Executives Statement Business Overview 16-19 Conflicts of interest Statutory Information 43 Corporate Governance Statement Corporate Governance Report 45 Directors Board of Directors and Statutory Information 40, 43 Directors Responsibilities Directors Responsibilities 62 Directors and officers liability insurance Statutory Information 43 Dividends Statutory Information 44 Employees including diversity and equal opportunities Corporate Responsibility Review 36-37 Environmental matters Corporate Responsibility Review 38-39 Factors likely to affect future performance Chief Executives Statement Outlook 19 Financial position at end of the year Performance Review 32-34 Going concern Statutory Information 44 Key Performance Indicators Strategic Summary 21 Objectives and strategy of the Group Chief Executives Statement 16-19 Payment of suppliers Statutory Information 44 Political donations Statutory Information 44 Principal activities Strategic Summary 20 Principal risks and uncertainties Strategic Summary 22-23 Share capital structure Statutory Information 43 Social and community issues Corporate Responsibility Review 39 Substantial share interests Statutory Information 43 42 DSG international plc Annual Report and Accounts 2009 10 Business Overview Strategic Summary Performance Review Corporate Governance Financial Statements Information for Shareholders Share capital The interests of the directors in the share capital of the Company Details of the Companys share capital and changes to the are shown in the Remuneration Report on pages 57, 59 and 60. issued share capital during the period, including share options No director had any beneficial interests in the shares of any exercised, are given in note 23 a to the financial statements, subsidiary undertaking or in any contract or arrangement apart on page 104. from contracts of service to which the Company or any subsidiary was a party during or at the end of the financial period.
Substantial share interests All of the Companys share plans contain provisions relating In accordance with the Disclosure and Transparency Rules, to a change of control.
Outstanding awards and options DTR5, we have received notification as at 24 June 2010 of the would normally vest and become exercisable on a change of following interests in voting rights of 3% or more in the issued control, subject to the satisfaction of performance conditions share capital of the Company: where applicable.
Percentage of issued share capital at Directors and officers liability insurance 24 June 2010 Pursuant to Article 159 of the Articles of Association, the directors, secretary and other officers of the Company are entitled Schroders Plc 13.29% to be indemnified by the Company out of its own funds against Standard Life Investments Ltd 13.06% liabilities arising from the conduct of the Groups business to the Legal & General Group Plc 10.27% extent permitted by law.
The Group has purchased appropriate UBS Global Asset Management 6.05% directors and officers liability insurance cover which in general Letko, Brosseau & Associates Inc. 5.73% terms indemnifies individual directors and officers personal Ameriprise Financial, Inc. and its group 4.95% legal liability and costs for claims arising out of actions taken Capital Research & Management Company 4.92% in connection with the Groups business.
Credit Suisse Securities Europe Limited 3.53% Conflicts of interest Directors The Articles of Association were amended at the 2008 AGM The names of the directors in office at the date of this report, with effect from 1 October 2008 to permit the Board to consider their biographical details and other information, are shown on and, if appropriate, to authorise situations where a director has page 40.
All of the directors served throughout the period, an interest that conflicts, or may possibly conflict, with the except for John Allan, Tim How and Prof. Dr. Utho Creusen interests of the Company.
who were appointed on 23 June 2009, 8 September 2009 and 1 February 2010, respectively.
John Whybrow served from the The Board has a formal system in place for directors to declare beginning of the period until his resignation from the Board on conflicts to be considered for authorisation by those directors 31 March 2010.
Sir John Collins and Count Emmanuel dAndr who have no interest in the matter being considered.
In deciding served from the beginning of the period until their resignations whether to authorise a conflict and potential conflict, those on 2 September 2009. directors deciding the matter are requested to act in the way they consider would be most likely to promote the success In accordance with the Articles of Association, Andrew Lynch, of the Company and may impose limits and conditions when Tim How and Prof. Dr. Utho Creusen would be the directors giving authorisation.
required to retire at the 2010 AGM.
It has, however, been agreed that in line with best practice all directors will retire at this meeting The Board has delegated responsibility to the Audit Committee and, being eligible, will offer themselves for reappointment.
The to review on an annual basis the conflicts previously authorised Remuneration Committee Report on pages 56 and 57 provides by the Board and to consider whether any authority provided details of applicable service agreements for executive directors should remain in place, whether any terms and conditions and terms of appointment for non-executive directors.
The should be imposed or amended and whether such authority Board is satisfied that each respective director is qualified should be revoked and to make such recommendations to for reappointment by virtue of their skills, experience and the Board accordingly.
DSG international plc Annual Report and Accounts 2009 10 43 Directors Report: Statutory Information continued Corporate Governance Corporate activity Payment of suppliers On 19 May 2009 the Group disposed of its operations in Hungary It is the Groups policy to agree terms of payment with its Electro World Magyarorzg Kereskedelmi s Szolgltato Kft suppliers.
Payments are made in accordance with these terms to EW Electro Retail Limited EWH for consideration of 1. provided that the supplier has complied with all the relevant The sale saw the transfer of all nine stores, operations and contractual obligations.
Trade creditors at 1 May 2010 represent employees to EWH.
49 days of annual purchases made during the period 2 May 2009 50 days.
On 1 September 2009 the Group disposed of its operations in Poland Electro World Polska sp.
o. to IDMSA Brokerage Auditors and disclosure of information to auditors House Dom Maklerski IDM S. A. working with Mix Electronics Deloitte LLP are willing to continue in office as auditors to the S. A. for a consideration of 1.
The sale saw the transfer of all Company.
Resolutions for their reappointment and to authorise eight stores, operations and employees.
the directors to agree their remuneration will be proposed at the forthcoming AGM.
Dividends No dividend was paid in respect of the 52 weeks ended In accordance with the provisions of Section 418 of the 2 May 2009.
Companies Act 2006, each of the directors at the date of approval of this report confirms that to their knowledge and No dividend will be paid in respect of the 52 weeks ended belief, and having made appropriate enquiries of other officers 1 May 2010. of the Group: so far as they are aware, there is no relevant audit information Going concern of which the Companys auditors are unaware: and In considering the going concern basis for preparing the financial statements, the directors have considered the Companys they have taken all the steps that they ought to have taken objectives and strategy, risks to achieving its objectives and as a director to make themselves aware of any relevant audit its review of business performance which are all set out in the information and to establish that the Companys auditors are Directors Report and Business Review section of the Annual aware of that information.
The Groups liquidity and funding arrangements are described in notes 17 and 22 f to the financial Annual General Meeting statements as well as in the funding section of the performance The AGM will be held on 8 September 2010 at Holiday Inn review and the directors consider that the Group has significant London-Bloomsbury, Coram Street, Russell Square, London, covenant and liquidity headroom in its borrowing facilities for WC1N 1HT at 10.00am.
Notice of the meeting, together with the foreseeable future.
full details and an explanation of the business to be considered, is given in a separate letter accompanying this report.
Accordingly, after reviewing the Companys expenditure commitments, current financial projections and expected future By Order of the Board cash flows, together with the available cash resources and undrawn committed borrowing facilities, the directors have considered that adequate resources exist for the Company to continue in operational existence for the foreseeable future.
Helen Grantham Accordingly, the directors continue to adopt the going concern Company Secretary basis in preparing the financial statements.
24 June 2010 Charitable and political donations During the period the Company, together with certain of its subsidiaries, made donations of 136,000 2008 09 200,000 for charitable purposes.
Further information on charitable activities is set out in the CR Review on page 39.
During the year the Company made no payments 2008 09 nil which constituted EU Political Expenditure.
A resolution to authorise the directors to incur EU Political Expenditure in the coming year to an aggregate amount not exceeding 25,000 will be proposed at the forthcoming AGM.
44 DSG international plc Annual Report and Accounts 2009 10
