Business Overview Strategic Summary Performance Review Corporate Governance Financial Statements Information for Shareholders Key Performance Indicators KPIs Financial and operational Definition Total sales Growth in total sales Like for like sales The ability to grow sales in stores in the Group is an important measure of a brands appeal to customers and its competitive position.
The Board measures like for like sales as sales in stores that have been open for a full financial year both at the beginning and end of the financial period and are calculated using constant exchange rates.
Customer support agreement sales are excluded from all UK like for like calculations.
Operations that are subject to closure have sales excluded as of the announcement date.
Stores subject to a refurbishment are excluded during the period of refurbishment.
Sales targets and growth are set relative to the market and expected economic conditions.
Market position In line with the Groups strategy to be the leading specialist electrical retailer in Europe, this is an important measure of how well customers are being engaged by the Groups brands in each market.
Retailing operations should be, or be capable of becoming, the number one or number two specialist electrical retailer in their market, measured by market share.
Underlying operating profit Continued growth of underlying operating profit enables the Group to invest in its future and provide a return for shareholders.
Targets are set relative to expected market performance.
Underlying profit before tax Continued growth of underlying profit before tax represents a measure of Group performance to external investors and shareholders.
Free Cash Flow The Group defines Free Cash Flow as net cash generated from operations, less net finance costs, taxation and net capital expenditure and excluding certain discrete items such as special pension contributions.
The management of cash usage, in particular working capital employed in the business, optimises resources available for the Group to invest in its future growth and to generate shareholder value.
Shareholder Definition Underlying diluted The level of growth in EPS provides a suitable measure of the financial health of the Group earnings per share EPS and its ability to deliver returns to shareholders each year.
The Group targets growth in EPS commensurate with growth in earnings.
Total Shareholder Return TSR The relative performance measure over the longer term of the Groups ability to deliver returns for shareholders.
For 2008 09 and 2009 10, the base which the Group used is to measure itself against was a bespoke weighted average index of UK and European retailers over a three year period.
From 2010 11, the base will be to measure against the FTSE 250 index comprising FTSE 101-350 companies, excluding investment trusts, over a three year period.
Under the Renewal and Transformation plan, the Group is developing a range of customer KPIs which the Board will consider for inclusion in future reports.
Corporate Responsibility KPIs During the year the Group reviewed the KPIs which it uses 5.
Waste electrical equipment collected and recycled to monitor Corporate Responsibility CR.
The CR Committee from customers has agreed to monitor the following KPIs on an ongoing basis, 6. Business waste recycled initially concentrating on the Groups biggest business in the 7.
Group carbon emissions UK and via the Groups central buying function.
Contributions to the community extend monitoring of the KPIs to the other Group businesses over time.
These KPIs are: Details are set out in the Corporate Responsibility Review on pages 35 to 39.
KPIs are monitored by the CR Committee 1.
Staff diversity age, gender and ethnicity of employees on behalf of the Board and the Board considers CR issues 2.
Health and Safety employee accidents and injuries on an annual basis.
The CR Committee assists the Board in 3.
Performance on ethical supply chain audits identifying risks to achieving the Groups objectives and any 4.
Customer satisfaction required mitigating actions.
DSG international plc Annual Report and Accounts 2009 10 21
