Business Overview Strategic Summary Performance Review Corporate Governance Financial Statements Information for Shareholders Directors Report: Performance Review Other International Italy This comprises UniEuro, PC City implants in UniEuro stores The Other International division comprises and Dixons Travel Italy operating in the airport in Rome.
The operations in Italy, Greece, Spain, the Czech turnaround plan in Italy continues to make good progress.
Total sales were Management actions have resulted in an improving trend in down 5% at constant exchange rates and by 1% in sales with positive like for like sales, particularly in the second sterling to 1,503.2 million 2008 09 1,519.0 million.
half of the year despite a continued challenging economic environment.
Gross margins improved further year on year.
A better performance in the second half with like Stock control has also been improved, with stock turn up for like sales up 4% resulted in a flat like for like 11%, while availability has increased by approximately 20%.
UniEuro has experienced good growth in vision, computing, Underlying operating losses were reduced communications, built-in appliances and accessories.
significantly to 8.3 million 2008 09 loss of At the beginning of the year, UniEuro successfully completed 23.7 million.
its store rationalisation plan ahead of schedule, closing 51 underperforming stores and now operates from 97, largely out of town, stores.
It has added 35 PC City implants into Underlying sales the portfolio, all of which are performing well.
During the year, million UniEuro opened its first Megastore in Muratella in Rome.
This 2009 10 1,503.2 is a 40,000 sq ft store refurbished along the same principles as 2008 09 1,519.0 those in the UK and Nordics and has experienced strong gross profit uplift.
Management have also developed a new format for smaller stores and have completed the first three refits which Underlying operating loss were successfully launched in May 2010 with strong gross profit million uplifts.
The range improvements and cost efficiencies identified as part of the turnaround plan continue to make good progress.
8.3 2009 10 23.7 2008 09 The economic outlook in Italy remains challenging, but the turnaround plan puts UniEuro in a strong competitive position.
The improving performance gives management further confidence in the prospects for UniEuro.
Greece Kotsovolos is the market leading specialist electrical retailer in Greece.
The difficult economic environment currently being experienced in Greece is well documented.
The business has seen total sales impacted, particularly against tough comparables Left Our first Megastore in Italy employs the new store format from the UK.
Right As such, it provides the widest choice in its markets for products such as TVs.
DSG international plc Annual Report and Accounts 2009 10 29 Directors Report: Other International continued Performance Review in the prior year.
However, management have continued to despite the continued weak consumer environment.
This focus on the customer, maintained margins, reduced costs and performance gives management further confidence in the improved cash flow by increasing stock turn.
They have also prospects for the business.
continued to invest in the store renewal programme to limit the effects of the weakening environment on bottom line performance.
The Czech Republic and Slovakia On 19 May 2009 and 1 September 2009 the Group sold the During the period, Kotsovolos refurbished nine stores into the operations of Electro World in Hungary and Poland, respectively, Renewal and Transformation plan format, which are showing in each case for a consideration of 1.
Following these disposals, encouraging uplifts and excellent feedback from customers.
The the central operations in Prague and logistics infrastructure focus has also been on building new channels of business and in Brno have been refocused on its core operations of the in one year Kotsovolos has become a significant player online, Czech Republic and Slovakia, significantly reducing costs increased the franchise network to 30 stores and commenced and complexity.
operations of B2B sales, all of which have helped to offset the negative trends in the market.
Operations in the Czech Republic have performed well in their markets, despite the weak consumer environment.
During the The operations in Greece are in a strong position with a market year, Electro World reformatted its first store in Prague, utilising leading offer and a strong focus on delivering for customers.
As the Renewal and Transformation plan format which has reported such, it will benefit when the economy recovers.
These strengths encouraging results with a great response from customers.
will enable Kotsovolos to capitalise on the tough environment The Group now operates 16 stores and a multi-channel internet for competitors and to grow market share.
operation in the Czech Republic and three stores in Slovakia which are trading in line with expectations.
Management Spain recently announced plans to open three new stores in time While the consumer environment has been very tough in Spain for the Christmas Peak.
over the last two years, PC City remains the leading computer specialist in the market.
Costs have been reduced while Turkey continuing to focus on the customer offer.
11 stores have been The Group now operates 12 stores in Turkey under the Electro closed and PC City now operates from 32 stores.
Using some World brand with its local joint venture partner.
These new stores of the principles of the UK transformation plan, management are based on the Groups new large space format, providing introduced a light refit plan which adds incremental sales while a greater product range and exciting retail environment for keeping the cash payback period to a minimum.
The business continues to deliver good sales growth have started to deliver improved gross margins, enabling the as customers recognise the benefits of large store formats in business to significantly reduce losses year on year.
They have delivering value, choice and service.
With a solid store base now also enabled PC City to maintain its overall market share with established, it was announced in April 2010 the intention to roll 11 fewer stores while positioning the business better for when out a franchise operation in Turkey.
The first franchise store the Spanish economy recovers.
Encouragingly, the business opened very successfully in Sakarya and further franchise stores delivered positive like for like sales during the second half, will be opened over the next two years.
The standardisation of layout, fixtures and fittings enables new formats to be rolled out across the Group, such as here in Kotsovolos in Greece.
30 DSG international plc Annual Report and Accounts 2009 10
