Directors Report: Performance Review UK & Ireland The economic environment in the UK & Ireland remained challenging across the year.
During the first half the Group Total sales in the UK & Ireland were down 5% to was focused on cash margins while much of the Renewal and 4,013.5 million 2008 09 4,228.6 million and like Transformation plan and store reformatting was taking place.
for like sales were down 3% across the year.
The business then experienced a strong Christmas Peak as the benefits of the plan started to improve the business performance Like for like sales in the second half were up 3% and deliver market share gains in all major categories.
as the Renewal and Transformation plan began to deliver benefits.
UK & Ireland Electricals includes Currys, CurrysDigital and Dixons Travel in the UK and Currys and PC World in Ireland.
Underlying operating profit for the full year was up Total sales were flat year on year at 2,650.6 million 2008 09 21% at 71.1 million 2008 09 58.7 million.
2,657.8 million with like for like sales down 1%, across the year, but up 6% in the second half.
Underlying operating profit improved by 81% to 32.0 million 2008 09 17.7 million.
Underlying sales million UK Computing includes PC World, DSGi Business and TechGuys.
2008 09 4,228.6 The decline in sales was predominantly driven by lower sales in the B2B operations as small businesses reduced capital expenditure during the credit crunch.
Despite the weak sales Underlying operating profit environment, underlying operating profit was relatively stable million at 39.1 million 2008 09 41.0 million.
2009 10 71.1 UK & Ireland has historically been reported separately as 2008 09 58.7 UK & Ireland Electricals and UK Computing.
A key objective of the Renewal and Transformation plan is to remove complexity, simplify processes, make operations easier for colleagues and reduce costs in the Group.
As a result, the back office functions supporting the PC World, Currys, CurrysDigital and Dixons Travel operations have been brought together with the combined commercial, merchandising and buying teams supporting all brands.
The logistics infrastructure has also been consolidated with the main warehouse in Newark providing one fulfilment centre for stores and customers.
In addition, with an increasing number of combined 2-in-1 Currys & PC World stores, the Electricals and Computing operations in the UK & Ireland will no longer report figures separately and will consequently be reported as one operation going forward.
Combined 2-in-1 Currys & PC World Superstore in Hemel Hempstead with our new clear 2-in-1 brand signage.
26 DSG international plc Annual Report and Accounts 2009 10 Business Overview Strategic Summary Performance Review Corporate Governance Financial Statements Information for Shareholders The main focus of the Renewal and Transformation plan has, to DSGi Business experienced an extremely challenging trading date, primarily benefited the UK & Ireland operations.
The stores environment as smaller businesses reduced capital expenditure are benefiting from improved ranges and selling service.
All during the credit crunch.
The new management team is focused colleagues have now undergone FIVES training, our bespoke on managing costs and cash.
The B2B operations will benefit training programme focusing on understanding and meeting when small businesses restart investment as the economic a customers needs as well as improving product knowledge.
Stock management processes have improved significantly, As at 18 June 2010 the Group had transformed 164 stores in total improving availability and ranges while controlling costs and in the UK, of which 12 were Megastores and 20 were combined working capital utilised in the business.
The transformed stores continue to deliver gross profit uplifts of 20%, with uplifts as high During the year, significant improvements have been made to as 50% in the Megastores and combined 2-in-1 Currys & PC the services infrastructure.
This enables Currys and PC World World Superstores.
to offer customers flexible options to suit their needs even better, from the market leading next day delivery in three hour While there are a limited number of reformatted stores over timed slots to free delivery.
Delivery times continue to improve a year old, performance in the second year remains strong.
with right first time achieving 97% with right second time Management estimate that the transformed stores benefited the even higher.
Utilising our logistics infrastructure we are able like for like sales in the UK by approximately 3% across the year.
to offer free recycling without materially impacting costs or Having traded the new format stores through the important carbon emissions.
Peak period the Group has determined the appropriate portfolio The repair and support operations have been restructured, and transformation programme going forward, and announced improving processes and reducing costs.
A new state of the art its intention to reduce the number of stores in the UK to repair facility for TVs and laptops has been opened in Newark.
approximately 500 excluding stores under the Dixons Travel These changes have enabled the Group to considerably improve brand over time.
The Megastore and 2-in-1 combined stores repair times, for example, halving the average repair time for are proving to be particularly popular with customers.
televisions to six days, with further improvements under way.
70 locations for the Megastore format have been identified The contact centre was successfully brought back in house with 60 being developed using existing stores in the portfolio enabling us to improve the quality of service and support offered and the remainder resulting from the relocation of existing to our customers.
In addition the Group expects to have approximately 330 out of town Superstores, predominantly of the combined Dixons Travel continues to perform well.
The new format stores 2-in-1 Currys and PC World format which can be similarly are being rolled out to existing locations bringing improved ranges, playtables and store layouts to the airport stores.
Dixons created from within the existing portfolio.
With limited overlap Travel initiated its overseas expansion opening stores in Rome between the PC World and Currys customer demographic the airport.
Since the year end Dixons Travel has opened a store in combined 2-in-1 stores provide access to the PC World brand Dublin airport.
Further international locations are expected to in existing Currys markets.
The Group also expects to continue be added over time.
to operate up to 100 High Street locations.
The TechGuys continues to be a valued differentiator providing In the UK & Ireland the Group expects to refurbish service and expertise to customers.
TechGuys service desks are approximately 100 stores during the 2010 11 financial year, with now operational in PC World and combined 2-in-1 stores and has the majority to be completed before Christmas 2010, as follows: been incorporated in the Currys Megastores.
In August TechGuys 21 new Megastores, taking the total in the UK to 33 launched a range of over 60 enhanced services for customers Megastores: as well as introducing Club and Premier Club options for 44 combined 2-in-1 Currys and PC World stores: the Whateverhappens customer support agreements.
Under 12 Currys and PC World standalone Superstores: and the Premier Club, support agreement customers experience enhanced levels of service such as faster response times and 3 High Street stores.
the loan of a product if theirs has to be taken away for repair.
The Group has also been implementing those parts of the store In Ireland, the economic environment has been particularly transformation programme to existing stores across the portfolio tough.
The business there took early action to manage costs that improve the shopping trip for customers but require little or resulting in an improving performance in the second half with no additional expenditure.
As a result, these stores have already sales and profits up year on year.
benefitted from the improved ranges, colleague training and enhanced after-sales help and support.
DSG international plc Annual Report and Accounts 2009 10 27
