Domino Printing Sciences plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2010 23 Overview Business Review Corporate Governance Financial Statements RePORt OF the diReCtORS FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 OCTOBER 2010 The Directors present their annual report and the audited financial statements for the year ended 31 October 2010.
PRinCiPal aCtivitieS The principal activities of the Group continue to be research and development, manufacture and sale of industrial printing equipment, controllers and consumables for the high-speed printing of variable information.
BuSineSS Review The Directors are required to provide a business review.
The information the review is required to contain is set out in this report and on pages 12 to 21 which are incorporated by reference.
ReSeaRCh and develOPment The Group remains firmly committed to research and development to maintain its position as a market leader in high-speed industrial coding, marking and printing systems and variable laser marking.
During the year, the Group spent 15.6 million 2009: 11.5 million before exceptionals on research and development.
ReSultS and dividendS The results of the Group are set out on page 38.
The Directors recommend a final dividend of 10.14 pence per share for the year ended 31 October 2010.
This, together with the interim dividend of 5.48 pence per share paid on 20 August 2010, amounts to 15.62 pence per share 2009: 13.02 pence.
Subject to approval at the Annual General Meeting, the final dividend will be paid on 7 April 2011 to shareholders appearing on the register at the close of business on 11 March 2011. diReCtORS The Directors who were in office at the end of the year and their interests in the shares of the Company are shown in note 7 to the financial statements.
All the Directors listed in note 7 held office throughout the financial year except for Dick Waddingham who resigned on 5 March 2010 and Jerry Smith who retired on 17 March 2010.
All the Directors will retire at the next Annual General Meeting and offer themselves for re-election.
All the Executive Directors have service contracts with the Company that are terminable on 12 months notice.
The Chairman and Non-Executive Directors do not have service contracts with the Company.
The appointments of the Chairman and Non-Executive Directors are terminable on six months notice.
No Director was interested during or at the end of the year in any contract that was significant in relation to the Groups business.
CReditOR Payment POliCy It is the policy of the Group to settle the terms of payment with all suppliers when agreeing a transaction, to ensure that suppliers are aware of the terms, and to abide by such terms, and to abide by such terms.
The number of trade creditor days outstanding on 31 October 2010 was 37 2009: 29 days.
SuBStantial ShaRehOldinGS As at 6 January 2011, the Company had been notified, in accordance with chapter 5 of the Disclosure and Transparency Rules, of the following significant holdings of voting rights in its shares: Percentage of voting rights and issued Number of Nature of Name of holder share capital ordinary shares holding BlackRock Inc 12.4% 13,714,369 Indirect Schroders plc 9.8% 10,842,799 Indirect AEGON UK Group 8.0% 8,844,906 Direct and Indirect Standard Life Investments Ltd 7.9% 8,699,421 Direct and Indirect Artemis Investment Management Ltd 5.7% 6,319,383 Direct Legal & General Group plc 5.0% 5,466,025 Direct Aberforth Partners LLP 4.8% 5,266,701 Indirect Montanaro Asset Management 3.2% 3,534,167 Direct Domino Printing Sciences plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2010 24 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE RePORt OF the diReCtORS continued FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 OCTOBER 2010 authORity OF the diReCtORS tO iSSue ShaReS At the last Annual General Meeting on 17 March 2010, the Directors were given authority to allot up to 1,641,246 in nominal value of relevant securities.
This figure represented approximately 30 per cent of the Companys total issued ordinary share capital at that time.
Also at the last Annual General Meeting the Directors were given authority to allot shares in the Company for cash without regard to the pre-emption provisions of the Companies Act 2006.
This authority expires on the date of the Annual General Meeting to be held on 16 March 2011 and the Directors will seek to renew this authority for the following year under the Companies Act 2006.
PuRChaSe OF Own ShaReS At the last Annual General Meeting, shareholders authorised the Company to make market purchases on the London Stock Exchange of up to 15,865,386 ordinary shares, representing approximately 14.5 per cent of its issued share capital at that time.
This authority will expire at the end of the next Annual General Meeting of the Company unless renewed at that meeting.
amendment tO aRtiCleS OF aSSOCiatiOn The Articles of Association the Articles may be amended by special resolution of the shareholders.
aPPOintment OF diReCtORS The Articles give the Directors the power to appoint additional or replacement Directors.
The Articles also require Directors to retire and submit themselves for election at the first Annual General Meeting following appointment and for one third of the Directors to retire by rotation at each Annual General Meeting.
The Board has decided that each Director will now retire at each Annual General Meeting.
POweR OF diReCtORS The Directors may exercise all powers of the Company subject to relevant statutes, any directions given by shareholder resolution and the Memorandum and Articles.
The Articles, for example, contain specific provisions relating to the Companys power to borrow money.
The Articles also contain powers relating to the issue of shares and the purchase of the Companys own shares.
SiGniFiCant aGReementS and OtheR aRRanGementS The Company has various contractual arrangements for the supply of materials, components and equipment.
It also has contractual arrangements in place for the distribution of its products by third party distributors and also for the distribution of third party products by the Domino Group.
The Company has a borrowing facility agreement which includes change of control provisions.
On a change in control of the Company this facility could be withdrawn or renegotiated.
The earn-out arrangements contained in some acquisition agreements provide for payment of contingent consideration to the original sellers in the event of a change in control of the Domino Group.
There are a number of other agreements that may be terminated on a change in control.
None is considered to be significant in terms of the potential impact on the Group.
aGReementS with diReCtORS There are agreements in place with the Directors which provide for compensation for loss of employment if this occurs within a specified period following a change in control.
Details are given in the Remuneration Report on pages 32 to 35.
CaPital StRuCtuRe Details of share capital are shown in note 25.
The Company has one class of ordinary shares which carry no right to fixed income.
Each share carries the right to one vote at general meetings of the Company.
There are no specific restrictions on the size of a holding nor on the transfer of shares, which are both governed by the general provisions of the Articles and prevailing legislation.
The Directors are not aware of any agreements between holders of the Companys shares that may result in restrictions on the transfer of securities or on voting rights.
No person has any special rights of control over the Companys share capital and all issued shares are fully paid.
ShaRe SChemeS waiveR OF dividendS The trustees of the Companys employee benefit trusts and the qualifying employee share trust the Trusts have agreed to waive dividends payable on the Companys shares held by the Trusts, except for the shares relating to the Long Term Incentive Plan 1997, which have vested and are held in trust for a further three years, and the shares relating to the Share Incentive Plan.
As at 6 January 2011 the Trusts held 1,039,846 shares on which dividends payable had been waived.
This represents 0.94 per cent of the issued share capital at the year end.
Domino Printing Sciences plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2010 25 Overview Business Review Corporate Governance Financial Statements ShaRe SChemeS vOtinG RiGhtS ReGaRdinG COntROl OF the COmPany The trustees of the qualifying employee share trust have the discretion to sell the shares held in the trust or to consent to the acquisition of control of the Company by another party.
The trustees of the Share Incentive Plan have the discretion to seek direction from participants as to how to exercise the voting rights attaching to the shares held in the trust.
If no direction is given the trustees are prohibited from exercising the voting rights.
For shares held in trust under the Long Term Incentive Plan, the trustee has discretion as to the exercise of voting rights in respect of shares held in trust.
enviROnmental, SOCial and ethiCal iSSueS The Board takes account of the significance of environmental, social and ethical matters to the business of the Group.
enviROnmental The Company has an environmental policy which can be viewed on the Domino website at www.
Mr Bond is the Director responsible for environmental matters.
An Environmental Steering Group has been established chaired by Mr Bond which is responsible for promoting and monitoring compliance with the environmental policy.
The Group keeps Dominos products and business methods under review to find ways of reducing Dominos environmental impact and serve the needs of customers who are becoming increasingly environmentally aware.
In particular, there are programmes to reduce solvent usage and power consumption.
Each Group company has established a Green Team consisting of employees who volunteer to take responsibility for devising and implementing environmental initiatives.
These teams have undertaken numerous projects ranging from recycling schemes to tree planting.
Domino is a member of the Green Organisation, an independent non-profit-making environmental group dedicated to recognising, rewarding and promoting environmental best practice around the world.
The Group has fluids manufacturing plants in the UK, US, China and India.
These operations have been identified as having the potential to create an environmental impact due to the hazardous nature of the materials used.
The UK, US and Chinese plants are certificated under the Environmental Management Standard BS EN ISO 14001:2004.
The Standard requires the completion of an environmental impact assessment, the development and implementation of plans to achieve continuous improvement and the measurement of such achievement.
Compliance with the Standard is assessed by external audit.
The UK and US fluids plants are accredited under the ISRS system.
This system is designed to ensure compliance with health and safety requirements and to provide continuous improvement.
The UK fluids plant and the Chinese plant are also accredited under the OHSAS 18001:2007 Health & Safety Standard and subject to external audits by BSI.
The fluids plants in the UK, China and the US operate under environmental protection legislation requiring compliance with emission standards and the production of verifiable evidence of compliance.
The environmental policy has been effective in raising awareness of environmental issues and encouraging the adoption of a range of initiatives.
The Group is committed to continue with its work to seek to reduce the environmental impact of its operations.
SOCial and ethiCal Domino has a comprehensive ethics policy which can be viewed on the Companys website.
Each Domino employee has an individual responsibility to deal ethically with customers, suppliers, fellow employees and the general public.
The policy has been effective in defining the ethical standards to be followed throughout the Group.
The policy requires the Company to make appropriate contributions to the local communitys well being.
This is achieved by charitable donations, close involvement with local schools and colleges and provision of training and work experience opportunities.
In the UK, Domino has a close relationship with a nearby college and staff share their knowledge and experience of the workplace with the college lecturers and students.
Work experience opportunities are provided for local school pupils as well as overseas students seeking to practise their English language skills in a business environment.
The policy has been effective in increasing the Companys involvement with the community.
ChaRitaBle and POlitiCal dOnatiOnS Contributions by the Group during the year to UK charities and other worthy causes amounted to 22,700 2009: 25,100.
No political donation was made 2009: nil.
Domino Printing Sciences plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2010 26 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE RePORt OF the diReCtORS continued FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 OCTOBER 2010 The Group matches money raised by employees for worthy causes so donations were made to a large number of organisations including national charities such as Breakthrough Breast Cancer and the British Heart Foundation and local causes such as schools and cub groups.
emPlOyeeS Mr Bond is the Director responsible for employee issues.
Mrs Sanderson, the Group Human Resources Director, is the senior manager responsible for these issues.
The Board believes that all staff are entitled to be treated openly, fairly and courteously.
The Group is committed to developing the skills of its employees so as to make the best use of their abilities for the benefit of the Group and the individual.
There is a Group HR policy which sets out standards on employment matters and with which all subsidiaries are required to comply.
The standard covers such matters as training, communication and appraisal.
Compliance with the policy is monitored by regular reports and the policy has been effective in promoting standards on employment matters.
All employees are encouraged to undertake career development training and training needs are assessed as part of a regular performance appraisal process.
equal OPPORtunitieS The Group has an equal opportunities policy that can be viewed on its website.
PeOPle with diSaBilitieS Applications for employment made by disabled persons are given full and fair consideration, having regard to the abilities and aptitudes of the candidates.
If existing employees become disabled, every effort is made to accommodate them within their existing jobs or, if this proves to be impossible, to find them suitable alternative employment.
Opportunities for development and promotion are open to all employees.
emPlOyee invOlvement Employee communication is organised both centrally and locally.
Centrally organised communication deals with the affairs of the Group as a whole and the media used for this purpose include the annual report and accounts, information circulars and meetings.
Operating units organise local presentations by Directors or managers and hold briefings to pass on information to employees and to ascertain their views.
In the UK, at least four National Employee Council meetings are held each year to which all employees are invited.
The Council meetings are used to inform employees of any matters affecting their interests.
In addition, regular management briefing meetings are held at which presentations are given on the current state of the business as well as any other topics of interest.
These briefings are usually attended by an Executive Director who is available to answer questions.
Executive Directors and some senior managers are eligible for conditional allocations of shares under a Long Term Incentive Plan.
Other senior managers are eligible for the grant of options under the Executive share option schemes.
All UK employees are encouraged to participate in the Save As You Earn share option scheme and Share Incentive Plan.
Details of the number of share options outstanding under the various schemes are set out in note 8 to the accounts.
FtSe4GOOd Domino is a constituent of the FTSE4Good Index Series.
FTSE4Good is an equity index series designed to facilitate investment in companies that meet globally recognised corporate responsibility standards.
Companies in the FTSE4Good Index Series have met stringent social, ethical and environmental criteria and are positioned to capitalise on the benefits of responsible business practice.
quality Domino has a Group-wide quality programme which has the objective of ensuring that customers are always satisfied with the product and services supplied.
Mr Bond is the Director with overall responsibility for quality and for customer service generally.
The quality programme emphasises the need for all employees to take responsibility for their own work.
The Group is committed to ensuring that employees attend quality training programmes and there is an internal quality management system which measures overall quality performance in accordance with ISO 9001:2008.
CORPORate GOveRnanCe A report on corporate governance is set out on pages 28 to 31.
GOinG COnCeRn The Groups business activities together with the factors likely to affect its future development, performance and position are described within the Business Review on pages 14 to 20.
The financial position of the Group, its cash flows, liquidity position and borrowing facilities are also described within the Business Review.
Domino Printing Sciences plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2010 27 Overview Business Review Corporate Governance Financial Statements The Group has considerable financial resources together with a broad spread of customers across different geographic areas and industries.
As a consequence, the Directors believe that the Group is well placed to manage its business risks successfully.
The Directors have also considered the Groups forecasts and projections.
After making enquiries, the Directors have a reasonable expectation that the Company and the Group have adequate resources to continue in operational existence for the foreseeable future.
Accordingly, they continue to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the annual report and accounts.
AuditORS A resolution to reappoint Deloitte LLP as the Companys auditor will be proposed at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting.
diSClOSuRe OF inFORmAtiOn tO AuditORS The following applies to each of those persons who were Directors at the time this report was approved: so far as the Director is aware, there is no relevant audit information of which the Companys auditors are unaware, and he has taken all the steps that he ought to have taken as a Director in order to make himself aware of any relevant audit information and to establish that the Companys auditors are aware of that information.
This confirmation is given and should be interpreted in accordance with the provisions of Section 418 of the Companies Act 2006.
Approved by the Board of Directors and signed on behalf of the Board.
RiChARd PRyn Company Secretary 24 January 2011 Registered Office: Bar Hill, Cambridge, CB23 8TU Registered Number: 1363137
