Domino Printing Sciences plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2010 30 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE CORPORate GOveRnanCe continued FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 OCTOBER 2010 nomination Committee Members: Mr P J Byrom Committee Chairman, Mr P C Ruffles, Mr N R Bond, Sir Mark Wrightson, Mr C Brinsmead and Sir David Brown.
The Committee is responsible for identifying and recommending suitable candidates for appointment to the Board.
There is a formal and transparent procedure for appointments to the Board.
Under this procedure, a job specification is drawn up and a recruitment consultancy engaged to identify suitable candidates.
Candidates are assessed against the job specification and selected candidates are interviewed by members of the Nomination Committee and other Directors and senior managers.
The final appointment decision is made by the Board.
The Committee considers succession planning for appointments to the Board and keeps under review the leadership needs of the Company.
The Committee advises the Board on the reappointment of Non-Executive Directors and the independence of such Directors.
It also reviews the structure, size, composition and performance of the Board and its committees and makes recommendations to the Board regarding such matters.
The Committee met twice during the year.
Remuneration Committee Details of the Remuneration Committee are given in the separate Board Report on Remuneration set out on pages 32 to 35.
Committee meeting attendance All committee members attended each committee meeting except that Mr Brinsmead did not attend two Audit Committee meetings and one Remuneration Committee meeting.
Committee terms of reference The terms of reference for the Remuneration, Nomination and Audit Committees can be viewed on the Companys website or copies obtained from the Company Secretary.
PeRFORmanCe evaluatiOn The Nomination Committee appraised the performance of the Board and its committees.
The appraisal took the form of an assessment against a detailed list of issues.
The list covered a variety of matters ranging from the alignment of strategic objectives to administrative arrangements for Board meetings.
The Chairman appraised the performance of the individual Board members in conjunction with the Managing Director where appropriate.
The Non-Executive Directors met without the Chairman being present to appraise the performance of the Chairman.
These appraisals had regard to the issues raised in the Performance Evaluation Guidance contained in the Higgs Report.
exeCutive manaGement COmmittee The Executive Management Committee comprises the Executive Directors and other senior managers.
It meets monthly to review the performance of the Group and to consider major projects, initiatives and any significant issues facing the Group.
inteRnal COntROlS The Directors acknowledge their overall responsibility for the system of internal control and for reviewing its effectiveness.
They have established a system that is designed to provide reasonable but not absolute assurance against material misstatement or loss and to manage rather than eliminate the risk of failure to achieve business objectives.
There is an ongoing process for identifying, evaluating and managing the key risks faced by the Group that has been in place for the year under review and up to the date of the approval of the annual report.
The process is regularly reviewed by the Board and accords with the revised Turnbull guidance.
Steps continue to be taken to embed internal control further into the operations of the business and to deal with any issues that come to the Boards attention.
The Directors have reviewed the effectiveness of the system of internal control.
FinanCial COntROl The key internal financial controls that were in operation during the year were: Financial reporting all operating units complete formal business plans for the year.
Each month, the unit produces written reports in a defined format on its performance against these plans and provides updated business forecasts.
The reports and forecasts are reviewed by the Executive Directors and significant issues are reported to the Board.
Domino Printing Sciences plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2010 31 Overview Business Review Corporate Governance Financial Statements Accounting policies and procedures detailed accounting policies and procedures are in place.
Written confirmation of compliance with the policies and procedures is obtained from local management.
There is a formal internal audit process to verify the application of Group policies and procedures and to confirm that there is an effective process of management and control within the business.
Internal audits are carried out by suitably qualified and experienced staff who have no current connection with the operation being audited.
It is the objective of the internal audit programme to audit each active Domino company at least once every two years.
Security of the Groups computer systems the operation of the Group relies on financial and management information processed by, and stored on, computer systems.
Controls and procedures have been established to protect the security and integrity of data held on these systems, with standby arrangements in the event of computer failure for the major systems.
Treasury the Treasury function operates under specific guidelines set down by the Board and regular reports are made to the Board.
Capital investment the Company has defined procedures for the review and control of capital expenditure.
OPeRatiOnal COntROlS All Domino businesses are required to operate in accordance with detailed, documented standards and procedures which cover all material aspects of their operations.
Compliance with these standards is assessed by internal and external review.
COmPlianCe The Company has a Group policy on standards of conduct and business ethics with which all employees are required to comply.
There is a detailed schedule of delegated authority designed to ensure that all material transactions are considered at the appropriate level within the Group and are subject to review by the head office legal department.
All subsidiaries have access to local lawyers and the head office legal department.
RiSk manaGement There is a risk management sub-committee chaired by Andrew Herbert, the Group Finance Director, which has been set up to ensure greater focus on risk management and, in particular, the implementation of control measures.
The sub-committee is required to meet at least quarterly.
The role of the sub-committee is to: promote effective identification and management of risk throughout the Group: maintain a risk register identifying significant risks, risk control measures and responsibility for control measures: review and confirm that all significant risks have been identified and suitable control measures adopted: monitor implementation of risk control measures for all significant risks: and ensure all subsidiaries operate an effective risk management process.
A senior manager is given responsibility for devising and implementing control measures for each significant risk.
The manager is required to provide a quarterly report to the sub-committee on the status of implementation of control measures to manage that risk and also to give an annual presentation to the sub-committee.
The sub-committee reports to the Executive Management Committee which in turn reports to the Board.
A formal risk management review of each subsidiary is conducted as part of the internal audit programme.
Monthly reports to the Executive Directors submitted by subsidiaries and business units cover risk control issues relevant to the particular subsidiary or business unit.
Individual risk registers have been developed in each of the key functional areas of the Group and in each of the operating businesses.
dialOGue with ShaRehOldeRS The Company actively seeks to enter into dialogue with institutional shareholders and holds regular meetings with them.
In order to assist Non-Executive Directors to develop an understanding of the views of major shareholders, reports are made of meetings with such shareholders.
The Company also uses the Annual General Meeting as an opportunity for communication with private shareholders.
Mr Ruffles, the Senior Independent Director, has not attended meetings with a range of major shareholders as suggested by the Combined Code provision D. I. I.
The Board considers that Mr Ruffles has a good understanding of the issues and concerns of major shareholders and such attendance was unnecessary.
