Drax Group plc | Annual report and accounts 2010 40 BOARD Of DiRECTORs 1 3 Dorothy Thompson Peter emery Chief executive Production Director Age 50 Age 48 Appointment to the Board: Appointment to the Board: 20 October 2005, having joined Drax 20 October 2005, having joined Drax in september 2005. in June 2004.
Committee Membership: Committee Membership: executive.
External Appointments: External Appointments: A non-executive director of Johnson Matthey plc.
A director of the Association of electricity Producers.
Previous Experience: Dorothy was previously the head of the european Previous Experience: business of interGen nv, the power generation Peter joined esso Petroleum upon leaving university subsidiary of shell nv and bechtel inc. responsible and held a number of analyst and managerial roles for the management and operation of four gas-fired in the uK before moving to essos parent, exxon in power plants, totalling some 3,160Mw of capacity the us to co-ordinate its downstream marketing and across the uK and the netherlands.
Prior to joining distribution investments outside north America and interGen nv in 1998, Dorothy was initially in banking Canada.
Peter returned to essos Fawley Oil refinery and subsequently was assistant group treasurer in 1992 as plant technical services manager.
he became refinery maintenance manager and in 2002, he was appointed operations manager Qualifications: with full management and operational responsibility bsc Hons and Msc in economics.
for Fawley Oil refinery, the uKs largest refinery.
He was also a member of exxonMobils european leadership team for refining.
2 Tony Quinlan Finance Director Qualifications: Age 45 bsc Hons in Mining engineering, FiMMM and completed the Advanced Management Programme Appointment to the Board: at inseAD in 2007.
Previous Experience: Tony qualified as a Chartered Accountant with Coopers & Lybrand and subsequently joined Marks & spencer where he went on to hold a number of senior positions within internal Audit, Corporate Finance, investor relations and Financial Control.
From 2005, he was Director of Finance, the deputy to the Group Finance Director.
Qualifications: bsc Hons degree in Chemistry with business studies and an Associate of the institute of Chartered Accountants in england and wales ACA.
4 1 3 2 5 Governance Drax Group plc | Annual report and accounts 2010 41 4 6 8 Charles berry Tim Cobbold David Lindsell Chairman independent non-executive director independent non-executive director Age 58 Age 48 Age 63 Appointment to the Board: Appointment to the Board: Appointment to the Board: 15 December 2005 and was appointed Chairman 27 september 2010.
Committee Membership: Committee Membership: Committee Membership: Audit, nominations and remuneration.
Audit Chairman, nominations and remuneration.
External Appointments: External Appointments: External Appointments: Chief executive and an executive director of A non-executive director of Premier Oil plc, a The non-executive Chairman of eaga plc and fide La rue Plc.
non-executive director of Gartmore Group Limited a non-executive director of securities Trust and Deputy Chairman of the Financial reporting Previous Experience: of scotland plc and of impax environmental review Panel.
Tim was previously the Chief executive Officer Markets plc.
of Chloride Group plc, the leading international Previous Experience: Previous Experience: provider of secure power solutions having joined David was a partner at ernst & Young for nearly Charles has extensive experience within the uK them in 2007 as Chief Operating Officer.
He specialised in audit and assurance power sector.
He joined scottishPower in 1991 and emerson electrics takeover of Chloride he held services and has extensive experience across was appointed to the board in 1999.
From 2000 to a senior position in emerson, responsible for the a range of industry sectors.
He has served on 2005, Charles was Chief executive of the companys Chloride Group of companies.
He trained as a a number of professional bodies relating to financial uK Operations, with responsibility for over 6,200Mw Mechanical engineer and qualified as a Chartered reporting, including the standards Advisory of generating capacity as well as the trading Accountant in 1987 and joined smiths Group plc Committee of the international Accounting business, energy retailing and strategic transactions, formerly Ti Group plc in 1989 where he held a standards board, the Auditing Practices board, such as renewables development.
Charles is also a number of senior financial and operational the Turnbull Committee and the european Financial former non-executive director and Chairman of management positions over an 18-year period.
Qualifications: Qualifications: Qualifications: bsc Hons in Mechanical engineering and an Fellow of the institute of Chartered Accountants bsc Hons in electrical engineering Associate of the institute of Chartered Accountants in england and wales FCA.
9 Tony Thorne 5 7 Tim barker Mike Grasby independent non-executive director senior independent non-executive director independent non-executive director Age 60 Age 70 Age 67 Appointment to the Board: Appointment to the Board: Appointment to the Board: 29 June 2010.
20 October 2005, having joined Drax in 20 October 2005, having joined Drax in Committee Membership: June 2004, and was appointed as the senior December 2003.
Committee Membership: External Appointments: Committee Membership: nominations and remuneration.
A non-executive director and Chairman designate remuneration Chairman, Audit and nominations.
External Appointments: of wsP Group plc.
External Appointments: A non-executive director of OPG Power venture plc, Previous Experience: A non-executive director of several other companies a director of executive recruitment business, Tony was Chief executive of Ds smith plc, the including an early stage company developing a new strategic Dimensions Technical Limited.
international packaging and office products group, energy storage technology and the uK subsidiary Previous Experience: from 2001 until his retirement from the board in of a us investment bank.
Mike retired from international Power in February May 2010.
Previously he was President of sCAs Previous Experience: 2002 after 36 years in the power industry.
Prior to this he From 1993, Tim was vice Chairman of Kleinwort his career he held a number of senior positions in spent 20 years with shell international, working benson Group plc and from 1998, until his retirement the uK and international power industry with the throughout the world in senior management roles, in 2000, he was vice Chairman of Dresdner CeGb and national Power.
He was manager of Drax including strategic planning and President of the Kleinwort benson.
notably, he was involved with a Power station between 1991 and 1995, and director shell companies in Mexico.
number of clients in the energy sector and was an of operations for national Powers portfolio, with Qualifications: adviser to the uK Government on the privatisation responsibilities for over 16,000Mw of generating bsc Hons in Agricultural economics.
in the mid-1980s, Tim was capacity, until 1998.
Mike was also a director of Director General of the City Panel on Takeovers and power companies in Portugal, Turkey and Pakistan.
He is a former Chairman of robert walters Following the demerger of national Power, he joined plc and was the senior independent non-executive international Power as a senior vice-president, director of electrocomponents plc.
continuing with his international directorships and leading a major consortium in the Czech republic.
Qualifications: Chartered engineer, FieT and FiMeche.
