Drax Group plc | Annual report and accounts 2010 04 BuSINESS REvIEw maXimisinG the VaLUe oF the DraX BUsiness our business model Our overriding objective is to maximise the value of the Drax business whilst increasing our electricity generation from biomass, and so reducing our carbon footprint, subject to the availability of appropriate levels of regulatory support.
Our profitability is determined by the difference between the price at which we sell our power and the cost of coal and carbon known as the dark green spread.
Starting at the dark green spread there are several steps in the Drax value chain, with each one adding incremental value to the business and ultimately maximising the value of our business and delivering our gross margin.
FUeL traditionally a coal burning business, we now make use of a range of alternative fuels.
how we maximise value Over the last eight years we have progressively increased the amount of biomass that we burn.
Beyond biomass, we also have the ability to burn other fuels, such as petcoke and pond fines, which can be economically advantageous.
By diversifying our fuel sources, not only are we less reliant on a single fuel type, but we are able to capture value from commodity market cycles, and in the case of biomass avoid the cost of carbon.
Key facts for 2010 k 9.4 million tonnes of coal burnt k 907,000 tonnes of biomass burnt k 742,000 tonnes of economically advantageous fuels burnt traDinG through keeping a constant eye on the commodity markets within which we operate we are able to optimise the commercial despatch of our power.
how we maximise value Key facts for 2010 As the largest power station in the uK we are able k 26.4Twh net sales of power to exploit economies of scale, for example, through k 12.9 million tonnes of CO2 emissions procuring fuel at competitive prices.
Our trading strategy to hedge our power sales with coal and allowances purchased carbon purchases enables us to lock in value in the k 381,000 Renewables Obligation near, short and long term.
we are always looking Certificates sold for renewable power to increase the trading options available to us, generated for example, through our retail business.
we benefit from having a physical asset to trade around and through a seamless interface with the operations side of the business we derive value from the operational characteristics of the power station, such as high availability and flexibility, enabling us to extract value even when market conditions are poor.
Business review Drax Group plc | Annual report and accounts 2010 05 enVironment We work towards reducing our impact on the environment with a policy of regarding compliance with legislation as a minimum level of achievement.
how we maximise value Key facts for 2010 we strive to be at the forefront of environmental k 1.5 million tonnes of CO2 saved performance in pursuit of maintaining our through co-firing biomass commercial and environmental leadership position in the coal-fired sector.
Through our turbine upgrade k 1.0 million tonnes of ash sold and biomass co-firing projects we are able to reduce k 696,000 tonnes of gypsum sold the amount of coal we burn, save on carbon costs and reduce emissions of CO2.
we generate revenue through sales of our by-products.
we aim to maximise the sales of ash produced from burning coal, which not only saves on landfill costs, but creates its own revenue stream.
By reducing emissions of sulphur dioxide, through our flue gas desulphurisation process, we produce gypsum which, like ash, is sold to the construction industry.
Generation Drax power station is the largest, cleanest and most efficient coal-fired power station in the UK, almost twice the size of the next largest power station.
how we maximise value Key facts for 2010 Already the most efficient coal-fired power station k 3,960Mw connected capacity of in the uK, our turbine upgrade project is improving Drax Power Station our overall efficiency bringing with it coal and carbon savings.
with leading performances across k 92.1% plant availability all aspects of the operational side of the generation k 3.4% forced outage rate business, from safety to maintenance, we are able to deliver high availability and reliability.
In addition, k 4.6% planned outage rate the flexibility of our power station allows us to respond quickly to changes in demand.
Together that means we are consistently there when needed, both to meet our contractual obligations and to provide support services critical to security of supply.
retaiL our retail supply business is focused on providing businesses of all sizes with cost effective, tailored electricity supply backed by dedicated customer support.
how we maximise value Key facts for 2010 we have already achieved significant growth in the k 1.4Twh supplied marketplace and have become a recognised key k 100% sales growth by volume player by businesses throughout the uK.
we have ambitious plans to grow further and bring this k 32,000 business customers individual service to even more business customers.
on supply at the end of the year Always looking to increase the trading options available to us, our retail supply business provides us with an alternative and direct route to market.
