B BU US SIIN NE ES SS S R RE EV VIIE EW W G GO OV five ER RN NA AN NC CE E F FIIN NA AN NC CIIA AL L S ST TA AT TE EM ME EN NT TS S N NO OT TIIC CE E O OF F M ME EE ET TIIN NG G What do you think DS Smiths What are some of the key issues customers want?
Customer service will be one of our key During the last year, the Group has successfully performance indicators and we will need to undertaken a restructuring programme that ensure we operate at the highest levels of any reduced costs in the face of the severe downturn supplier in our markets.
This, combined with in the global economy.
We work in very increasing focus on innovation and quality, will competitive markets where scale and resulting add further value for our customers and provide us efficiency are essential to meet our customers with a greater degree of competitive advantage.
Our operating standards, structures There are always opportunities to improve the and processes throughout the Group are clear but effectiveness and efficiency of an organisation.
we must ensure that our internal culture engages A culture that and motivates all our colleagues in the pursuit Changing and challenging markets demand of operational excellence through continuous supports the product and service innovation.
development primarily depends on understanding continuous the customers current and future requirements.
Since joining DS Smith at the start of May, I have Our customers are seeking services and products been visiting many of our businesses to listen development of that reduce their internal costs but support their and learn about the skills and capabilities of the own growth: service scope, product appearance, Group and the ideas for improvements.
A culture the business by weight, environmental impact, cost and distribution that supports the continuous development of the encouraging all are key themes.
DS Smith has a strong track business by encouraging all staff to be involved record in innovation.
An example is the Impact and contribute to our success is an essential staff to be involved and Innovation Centre IIC opened in December ingredient of any winning business.
We will last year at St Just in France.
This builds on the build on the enthusiasm and commitment I have and contribute to success of the first IIC established at Ely in the UK seen across the Group.
This enthusiasm will be our success is an in 2008.
At these sites we can demonstrate to our harnessed through improved communication, customers and retailers how we can enhance the a clear set of principles and the continuing essential ingredient appearance of their products and the efficiency development of all staff.
of their distribution systems with minimal impact of any winning on the environment.
Other examples include the What are your ambitions for DS Smith?
expansion within our waste recycling business of The first step was to go out and learn about the services offered to our retail customers that include businesses and the people in the Group.
The next the administration of all their waste disposal to step will be to focus on our strategic planning ensure minimal environmental impact and nearwork being undertaken by a group of senior zero landfill.
managers drawn from across all divisions.
The objective is to create a business that is more Product development will be an increasing demand focused, producing higher, more sustainable from our customers and we are well positioned to and consistent returns: the plan to achieve this meet this.
objective will be completed over the coming months.
It is already clear that there are a number of strong opportunities.
This plan will be built on sectors that offer growth, where customers demand excellent customer service and support, product and service development and where we can deliver at the most efficient cost to customers.
This will be achieved by creating a culture that engages everyone in the achievement of our results.
DS Smith Plc Annual Report 2010 11
