B B B BU U U US S S SIIIIN N N NE E E ES S S SS S S S R R R RE E E EV V V VIIIIE E E EW W W W G G G GO O O OV V V five E E ER R R RN N N NA A A AN N N NC C C CE E E E F F F FIIIIN N N NA A A AN N N NC C C CIIIIA A A AL L L L S S S ST T T TA A A AT T T TE E E EM M M ME E E EN N N NT T T TS S S S N N N NO O O OT T T TIIIIC C C CE E E E O O O OF F F F M M M ME E E EE E E ET T T TIIIIN N N NG G G G Our strategy to focus on faster-growing, a combination of scale and the interaction OFFICE PRODUCTS WHOLESALING high value-added products has between our three businesses will allow us to Our strategy is to be a pan-European, highly contributed to our robust performance meet our target of generating an adjusted return efficient wholesaler of office products.
in 2009 10 and will enable us to benefit on average capital employed over the business Our primary aim is to support our network of from improving economic conditions.
cycle in excess of the cost of capital.
dealers in growing their share of the market.
In the short-term our emphasis will be on: Our Continental European Corrugated Packaging GROUP STRATEGY raising profits substantially in the UK and Ireland: business is a market leader in heavy-duty industrial strengthening further our market positions in the Our objective is to create businesses that packaging, a high value-added product which are more focused, producing higher, more continental European markets in which we have we supply competitively to both local and export an established position: and extending our sustainable and consistent returns.
We will mirror our successful UK strategy number of strong opportunities.
We will build businesses in our developing markets, especially of increasing exposure to retail-ready packaging Germany and Italy.
our businesses in sectors that offer growth, and the FmCG market in Europe, which we where customers demand excellent customer expect to grow significantly more quickly than service and support, as well as product and FINANCIAL OBJECTIVES the overall market for packaging.
service development and where we can deliver Our aim is to generate enhanced returns and cash at the most efficient cost to customers.
This will In our Plastic Packaging business we are focused flows for our investors over the longer term, while be delivered by creating a culture that engages on two sectors: Returnable Transit Packaging RTP maintaining a strong balance sheet.
We will do all colleagues in the achievement of our results.
and Liquid Packaging and Dispensing LP&D.
this through concentrating on higher return, higher The RTP market is highly fragmented but we have growth business areas and ensuring that our PACKAGING built good positions in our selected market sectors.
products and services are low cost and provide We are number two globally in LP&D with high added-value.
In the UK, we will maintain our leadership positions in all three parts of the corrugated leading market positions in Europe, the USA and Australasia.
packaging supply chain, through both organic development and acquisition.
We believe that Our Group Key Performance Indicators at a Glance Adjusted EBITDA margin Adjusted return on average Adjusted earnings per share Net debt adjusted EBITDA capital employed Target Target Target Target To achieve an adjusted return To generate an adjusted EBITDA To achieve an improved To maintain a healthy balance on average capital employed margin which enables us to pay adjusted earnings per share sheet, sufficient to support over the business cycle that is our dividends while providing between one business cycle our dividend through the comfortably in excess of the funds for development.
Groups weighted average cost Definition Definition Definition of capital, which we estimate to be 11.8% before tax.
Earnings before interest, tax, Net profit attributable to Net debt divided by depreciation, amortisation shareholders before exceptional earnings before interest, tax, Definition and exceptional items divided items divided by the weighted depreciation, amortisation Operating profit before by revenue, expressed as a average number of shares and exceptional items.
exceptional items divided by percentage.
outstanding see note 8 on average capital employed, page 76. expressed as a percentage.
