BUSINESS REVIEW Description of the Group DS Smith international packaging supplier and ofce products wholesaler This segment comprises three businesses: Severnside Recycling is the leading UK UK PAPER AND Severnside Recycling, which collects waste collector and merchant of waste paper, CORRUGATED paper and other materials for recycling: St Regis the principal raw material for producing A leading position in the Paper, which processes the waste paper to recycled paper.
In total, annually it sources whole UK corrugated produce recycled paper, the majority of which 1.7 million tonnes of waste paper by means packaging supply chain is corrugated case material CCM used in of collections through its 15 UK depots and the manufacture of corrugated packaging: open-market purchases from supermarkets and DS Smith Packaging, which converts and third-party waste merchants.
In addition, CCM into corrugated board and boxes.
Severnsides facilities management function These three businesses operating in the provides general recycling and waste corrugated packaging supply chain are heavily disposal services for customers in a number interdependent, although all three maintain of sectors.
open-market positions to ensure competitiveness.
see page 24 In continental Europe, DS Smith Kaysersberg DS Smith Kaysersberg produces 0.2 million CONTINENTAL produces 0.64 billion square metres per annum tonnes of recycled paper principally solid EUROPEAN CORRUGATED of corrugated packaging at 12 factories located board for use in the manufacture of detergent Strong positions in chosen in France, Italy, Poland, Czech Republic and boxes at two mills in France.
DS Smith also national markets, principally Slovakia.
The bulk of its CCM requirements are owns 49.6% of the leading paper and in corrugated packaging: sourced from third parties.
It has estimated corrugated packaging business in Ukraine: also produces speciality paper market shares of 4% in France, 5% in Italy and the results of this business are reported 8% in Poland.
The business has been growing under associates.
see page 25 DS Smith Plastics holds a major European other markets from ten locations in the PLASTIC position in industrial returnable transit UK, France, Belgium, Spain, Poland Focused on two plastic packaging RTP and is a leading worldwide and Slovakia.
packaging markets supplier of liquid packaging and dispensing In LP&D, it is ranked as number two systems LP&D.
globally in bag-in-box packaging systems The Group is a leading European supplier and injection-moulded taps and dispensers, of RTP.
Its extensive product range includes which are supplied worldwide to the soft reusable containers, boxes and pallet systems, drinks, wine, food and other industry sectors injection-moulded crates and semi-nished from 11 locations in the UK, Germany, extruded sheet.
These products are supplied to Bulgaria, Slovakia, the USA, Australia the automotive, beverage, pharmaceutical and and New Zealand.
see page 26 Spicers is the number one European wholesaler Spicers provides a wholesaling service to SPICERS of office products: it has leading positions its customer base of office products dealers The leading European office in the UK, Ireland, France and the Benelux and resellers, who principally supply small products wholesaler Spicers region, and it is building its position in and medium-sized offices.
It supplies supplies a comprehensive range of continental Europe with development approximately 11,500 dealers throughout own-label and branded products businesses in Germany, Spain and Italy.
Europe and no single dealer customer Its network of distribution centres comprises: accounts for more than 4% of Spicers total UK 8: Ireland 1: France 6: Benelux 1: revenue.
Spicers product range supplied Germany 2: Spain 2: and Italy 1. across Europe, of up to 22,000 product lines in each country, comprises its own 5-Star see page 27 20 www.
com OFFICE PRODUCTS PACKAGING WHOLESALING B B B BU U U US S S SIIIIN N N NE E E ES S S SS S S S R R R RE E E EV V V VIIIIE E E EW W W W G G G GO O O OV V V five E E ER R R RN N N NA A A AN N N NC C C CE E E E F F F FIIIIN N N NA A A AN N N NC C C CIIIIA A A AL L L L S S S ST T T TA A A AT T T TE E E EM M M ME E E EN N N NT T T TS S S S N N N NO O O OT T T TIIIIC C C CE E E E O O O OF F F F M M M ME E E EE E E ET T T TIIIIN N N NG G G G Severnsides main sources of waste paper St Regis four paper mills produce approximately DS Smith Packaging produces 1.1 billion square include large supermarket groups and 1.0 million tonnes of 100% recycled paper.
metres per annum of corrugated packaging at other retailers, other commercial and St Regis is the leading UK producer of CCm, 30 factories located throughout the UK.
It is the industrial organisations and local authorities.
which accounts for over 75% of the paper it leading supplier of corrugated packaging to the The largest single source of waste paper produces, and is a leading European producer UK market with a market share of around 25%.
accounts for 16% of the total amount sourced.
of plasterboard liner, which accounts for Approximately 70% of sales go into the Severnside particularly concentrates on approximately 15% of its production: the fast-moving consumer goods FmCG sector, sourcing used corrugated packaging, referred remainder comprises other speciality paper predominantly for food and beverages, to as old corrugated containers OCC, which grades.
The Groups Corrugated Packaging with the remainder being principally for the is the most suitable form of waste paper for operations account for around 40% of St Regis consumer durables, industrial or trade sectors.
St Regis external sales are made to DS Smith Packaging supplies many of the all of the 1.2 million tonnes of waste paper over 300 customers: no single external customer leading FmCG companies: no individual required by the St Regis paper mills and it sells accounts for more than 5% of the Groups total customer accounts for more than 3% of the total 0.5 million tonnes on the open market.
UK Paper and Corrugated Packaging revenue.
The Groups Continental European Corrugated Packaging operations are particularly strong in heavy-duty and litho-laminated packaging.
Approximately 45% of sales are to the FmCG sector and the remainder is to the consumer durables, industrial and other sectors.
This segment has a large and diverse range of customers, none of which accounts individually for more than 6% of Continental European Corrugated Packagings total revenue.
Additionally, the segment contains a development business, StePac, based in Israel, which specialises in modied atmosphere packaging for preserving the quality of fresh fruit and vegetables in transit.
The division purchases a wide range of polymers and plastic lms, principally polypropylene, high density polyethylene and polycarbonate.
This segment has a widely spread customer base and no single customer accounts for more than 3% of DS Smith Plastics total revenue.
brand and other branded products of traditional Spicers offers its dealer customers a same-day stationery items, electronic office supplies, or an overnight, next-day delivery service: office furniture, janitorial supplies and office it also provides the dealers with marketing and catering and vending provisions.
The business is highly is communicated to its dealers and the offices  with approximately they supply through printed catalogues and 720,000 line-items being processed weekly.
electronic systems: orders are now principally The maintenance of reliable and efficient submitted to Spicers on-line or by other systems that are capable of handling the high electronic means.
volume of customer orders received daily, either on-line or by telephone, is a key feature of the business.
Spicers business model is explained further on page 27.
DS Smith Plc Annual Report 2010 21
