GOVERNANCE Directors and Company Secretary Peter Johnson Miles Roberts Steve Dryden Chairman Group Chief Executive Group Finance Director Appointed to the Board on 8 December 1999 as Appointed to the Board on 4 May 2010 as Appointed to the Board on 1 April 2008 as a non-Executive Director.
He became Chairman Group Chief Executive.
He was previously Chief Group Finance Director.
He is a non-Executive of the Board on 1 January 2007 and is Chairman Executive of McBride plc from July 2005 until Director of Fiberweb plc.
He previously held of the Nomination Committee.
He is a Member of April 2010, having originally joined as its Group the position of Finance Director of Filtrona plc the Supervisory Board of Wienerberger AG and Finance Director in January 2002.
He was a following its demerger from Bunzl plc in 2005. is a non-Executive Director of SSL International plc.
non-Executive Director of Care UK plc until Prior to that he was divisional Finance Director He was previously Chief Executive of George May 2010.
Age 46. of the Filtrona businesses and held other senior Wimpey Plc and prior to that Chief Executive finance positions within Bunzl plc.
He began his of The Rugby Group PLC.
Age 62. career at Price Waterhouse and has also held various finance roles within Rolls-Royce plc.
# Christopher Bunker Bob Beeston Non-Executive Director Non-Executive Director Appointed to the Board on 9 December 2003 Appointed to the Board on 5 December 2000 as a non-Executive Director.
He is the Senior as a non-Executive Director.
Until recently he Independent Director and until recently was was Chairman of the Remuneration Committee.
Chairman of the Audit Committee.
He was He is also Chairman of Elementis plc and was previously Group Finance Director of Thames previously Chief Executive of FKI plc and until Water Plc, Tarmac Plc and Westland Group Plc.
May 2010 was Chairman of Cookson Group plc.
He is a non-Executive Director of Travis Perkins plc Age 68. and was a non-Executive Director of Mowlem Plc, Baltimore Technologies plc and Xansa plc.
com BU BS UIS N IN ES ES SS R REEV VIIE EW W G G O O V VEER RN NA AN NC CE E FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTICE OF MEETING # Gareth Davis Philippe Mellier Non-Executive Director Non-Executive Director Appointed to the Board on 1 June 2010 as a Appointed to the Board on 7 September 2006 non-Executive Director.
He became Chairman of as a non-Executive Director.
He is currently the Remuneration Committee at the end of June President of Alstom Transport and an Executive 2010.
He was Group Chief Executive of Imperial Vice-President of Alstom Group.
Previously, he Tobacco Group PLC until May 2010 and is a was Chairman and CEO of Renault Trucks non-Executive Director of Wolseley plc.
Age 60. and a Member of the Executive Committee of AB Volvo, and prior to that held senior management positions with Renault S. A. and Ford Motor Company.
Non-Executive Director Member of General Purposes Committee Member of Nomination Committee Member of Remuneration Committee # Member of Audit Committee # Jonathan Nicholls Carolyn Cattermole Non-Executive Director Company Secretary Appointed to the Board on 1 December 2009 as Appointed Company Secretary on 20 November a non-Executive Director.
She was previously Company Secretary of the Audit Committee at the end of June 2010. of Courtaulds Textiles plc and prior to that was a He was previously Group Finance Director of senior legal adviser with Courtaulds plc, having Hanson Plc and, most recently, Group Finance qualified as a solicitor with Norton Rose.
Director of Old Mutual Plc.
He is a non-Executive Director of Great Portland Estates plc and SIG plc and was a non-Executive Director of Man Group Plc.
DS Smith Plc Annual Report 2010 41
