BUSINESS REVIEW Focused on the Future What attracted you to DS Smith?
I think there is considerable potential here at DS Smith to create a focused, growing business that will deliver higher, more consistent financial returns.
The current business operates in many markets and product and service categories: some of which display the sort of characteristics that provide the opportunity to create sustainable value for our customers and therefore our employees and shareholders.
For example, our retail-ready packaging business has achieved consistent growth and better returns for many years as retailers and fast-moving consumer goods companies seek packaging suppliers that can improve the efficiency of their distribution chain whilst developing the in-store appearance of their products.
DS Smith has developed a considerable degree of competence in this area across Europe.
Do you see areas of differentiation?
A key theme within DS Smith is sustainability.
The communities in which we operate focus increasingly on the environmental impact of their behaviour and actions.
All the paper we make is produced from recycled material and over 80% of the boxes we make are made of recycled paper and are fully recyclable themselves.
In the UK, AN INTERVIEW WITH MILES ROBERTS, DS SMITHS DS Smith has a uniquely  position as a waste paper collector, recycled paper NEWLY-APPOINTED GROUP CHIEF EXECUTIVE manufacturer and corrugated box producer.
It takes just 14 days to collect used boxes from a retailer, This is a business that has recycle the boxes into paper and produce a new box delivered back to the retailer this speed tremendous strength and combined with the 100% recyclability element cannot be matched by other packaging formats.
Do you see opportunities for growth?
DS Smith has developed various strong market We are well positioned to positions, some with considerable scale.
Others, whilst smaller, have good market grow our higher margin positions in regions of Europe that are expected to grow well ahead of the average for Europe operations in the UK and and in customer segments that show consistent growth opportunity and higher margins, due to across continental Europe.
the significant degree of added value.
To achieve sustainable returns the Group will need to become more focused.
We have recently disposed of two small businesses that were sub-scale or did not operate in attractive markets.
How we achieve greater focus will become clearer as we develop our Group strategy over the coming months.
