10 Heating and Renewables Services Eaga Annual Report and Accounts 2010 Eaga Annual Report and Accounts 2010 Heating and Renewables Services 11 Heating and Renewables Services: Central heating installation and servicing Domestic Renewables Case Study Welwyn 100 Housing Minister visits 100th Clean Energy Programme customer in Welwyn.
Housing Minister, Grant Shapps MP, visited a green energy scheme in his Welwyn constituency to meet Jean Monk, the 100th householder to receive a free solar PV system under Eagas Clean Energy Programme.
Working with Welwyn Hatfield Community Housing Trust and the Council, Eaga hopes to fit more than 1,000 solar PV systems by the end of the year.
Mr Shapps said: It is important that all households can benefit from low carbon living, regardless of their ability to pay, and Im delighted the partnership between Eaga and Welwyn Hatfield is making this happen.
Mrs Monk added: This is a great opportunity to do my bit for the environment and to save money at the same time.
The installers were efficient, quick and they left no mess.
In fact the whole process was very simple.
Since the launch of FiTs in April 2010 Eaga has completed more than 650 installs through the Clean Energy Programme.
Households who have benefited say they are typically saving up to 35% or more on their energy bills.
Case Study First HomeSun install completed Eaga has completed the first solar PV installation for renewable energy business HomeSun Limited.
Householder John Arnold, from Petersfield, said he was delighted with the work, which took less than a day and with no disruption.
He added: I wanted to invest in renewable energy but had been put off by the cost, so this solution with HomeSun is ideal.
The agreement with HomeSun, which sees Eaga as the sole installer, means households can benefit from electricity generated from a solar PV system for just 500.
Daniel Green, Chief Executive Officer for HomeSun, said: Our offer is all about making renewable energy more affordable to more people.
We believe it is precisely the kind of enterprise-inspired solution that the Government is looking for in the green revolution, and Eaga has the track record and scale to help us deliver.
