26 Report of the Directors Eaga Annual Report and Accounts 2010 Report of the Directors The Directors present their report and the audited financial statements for the year ended 31 May 2010.
Principal Activities and Business Review The Group is a green support services group, a leading provider of residential energy efficiency solutions and deliverer of a range of outsourced programmes.
It works for and partners with a broad range of customers including central and local Government, utility companies, other private companies, domestic customers and the BBC.
Details of the Groups activities and a review of the business are set out in the Chairmans Statement, Operational Review and Financial Review on pages 2 to 23.
The Operational Review and Financial Review includes: details of the Key Performance Indicators used by the Directors to assist in the management of the business: and a description of the principal risks and uncertainties facing the Group.
Financial Results and Dividends The Groups results are shown in the Consolidated Income Statement on page 44.
The Directors are recommending the payment of a final dividend of 2.64p per Ordinary Share to be paid on 12 November 2010 to shareholders on the Register at the close of business on 15 October 2010 which, together with the interim dividend of 1.21p per Ordinary Share paid on 19 March 2010, results in a total dividend for the year of 3.85p per Ordinary Share 2009: 3.50p.
Interests in Shares During the year ended 31 May 2010 the Company had a general right to purchase all or any of its own shares subject to compliance with its Articles of Association and the specific right conferred by the resolution passed at the AGM of 14 October 2009 to acquire up to 10% of the Companys issued Ordinary Share Capital.
The Company is aware of or has been notified under Chapter 5 of the Disclosure and Transparency Rules of the FSA of the following significant holdings of voting rights in its shares: Number of Percentage of Direct Shares Direct Shares % Eaga Partnership Trustee Two 46,080,466 18.33 Eaga Partnership Trustee 46,067,300 18.32 Schroder Investment Management 17,420,425 6.93 Baillie Gifford 12,561,372 5.00 Brewin Dolphin Ltd 10,641,193 4.23 Legal & General Investment Management 8,403,879 3.34 All of the above shares are held directly.
The Company has not been notified of any indirect holdings.
Directors Details of the Directors who currently hold office are listed on pages 24 and 25.
On 14 December 2009 Willie MacDiarmid was appointed as an Executive Director.
With effect from the date of the AGM 14 October 2010, Ian McLeod will stand down as Chief Financial Officer and subject to the approval of the shareholders, Giles Sharp will be appointed to this role.
In accordance with the Companys Articles of Association, one third or the nearest whole number below one third of the Directors are required to retire at each AGM, together with Directors appointed by the Board since the date of any notice convening the previous AGM.
In addition, under the Combined Code on Corporate Governance issued by the Financial Reporting Council in June 2008 the Code, Directors are required to submit themselves for re-election by shareholders every three years and Non-Executive Directors who have served more than nine years are subject to annual re-election.
In accordance with Code Provision A.
7.2 that any term for Non-Executive Directors beyond six years should be subject to particularly rigorous review, on 16 December 2009 the Company adopted a policy that after having served six years, subject to continued satisfactory performance, Non-Executive Directors would only be offered one year terms up to a maximum of nine years.
Eaga Annual Report and Accounts 2010 Report of the Directors 27 As Quintin Oliver had served in excess of six years as a Non-Executive Director at 31 May 2010, his re-appointment was subject to the rigorous review referred to above and he was re-appointed with a further term of one year.
He will retire by rotation and, being eligible, will offer himself for re-election.
His profile can be found on page 25.
Quintin has an intimate knowledge of the business having served as a Non-Executive Director for almost seven years and his knowledge and experience in political matters brings an essential insight and balance to the Board both when considering strategy and the likely impact of political change.
Dave Routledge will retire by rotation and, being eligible, offer himself for re-election.
His profile can be found on page 24.
Dave has worked within the business for eight years and been on the Board for six.
He was a valuable member of the team that successfully guided the business through IPO and has been a continuing influence in driving the business forward throughout the turbulent economic climate.
Having been appointed since the publication of the notice for the last AGM, Willie MacDiarmid will retire from the Board and, being eligible, will offer himself for election.
Willie brings a wealth of experience from his time at ScottishPower plc and is seen as an inspirational and motivating force in taking the business forward through its next stage of development.
The contribution of all three is acknowledged by Board colleagues, following the performance evaluation review process, to have been extremely valuable throughout the period.
The Chairman specifically confirms that following the performance evaluation review Quintin Olivers performance as a Non-Executive Director continues to be effective and to demonstrate commitment to the role.
The election of Willie MacDiarmid and the re-election of Dave Routledge and Quintin Oliver will be recommended by the Board.
Giles Sharp will assume the post of Chief Financial Officer following the AGM on 14 October.
Giles appointment was approved by the Board following a rigorous recruitment process including external evaluation and external comparator considerations.
He is regarded as a worthy successor to Ian McLeod in this role.
His election is recommended by the Board.
The termination provisions in respect of the Executive Directors contracts are set out in the Remuneration Report on pages 32 to 37.
The interests of the Directors in the Ordinary Share Capital of the Company as at 31 May 2010 and the date of signature of this report together with comparative amounts for the prior year are: 2010 2009 Roger Aylard 50,000 50,000 Charles Berry 55,249 55,249 Tracy Clarke Nil Nil Drew Johnson 5,082,472 5,082,472 Willie MacDiarmid Nil Nil Ian McLeod 3,982,472 3,982,472 Quintin Oliver 24,861 24,861 Dave Routledge 5,157,472 5,157,472 Malcolm Simpson 88,149 88,149 Corporate Social Responsibility Information relating to the environment and the work our Partners perform in the community is included in the Corporate Social Responsibility report on page 42.
Directors Indemnities The Directors have the benefit of qualifying third party indemnity provisions contained in the Companys Articles of Association which were in force throughout the financial year and remain in force as at the date of signing this report.
Donations During the year the Company and the Group made charitable donations of 201,000 2009: 245,000 principally to the independent Eaga Charitable Trust and the Eaga Community Fund managed for Eaga by the Community Foundation.
No political donations were made in the year to 31 May 2010 2009: Nil.
Payment of Suppliers The Companys UK operating companies follow the CBI Prompt Payment Code.
This Code requires the Company to agree the terms of payment with its suppliers, to ensure its suppliers are aware of those terms and to abide by them.
The Code can be found at the following web address http: www.
The Companys creditor days outstanding as at 31 May 2010 were 35 days 2009: 36 days.
28 Report of the Directors continued Eaga Annual Report and Accounts 2010 Report of the Directors continued Employment Issues and Policies The Group regards its engagement with its Partners as a vital constituent of its continued success.
The Company has a unique structure for a UK listed company.
More than 36% of the Companys shares are owned by the two Eaga Partnership Trust companies EPT which, together with other assets arising from the sale of shares at flotation are held on trust for a beneficial class which includes current Partners.
Thus, the Company is co-owned with its Partners.
As the Companys largest shareholder, the EPT is wholly independent, but benefits the EPT provides for the Partners and the interrelationship between the Company, the EPT and the Eaga Partners Council EPC is a key element in ensuring the valuesdriven nature of the business is retained and preserved.
EPC comprises elected Partners, meets regularly with the Board and acts as the representative body of the Partners to ask questions, raise issues and make representations to the Board on behalf of the Partners.
EPT invests in a range of initiatives and programmes that are designed solely to promote the welfare of Partners and to provide direct benefit to Partners as a result of their employment with Eaga.
Such benefits include owning a number of holiday homes for Partners use and a waiver of dividend which was utilised to fund the acquisition of shares for the all employee Share Incentive Plan SIP established by the Company which is accounted for under IFRS2 and results in a charge to the Consolidated Income Statement.
Such waiver is wholly discretionary and EPTs independent board of directors have sole responsibility for such decisions in this regard.
The Group has a range of initiatives to enhance and develop Partner engagement and ensure that Partners are made aware of the various financial and economic factors that affect business performance: our Executive teams provide bi-annual updates to all areas of the business via our roadshow events.
These forums enable Partners to engage with the Executive teams and obtain a better understanding of ongoing business performance: our values and culture are driven and supported by the Eaga Cares programme which underpins our performance and development process and enables us to embed our value set throughout Partner behaviours: we are committed to supporting our leaders across the business and provide ongoing leadership development through our Future Leaders programme: the annual Partner Engagement Survey PES is a vital tool in collating feedback from Partners.
The results of the PES are shared with all Partners and improvement action plans formulated with team leaders committed to implementation of the plans: the EPC is at the centre of all issues involving the Partners and has been instrumental in the development of the Groups people policies.
The structure of the EPC has been broadened so that former information and consultation committee members now sit on the EPC to ensure full divisional representation and information flow: our internal publication Switched On is circulated to all Partners at their home address and aims to keep all Partners and their families up to date with latest developments and key areas of focus across the business.
The magazine has a strong interactive feel which encourages Partners to participate and provide content of their own: Eaga Stars, which is the Groups Partner recognition scheme which seeks to identify and reward those Partners who demonstrate role model behaviour in keeping with the Eaga values and go beyond what would ordinarily be expected of them in a work situation: and our Corporate Social Responsibility agenda also provides an opportunity to engage with Partners in a diverse range of innovative and exciting projects.
Further details of our Corporate Social Responsibility activity can be found on page 42.
Equal Opportunities All of the Groups employment decisions are based on objective criteria, sound human resources principles and are demonstrably free from bias.
The Groups Equal Opportunities and Dignity at Work policy strives to ensure all Partners work in an environment that is free from discrimination, harassment and victimisation, with equity of treatment regardless of gender, colour, ethnic or national origin, disability, age, marital status, sexual orientation or religion.
The Group has a willingness to consider appropriate positive action to optimise opportunities for those with disabilities, including a range of flexible and home-working arrangements and is a certified Two Ticks employer.
Work life balance is also important to the Group as is demonstrated by enhanced policies for maternity, paternity and adoption.
Remuneration Report The Remuneration Report on pages 32 to 37 will as required by the Schedule 8 of the Large and Medium Sized Companies and Groups Accounts and Reports Regulations 2008 be put to the shareholders for approval at the AGM.
Power to Allot Shares and Authority for the Company to Purchase Its Own Shares The Directors propose to renew the general authority of the Company to make market purchases of its own shares to a total of twenty five million 25,000,000 Ordinary Shares representing approximately 10% of the issued Ordinary Share Capital of the Company and within the price constraints set out in the special resolution to be proposed at the AGM.
In October 2009 the Company purchased 1,400,000 of its own shares via an Employee Benefit Trust to accommodate requirements for shares under the existing Management Incentive Plan.
Eaga Annual Report and Accounts 2010 Report of the Directors continued 29 Articles of Association The latest version of the Companys articles of association was adopted by special resolution at the AGM on 14 October 2009.
There are no proposals to alter those articles at the date of this report.
Financial Instruments A summary of the Companys treasury policies and objectives relating to financial risk management, including exposure to associated risks, is included in the Financial Review on pages 22 and 23.
Corporate Governance A summary of the Companys compliance with the Code is set out in the Corporate Governance Report on pages 38 to 41.
Land and Buildings In the opinion of the Directors there is no material difference between the market value of the Groups interest in land and buildings and its net book value.
Independent Auditors The auditors,  LLP have signified their willingness to continue in office and a resolution reappointing them as auditors will be proposed at the AGM.
Additional Information for Shareholders Following the implementation of the EU Takeover Directive into UK law, the following provides the required information for shareholders where not already provided elsewhere in this report.
Share capital The Company has a single class of share capital which is divided into Ordinary Shares of 0.001 each.
Rights and obligations attaching to shares In a general meeting of the Company, subject to the provisions of the articles of association and to any special rights or restrictions as to voting attached to any class of shares in the Company of which there are none, the holders of the Ordinary Shares are entitled to one vote in a poll for every Ordinary Share held.
No member shall be entitled to vote at any general meeting or class meeting in respect of any shares held if any call or other sum then payable in respect of that share remains unpaid.
Currently, all issued shares are fully paid.
Full details of the deadlines for exercising voting rights in respect of the resolutions to be considered at the AGM to be held on 14 October 2010 are set out in the Notice of AGM.
Subject to the provisions of the Companies Act 2006, the Company may, by ordinary resolution, declare a dividend to be paid to the members, but no dividend shall exceed the amount recommended by the Board.
The Board may pay interim dividends, and also any fixed rate dividend, whenever the financial position of the Company, in the opinion of the Board, justifies its payment.
All dividends shall be apportioned and paid pro rata according to the amounts paid up on the shares.
If the Company is in liquidation, the liquidator may, with the authority of a special resolution of the Company and any other authority required by the Statutes as defined in the articles of association : divide among the members in specie the whole or any part of the assets of the Company: or vest the whole or any part of the assets in trustees upon such trusts for the benefit of members as the liquidator, with the like authority, shall think fit.
Transfer of shares Subject to the articles of association, any member may transfer all or any of their certified shares by an instrument of transfer in any usual form or in any other form which the Board may approve.
The Board may, in its absolute discretion, decline to register any instrument of transfer of a certified share which is not a fully paid share or on which the Company has a lien.
The Board may also decline to register a transfer of a certified share unless the instrument of transfer is: i left at the office, or at such other place as the Board may decide, for registration: and ii accompanied by the certificate for the shares to be transferred and such other evidence if any as the Board may reasonably require to prove the title of the intending transferor or right to transfer the shares.
The Board may permit any class of shares in the Company to be held in uncertified form and, subject to the articles of association, title to uncertified shares to be transferred by means of a relevant system and may revoke any such permission.
Registration of a transfer of an uncertified share may be refused where permitted by the Companies Act 2006 and the articles of association.
30 Report of the Directors continued Eaga Annual Report and Accounts 2010 Report of the Directors continued Additional Information for Shareholders continued Appointment and replacement of Directors Directors shall be no less than two and no more than fifteen in number.
Directors may be appointed by the Company by ordinary resolution or by the Board.
A Director appointed by the Board holds office only until the next following Annual General Meeting and is then eligible for election by the shareholders.
The Board may from time to time appoint one or more Directors to hold employment or executive office for such period subject to the Companies Act 2006 and on such terms as they may determine and may revoke or terminate any such appointment.
At every AGM of the Company, any Director in office who a has been appointed by the Board since the previous Annual General Meeting or b at the start of business on the date which is thirty clear days prior to the date of the notice convening the AGM had held office for more than thirty months since he or she was elected or last re-elected shall in either case retire from office but shall be eligible for election or re-election by the shareholders.
The Company may by special resolution or by ordinary resolution of which special notice has been given remove and the Board by unanimous decision may remove any Director before the expiration of his term of office.
The office of Director shall be vacated if: i he or she resigns: ii he or she is or may be suffering from a mental disorder: iii he or she is absent without permission of the Board from meetings of the Board for six consecutive months and the Board resolves that the office is vacated: iv he or she becomes bankrupt or compounds with his or her creditors generally: v he or she is prohibited by law from being a Director: or vi he or she is removed from office pursuant to the articles of association.
Powers of the Directors The business of the Company will be managed by the Board who exercise all the powers of the Company, subject to the provisions of the Companys memorandum of association, the articles of association, the Companies Act 2006 and any ordinary resolution of the Company.
Post balance sheet events Significant post balance sheet events are set out in note 33 to this report.
Disclosure of Information to Independent Auditors Each of the persons who is a Director at the date of approval of this report confirms that: so far as each Director is aware, there is no relevant audit information of which the Groups independent auditors are unaware: and each Director has taken all the steps that they ought to have taken as a Director in order to make themselves aware of any relevant audit information and to establish that the Groups independent auditors are aware of that information.
This confirmation is given and should be interpreted in accordance with the provisions of Section 418 of the Companies Act 2006.
By order of the Board Christopher Judd, Company Secretary 2 September 2010
