24 Board of Directors Eaga Annual Report and Accounts 2010 Board of Directors Executive Directors Board Committees 1.
Audit Malcolm Simpson Chair Quintin Oliver Tracy Clarke Roger Aylard Remuneration Tracy Clarke Chair Malcolm Simpson Quintin Oliver Roger Aylard Nomination Charles Berry Chair Quintin Oliver 3.
Roger Aylard Drew Johnson Dave Routledge Malcolm Simpson Tracy Clarke Dave Routledge stepped down from the Nomination Committee on 23 July 2009 A ppointed 26 August 2010 1.
Willie MacDiarmid, Chief Executive Officer age 51 Chief Operating Officer age 49 Drew became Eaga CEO in April 2009.
Having served in a Willie joined Eaga in December 2009 from ScottishPower plc, number of executive roles, Drew has always been a key where he had been Managing Director of Energy Retail since architect of Eagas commercial strategy and operational 2000 a business with almost 5,000 staff and annual sales development.
He joined the Company in 1991 and was in excess of 3.3bn.
Having spent 19 years at ScottishPower appointed to the Board in 1999.
Prior to joining Eaga, Drew in a variety of operational and strategic roles Willie has a worked for British Coal in supply chain management and wealth of industry experience and a deep knowledge of the logistics.
With his considerable industry experience Drew energy market.
As a former Chairman of the Energy Retail is ideally qualified to continue driving Eagas growth and Association, he is also widely known and well respected diversification in both the private and public sector.
He is responsible for continuing to drive operational effectiveness and efficiencies across 2.
Ian McLeod, the Group, with the Divisional Managing Directors reporting Chief Financial Officer age 42 to him.
Ian joined Eaga in 2004 and was appointed to the Board in 2005.
He is responsible for all aspects of financial 5.
Giles Sharp, management and reporting.
Ian spent fourteen years with Chief Financial Officer Designate age 40  LLP advising companies across a Giles joined Eaga in 2005 and is currently Group Finance and broad range of market sectors.
In June it was announced Investor Relations Director, a role he assumed after successfully Ian would be stepping down as CFO at the Annual General leading Eagas IPO implementation programme in 2007.
He is being succeeded by Giles Sharp, spent nine years with  LLP, latterly in who is currently Eagas Group Finance and Investor Transaction Services.
He has worked closely with Ian McLeod Relations Director.
over the past five years and has been instrumental in helping develop Eagas growth strategy and strong financial base.
Dave Routledge, such he is a natural successor to Ian and it is proposed that Organisational Development Director age 52 Giles joins the Board as Chief Financial Officer in October.
Dave has served on the Board since 2004.
He is responsible for strategic organisational development, human resources, risk management, corporate and Government affairs and business transformation.
Dave previously held main board level responsibilities for human resources and operations within the pharmaceutical sector and has extensive experience of corporate restructuring in the UK, USA and Europe.
Eaga Annual Report and Accounts 2010 Board of Directors 25 Non-Executive Directors 6.
Tracy Clarke, Non-Executive Director and Chairman age 58 Non-Executive Director age 43 Charles was appointed to Eagas Board as a Non-Executive Tracy was appointed to Eagas Board as a Non-Executive Director and Chairman in 2006.
He is currently Chairman of Director in 2007.
She is currently Group Head of Human Drax Group plc, and Non-Executive Director of Securities Trust of Resources and Communications at Standard Chartered plc Scotland plc and Impax Environmental Markets plc.
Charles has and a member of its Group Management Committee, having extensive experience in the UK power sector and has previously previously undertaken a variety of operational and strategic served as UK Chief Executive of ScottishPower plc.
Until 2008, she was also a Non-Executive Director of SC First Bank, following Standard Chartereds 7.
Malcolm Simpson, acquisition of Korea First Bank in 2004.
Non-Executive Director age 68 Malcolm was appointed to Eagas Board as a Non-Executive 10.
Roger Aylard, Director in 2007, he is a former Finance Director of Greggs plc.
Non-Executive Director and At Greggs Malcolm oversaw a period of strong growth as the Senior Independent Director age 56 company expanded both organically and acquisitively and Roger was appointed to Eagas Board as a Non-Executive achieved flotation on the London Stock Exchange.
Director and Senior Independent Director on 1 April 2009.
He retired as Head of UK Investment Banking at Deutsche Bank in 8.
Quintin Oliver, August 2007 after a career encompassing ten years in the oil Non-Executive Director age 55 industry, six years as a research analyst and fifteen years in Quintin was appointed to Eagas Board as a Non-Executive corporate broking and corporate finance.
During this time he Director in 2004.
He lives and works in Belfast, Northern acted as senior advisor to a wide range of major UK companies.
Ireland, leading Stratagem the first dedicated lobbying and public affairs company to emerge after the Northern Ireland peace process following the Good Friday agreement.
