06 Business Segments Eaga Annual Report and Accounts 2010 We operate in Carbon three segments: Services: Carbon Emission Reduction Target CERT What we do: Eaga is a leading partner with the major energy suppliers helping them meet their CERT obligations to improve the energy efficiency of UK housing stock.
The energy suppliers are required to spend approximately 1bn per annum under this programme.
Community Energy Savings Programme CESP Through CESP, Eaga is helping energy generators and suppliers deliver their commitments to fund communitywide household energy efficiency savings.
Spending on CESP has been set at 350m over three years with an expectation of matched-funding from Social Landlords and other organisations.
Partnership Energy Service Proposition Working in green partnerships, Eaga offers domestic customers and SME businesses a range of carbon saving solutions.
Energy suppliers Our customers: Energy generators Social Landlords House builders Domestic customers SME businesses In the year to 31 May 2010: Services we provide: 11.9m tonnes of C0 savings delivered 2 1.7m innovative energy saving products delivered Energy efficiency improvements, such as loft and cavity wall insulation delivered to over 250,000 households Provision of low and zero carbon energy improvements to domestic customers and SME businesses Key statistics: Share of Group Revenue 28% Eaga Annual Report and Accounts 2010 Business Segments 07 Heating and Managed Renewables Services: Services: Central Heating Installation and Servicing Warm Front Eaga is one of the largest installers of central heating Englands flagship scheme to alleviate fuel poverty.
systems and a leading provider of heating service and Delivered on behalf of DECC, it has assisted more than repair contracts in the UK.
Social Landlords Home Energy Efficiency Scheme Eaga provides emergency breakdown cover and annual Fuel poverty scheme in Wales delivered on behalf of the servicing for in excess of 160,000 Local Authority and Welsh Assembly Government.
It has assisted more than social housing properties.
Domestic Renewables Advice Services Our renewables business installs and maintains a wide Telephone-based advice service to ensure low income range of green energy technologies, including solar PV, households receive benefits they are entitled to, together solar thermal, air and ground source heat pumps.
with advice in relation to housing, debt and employment matters.
Delivered on behalf of customers including DECC, Welsh Assembly Government, Legal Services Commission and certain water companies.
Digital Switchover Help Scheme Delivered on behalf of BBC to help customers over 75, partially sighted or in receipt of qualifying benefits make the switch from analogue to digital TV.
Care Homes Part of the Digital Switchover Help Scheme and delivered on behalf of DCMS to make sure people in care homes can make the shift from analogue to digital TV.
It has provided assistance to more than 32,000 residents in 3,000 care homes.
Social Landlords DECC Strategic partnerships with private companies Welsh Assembly Government e. g. Barclays, HomeSun DCMS Domestic customers BBC Fuel poverty grant funded programmes Legal Services Commission In the year to 31 May 2010: In the year to 31 May 2010: 37,000 energy efficient heating systems installed 218,000 fuel poverty houses assisted 393,000 heating systems under 24 7 cover 71,000 benefit entitlement checks completed 525,000 breakdown visits 18,000 legal and other cases completed 664 solar PV installations 343,000 households assisted under Digital Switchover Help Scheme Three million calls answered Share of Group Revenue Share of Group Revenue 23% 49%
