Angus Cockburn 66 Chairman 47 Finance Director Philip Rogerson is Chairman of Carillion plc and, Angus Cockburn, a Chartered Accountant, joined since 1 March 2010, of Bunzl plc.
Until February 1998 Aggreko in May 2000 as Finance Director.
He was he was Deputy Chairman of BG plc formerly British previously Managing Director of Pringle of Scotland, Gas plc having been a Director since 1992, and a division of Dawson International PLC, having joined has subsequently held a number of Non-executive that company in 1997 from PepsiCo Inc. At PepsiCo appointments.
He retired as Chairman of Northgate he spent five years in various positions, latterly as plc in December 2009 and Non-executive Director of Regional Finance Director for Central Europe based Davis Service Group Plc in February 2010.
He has worked with KPMG both in the Board of Aggreko plc in September 1997 and was the UK and in the USA and has an MBA from the appointed as Chairman in April 2002.
IMD Business School in Switzerland.
He is also a Non-executive Director of Howden Joinery Group 2.
Rupert Soames OBE Plc formerly Galiform plc and a former chairman of the Group of Scottish Finance Directors.
51 Group Chief Executive Rupert Soames joined the Board as Group Chief 4.
George Walker Executive on 1 July 2003.
He was formerly with Misys PLC, where he was Chief Executive of the Banking 53 President Aggreko North America and Securities Division.
Before joining Misys, Rupert George Walker, a United States citizen, joined was with GEC plc for 15 years, working in a number Aggreko in 1987 when the Group initially entered the of their subsidiaries: in the last four years of his service temperature control business through the acquisition of with GEC he was responsible for the UK, African and Mobile Air-Conditioning Inc. where he was Controller Asian operations of Avery Berkel.
He is the Senior and then Vice-President.
A graduate of the University Independent Director of Electrocomponents plc.
of Texas, he became a Vice-President of Aggreko Inc. in 1988 and was appointed Executive Vice-President in 1997.
In January 2001 he became President of Aggreko North America and was appointed as an Executive Director of Aggreko plc.
52 Aggreko plc Annual Report and Accounts 2010 Directors Report 5.
Russell King 53 Regional Director Europe and the Middle East 53 Non-executive Director Bill Caplan joined the Board on 17 November 2008.
Russell King joined the Board in February 2009.
He previously worked for 20 years in Europe, Asia, the He was appointed Non-executive Director of Spectris Middle East, Africa and the USA with United Parcel plc in October 2010.
He is senior advisor to RBC Service UPS and UPS Supply Chain Solutions.
He Capital Markets and the founder of Sorrett Advisors.
was born and educated in the USA, gaining an MBA Until October 2009 he was Chief Strategy Officer from Harvard Business School after selling his family of Anglo American PLC, having joined Anglo owned beverage distribution business in 1987.
He American as Group Head of Human Resources, currently serves as a Board Trustee and Non-executive Business Development and Sustainable Development Director for Phoenix Futures, a UK based charity.
Previously, he spent over 20 years at ICI, with experience in its fertiliser, petrochemical 6.
Kash Pandya and paint businesses.
Ken Hanna Kash Pandya joined the Board on 20 June 2005.
He was previously Chief Executive of Johnston 57 Non-executive Director Group plc, and prior to that he was President, Europe, Ken Hanna was appointed to the Board in October Asia & South America of APW, the worlds largest 2010.
He is currently Chairman of Inchcape plc and manufacturer of specialist cabinets and enclosures for a Non-executive Director of Tesco plc.
Ken is also the telecoms and computer industries.
Between 1996 Chairman of Shooting Star CHASE a South West and 1999, Kash worked for Caradon plc, latterly as London charity supporting families with children Director of European Operations of the Radiator and teenagers who have life limiting conditions.
Between his appointment in 2005 and Until early 2009, Ken was Chief Financial Officer of December 2008 he ran Aggrekos European business.
He has also held positions as Operating In January 2009 he moved to Dubai and took over Partner in Compass Partners, a European Private responsibility for Aggreko International.
Equity firm: Group Chief Executive at Dalgety plc: Group Finance Director of United Distillers plc and 7.
David Hamill Group Finance Director of Avis Europe plc.
He is a fellow of the Institute of Chartered Accountants.
53 Non-executive Director David Hamill, who was appointed to the Board Company Secretary in May 2007, was until December 2007 Chairman 11.
Peter Kennerley 54 and Chief Executive of ICI Paints and a main board director of ICI.
In January 2008 ICI was acquired Peter Kennerley was appointed Director of Legal by Akzo Nobel and for the calendar year of 2008, Affairs and Company Secretary in October 2008.
Mr Hamill led the integration process, forming the He was formerly Company Secretary and General worlds largest decorative paints business.
During Counsel of Scottish & Newcastle plc and before 2009, he was appointed as Senior Advisor to Bain that a partner at Simmons & Simmons specialising Capital and has developed personal business interests.
He also spent two years as Secretary to the Takeover Panel.
Robert MacLeod Board Committees Membership 46 Non-executive Director Robert MacLeod was appointed to the Board in Audit, Remuneration, Nomination September 2007.
He is a Chartered Accountant and is Group Finance Director of Johnson Matthey plc.
From June 2004 until June 2009 he was Group Finance Director of WS Atkins plc.
He joined the Atkins Group as Group Financial Controller in March 2003 having previously worked in a variety of senior financial roles at Enterprise Oil plc.
A graduate of Cambridge University, he trained at KPMG.
Aggreko plc Annual Report and Accounts 2010 53
