Directors Report WHAT WE DO Our business Aggreko provides power and temperature control We are not exposed to the fortunes of any single solutions to customers who need them either very end-user market.
All businesses use power, and quickly, or for a short or indeterminate length of time.
Our equipment and We have two business models: in the Local business, services are transferable between end-user segments, we hire our equipment to customers, who then operate so the generator used today in a pharmaceutical it for themselves, although we retain responsibility plant may be on a film set tomorrow and a building for servicing and maintaining it.
In the International site the day after.
Power Projects business, we operate as a power producer.
We install and operate power plants and We operate globally.
This means that we can our customers pay us for having the generating capacity respond to events as they happen anywhere around available, as well as the electricity we produce for them.
the world and can move our equipment to wherever it can deliver the best returns.
We do this on a global basis, with 148 service centres and offices in 34 countries: in 2010 we served customers We are organised to address all types of opportunity, in about 100 countries.
The solutions we provide range from the rental of a single generator for a weekend, from the simple to the very complex, for example: to managing huge projects worth many millions of pounds.
generating power for entire countries in times of severe power shortfall: We are experts.
We are focused on a very narrow range of products power and temperature control multi-million pound projects to help increase and that means we have technical expertise, production in petrochemical plants by providing equipment, skills and experience on a scale, and additional power and liquid cooling: to a depth, that we believe nobody else can rival.
the design and operation of the temporary power We design and manufacture our own fleet, which infrastructure for major public events such as the means that we are able to optimise it for the Olympic Games and the FIFA World Cup: specific requirements of our customers and of the rental business.
providing temperature control in an office after the air-conditioning has broken down: We keep our equipment for its useful life, so the better we build and maintain the equipment, the installing chillers to provide the cooling for longer its life will be and the more money we make.
temporary ice-rinks: and We therefore take enormous care to build and maintain our equipment to the highest standards renting a generator for a few days to a power and this, in turn, means that our customers see utility while it carries out improvements to high quality and reliable equipment.
By developing these competitive advantages, The distinguishing features of our business are: Aggreko has grown over the last 50 years or so to be the world market leader with outstanding people, The products and services we provide are missionstrong customer relationships, a powerful brand and critical.
Power and temperature control are utility an excellent reputation.
We have also developed a services without which our customers cannot operate.
business large enough to enjoy economies of scale, Most customers use our services only occasionally which has enabled us to deliver highly attractive but, when they do, they rely on us to keep their returns to shareholders while delivering outstanding business or even whole cities and countries value and service to our customers.
They are therefore likely to be more interested in quality of service rather than price.
Aggreko plc Annual Report and Accounts 2010 7
