THE MARKET Our market How big is the market, and what is our market share?
Demand for Aggrekos services is created by events: our customers generally turn to us when something Because we operate in very specific niches of the unusual happens which means they need power or rental market power, temperature control and, in temperature control quickly, or there is a requirement North America only, oil-free compressed air and which is transitory.
Events that stimulate demand across a very broad geography, it is very difficult to range from the very large and infrequent to the small determine with any accuracy the size of our market.
A complicating fact is that our own activities serve to create market demand Bangladesh and Indonesia did Examples of high-value, infrequent events or not figure highly in our estimates of market size a few situations we have worked on include: years ago, but they are now important customers as a result of our sales efforts.
Furthermore, our market is Large-scale power shortage Kenya, Bangladesh event driven, and major events such as hurricanes in and Venezuela.
North America, the Olympic Games, or major droughts in Africa can influence market size in the short-term.
Major sporting occasions Olympic Games, FIFA World Cup, Asian Games, Ryder Cup, SuperBowl.
As there is no third-party research that exactly matches our business, we have to use a number of Natural disasters Hurricanes Gustav and Ike in different approaches to estimate the size of the global 2008, Nashville oods in 2010. market.
All of our measurements of market size relate to rental revenue, as services revenues like fuel and Post-conict re-construction Middle East, Africa freight are highly volatile and do not have any and the Balkans.
reection on underlying market size.
Examples of lower-value, more frequent events on For most OECD countries in which we operate, which we might work are: we use three techniques: An oil refinery needs additional cooling during Supply-side estimation.
We use market intelligence the summer to maintain production throughput.
to estimate the supply-side i. e. how large our competitors are.
This is notoriously inaccurate, A glass manufacturer suffers a breakdown in its as competitors often have much broader product plant and needs power while its own equipment ranges.
It is extremely difficult to work out how is being repaired.
much of their revenue comes specifically from generators and chillers, and how much from the A city centre needs chillers to create an ice-rink many other lines of equipment they may offer.
In our Local business, our global IT system and a much sharper emphasis on sector-based marketing, are helping us to develop an improved understanding of our revenue by sector and customer.
For our International Power Projects business, we have invested considerable effort in proprietary research with professional economists to develop models which forecast the supply of, and demand for, power.
Third-party data, where it is available.
14 Aggreko plc Annual Report and Accounts 2010 Directors Report What drives market growth in the Local business?
By triangulating these techniques, we develop an Growth in Aggrekos Local business is driven by three estimate of market size but the truth is that it is a main factors: guess, and probably not a very accurate one.
In 2003, we did a great deal of work on market sizing, and GDP as an economy grows, so does demand for came to the conclusion that the market was worth energy.
about 1.3 billion and was growing at about 5%.
Since then, our own rental revenues have grown Propensity to rent how inclined people are to rent at a compound annual rate CAGR of 21%, which rather than buy.
This is driven by issues such as the would imply either that our market share has grown tax treatment of capital assets and the growing improbably fast, that the original market size was wrong awareness and acceptance of outsourcing.
or that we under-estimated the growth-rate.
In all probability, the truth is a mixture of all three factors.
Events high-value low-frequency events change Our best guess is that the market in which we operate the size of a market, although only temporarily.
is now worth somewhere around 3.5 billion per year.
For example, the scale of Hurricanes Gustav and Ike in 2008 led to a short-term surge in temporary Given our rental revenues of 941 million in 2010, power demand in the areas affected by the hurricanes: this would imply an Aggreko world-wide share of sales likewise, the FIFA World Cup vastly increased the of around 25%.
Behind this lies enormous variation.
market for power rental in South Africa, but for In many developing countries, where the rental market 6 months only.
is barely developed, and where we are called in to provide temporary utility power, we may represent In seeking to understand the drivers of growth better, 100% of the power rental market for the period of the we have devised the concept of Aggreko GDP: this is project but none when it ends.
In OECD countries, the GDP of a country weighted to account for Aggrekos where the rental markets are better developed, our sectoral mix of revenues.
Typically, this means that we share of the market will be lower than the 25% we are weighted more towards manufacturing than, say, estimate for our global share of the market.
Over the past few years, we have in nearly all the major markets in which we operate, observed that in countries where the growth rate of Aggreko is the largest or second-largest player.
Aggreko GDP is below 5%, our revenues tend to grow at 2-3 percentage points faster than the rate of Aggreko GDP.
In economies where Aggreko GDP growth is above 5%, we get an increasingly leveraged effect, with Aggreko sales growth far outpacing GDP growth.
This is for a number of reasons but, most notably, simply that when economies are growing fast, customers want equipment quickly: they want high levels of service, and they want to focus on doing what they are good at, rather than owning large amounts of equipment.
The graph overleaf plots this relationship between growth in Aggrekos revenues by country and growth in Aggreko nominal GDP between 2003 and 2007.
We have not included 2008-2010 because the data for these years is polluted by the recent recession.
We would caution that these figures include the impact of the GE Energy Rentals acquisition in December 2006 which will exaggerate the underlying sales growth in some countries, but we feel that the trend they show is directionally correct.
Aggreko plc Annual Report and Accounts 2010 15 Country 10 Country 9 Country 8 Country 7 Country 6 Country 5 Country 4 Country 3 Country 2 Country 1 The Market continued What drives market growth in the Local business?
continued cutting back on our services until the recession is Aggreko Revenue CAGR 03-07 vs Aggreko well underway.
We also recovered from the recession Nominal GDP extremely quickly: within a year our like-for-like volumes in the Local business were growing again.
% Aggreko GDP Aggreko Revenue 45.0 The recovery was particularly sharp in North America.
40.0 One might conclude from this that Aggreko is in the 35.0 happy position of being late-cycle into a recession and 30.0 early-cycle out of it.
We would be very suspicious of 25.0 such a golden scenario.
We think, on balance, that 20.0 15.0 a number of factors helped us: unlike many businesses, 10.0 we trimmed our costs rather than hacked them and, 5.0 above all, sought to keep our sales force in place, which 0.0 meant that we were able to maintain relationships with -5.0 customers through the downturn and were ready to serve them when they were ready to buy again: our global reach and presence in markets that barely felt Source: Oxford Economics, Aggreko Management accounts the impact of the recession also helped us, as did our Note: Includes GE-ER revenues in 2007 exposure to customers in sectors such as oil and gas and petrochemicals in which plant maintenance can be delayed a year or two, but ultimately has to be done.
Overall, in times of positive GDP growth, we estimate We were also the beneficiaries of great good luck, in that the market addressed by our Local business for that 2010 was an annus mirabilis in major events the short-term rental of power and temperature control revenue, with the Vancouver Winter Olympics, the is growing at some 2-3% above GDP in developed FIFA World Cup, and the Asian Games all occurring markets.
So, if GDP grows at 3% on average over the in the same year.
This elision of three major events cycle, our market should grow at about 5%.
In countries in a single year happens only once every 4 years.
with rates of nominal GDP growth that are above 5%, the market can grow much faster.
During the period we really felt the recession in our Local business Q2 2009 to Q1 2010, we reduced rates An obvious question is so what happens in a to keep volumes up for the critical summer season.
The experience of the last 2 years has power and temperature control businesses reacted very been instructive but, before discussing it, we have differently: power volumes were surprisingly stable, but to qualify the analysis by saying that all recessions temperature control volumes dropped by about 10%.
are different and, just because our business behaved For many of our customers, being without power is not one way in the recession of 2008-2009, does not mean an option, but going without extra cooling capacity may it will behave the same in the next one.
well be possible, particularly if industrial customers are not running their processes at full capacity.
Rates fell for We started warning in early 2008 that we thought both power and temperature control during this period.
that demand and rates would weaken in our Local businesses in North America and Europe, but it was Our conclusion from this?
It is that, in a recession, not until the second quarter of 2009 that we felt any the Local business probably behaves the same way impact, with demand weakening in almost every as it does when GDP is growing i. e. volume shrinks Local business.
From this might come the tentative at about twice the rate of Aggreko GDP, but there conclusion that our business is late-cycle.
Whether is then an additional impact of rate erosion which that will be true of all future recessions is uncertain, as can be of the order of 5-10%.
The factors which drive the growth of our The rapid growth in power consumption in developing International Power Projects business are different.
countries is driven by industrialisation and by the The main trigger of demand is power cuts: when the growing number of consumers having access to devices lights go out in a country, people want power restored which consume electricity, such as fridges, televisions as quickly as possible.
It is a perverse fact that people and mobile phones.
Between 2000 and 2015, we value power most when they are without it.
We believe forecast that the number of people whose power that in many parts of the world, and most particularly consumption is growing faster than per-capita GDP in many developing countries, there will be increasing will double, from 2.5 billion to over 5 billion see graph numbers of power cuts, caused by a combination of below.
The majority of these people live in developing burgeoning demand for power and inadequate countries, where investment in the acquisition of new investment in new capacity.
generating capacity and maintenance of existing capacity has been far below levels required to keep We believe that demand for power is going to grow supply in line with demand.
much faster than is commonly believed: working with a leading group of professional economists at Oxford Population with electricity consumption growing Economics, we have built a model which takes data on faster than GDP billion GDP and population growth, power consumption, and power generation capacity for 120 countries over the 6 last 10 years.
Using this historical data, it then projects future power demand based on forecasts of population 5 and GDP growth.
Our model predicts that world-wide 4 demand for power will grow by around 4% per annum between 2007 and 2015, compared with forecasts by 3 the International Energy Agency IEA of 2.6%.
Our model reects the sharp divergence between the growth 2 in power consumption between OECD and non-OECD countries in recent years, as shown in the graph below.
1 Poor countries are seeing demand for power increasing by over 7-8% per annum, whilst rich countries are 0 growing at under 1-2% see graph below.
Source: Oxford Economics Rolling 3-year average growth in electricity consumption 1988-2008 % OECD World Non-OECD 9.0 8.0 7.0 6.0 5.0 4.0 3.0 2.0 1.0 0.0 Source: International Energy Agency Aggreko plc Annual Report and Accounts 2010 17 The Market continued What drives market growth in the International Power Projects business?
continued To make this situation worse, by 2015, 25% of the Investors have been keen to understand what the impact worlds installed power-generating capacity will be over of a recession might be on our International Power 40 years old, which we believe is a reasonable proxy Projects business.
In our 2008 Annual Report, we wrote for the average life of a permanent power plant.
The It is certainly likely that lower rates of per-capita GDP coming years will see the beginning of a replacement growth will lead to slower rates of growth in demand for cycle during which a large part of existing power-plant electricity in developing countries.
However, we believe construction capacity will be dedicated to replacing that, unless there is a prolonged economic catastrophe, existing plants in North America and Europe, rather the market for temporary power in developing countries than building replacement or additional capacity in will continue to grow.
Experience in 2009 and 2010 developing countries.
The sums which need to be has supported this hypothesis: growth in MW on rent mobilised over the next 10 years to re-build the power during 2009 was 10%, down from 40% in 2008, but distribution and generation capacity in North America growth nevertheless: in 2010, we had record levels and Europe are huge: in the UK alone, the regulator of order-intake and grew the MW on rent by 14%.
estimates that up to 200 billion will be required.
This The latest figures produced by the IEA suggest that means that developing countries will have to compete consumption of electricity in non-OECD countries for funds with developed countries, where investment grew by 5.3% in 2008 a recession notwithstanding.
risk is perceived to be far lower.
Another concern has been that recession might bring a bad-debt problem in International Power Projects Our models predict that the combination of these but this has not been our experience.
demand-side and supply-side factors will increase the world-wide shortfall of power generating capacity We end this section with our customary warning: nearly 10-fold, from about 70 gigawatts GW in 2005 International Power Projects specialises in providing to around 600 GW by 2015.
The ultimate size of the energy infrastructure in countries where political and shortfall will depend on both the rate of increase commercial risk is high sometimes very high and in demand, and the net additional generating and the fact is that we do business where others fear to tread.
transmission capacity brought into production during To date, we have never had a material loss of equipment the period.
However, even if the shortfall is at the or receivables, but it is very likely that sooner or later bottom end of our forecasts, it will still represent a one of our customers will misbehave.
Our assets are at level of global power shortage many times larger than much greater risk of loss or impairment than they would todays.
We are confident that such a level of power be if they were sitting in the suburbs of London or New shortage will drive powerful growth over the medium York or Singapore.
We have extensive risk-mitigation and long term in demand for temporary power as procedures and techniques, but investors should regard countries struggle to keep the lights on.
the current level of returns in this business as being risk-unadjusted rates of return, because nobody has yet behaved badly enough to adjust them.
18 Aggreko plc Annual Report and Accounts 2010
