Directors Report OUR STRATEGY consistency of purpose has been a major contributor to our success.
20% compound growth in revenues and 33% compound growth in trading profit over the last seven years indicate that the strategy is the right one, and we continue to work relentlessly to implement it.
Aggreko Group excluding pass-through fuel 2010 2003 CAGR Revenue m 1,156 324 20% Trading profit m 310 42 33% Trading margin 27% 13% Rupert Soames Chief Executive Diluted earnings per | share pence 78.98 10.14 34% Return on capital employed ROCE 32% 13% Enterprise value at 1 year end m 4,198 514 35% calculated by dividing operating profit for a period by the average net operating assets as at 1 January, 30 June and 31 December.
1 Enterprise value is defined as market value plus net debt.
The strong growth over recent years was only made possible because, over the preceding 40 years, Aggrekos management and owners had patiently built a foundation of service centres in North America, Europe, the Middle East, Asia and Australia: had Angus Cockburn Finance Director spotted that designing and building our own equipment | had major advantages: had created a hard-working, entrepreneurial and customer-focused culture: and had built a brand.
The lesson we see every day is that Group strategy it takes decades to achieve the sort of global scale The objective of our strategy is to deliver long-term Aggreko now has, and there are no short cuts.
value to shareholders, excellent service to customers and rewarding careers to our employees by being the Aggrekos strategy is developed by the senior leading global provider of temporary power and management team, led by the Chief Executive, and temperature control.
Our strategy is founded on the involves internal and external research, much of it belief that in our market sector, it is possible to create proprietary.
We seek to develop a deep understanding of competitive advantage by building a truly global the drivers of demand, changing customer requirements, business i. e. one which operates the same way the competitive environment, as well as developments in around the world and can use the same fleet technology and regulation.
We look at our own strengths everywhere, the same processes, the same skills, and and weaknesses, and at the opportunities and threats the same infrastructure.
This homogeneity means that that are likely to face us.
From this analysis, we develop significant operating advantages and efficiencies accrue a list of investment and operational options, and analyse to those who have global scale: the focus of our efforts, their relative risks and rewards, bearing in mind the therefore is directed towards building global scale and capabilities and resources of the Group.
securing these advantages and efficiencies for ourselves.
We regularly test our strategy which keeps it fresh The strategy was developed following an in-depth review and relevant, and enables us to spot and react to new of Aggrekos business in 2003, and has been consistently opportunities.
Having conducted a root-and-branch applied for the last seven years: it continues to be the review in 2003 we re-examined our conclusions in basis of our business planning, and we believe that 2005, 2007 and 2009.
The conclusions from the 2009 Aggreko plc Annual Report and Accounts 2010 19 Our Strategy continued review, which were communicated to investors in March The Local business 2010, are summarised below: The Local business serves customers from 148 service centres in 34 countries in North, Central & South The strategy we developed in 2003, and re-affirmed America, Europe, the Middle East, Africa, Asia and in 2005 and 2007, is working well.
This is a business with high transaction volumes: average contracts excluding major events Our Local business continues to offer attractive have a value of around 10,000 and last a few weeks.
opportunities for growth, both from growing our The Local business represents 60% of Aggrekos density and footprint in existing markets, and revenues, excluding pass-through fuel, and 46% of expanding into new countries.
Since our first strategy review in 2003, revenues and trading profit have increased at a The factors which have driven the growth of our compound growth rate of 15% and 27% respectively: International Power Projects business will continue to provide plenty of headroom for this business for the Aggreko Local business % of Group foreseeable future: the world faces serious structural 2010 2003 CAGR 2010 2003 shortages of power which will last for many years and which should sustain demand for our services.
Revenue m 696 258 15% 60% 80% Trading profit m 142 27 27% 46% 64% Trading margin 20% 10% In our 2009 review we stepped up the work we are ROCE 26% 11% doing on emissions and planning the transition of our fleet to use equipment with improved emissions performance.
There are three elements in our strategy for the Local business: In all our businesses, there are opportunities to improve the efficiency of operations, whilst Maintain a clear differentiation between our maintaining our prized agility.
There are plenty offering and that of our competitors through of things we can do better.
We plan to start the next review of our strategy in Use the benefits of global scale to be extremely 2012: our next formal strategy update to investors efficient.
This should enable us to make attractive is likely to be in early 2013. returns whilst delivering a superior service at competitive prices.
Our strategy for each of the business lines is set out below and, at the end of this section, we reect on Offering superior service at competitive prices some of the future trends that we believe may come will allow us to increase market share and extend to be important to our business in the years ahead.
our global reach, delivering growing revenues at attractive margins.
Business line operational strategy Supporting the Group strategy, Aggreko has Against the first objective to maintain a clear developed operational strategies for our two differentiation between our offering and that of our different lines of business: competitors third-party research shows that Aggreko is one of the worlds best-performing companies in The Local business rents power and temperature terms of customer satisfaction.
We are determined to control systems, from small generators to large maintain this reputation for premium service and we cooling plants, to customers who are typically within do this through the attitude and expertise of our staff, a few hours driving time of our service centres: the geographic reach of our operations, the design, availability and reliability of our equipment, and the The International Power Projects business builds ability to respond to our customers 24 hours a day, and then operates temporary power plants, selling 7 days a week.
their capacity and output to utilities, the military and major mining and oil companies.
20 Aggreko plc Annual Report and Accounts 2010 Directors Report The claim to be one of the worlds best-performing and 2010, revenue to average gross rental assets companies in terms of customer satisfaction is a big in the Local business increased from 62% to 82%.
one, but we think we have good reason to make it.
Global fleet sourcing allows us to stock our fleet For each of the last 5 years we have been asking about with premium-quality equipment at competitive cost.
25,000 customers what they think of the service they Global reach allows us to deliver service to customers have received from us, and measure our Net Promoter such as major events customers wherever they go.
This is an objective measure of customer Global processes allow us to disseminate best practice satisfaction which reects the balance between those quickly.
The benefits of our global scale accrue to both who think we are wonderful, and those who think we customers and shareholders.
Our Net Promoter Scores are dreadful.
Happily, the former greatly outnumber tell us that the model works well for customers and, the latter.
Over the last 5 years our score has improved for our shareholders the benefit has been a compound by 10pp and Satmetrix, a global leader in customer growth in trading profit of 27% over the last 7 years experience programmes who manage over 11 million and a return on capital employed that has improved customer responses annually including Aggrekos, from 11% to 26% over the same period.
have confirmed that our Net Promoter Score in 2010 was the highest of all their customers benchmarked The third objective of our strategy for the Local world-wide in the business-to-business segment.
business is to deliver growth in revenues by increasing market share and global reach.
In our more mature The second objective of our strategy for the Local markets, such as North America and Europe, we know business is to be extremely efficient in the way we run that the most profitable businesses are those where our operations.
This is essential if we are to provide we have dense networks of service centres which superior customer service at a competitive price and, can share equipment, staff and customers, and benefit at the same time, deliver to our shareholders an from the low transport costs that come from being attractive return on capital.
In a business in which physically close to customers.
So, in these markets, lead-times are short, logistics are complex, and we we focus on adding new service centres and upgrading process a large number of low-value transactions, existing centres to make them more capable.
In the a pre-condition of efficiency is having high quality last 4 years, in our mature markets in Australia, North systems and robust processes.
America and Europe, we have opened or upgraded service centres in: The operation of our Local businesses in most areas is based on a hub-and-spoke model which has two North America: Indianapolis, Long Island, types of service centre: hubs hold our larger items Fort McMurray, Gillette, Shreveport, of equipment as well as providing service and repair Minneapolis St Paul, Seattle, facilities: spokes are smaller and act as logistics points Ft St John, Minot, Roosevelt from which equipment can be delivered quickly to Europe: Bordeaux, Bristol, Metz, Padova, Berlin a customers site.
The hubs and spokes have been Australia: Geraldton, Gladstone organised into areas in which a manager has responsibility for the revenues, profitability and However, we know that our businesses grow fastest the return on capital employed within that area.
where there is strong growth in GDP, and, specifically, In this model, most administrative and call handling in Aggreko GDP GDP weighted to industries which functions are carried out in central rental centres.
So a core part of our strategy has been expanding our Local business in Our Local business enjoys numerous advantages the faster-growing economies of South America, as a result of its global scale.
Standardised operating the Middle East, Africa and Asia.
The acquisition processes, and the investment in a single global IT of GE Energy Rentals in 2006 helped us to expand platform, bring visibility and homogeneity.
Global our footprint in Brazil, Chile and Mexico and, since utilisation statistics allow us to spot where equipment then, we have opened or upgraded service centres in: is under-utilised, and where it can be moved to for the best return, and this is reected in the increase in revenue to average gross rental assets, which is a financial measure of utilisation: between 2004 Aggreko plc Annual Report and Accounts 2010 21 Our Strategy continued Africa: Johannesburg International Power Projects excl pass-through fuel Middle East: Doha, Jebel Ali, Abu Dhabi, % of Group Muscat, Jeddah, Al Khobar 2010 2003 CAGR 2010 2003 Central & Revenue m 460 66 32% 40% 20% South America: Panama, Buenos Aires, Antofagasta, Trading profit m 168 15 41% 54% 36% Recife, Parauapebas, Concepcion, Trading margin 37% 23% Monterrey, Villahermosa ROCE 40% 25% Asia: Pune, Shanghai, Dalian, Singapore Note: pass-through fuel refers to revenues we generate from one Russia: Moscow customer for whom we have agreed to manage the provision of fuel on a pass-through basis.
This revenue stream uctuates with the cost International Power Projects of fuel and the volumes taken, while having an immaterial impact on our profitability.
We therefore exclude pass-through fuel from most This business serves the requirements of power discussions of our business.
utilities, governments, armed forces and major industrial users for utility-quality, temporary power generation.
Whereas in the Local business we rent The strategy for this business is straightforward: grow equipment to customers who operate it for themselves, as fast as we prudently can, to secure for ourselves the in International Power Projects we contract to provide operating efficiencies and competitive advantages power generated by plants financed, built, commissioned which come from being the largest global operator.
So and operated by our own staff.
The power plants can far, we have been successful in executing this strategy, range in size from 10 megawatts MW to 200MW and our International Power Projects business is now on a single site.
many times larger than its next largest competitor.
The business operates in areas where we do not have a The reason why it is advantageous to be a global large Local business.
Most of the customers are power operator in International Power Projects is because utilities in Africa, Asia, Central and South America.
demand can shift rapidly between continents.
In 2003, As described in the What we do section, the driver South America and Asia were probably the largest of demand in these markets is that our customers markets, and Africa was only a small proportion of economies are growing, with consequent increases global demand.
In 2009, the market in Africa was larger in demand for additional power which cannot be met than South America and Asia combined.
Going in to by the current generating capacity.
As a result, many 2011, the position as measured by our fleet-on-rent of them face chronic power shortages which damage is reversed, with about 500MW having come off-hire their ability to support economic growth and increased in Africa in 2010 and about 700MW going on-hire prosperity.
These shortages are often caused or in Asia.
These shifts in demand were driven in part by exacerbated by the variability of supply arising from rainfall patterns, in part by the relationship between the use of hydro-electric power plants whose output economic growth and investment in permanent power is dependent on rainfall.
We estimate that the gap generation and in part by geo-political issues.
To be between world-wide supply and demand of electricity successful in the long-term, therefore, requires the is growing by some 50,000MW per annum, which ability to serve demand globally, and that requires sales, compares to our International Power Projects fleet marketing and operational infrastructure to be present size of around 3,600MW.
International Power Projects now represents 40% of The reason we want to be big and bigger than any Group revenues and 54% of trading profit, excluding of our competitors is because we believe that, as in pass-through fuel.
Since 2003, International Power the Local business, scale brings significant competitive Projects revenue excluding pass-through fuel and advantages in International Power Projects.
There are trading profit have grown at a compound annual numerous reasons for this: growth rate of 32% and 41% respectively: Being able to address demand on a world-wide basis means higher utilisation.
When fleet returns from a customer at the end of a contract, the speed with 22 Aggreko plc Annual Report and Accounts 2010 Directors Report which it can be put back on contract again is a Returns from rental businesses are heavily major determinant of profitability and returns on dependent upon the underlying capital cost of the capital.
Fleet will find new work far more quickly rental fleet.
Clearly, large buyers should get better if it can address the total pool of world demand terms than small buyers and, since we are by far than if it is only able to operate in a single region.
the largest purchaser of power generation for rental applications in the world, we believe that we are By the time customers have decided they really advantaged in this area.
The fact that we have do have to spend money on temporary power, they the scale to justify having our own manufacturing generally want it as fast as possible.
Being able to and design facilities also means that we can source offer very fast lead-times for large amounts of equipment better suited to our precise requirements, capacity is a significant competitive advantage.
Small and more cheaply, than smaller operators.
operators simply cannot afford to keep 250-300MW of capacity say, 30-40 million of capital sitting In summary, a large operator will have lower volatility idle waiting for the next job.
Because the equipment of demand, better lifetime utilisation of equipment, used in International Power Projects is also used be better able to respond to customer requirements, in the Local business fleet, we manage our large and will have a lower capital cost per MW of fleet.
generators as a common global pool.
Between the In International Power Projects, bigger is better and Local business and International Power Projects, Aggreko is now much larger than any other competitor we currently have a fleet of over 5,000 of these large in this market, as well as being the only company to generators, and can deploy hundreds of MW of have distribution in all the major markets.
capacity from our various businesses around the world on very short notice.
A good example would Further ahead be a recent power contract in Bangladesh, where we In our 2009 Annual Report, we set out thoughts about were able to deliver and commission 200MW spread opportunities that might arise from the fide-carbonisation over 3 sites within 90 days of the contract signature: of power generation in developed countries.
In 2010 no competitor could deliver so much power in such we have continued with our research in this area, and a short lead-time, and a permanent power plant of we remain hopeful that there will be money-making similar scale would take years to deliver and install.
opportunities, but they will take years, rather than months, to develop.
When they come, however, they The management of risk is a critical part of our could be material, so we are continuing to work on business: we place tens of millions of pounds worth building our expertise in this sector.
Because this is of capital assets in countries where the operational, important work in progress, we repeat below what political and payment risks are high sometimes we said in last years Annual Report, suitably updated.
While we take great care to mitigate these risks, it is probable that sooner or later we will have In the 2009 strategy update, presented to investors a loss of either receivables, or equipment, or both.
in March 2010, we tried to look ahead and outside the However, because of our scale, such a loss would not boundaries of our existing business model to see if there imperil the company as a whole.
We treat our risks might be other opportunities for us to deliver value in the same way investors do: we minimise the risk to our shareholders.
We were encouraged by what of losses doing material damage to the business by we found, and we set out below some of our thoughts having a broad portfolio of exposures, none of them about the way the energy market might develop.
For smaller companies, their portfolio of country risk is inevitably much more concentrated: We estimate that world demand for electricity will the probability of loss in any one country for smaller increase at a compound rate of around 4% between companies is no less than it is for us, but their ability 2007 and 2015: this compares to a growth in net to withstand the consequences of a large loss is.
capacity of around 3% per annum, resulting in a Scale therefore allows us to deal in markets where world-wide projected shortfall in supply growing at others might, with good reason, fear to tread.
This supply:demand gap is likely to be focussed on emerging markets, who have burgeoning demand, and inadequate supply.
Aggreko plc Annual Report and Accounts 2010 23 2009 2007 2005 2003 2001 1999 1997 1995 1993 1991 1989 1987 1985 1983 1981 1979 Our Strategy continued These emerging markets have been strong markets for Levels of investment have been inadequate to replace our International Power Projects business for the last power plants which, either because of age or because five years.
In our 2009 study however, we identified they fail to meet emissions standards, will have to be that some of the stresses which create demand for us closed in the next 10 years.
Between 2000 and 2009 in emerging markets may also start to appear in more the amount of generating capacity outside China over developed economies.
40 years old a reasonable proxy for the average life of power plants more than doubled, and yet in the same The market for the supply of electricity, like most period the amount of new capacity commissioned per utility businesses, thrives on stability and hates year outside China fell see graph : by 2015 over a uncertainty.
This is particularly so in countries that quarter of the worlds generating capacity outside China rely on the private sector to fund investment in power will be over 40 years old.
These trends are shown in the generation, which is the case in most developed graph below: the red line shows the dramatic growth in markets.
The long life and enormous capital costs the amount of generating capacity over 40 years old.
of the infrastructure required to generate and deliver cheap electricity require an environment in which MW installed by year 1979-2009 vs Plant investors can build power plants and be reasonably 40 years old sure of the amount of money they will earn over the next thirty or forty years.
We believe that the market World installed by year Plant 40 years excl China 600,000 for the supply of electricity in developed countries Installed excl China is going through a phase where that stability and 500,000 certainty is lacking.
There is going to be a lot of 400,000 change, uncertainty and market stress, and the next 10 years are going to be hugely challenging for 300,000 governments, regulators, investors and operators.
200,000 The main source of that stress and uncertainty 100,000 arises from the struggle to devise ways to manage the electricity supply market to deliver fide-carbonisation 0 of power generation, and to accommodate changing public attitudes to nuclear power.
On the one hand, over the last 50 years the great power-plant Source: Platts manufacturers of the world have developed extremely effective technology for generating vast amounts of We believe that the developed world is building up a cheap electricity using hydro-carbon and nuclear fuels.
bow-wave of delayed investment that sometime in the These technologies have been perfected in time for next 10 years will have to break.
The most immediate public opinion to decide that they must have less effect of the wave breaking will likely be rapid ination of that and far more renewable technology, much in the building costs of new plant as plant operators rush of which is decades away from competing in terms to order the plants that should already be in construction.
of either cost or efficiency with thermal plants.
But what plants will they build?
The majority of plants The amount of subsidy, or the increase in the price will inevitably have to be thermal, but the electricity of carbon, required to level the playing field between networks of the future are all going to have to deal a modern Combined-Cycle Gas Turbine and an offwith large amounts of wind-power, and that is going shore wind-farm is enormous.
Regulators, economists to require substantial investment in transmission and and politicians have struggled to devise market distribution networks to cope with intermittent output signals with which they can square this circle, and, in the case of wind, the fact that large wind-farms proposing revisions to policy, subsidy regimes and have to be positioned far from centres of consumption.
planning regulations at bewildering rates, and this For those unfamiliar with the variability of wind rapidly changing outlook has encouraged investors generation, the graph below shows the output from to wait-and-see rather than build new plant.
Irelands 900MW of installed wind capacity during the period 1st October-31st December 2010.
24 Aggreko plc Annual Report and Accounts 2010 Directors Report 30 12 2010 20 12 2010 10 12 2010 30 11 2010 20 11 2010 10 11 2010 31 10 2010 21 10 2010 11 10 2010 01 10 2010 Wind output in MW, Ireland Oct-Dec 2010 MW 1,200 1,000 800 600 400 200 0 Source: Eirgrid During this 3-month period, there were 21 occasions We have developed a highly-efficient, multi-fuel, where power output varied by more than 100MW utility power generating capability which has a within 15 minutes: 108 when that variation occurred capital cost per megawatt about one third that within 30 minutes.
The peak output was over 1,130MW, of conventional utility power plants.
We think and the lowest was 24MW.
These variations in output conventional power-plant technologies such as bore no relationship to demand.
Combined-Cycle Gas Turbines, Hydro and Nuclear, while ideally suited for base-load operation, will Presenting these facts is neither a polemic against struggle with the economics of operating on an wind-power, nor one in favour of thermal plants.
It is intermittent basis and the unpredictable start-stop simply stating that the generation mix in 10 years time cycle required to respond to the variable output will be different and will have to cater for part of the of renewable power generation.
mix being far more variable than system operators are used to having to deal with.
Our technology is ideally suited to intermittent, fast-start operation.
Within 30 seconds we can Our whole strategy in developing our International bring enough power on-line to keep the lights on Power Projects business has been based on our analysis for whole cities.
We think system operators will that the energy gap between supply and demand was come to find this sort of sustainable, distributed, fast getting worse, and particularly so in emerging markets.
response capability essential if they are to operate So that is not new.
What is new is our analysis that with meaningful amounts of wind generation.
similar stresses may begin to emerge in developed economies over the next 10 years, driven partially Our technology is ideally suited to distributed by the policy of fide-carbonising power generation operation.
Because it comes in 1MW blocks and is and lack of investment.
mobile, we can put 25MW here, 150MW there and 5MW over there: and then can shift 50MW of the These stresses should present opportunities for 150MW site to the 25MW site within a couple of Aggreko.
The technology which we have developed days.
We think that distributed generation will over recent years has some unique features that may become increasingly popular with system operators make it attractive to system operators who will have and they will value the mobility and exibility we to manage large amounts of renewable generation, low have the capability to provide.
And, for our part, reserve margins and ageing plant.
To be more specific: we should be able to generate premium returns by being able to move our plant globally to where the need, and therefore the price, is greatest.
Aggreko plc Annual Report and Accounts 2010 25 Our Strategy continued To match what we believe will become an With the business delivering returns on average increasingly attractive technical proposition, capital employed of over 30%, it is clearly in our we also have, for a power generation company, shareholders interests that we invest as much as an enormous customer base and global reach.
We we prudently can into the business.
However, the already are established suppliers to power utilities margins and returns are currently so strong that in and governments in around 50 countries.
This the last two years we have been able to reduce levels means that we have the ability to roll out good of net debt substantially, while investing far ahead ideas on a global scale.
From a peak level of net debt of 364 million 31 December 2008 and peak Net Debt In summary: to date, the main focus of our to EBITDA of 1.3 times 31 December 2006, net International Power Projects business has been debt has reduced to 132 million, and Net Debt to emerging markets.
Over the next 10 years, however, EBITDA to 0.3 times as at 31 December 2010.
Given as wind penetration rises, and as old plants retire, the proven ability of the business to fund organic reserve margins will fall in developed economies growth from operating cashows, and the nature of our as well.
At this point, opportunities might arise for business model, it seems sensible to run the business Aggreko to support system operators and utilities with a modest amount of debt.
We say modest because in developed markets as well as in emerging markets.
we are strongly of the view that it is unwise to run a business which has high levels of operational gearing We would like to stress that this is not a short-term with high levels of financial gearing.
Quite the opposite: in the short term many developed countries have high reserve margins Since the Group demerged in 1997, Net Debt to as the economic crisis has caused power consumption EBITDA has averaged around 1 times, and this is to reduce.
But these reserve margins are forecast to a level we feel is about right for our business.
Absent fall quite sharply between now and 2020.
So we will a major acquisition, or the requirement for an unusual spend some time over the next few years exploring level of fleet investment, it gives us the ability to deal these ideas.
with the normal uctuations in capital expenditure which can be quite sharp: - 100 million in a year Capital structure and working capital, and is well within our covenants to lenders which stand at 3 times.
We have concluded The intention of Aggrekos strategy is to deliver therefore that, over the medium term, we should aim long-term value to its shareholders, and so far we to keep our net debt at around 1 times.
have been highly successful in doing so, both on an absolute and a relative basis.
Since 2005 we In terms of the pace at which we move to the 1 times have delivered a 458% growth in our index of Total level, we think that the need for exibility argues Shareholder Return which compares with 25% and for moving over the next 2 to 3 years rather than 49% for the FTSE-100 and FTSE-250 respectively.
It is with this in mind that we have This value creation comes from two sources.
First, announced our intention to effect a return of value share price accretion as a result of 42% compound of approximately 150 million in 2011 to be effected growth in earnings per share: this earnings growth is by way of a B share scheme, and a further amount, the result of very high rates of capital investment in depending on circumstances in the next 2 to 3 years, the business, about 1 billion invested over the last that will move Net Debt to EBITDA to around 1 times.
five years, compared to depreciation over the same period of about 590 million, along with one large and several small acquisitions about 132 million spent over the last five years.
The second source of investor return has been dividends which, since 2005, have grown at a compound rate of 25%.
26 Aggreko plc Annual Report and Accounts 2010
