OUR BUSINESS MODELS Aggreko is organised around two different and operating the equipment and the invoice to the business models: customer is for power generation capacity not equipment rented.
Most projects in this business are worth over 1 million a year and some can be worth very much Local business more than that: in 2010, we invoiced our largest utility customer excluding pass-through fuel around Our Local business runs with high volumes of generally 70 million.
75% of revenue comes from power utilities quite low value transactions, renting equipment to in developing countries but we also serve governments, enable customers to respond quickly to requirements armed forces, international agencies as well as oil and for power and temperature control.
Aside from major mining companies.
A typical contract in this business events where contracts can be worth tens of millions would be for the rental of 20-50MW for an initial of pounds, the average contract size is around 10,000, period of 6-9 months, which will often be extended.
but the range is from 200 to over 1,000,000.
Our power-plants are highly modular, and their capacity Although most of this business has a lead-time of can be exed in 1MW increments using standard 24 hours or more, about 25% of its revenues come containerised units of our own proprietary design, from responding to emergencies.
It is therefore essential assembled in our factory in Scotland: importantly, to have the capability to deploy equipment and people these generators are also in widespread use in the to the customers site within a matter of hours.
This Local business, so fleet can be shared between the two business operates from 148 service centres in North, businesses.
They use either diesel or gas as fuel and are Central & South America, Europe, the Middle East, designed to be easily transportable, reliable and robust.
These service centres Power projects can arise anywhere in the world and the serve customers who are normally within a radius required response time is generally weeks rather than the of 200 miles, and they offer the complete range hours or days needed in the Local business.
To support of our products and services.
these projects, we concentrate our fleet in a number of hubs in Central America, Europe, the Middle East and In 2010, the Local business had revenues of 696 million Asia.
From each hub, large amounts of equipment can which is 60% of Aggrekos total revenue excluding 1 be shipped or own rapidly to wherever it is needed.
In 2010, our International Power Projects business International Power Projects generated revenues of 460 million, or 40% of Aggrekos 1 total revenue excluding pass-through fuel revenue.
The International Power Projects business sells power which we deliver using power plants built, owned and Who are our customers?
Whereas in the Local business a contract with a customer is described in terms of renting specified items of equipment for a period of time, most Aggreko serves every industry that uses power and of the contracts that International Power Projects temperature control, making our customer-base very performs are for providing a defined amount of electrical diverse both in terms of geography and market segment.
power, for which a customer pays a fixed monthly This is a great advantage, as it gives us some protection capacity charge: they then pay, in addition, a variable against problems in any one particular market.
And we charge for each MW-hour they take.
Under the terms can quickly move resources to sectors and countries of these contracts, Aggreko is responsible for installing which are growing.
1 Pass-through fuel revenue relates to contracts in our International Power Projects business in Uganda where we provide fuel on a pass-through basis.
12 Aggreko plc Annual Report and Accounts 2010 Directors Report Within the Local business, barriers to entry are relatively Aggreko revenue by customer segment low: many companies, small and large, drift in and out Excluding pass-through fuel revenue of rental, and competition in each market is fierce.
11 10 Typically, competitors in the Local business are 1 Utilities 36% 12 either privately-owned specialist rental businesses, or 2 Oil and gas 9% 9 divisions of large plant-hire companies.
Their common 8 1 3 Military 7% characteristic is that they are local: most of them operate 7 4 Petrochemical & refining 7% in a single country and, often, in just a particular part of a 5 Manufacturing 6% 6 country.
In their own territory they are very effective, but 6 Events 13% they find it difficult to operate outside their home market.
7 Construction 4% 5 So in most areas in which we operate, competition in 2 4 3 8 Contracting 5% the Local business is fierce: but the names we do battle 9 Services 4% with will tend to be different country by country.
Source: Aggreko internal reports 10 Quarrying & mining 3% 11 Shipping 1% In International Power Projects we also see localised 12 Other 5% competition, often from the local distributors of major manufacturers such as Caterpillar, or from local entrepreneurs who want to try their hand at power Aggreko revenue by geography generation.
These companies find it hard to organise Excluding pass-through fuel revenue themselves across territories, however, and it is difficult to operate efficiently in the International 1 North America 21% Power Projects business without a large homogenous 6 1 2 Europe 15% fleet and the infrastructure to market, sell and operate 3 Middle East 19% it in a consistent manner around the world.
5 4 Africa 19% 5 Asia and Australasia 13% In both the Local business and International Power 2 Projects valuable economies of scale accrue to those 6 South & Central America 13% 4 who can operate on a global basis.
However, to gain 3 these benefits of global scale requires a very long-term commitment to building distribution, deep technical expertise across a number of disciplines, and a well Source: Aggreko internal reports developed supply-chain: it also requires hundreds of millions of pounds of capital to fund fleet investment.
Some people have the misconception that Aggreko has Competitive environment grown from nothing over a short period of time: to the contrary, Aggreko was founded 50 years ago, and it has When customers need power or temperature control taken us decades, several billion pounds of cumulative equipment, they have the choice to buy, lease or rent, investment in fleet and a global network of service and therefore the biggest competitors for our customers centres to get to the point where we are big enough to money are not rental companies, but equipment enjoy the benefits of global scale.
Over the last 10 years, manufacturers.
The vast majority of chillers and some very large and powerful companies who have generators supplied to end-users each year are bought global scale in adjacent markets have tried to emulate or leased, and only a few are rented.
So, in terms of Aggreko but none have yet succeeded in building a pricing and service, we always have to be focused global integrated power and temperature control business on the fact that customers have a choice, not only of the same scale.
Aggreko is, at the moment, the only of using other rental companies, but also to buy from business in the market which has grown large enough to manufacturers.
The defining issues in the choice capture the economies of global scale and, in turn, these between buying and renting tend to be speed how efficiencies have enabled us to fund rates of investment quickly do you need it?
and duration how long do far ahead of any competitor.
As a consequence of this you need it for?
Urgent need, and or short duration, rate of investment, we have grown to be significantly is the requirement that we as a rental business serve.
larger than any other company operating in our market.
Aggreko plc Annual Report and Accounts 2010 13
