Directors Report OUR FLEET Aggreko is probably unique amongst large equipment Most rental businesses have a model of buying assets rental companies in that we design and build the and then selling them on at a relatively early stage majority of our fleet in our own manufacturing facility in their useful life.
This minimises service costs and in Scotland.
We believe that this is an important enables them to use income from used fleet sales to competitive advantage, for a number of reasons: help finance new equipment purchases.
Because we build longevity into our equipment, and failure rates First, it means that we can optimise the equipment in generators and chillers are more related to how well to meet our particular operational requirements.
they are maintained rather than how old they are, we A generator or chiller is normally designed to be opt for a policy of rigorously maintaining our assets permanently installed and rarely, if ever, moved: its and running them for as long as possible.
This also has performance will also be adapted for the regulations the important benefit that our business model is not and ambient conditions of the country in which it exposed to the vagaries of prices achievable in the is sold.
An Aggreko generator will be picked up and used equipment market, which tend to uctuate with put down hundreds of times during its working life, the economic cycle.
and may be required to work faultlessly at 50C in the Saudi Arabian desert and a few weeks later Our power fleet is significantly larger than any of our at -40C in Siberia.
This is not a capability that is competitors: at the end of 2010, it comprised 13,500 available in off-the-shelf equipment.
We also design generators ranging in size from 10KW to 2MW which, our equipment with the knowledge that we will in aggregate, amount to over 6,600MW of generating own it for its operating life and the more reliable capacity.
To put this into perspective, that is the it is, and the longer it lasts, the higher the returns equivalent of about 10% of peak power demand we will make.
Given the choice of 6mm steel for on the UK national grid.
We also have very large a bed-plate, or 8mm, we choose 10mm.
inventories of transformers, cable and distribution equipment.
In aggregate, the net asset value of our Second, the volume in which we purchase the key power fleet is 669 million, and the original cost components is significant in terms of the overall carried in our balance sheet is 1,325 million.
In some sizes of equipment, we are probably the largest buyer in the world.
By designing and Our chiller fleet is also much larger than any of our manufacturing our own equipment, we can capture competitors, with over 1,950 units having a total for ourselves the benefits of being a volume purchaser.
The net asset value of our chiller fleet is 30 million, and the original cost carried in Third, having our own design and manufacturing our balance sheet is 96 million.
capability means that we can react extremely quickly to customer requirements.
We only have to convince The rest of our fleet mainly comprises air-conditioners, ourselves of the desirability of a particular design oil-free air compressors, cooling towers and other feature, not a third party manufacturer.
ancillary equipment with an aggregate net asset value of 103 million, and the original cost carried in our balance sheet is 239 million.
Aggreko plc Annual Report and Accounts 2010 9
