Directors Report MANAGEMENT OF RESOURCES This section describes how we manage our key of our Continuous Improvement Programme, we have resources to deliver the strategy outlined above.
trained 25 people to Black Belt level, and over 200 to Orange Belt level.
People The Companys remuneration policy, which is Aggreko has 3,850 permanent employees working described on pages 65 to 77, is aligned with the key around the world and they are united by a unique objectives of growing earnings and delivering strong culture.
Phrases such as customer focused, can-do, returns on capital.
To underline this point, the Groups completely dependable capture part of the ethos of long term incentive scheme and many senior managers Aggreko employees.
We have captured our culture in annual bonuses are based on targets set against both 3 words: performance, passion and pace.
This culture earnings per share and returns on capital employed.
has developed through the years and derives from the We have a policy of encouraging employees at all levels fact that, very often, Aggreko is helping people and to own shares in the company, and over 2,400 people businesses to recover from, or to avoid, emergencies participate in the Sharesave programme: and over 160 or disruption.
Customers are often dependent on participate in the Long-Term Incentive Programme.
Aggreko people to keep things running, sometimes under very difficult circumstances.
Our people are Physical assets highly skilled, and many of them have years of experience.
They are used to reacting quickly, Many rental businesses provide standard products getting the job done professionally and safely, to their customers.
The car or hammer-drill you and they respond well in a crisis.
rent is the same as the one you can buy.
Aggrekos equipment is different: manufacturers of generators Taking into account the environment in which we and temperature control equipment generally design operate, it is essential that our people are properly their product to be installed and stay in the same trained, given the correct level of responsibility and location for its working life.
For our business, however, accountability to make decisions on a timely basis, and this equipment has to be lifted and transported are remunerated and incentivised appropriately.
Each hundreds of times during its working life.
It must part of the business has training programmes in place be able to work in extreme conditions the same to ensure that our employees have the necessary skills generator might be working in -40C on an oil rig in to perform their roles to a high level.
This training Russia one week, and in 50C in the Saudi Arabian is a combination of on-the-job learning and specific desert the next.
Designing and building equipment skill development through training courses.
A major that can do this, while remaining safe, quiet, reliable component of this training is related to Environmental and compliant with environmental and safety Health and Safety EH&S issues.
More detail of our regulations, is a key skill of Aggreko.
Unusually for EH&S policies is given on pages 46 to 50. a rental company we design and manufacture most of our equipment, and our specialist in-house teams Aggreko continues to improve the capability of its based in Dumbarton, Scotland understand intimately people in line with the growth of the Company.
The the requirements of the environment in which the talent management system, which was introduced fleet operates.
Not only do we have industry-leading 3 years ago for the 150 senior managers in the business, equipment, we also have a great deal of it 1,660 has been extended to the next management level and million worth at original cost as at 31 December 2010. now covers around 300 managers.
We have a number of senior management education programmes, including Unlike most other rental businesses, we have a policy a one-week residential course, specifically designed of keeping equipment for its useful life.
This gives us a for Aggreko at IMD in Lausanne.
Furthermore, powerful incentive to maintain it well, which gives it we introduced a Global Education Policy to support both longer life and better reliability.
We have a large younger people with job-related, long-term educational number of skilled engineers, well-equipped workshops programmes.
All the businesses have extensive and rigorous servicing regimes to ensure that our technical training programmes, covering everything equipment is maintained to the highest standards.
from basic equipment maintenance through to High Voltage Engineering.
Over the last 2 years, as part Aggreko plc Annual Report and Accounts 2010 27 Management of Resources continued Taking well-judged fleet investment decisions is a Supply chain key part of Aggrekos management task.
All material During 2010, Aggrekos capital expenditure totalled investments are judged by reference to internal rates 269 million.
Of this, over 70% was assembled by our of return, and we monitor utilisation daily.
Fleet is manufacturing facility which is based in Dumbarton, frequently moved between countries to optimise Scotland.
The remainder of the capital expenditure utilisation, and our ERP system gives us the ability was sourced direct from third party manufacturers to to manage our fleet on a real time basis across the Aggreko specification and managed by our supply world which, in turn, will enable us to optimise its chain team in Dumbarton.
Aggrekos supply chain deployment and returns.
capability in managing suppliers of both finished product and components for assembly is a key part One measure of how we are doing in terms of of our business capability.
We have long-standing managing our physical assets is the return on average relationships with many of our suppliers, notably capital employed.
This measure is one of the key Cummins which supplies a number of engine ranges performance indicators shown on page 29. and alternators.
We have also developed new sourcing relationships in countries such as China and India Financial resources where we work very closely with suppliers to ensure The Group maintains sufficient facilities to meet its that the components produced comply with Aggrekos normal funding requirements over the medium term.
Historically these facilities have been in the form of committed bank facilities arranged on a bilateral basis with a number of international banks with 3 and 5 year maturities.
The financial covenants attached to these facilities are that EBITDA should be no less than 4 times interest, and net debt should be no more than 3 times EBITDA.
The Group does not consider that these covenants are restrictive to its operations.
Towards the end of 2010, we refinanced 459 million of bank facilities, putting in place new facilities with maturities of 3 and 5 years.
In addition, since the year end, we have for the first time raised funding in the US private placement market, securing US$275 million 177 million, with maturities ranging between 7 and 10 years and with financial covenants the same as our banking facilities.
Drawdown of these funds will take place in mid March 2011.
This diversifies Aggrekos funding sources and provides us with a longer maturity profile.
28 Aggreko plc Annual Report and Accounts 2010
