Simon Boddie MA ACA Chairman Group Finance Director Helmut Mamsch, 65, joined as Chairman Simon Boddie, 50, joined as Group Designate in September 2006 and took Finance Director in September 2005 from over as Chairman in October 2006.
He joined Diageo in 1992 aNon-Executive Director of both GKN plc, where he held a variety of senior finance and Sappi Ltd South Africa and an positions, latterly as Finance Director of Advisory Board member of the Anita Key Markets.
Chairman of the Treasury Thyssen Stiftung.
Until 2007, he was Committee b c Non-Executive Deputy Chairman of 4.
Adrian Auer BA MBA ACT LogicaCMG plc and a member of the Non-Executive Director Supervisory Board of K S AG.
He was Adrian Auer, 61, joined as a Non-Executive formerly a Non-Executive Director of RMC Director on 1 July 2009.
Adrian is Chairman Group plc and a Management Board of both Shanks Group plc, a leading member of VEBA AG now E. ON.
provider of sustainable waste management Helmut will not be standing for re-election solutions, and Readymix plc.
He is also at the AGM in July 2010.
Senior Independent Director at Umeco plc.
Chairman of the Nomination Committee He has held the position of Finance Director until his retirement on 15 July 2010 a in a number of major companies, notably 2.
Ian Mason in the building materials and construction Group Chief Executive sectors, as well as senior finance positions Ian Mason, 48, joined the Group in with BP and ICI.
Until recently he was a February 1995 as Director of Business Non-Executive Director at Filtrona plc.
He was appointed to the InSeptember 2007 he was appointed Board of Directors in July 2000 as Chief Chairman of Addaction, Britainslargest Operating officer and was appointed specialist drug and alcoholtreatment Group Chief Executive in July 2001. charity.
a d e Previously he worked for The Boston Consulting Group.
In November 2007 he was appointed as a Non-Executive Director of The Sage Group plc.
Chairman of the Group Executive Committee b c 1 5.
Ian Haslegrave LLB ACIS Non-Executive Director Non-Executive Director General Counsel and Company Secretary Paul Hollingworth, 50, joined as a Rupert Soames, 51, joined as a Ian Haslegrave, 41, joined the Company Non-Executive Director in May 2008.
Non-Executive Director in July 2007. inSeptember 2006 from Viacom Outdoor He is Group Chief Financial officer of Rupert is Group Chief Executive of Limited where he was International Thomas Cook Group PLC.
Previously he was Chief LegalDirector.
Previously he worked at hewas Chief Financial officer of Mondi Executive of the Banking and Securities United Biscuits Limited and Freshelds Group and prior to that held positions Division of Misys plc and a Non-Executive Bruckhaus Deringer.
b asGroup Finance Director of BPB plc, Director of Baggeridge Brick plc.
Senior DeLa Rue plc and Ransomes plc.
Independent Director and Chairman of Chairman of the Audit Committee the Remuneration Committee a d e a d e a member of the Nomination Committee b member of the Treasury Committee c member of the Group Executive Committee d member of the Remuneration Committee e member of the Audit Committee OVERVIEW BUSINESS REVIEW GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ANNUAL REPORT 2010 25 25 3 6 47
