BOARD OF DIRECTORS EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS David Dutro Brian Taylorson Group Chief Executive Finance Director NON-EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS Robert Beeston Ian Brindle Chairman Senior Independent Director Andrew Christie Chris Girling Kevin Matthews Non-executive Director Non-executive Director Non-executive Director BUSINESS MANAGING DIRECTORS COMPANY SECRETARY Greg McClatchy Dennis Valentino Wai Wong President of Elementis Specialties President of Elementis Chromium Company Secretary comprised of Elementis Specialty Products and Elementis Surfactants 24 Elementis plc Annual report and accounts 2010 Not members of the Board of directors COMPANY OVERVIEW BUSINESS REVIEW CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION David Dutro, age 55 Brian Taylorson, age 55 Group Chief Executive Finance Director David Dutro joined the Board and was appointed Brian Taylorson was appointed Finance Director in Group Chief Executive in January 2007.
Before joining Elementis he was head of Elementis in November 1998 as President of Elementis European chemicals M&A group at KPMG Corporate Pigments then became President and Chief Operating Finance.
He joined KPMG in 2000 from the Dow Of cer of Elementis Worldwide in October 2005.
He Chemical Company where he held a number of was vice president and general manager of Universal positions in finance over a period of 17 years.
Foods Dairy and Food Ingredient businesses now He holds an MA from Cambridge University, is a Sensient Technologies Corp, and also spent time with member of the Institute of Chartered Accountants ICI in their colours, polymer additives and surfactants in England and Wales and a member of the businesses.
David Dutro was born and educated in Association of Corporate Treasurers.
He is a the United States and holds a Bachelor of Science non-executive director of Fiberweb plc.
Robert Beeston, age 69 Ian Brindle, age 67 Key to membership of committees: N A, N Chairman Senior Independent Director A Audit Committee Robert Beeston was appointed non-executive Ian Brindle was appointed a non-executive director N Nomination Committee Chairman of Elementis and Chairman of the and Chairman of the Audit Committee in June 2005.
R Remuneration Committee Nomination Committee in September 2006.
He retired as Chairman of the Audit Committee in He was non-executive chairman of Cookson Group April 2008 and was appointed Senior Independent plc from April 2003 to May 2010 and a non-executive Director.
He was senior partner of Price Waterhouse director of D S Smith plc between December 2000 from 1991 to 1998 and UK chairman of and December 2010, where he was the senior  until 2001.
He was also a independent director and chairman of the member of the Accounting Standards Board between remuneration committee from 2003 to 2009.
From 1992 and 2001 and the deputy chairman of the 1992 until 2002 he was chief executive of cer of FKI Financial Reporting Review Panel between 2001 and plc.
He spent 18 years with Dowty Group before 2008.
He is senior independent director and chairman joining John Brown Plastics Machinery UK Ltd as of the audit committee of Spirent Communications managing director.
In 1985, he was appointed plc, senior independent director also of 4imprint managing director of BTR Valve Group, a position Group plc, a non-executive director of F&C Asset he held for six years before joining FKI plc.
Management plc and non-executive chairman of Sherborne Investors Guernsey A Limited.
Andrew Christie, age 54 Chris Girling, age 57 Kevin Matthews, age 47 A, N, R A, N, R A, N, R Non-executive Director Non-executive Director Non-executive Director Andrew Christie was appointed a non-executive Chris Girling was appointed a non-executive director Kevin Matthews was appointed a non-executive director in August 2008 and has 25 years of in April 2005 and Chairman of the Audit Committee in director in February 2005 and Chairman of the investment banking and international corporate April 2008.
He was group finance director of Carillion Remuneration Committee in April 2008.
He is chief finance experience.
He is a partner of Smith Square plc, a construction and support service group, from executive of cer of Isogenica Limited, a private Partners LLP, a corporate finance advisory rm, and 1999 to 2007, and previous to that he was finance biotechnology business based in the UK and before that was, until March 2008, a UK managing director of Vosper Thornycroft plc for ten years.
Prior to that, he was CEO of director in the European Investment Banking Group at He holds an MBA and is a Fellow of the Institute of Oxonica plc, a UK based nanotechnology company, Credit Suisse.
In his prior role at Credit Suisse, he was Chartered Accountants in England and Wales.
He was a role he held from April 2001 to September 2009, head of Investment Banking, Asia Paci c, based in appointed a non-executive director of Keller Group and previous to that he held roles in Rhodia Hong Kong and, before that, held the same position plc in February 2011, is chairman of the board of Consumer Specialties Limited, Albright & Wilson with Barclays fide Zoete Wedd.
He was previously trustees of the Slaughter and May pension scheme UK Limited and ICI Chemicals and Polymers.
chairman and non-executive director of Ark and a non-executive director of ARCO Limited.
He holds a D. Phil in chemistry.
Therapeutics Group plc and holds an MBA and a Bachelor of Science degree in engineering.
Greg McClatchy, age 46 Dennis Valentino, age 58 Wai Wong, age 38 President of Elementis Specialties President of Elementis Chromium Company Secretary comprised of Elementis Specialty Products Dennis Valentino re-joined Elementis as President Wai Wong joined Elementis and was appointed and Elementis Surfactants of Elementis Chromium in April 2009.
His previous Company Secretary in May 2007.
He is a Fellow Greg McClatchy was appointed President of Elementis positions at Elementis included Managing Director of of the Institute of Chartered Secretaries and Specialties in January 2007.
He joined Elementis Asia Paci c and President of Elementis Pigments until Administrators ICSA.
Prior to joining Elementis, Pigments in 1999, served as Managing Director of it was sold in August 2007 when he left the Group.
he held a number of senior company secretarial its Durham UK operations, was appointed President Prior to Elementis, he joined P zer Pigments in 1975 positions including at John Menzies plc, ICSA and of Specialty Rubber in 2002 and President of and held various positions there including director .
Wai Wong has a Bachelors Chromium in 2005.
He was previously with Universal of research and development, vice president of degree in commerce and law from Edinburgh Foods now Sensient Technologies Corp and ICIs manufacturing and vice president of its North University and a Masters degree in corporate and polymer additives business.
Greg McClatchy America coatings business.
Dennis Valentino commercial law from London University.
completed his undergraduate studies in chemistry completed his undergraduate study in chemical and economics at the University of Delaware.
engineering at the University of Missouri Rolla, and received his Masters in Business Administration Key from St. Louis University.
The terms President and Managing Director are used inter-changeably, although the actual title currently held is President Not members of the Board of directors Annual report and accounts 2010 Elementis plc 25
