DIRECTORS REPORT Report and financial statements Employment policies The directors submit their report and the audited financial statements The Group Chief Executive is the Board member responsible for for the year ended 31 December 2010. employee matters and he is assisted by the Vice-President of Global Human Resources.
The Group employs HR specialists throughout its Principal activities, business review and future development worldwide locations to advise on all HR matters including training For the purposes of this report, the expression Company and development, and various HR performance indicators are or Elementis means Elementis plc and the expression Group means maintained in order to monitor and evaluate the effectiveness of the Company and its subsidiaries.
The main activities of the Group are the manufacture and sale of Elementis values the diverse backgrounds of all its people and specialty chemicals.
The Chairmans statement and the Business works to create an open atmosphere of trust, honesty and respect.
review both form part of this report.
The Business review, on pages Harassment or discrimination of any kind including that involving 2 to 23, contains a fair review of, and likely future trends and factors race, colour, religion, gender, age, national origin, citizenship, mental that might affect, the development, performance and position of or physical disabilities, sexual orientation, veteran status, or any other the Group.
A review of the Groups risk management framework as similarly protected status is unacceptable.
This principle applies to well as principal risks and uncertainties is set out on pages 15 to 17, all aspects of employment, including recruitment, hiring, placement, and policies on financial risk can be found in Note 22 to the Financial transfer, promotion, layoff, recall, termination and other terms and Statements on page 66.
The Corporate social responsibility report conditions of employment.
The Group is committed to providing on pages 18 to 23 summarises the Groups policy on business equal employment opportunities for all Elementis people and all conduct and ethics, and sets out its approach to health and safety, applicants for employment, based on individual quali cations and the environment, social responsibility and community matters.
without regard to the factors mentioned above.
It is Group policy to comply with all applicable laws governing employment practices The Group undertakes, on a continuing basis, research and and not to discriminate on the basis of any unlawful criteria, and its development activities for new products and to improve existing practices include the prohibition on the use of child or forced labour.
Employment policies are fair and equitable and consistent with the skills and abilities of the employee and the needs of the business.
Corporate governance Elementis respects the rights of its employees to join a trade union or This Directors report constitutes the management report for the participate in collective bargaining arrangements and, out of its global purposes of the UK Listing Authoritys Disclosure and Transparency workforce, approximately one third of all employees are represented Rules DTR.
In addition, the Corporate governance report on by a trade union or collective agreements.
page 30, the Directors responsibility statement on page 29 and the biographical information on the directors shown on page 25 all form In terms of how our employment policies are applied to employees part of this Directors report for the purposes of the DTR.
who have or acquire a disability, the Groups policy is, wherever practicable, to provide continuing employment under normal terms Results and conditions and to provide training, career development and The Group pro t for the year attributable to equity holders of the promotion to disabled employees wherever appropriate.
parent amounted to $74.1 million 2009: loss of $57.4 million.
The Board expects the Group to conduct its operations based on Dividend sound ethical practices which are open and free from discrimination Details about the final dividend for the year are disclosed in the and harassment.
Further information about the Groups policy Chairmans statement on page 2. on business conduct and ethics is set out in the Corporate social responsibility report.
Directors The directors of the Company are Robert Beeston, Ian Brindle, Employee communications and involvement Andrew Christie, David Dutro, Chris Girling, Kevin Matthews and It is Group policy to communicate with all employees on major Brian Taylorson.
All these directors served on the Board throughout matters to encourage them to take a wider interest in the affairs of the financial year.
More information about the directors is provided their employing company and the Group and to make them aware in the Corporate governance report.
of the financial and economic factors affecting the Companys performance.
This is done in a variety of ways including informal The interests of directors in the share capital of the Company are set consultations, bulletins and brie ng sessions.
There are well out in the Directors remuneration report.
established procedures, including regular meetings with recognised unions, to ensure that the views of employees are taken into Re-election of directors account in making decisions likely to affect their interests.
Managers The directors decided during the year that they would adopt early throughout the Group have a responsibility to keep their staff the provisions of the UK Corporate Governance Code concerning the informed of developments and matters of interest.
The Company annual re-election of all directors of FTSE 350 companies.
At the 2011 operates savings-related share option schemes allowing UK and US Annual General Meeting AGM, all directors will therefore retire and employees an opportunity to become shareholders, details of which offer themselves for re-election by shareholders.
are set out in Note 25 to the Financial Statements on page 79.
26 Elementis plc Annual report and accounts 2010 COMPANY OVERVIEW BUSINESS REVIEW CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION Going concern Signi cant agreements change of control The Groups business activities, together with the factors likely to affect Other than as set out in this paragraph, there are no signi cant its future performance and development are set out in the Business agreements to which the Company is a party which take effect, alter review on pages 2 to 23.
The financial position of the Group and or terminate in the event of change of control of the Company.
The description of the principal risks and uncertainties are set out above Company is a guarantor under the Groups $200 million revolving in the Finance report on pages 10 to 17.
Note 22 details the Groups credit facility which runs until 31 July 2014.
Under the terms of that exposure to credit, liquidity and market risk and its mechanisms for facility, in the event of a change of control, any lender among the dealing with these risks.
facility syndicate, of which there are six with commitments ranging from $20 million to $45 million, may withdraw from the facility and The Groups primary source of funding is a syndicated revolving that lenders participation in any loans drawn down are required credit facility which was renewed during the year.
The expiring to be repaid.
facility for 150 million was replaced with a new four year facility for $200 million on 31 July 2010.
At the year end, the Groups net debt Under David Dutros service contract with the Company, was $79.3 million.
Compliance with covenants is reported half yearly compensation is payable to him equivalent to one years basic salary if to the syndicate of banks and involves tests for net debt: EBITDA ratio, he terminates his contract upon a change of control provided that the interest cover and net worth.
No breaches in covenants were reported Company has not first obtained a written agreement to be bound by during the year.
Additionally, the Group uses various short and his service contract from any successor in a change of control.
There medium term forecasts to monitor anticipated future compliance and is no speci c change of control provision in Brian Taylorsons service has modi ed the modelling to include worst case scenario planning in contract with the Company but the provisions on early termination order to stress test the assumptions and identify the headroom on the set out on page 35 of the Directors remuneration report apply and covenant tests.
compensation equivalent to one years basic salary and bene ts would be payable if less than 12 months notice of termination by the After evaluating the covenant compliance modelling and the ongoing Company is given.
trading of the businesses, the directors are satis ed that the Company and the Group have adequate resources to continue to operate for the The rules of the Companys various share incentive schemes set foreseeable future as going concerns.
For this reason they continue to out the consequences of a change of control of the Company on adopt the going concern basis in preparing these financial statements.
the rights of the participants under those schemes.
Under the rules of the respective schemes, participants will generally be able to Share capital exercise their options on a change of control, provided that the The Companys share capital consists of ordinary shares, as set out relevant performance conditions have been satis ed and, where in Note 7 to the Parent Company Financial Statements on page 86. relevant, options are not exchanged for new options granted by an All of the Companys issued ordinary shares are fully paid up and rank acquiring company.
The rights attached to them, in addition to those conferred on their holders by law, are set out in the Companys Signi cant relationships articles of association the Articles.
Other than those speci c The Group has in place a number of supply contracts for key raw provisions set out in the Articles, there are no restrictions on the materials that are essential to the business.
In Specialty Products, transfer of ordinary shares or on the exercise of voting rights attached supply contracts are for clays, quaternary amines and other chemical to them.
From time to time the Elementis Employee Share Ownership intermediates.
The suppliers of these contracts are important and, Trust Trust holds shares in the Company for the purposes of although we have sought to develop a strategic long term relationship various share incentive plans and the rights attaching to them are with them, we have taken steps to maintain a suf ciently broad base exercised by independent trustees, who may take into account any of suppliers to mitigate any supply chain risks.
Specialty Products recommendation by the Company.
As at 31 December 2010 the Trust also owns and operates a hectorite clay mine in California which held 5,578,169 2009: 4,741,243 ordinary shares of five pence each in reduces our reliance on third party suppliers for raw materials.
A dividend waiver is in place in respect of all shares held Surfactants business sources a number of products from a reasonably by the Trust.
wide base of third party suppliers for use in the manufacturing of its products.
These include supplies for ethylene oxide, propylene Directors, Articles and purchase of shares oxide, nonylphenol ethoxylate and fatty alcohols.
The Chromium Rules about the appointment and replacement of directors are set divisions key raw materials are chrome ore, soda ash and sulphuric out in the Articles.
Changes to the Articles must be approved by acid.
Chrome ore is sourced from a number of South African mining shareholders passing a special resolution.
The directors powers are companies, while soda ash and sulphuric acid are sourced from conferred on them by UK legislation and by the Articles.
The Board has suppliers in the US.
The business is continually looking for new sources the power conferred on it by shareholders to purchase its own shares of supplies to broaden its base of suppliers.
All businesses purchase and is seeking renewal of that power at the forthcoming AGM within energy in the form of natural gas, fuel oil or electricity.
It is the Groups the limits set out in the Notice of Meeting.
practice to enter into agreements with suppliers to lock in the price of at least 50 per cent of its energy costs for each year.
Information about individual suppliers is not disclosed as the Board considers that disclosure would be seriously prejudicial to the Group.
Annual report and accounts 2010 Elementis plc 27 DIRECTORS REPORT continued As its businesses are reasonably diverse in terms of the customers Directors and of cers liability insurance and sectors they serve, the Group is not dependent on any particular The Company maintains liability insurance for the directors and customer and therefore no further information is given.
The Group of cers of the Company and its subsidiaries.
In addition, in 2008, the supplies some of its products through approved distributors, who directors of the Company were granted indemnities in respect of are able to provide or access technical support services, and has any liability or loss that may arise out of or in connection with the a joint venture in China at an organoclay plant and, whilst these execution of their powers, duties and responsibilities as directors of relationships are an important part of our business, the Board does the Company, or of any subsidiary, to the extent permitted under the not consider any individual relationship to be essential to the Group.
Copies of these indemnities, which continue The Group values all of its employees and, although some perform to remain in place, are available for inspection at the Companys roles that are more important to the business than others, the Board registered of ce during normal business hours and will be available does not consider that the Groups success is materially dependent for inspection at the AGM.
Additionally, the Board has reviewed its management succession plans and is satis ed that the Companys Directors con ict of interest incentive arrangements are appropriate to attract, retain and motivate The only director who was in receipt of a con ict authorisation during key people within the organisation.
the year is Brian Taylorson, who is Finance Director and a Trustee of the UK pension scheme.
The con ict authorisation enables him to Substantial shareholders continue to act as a Trustee notwithstanding that this role could give As at 1 March 2011 the Company had been noti ed, in accordance rise to a situation in which there is a con ict of interest.
The con ict with Rule 5 of the Disclosure and Transparency Rules, of the following authorisation was first put in place in October 2008 and is subject to interests in its issued ordinary capital: annual review.
The Board has reviewed this and has agreed to extend the con ict authorisation for another year.
Under the terms of the Percentage of con ict resolution, reciprocal provisions have been put in place with Ordinary issued ordinary a view to safeguarding information that is con dential to the Group shares share capital as well as to the Trustees.
Were a con ict of interest to arise, Brian Schroder plc 44,613,178 9.94 Taylorson is required to excuse himself from reading the relevant Ameriprise Financial, Inc. and its group 24,578,041 5.48 pension papers and absent himself from participating in relevant Trustee discussions.
AXA S. A. and its group of companies 22,640,096 5.05 Cazenove Capital Management Limited 22,171,163 4.94 Post balance sheet events JPMorgan Asset There are no post balance sheet events.
Management Holding Inc. 20,565,772 4.58 Annual General Meeting Norges Bank 18,501,214 4.12 The fourteenth Annual General Meeting of the Company will be held Legal & General Group plc 17,440,905 3.89 on 21 April 2011.
The Notice of Meeting is included in a separate document sent to shareholders.
Auditors A resolution to re-appoint KPMG Audit Plc as auditors of the Company By order of the Board will be proposed at the forthcoming AGM to be held on 21 April 2011.
Each director in of ce at the date of this Directors report con rms that a so far as he is aware, there is no relevant audit information of which the Companys auditors are unaware and b he has taken all the steps that he ought to have taken as a director to make himself aware of any relevant audit information and to establish that the Companys Wai Wong auditors are aware of that information.
Company Secretary 1 March 2011 Political and charitable donations During the year the Group donated $56,040 2009: $36,274 for charitable purposes of which $12,872 2009: $11,160 was made in the UK.
The Group made no political donations during the year 2009: nil.
Policy on payment of suppliers The Companys and the Groups policies concerning the payment to suppliers are to agree terms of payment at the start of business with each supplier and to adhere to these, subject to satisfactory performance by the suppliers.
The Company and the Group do not follow any code or statement on payment practice.
Trade creditors for the Group at 31 December 2010 represented 60 days 2009: 51 days of annual purchases, adjusted for currency and acquisitions and disposals.
The Company has no trade creditors.
28 Elementis plc Annual report and accounts 2010
