senior management Paul lindop Craig Matthew Andrew Thomson UKCS General Manager New Developments and Deputy General Manager, Technical Paul Lindop graduated from Imperial General Manager Andrew Thomson graduated from College London in 1984 with a Masters Craig Matthew graduated from Heriot Watt in 1983 with a Masters degree in Petroleum Engineering and Dundee University with an Honours degree in Petroleum Engineering and has over 26 years of experience in the degree in Civil Engineering in 1991 and has a wealth of experience working as oil and gas industry.
Paul initially now has 20 years of field development, a petroleum, reservoir and operations joined Total Oil Marine working in Paris project management, engineering and engineer.
Andrew first worked for and Aberdeen as a reservoir engineer.
construction experience in oil and gas Schlumberger in Africa and spent In 1989 he was appointed commercial projects, both in the UK and overseas.
seven years working for Britoil and manager for Oryx UK Energy Immediately after graduating he spent then BP in the UKCS.
Company and reservoir engineer for 10 years working for Stena Offshore Oryx Energy, followed by 10 years in Coflexip Stena in a variety of subsea In 1990 Andrew co-founded RML various managerial positions for project roles whilst also completing a where he was managing director, Kerr-McGee.
Post-Graduate certificate in Project followed by Senergy in 2005, where Management at Aberdeen University.
he held director roles as chief financial In 2005 Paul was appointed as an officer then chief executive officer of appraisal manager for Maersk Oil Craig then joined Kerr-McGee Maersk Senergy Investments.
Andrew has working on Flyndre Boa and wider as subsea manager for the Maclure acted as a Competent Person in exploration portfolio and Transmedian and Tulloch fields, eventually reserves reporting and is a chartered line development.
In October 2007 becoming project manager for the engineer.
Andrew joined EnQuest full he joined Lundin Britain as an asset Dumbarton Field Development.
Craig time in October 2010, having manager for the Heather, Broom and became part of EnQuest via Petrofac supported the formation of EnQuest Thistle fields and was promoted to Energy Developments after joining from December 2009 as a consultant.
the position of managing director in Petrofac in 2007 as project manager As General Manager, Technical he is February 2009.
Upon the formation for the Don Area Development.
After responsible for the technical aspects of EnQuest, Paul was appointed completing an initial assignment as of Business Development and Quality UKCS General Manager.
Thistle Asset Manager, Craig is now Assurance of subsurface work across New Developments and Deputy the Company.
40 EnQuest PLC Annual Report 2010 overview business review governance financial statements Graham Cooper Jonathan lee Norman Thomson Head of Business Development Head of legal Head of HSEQ Graham Cooper graduated from In 1973 Jonathan Lee graduated from Norman Thomson graduated from Cambridge University in 1978 with a Bristol University with an Honours the University of Aberdeen in Masters degree in Natural Sciences.
degree in Law and now has over 25 1982 with an Honours degree in Graham worked as a wireline logging years of legal experience in the oil Biochemistry and later completed engineer for four years, before joining and gas sector.
Jonathan was called a Masters degree in Occupational Conoco in London as a geologist and to the Bar of England and Wales in Safety and Environmental petrophysicist.
During the period from 1974 where he began his career as Management from the University 1982 to 1993, he held a number of a barrister in private practice at of Portsmouth.
technical roles for Conoco, both the English Bar specialising in in the UK and Dubai UAE, before international and competition law, Following a career at senior moving into various commercial followed by two years in the nuclear management level within the fire and roles in acquisitions and divestments, power industry and five years in the rescue service, Norman joined BP and asset commercial, and joint steel industry.
worked as an offshore HSE advisor on venture management.
Returning onshore From 1985 to 1999, Jonathan worked as a corporate HSEQ manager, he In 1999 Graham joined Shell UK as new in-house for Santa-Fe Minerals UK, worked in several countries including business development manager in Texas Eastern and Enterprise Oil.
Brunei, Africa and South America.
Aberdeen and subsequently moved to Following this, he took senior in-house The Hague in 2005 to take up the role consulting roles at Phillips Petroleum, Norman joined KBR in 1999 as an of vice-president commercial for Talisman and latterly TOTAL E&P UK.
HSEQ manager, working mainly on global exploration.
Graham latterly subsea and topsides construction became head of Shells commercial Jonathan joined EnQuest in July 2010 projects for Chevron, Texaco and academy before joining EnQuest in as Head of Legal, responsible for Marathon.
Normans next role was as October 2010.
Group legal affairs including the European HSEQ director for a large negotiation of commercial contracts, food manufacturing company, acquisitions and disposals and returning to the oil and gas industry regulation and risk.
two years later working for BP in Norway as HSE manager before joining EnQuest in December 2010.
