BOARD OF DIRECTORS the Nominations Committee.
James Nigel Hares EnQuest is an organisation also serves as a non-executive Chief Operating Officer with a relentless focus director on the board of Cairn From 1972 to 1994, Nigel worked for Energy PLC.
BP Exploration and Production in the on results.
Our people UK, Abu Dhabi, Norway and Alaska.
are accountable and Amjad Bseisu At BP Exploration and Production, Chief Executive Nigels roles included those of drilling responsible, and Amjad Bseisu holds a BSc Honours engineer, petroleum engineer, entrusted to take degree in Mechanical Engineering reservoir engineer, well-site engineer from Duke University and an MSc and and offshore production engineer.
ownership of decisions D. ENG degree in Aeronautical Nigel also held positions of production and appropriate actions.
and pipeline superintendent, manager From 1984 to 1998, Amjad worked for of petroleum engineering, manager of Dr James Buckee the Atlantic Richfield Company reservoir studies for Middle East, Chairman ARCO, ultimately as head of Europe and Africa and business James Buckee holds a BSc Honours international marketing, negotiations advisor, developing global gas degree in Physics from the University and business development, becoming strategies for BP Exploration and of Western Australia and a PhD in president of ARCO Petroleum Production, reporting to BPs CEO Astrophysics from Oxford University.
Ventures and ARCO Crude Trading Inc. of Global Gas.
From 1971 to 1977, James held various petroleum engineering positions with In 1998 Amjad founded the operations From 1994 to 2009, Nigel was Shell International and Burma Oil and and investment business for Petrofac executive vice-president, international from 1977 to 1987, he was appointed Limited and has been the chief operations, for Talisman Energy Inc. to various posts within BP, London.
executive officer of Petrofac Energy heading Talismans international Developments International Limited operations for the UK, Norway, In 1987 James was appointed as since its founding.
In 2007 Amjad Netherlands, Algeria, Sudan, Malaysia, operations manager for BP Norway, rejoined the board of Petrofac Indonesia, Vietnam, Peru, Colombia and thereafter vice-president, Limited, having previously served with and Trinidad.
In 2010 Nigel joined development programmes, for BP Petrofac Limited prior to its admission EnQuest PLC and was appointed Alaska.
In 1989 James returned to the to listing on the London Stock to the Board.
UK as manager, planning, for BP Exchange in 2005.
In 1991 he was appointed Amjad stood down from the board Jonathan Swinney president and chief operating officer of Petrofac Limited in order to form Chief Financial Officer of BP Canada Inc. and in 1993 as EnQuest PLC and was appointed Jonathan Swinney qualified as a president and chief executive officer to the Board as Chief Executive.
chartered accountant with Arthur of Talisman Energy Inc. formerly BP Previously Amjad was a founding Andersen in 1992 and is a member Canada, steering the company from non-executive director of Serica of the Institute of Chartered its Calgary base to an international Energy plc and Stratic Energy Accountants of England and Wales.
powerhouse in Europe, Asia and Corporation.
Amjad is also nonJonathan qualified as a solicitor in Africa.
James retired from Talisman executive chairman of Enviromena 1997 and trained at Cameron Energy Inc. in 2007.
Power Systems, a private company McKenna, joining the acquisition and the leading developer of solar finance team upon qualification.
James was appointed as Nonservices in the Middle East and Executive Chairman of EnQuest PLC North Africa.
In 1998 Jonathan joined Credit Suisse in 2010, where he sits on the Audit and First Boston.
Working within the Remuneration Committees and chairs corporate broking team, he advised both listed and unlisted companies on various equity market related 38 EnQuest PLC Annual Report 2010 overview business review governance financial statements matters, including mergers and Jock lennox in 1998 to Petroleum Geo-Services acquisitions and flotations.
Jonathan Non-Executive Director ASA, which was subsequently later moved to Lehman Brothers Jock Lennox holds a Law degree from purchased by Petrofac in 2002. advising on a wide range of the University of Edinburgh and in transactions and in 2006 he became a 1980 he qualified as a chartered Robin established Petrofacs Facilities managing director within the accountant with Ernst & Young LLP, Management business which now corporate broking team.
Jock is also a member forms part of the Offshore Engineering joined Petrofac Limited in April 2008 of the Institute of Chartered & Operations business.
Robin is the as head of mergers and acquisitions Accountants of Scotland.
In 1988 Jock non-executive chairman of Sparrows for the Petrofac Group.
Jonathan left became a partner at Ernst & Young Limited, a CBPE backed international Petrofac Limited to join EnQuest PLC LLP, London, after having held a crane services specialist and is a in 2010 when he was appointed to the number of leadership positions in the non-executive director of SLR Board.
Jock was a Consulting Limited, a 3i backed senior partner at Ernst & Young from international environmental consultancy Helmut langanger 2008 to 2009, leading Ernst & Young firm.
In 2010 Robin was appointed to Non-Executive Director relationships with a number of major the Board of EnQuest PLC.
Helmut Langanger holds an MSc multinational clients, reporting to degree in Petroleum Engineering from and advising the boards on a range Alexandre Schneiter Mining University Leoben Austria and of complex audits, financial Non-Executive Director an MA in Economics from the restructurings and corporate Alexandre Schneiter holds a degree University of Vienna.
Jock retired from in Geology and a Masters degree in 2010, Helmut was employed by OMV, Ernst & Young in 2009.
Geophysics from the University of Austria where he was a reservoir Geneva.
From 1981 to 1985, In 2010 Jock was appointed to the Alexandre worked in the mining Helmut was an evaluation engineer Board of EnQuest PLC and sits on the industry as a geophysicist before for the technical and economic Nominations and Remuneration joining a public Canadian oil company assessment of international E&P Committees and chairs the Audit as geophysicist, seismic interpreter ventures and from 1985 to 1989, he Committee.
Jock is a non-executive and seismic acquisition quality control held the position of vice-president, director of Hill & Smith Holdings plc, officer.
Since 1993 Alexandre has planning and economics for E&P Oxford Instruments plc and A&J worked with public companies and natural gas projects.
Mucklow Group plc and sits on the associated with the Lundin family Council of the Institute of Chartered and in 1998, he was appointed In 1989 Helmut was appointed as Accountants of Scotland.
vice-president, exploration, of senior vice-president of international Lundin Oil AB.
E&P and in 1992 became senior Robin Pinchbeck vice-president of E&P for OMVs Non-Executive Director In 2001 Lundin Oil AB was acquired global operations.
From 2002 Helmut Robin Pinchbeck is a graduate of by Talisman Energy of Canada and had been the group executive viceImperial College, London and Alexandre was appointed executive president for E&P, OMV until he retired Stanford University.
After 23 years vice-president and chief operating in 2010.
In 2010 Helmut was appointed with BP, Robin moved to the oil officer of Lundin Petroleum AB.
to the Board of EnQuest PLC and sits services sector and from 1995 to 1998 Alexandre is also a director of on the Audit and Nominations was managing director of Atlantic ShaMaran Petroleum Corp. a Committees and chairs the Power & Gas, a leading North Sea Canadian listed oil and gas company Remuneration Committee.
Helmut operations services provider and with interests in the Kurdistan region is also the Senior Non-Executive pioneer of the contractor duty holder of the Republic of Iraq.
In 2010 Director of EnQuest PLC and a model.
Atlantic Power & Gas was sold Alexandre was appointed to the member of the supervisory board Board of EnQuest PLC.
of Schoeller Bleckman Oilfield Equipment A. G. EnQuest PLC Annual Report 2010 39
