DiReCtoRs RePoRt Principal activities The Directors of the Company submit their The Group is an independent oil and gas development and report together with the Group and production Group with its main focus on the UKCS.
The Groups producing assets include interests in six producing Company audited financial statements fields in the UKCS: Broom, Heather, Thistle, Deveron, West for the year ended 31 December 2010.
The Group operates through a number of principal subsidiaries which are set out in note 26 of the financial statements on page 79.
The Company was incorporated as EnQuest Business Review PLC on 29 January 2010 in England and The Business Review includes the financial performance Wales under the Companies Act 2006 during the financial year, future developments, performance of the Group and principal risks and the Companies Act to become the uncertainties facing the Group.
A review of the business is ultimate holding company of the Group.
incorporated by reference, forming part of this Directors Report and further information can be found in the The Companys shares were admitted to following sections below: listing on the Official List and to trading Chairmans Statement on pages 10 and 11: Chief Executives Report on pages 12 to 15: on the Main Market of the London Stock Operating Review on pages 20 to 22: Financial Review on pages 30 to 33: Exchange as well as to secondary listing Key Performance Indicators on page 33: and and trading on the NASDAQ OMX Corporate Social Responsibility Review on pages 36 and 37.
The Company is a member of the FTSE 250 Index.
The Companys forward-looking statements form part of the Business Review on pages 10 to 37.
Corporate governance statement In accordance with the Financial Services Authoritys Disclosure and Transparency Rules DTR 7.2.
1, the disclosures required by DTR 7.2.
7 may be found in the Corporate Governance Report on pages 45 to 48.
Results and dividends The Groups financial statements for the year ended 31 December 2010 are set out on pages 53 to 85.
The Company has not declared or paid any dividends since incorporation and does not have any current intentions to pay dividends in the foreseeable future.
Future payments of dividends are expected to depend on the earnings and financial condition of the Company and such other factors as the Board of Directors of the Company consider appropriate.
Directors With the exception of Richard Milne, all Directors of the Company, as listed below, served from the date of their respective appointment throughout 2010 and up to the date of signing the financial statements.
Name of Director Date of appointment Dr James Buckee, Chairman and 22 February 2010 Non-Executive Director Amjad Bseisu, Chief Executive 22 February 2010 Nigel Hares, Chief Operating Officer 22 February 2010 Jonathan Swinney, 29 January 2010 Chief Finance Officer Helmut Langanger, 16 March 2010 Non-Executive Director Jock Lennox, 22 February 2010 Non-Executive Director Robin Pinchbeck, 22 February 2010 Non-Executive Director Alexandre Schneiter, 22 February 2010 Non-Executive Director 1 Richard Milne, Non-Executive Director 29 January 2010 Note: 1 At the date of the Companys incorporation, Mr Richard Milne was appointed a Director and resigned at the first Board meeting on 22 February 2010.
42 EnQuest PLC Annual Report 2010 overview business review governance financial statements Biographical details of all the Directors can be found on The Company did not purchase any of its own shares pages 38 and 39. during 2010 or in 2011 up to and including 4 April 2011, being the date of this report.
Directors election and rotation With regard to the retirement and re-election of Directors, company share schemes the Company is governed by its Articles of Association the The Group Employee Benefit Trust holds 0.9% of the issued Articles, the Combined Code and the Companies Act.
share capital of the Company in trust for the benefit of Directors have the power to appoint a Director during the employees and their dependents.
The voting rights in year but any person so appointed must stand for election relation to these shares are exercised by the trustees.
at the next Annual General Meeting AGM.
A retiring director is eligible to stand for re-election.
The Directors Directors interests of the Company are fully committed to supporting the The interests of the Directors in the Ordinary shares of the principles of good governance outlined in the UK Company are shown below: Corporate Governance Code, which was published by As at 6 April 31 December 4 April the Financial Reporting Council in June 2010 and which 1 Name 2010 2010 2011 replaces the existing Combined Code on Corporate 2 Governance for accounting periods beginning on or Amjad Bseisu 17,898,149 31,175,613 31,175,613 Dr James Buckee 0 281,617 281,617 after 29 June 2010.
The UK Corporate Governance Code recommends that all directors of FTSE 350 companies Nigel Hares 0 200,000 200,000 should be subject to annual election by shareholders.
The Jock Lennox 0 20,000 20,000 Directors have decided to adopt this provision of the new Robin Pinchbeck 820,000 1,001,617 1,001,617 UK Corporate Governance Code early, on a voluntary basis.
Alexandre Schneiter 136,212 400,000 400,000 Jonathan Swinney 16,630 62,033 62,033 In accordance with the above provisions, each of the Directors of the Company will retire and, being eligible, Notes: 1 Being the date that the Companys Ordinary shares were admitted to offer themselves for re-election at the next AGM, with the listing on the Official List and to trading on the Main Market of the exception of Robin Pinchbeck, who will not be standing London Stock Exchange.
2 The shares are held by Double A Limited and Alima Trust, both discretionary trusts in which the extended family of Amjad Bseisu has a beneficial interest.
Powers of the Directors Subject to the Companys Articles, relevant statutory law substantial interests in shares and any direction that may be given by the Company in In accordance with Chapter 5 of the DTR, the shareholders the AGM, the business of the Company is managed by the listed on the following table have notified the Company of Directors who may exercise all powers of the Company.
their interests in the Ordinary shares of the Company as at 4 April 2011.
Directors indemnity provisions Under the Companys Articles, the Directors of the Number of % of issued Company are indemnified out of the assets of the Ordinary share capital Company against all costs, charges, expenses, losses or Name shares held held liabilities sustained or incurred in or about the execution Lundin family and associated of their duties.
Such qualifying third party indemnity entities 71,350,000 8.92 provision remains in force as at the date of approving Ayman Asfari and family 44,282,114 5.54 the Directors Report.
Amjad Bseisu and family 31,175,613 3.90 share capital The Company has a single class of share capital, which is acquisitions divided into Ordinary shares of 0.05 each Ordinary On 5 November 2010 the Company completed the shares.
Each Ordinary share carries one vote.
acquisition of all the outstanding shares of Stratic Energy Corporation Stratic through a plan of arrangement The Companys issued share capital and total voting rights whereby Stratic shareholders received 0.089626 EnQuest as at 4 April 2011 comprises 799,462,905 Ordinary shares Ordinary shares per Stratic share, which valued the Static issued and outstanding, which constitutes 100% shares at approximately US$54.2 million.
of the total voting rights of the Company.
All of the Companys issued Ordinary shares have been fully paid annual general meeting up.
Further detail on the Ordinary shares issued during The Companys first AGM will be held at Sofitel London the financial year can be found in note 17 of the financial St James Hotel, 6 Waterloo Place, London SW1Y 4AN on statements on page 73.
Formal notice of the AGM, including details of special business is set out in the Notice of AGM which Further information regarding the rights attaching to the accompanies this Annual Report and Accounts and is Companys Ordinary shares can be found in note 17 to the available on the Companys website at www.
No person has any special rights with respect to control of the Company.
registrars In connection with the Ordinary shares traded on the There are no specific restrictions on the size of a holding London Stock Exchange, the Companys share registrar of, or the transfer of, Ordinary shares, both of which are is Capita Registrars.
For the Ordinary shares traded on governed by the Companys Articles and the current NASDAQ OMX Stockholm the Companys share registrar legislation.
The Directors are not aware of any agreements is Euroclear Sweden.
Full details of both registrars can be between holders of the Companys Ordinary shares that found in the Company Information section on page 86. may result in restrictions on transfers of, or voting rights in connection with, Ordinary shares.
EnQuest PLC Annual Report 2010 43 DiReCtoRs RePoRt CONTINUED Creditors payment policy audit and auditors It is the Company and Groups policy to settle all debts Having reviewed the independence and effectiveness of with creditors on a timely basis and in accordance with the the auditors, the Audit Committee has recommended to terms of credit agreed with each supplier.
Average creditor the Board that the existing auditors, Ernst & Young LLP be payment days for the year under review were reappointed.
Ernst & Young LLP has expressed their approximately 38 days.
willingness to continue as auditors.
An ordinary resolution to reappoint Ernst & Young LLP as auditors of the Political and charitable donations Company and authorising the Directors to set their The Company made charitable, social, community-related remuneration will be proposed at the forthcoming AGM.
and political donations totalling US$71,145 during the year, which includes a political donation of US$13,300 Financial risk and financial instruments to the Conservative Party.
Information on financial risk management, including credit and liquidity risks and information about financial Change of control agreements instruments, is set out in the Financial Review on pages 30 The Company confirms that there are no significant to 33 and the notes to the financial statements on pages 59 agreements to which it is party that would take effect, alter to 79 respectively.
or terminate upon a change of control of the Company following a takeover bid.
See page 51 of the Remuneration going concern Report for details of compensation which the Directors The Groups business activities, together with the factors are entitled to in the event of a change of control.
likely to affect its future development, performance and position are set out in the Business Review on pages 10 to On a change of control of the Company resulting in the 37.
The financial position of the Group, its cash flow, termination or change in scope of works or duties, one liquidity position and borrowing facilities are described in employee is entitled to compensation of a sum equal to the Financial Review on pages 30 to 33.
In addition, note 24 two times his her annual basic salary as at the termination to the financial statements includes the Groups objectives, of employment.
policies and processes for managing its capital: its financial risk management objectives: details of its financial important events subsequent to the year end instruments and hedging activities: and its exposures to Events since the balance sheet date are summarised in credit risk and liquidity risk.
note 25 to the financial statements on page 79.
The Group has considerable financial resources together Directors statement as to disclosure of information to with 2P reserves of 88.5 MMboe.
As a consequence, the auditors Directors believe that the Group is well placed to manage The Directors who held office at the date of the approval its business risks successfully.
of the Directors Report confirm that, so far as they are each aware, there is no relevant audit information of which The Directors have a reasonable expectation that the the Companys auditors are unaware: and each Director Group has adequate resources to continue in operational has taken all steps that they ought to have taken as existence for the foreseeable future.
Thus they continue to Directors in order to make themselves aware of any adopt the going concern basis of accounting in preparing relevant audit information and to establish that the the annual financial statements.
Companys auditors are aware of that information.
Approved by the Board on 4 April 2011.
Responsibility statements under the DtR The Directors who held office at the date of the approval of the Directors Report confirm that, to the best of their knowledge, the financial statements, prepared in accordance with IFRS as adopted by the European Union, give a true and fair view of the assets, liabilities, financial position and profit of the Company and the undertakings Paul waters included in the consolidation taken as a whole: and the Company secretary Directors Report and the Group Operating and Financial Review include a fair review of the development and performance of the business and the position of the Company and the undertakings included in the consolidation taken as a whole, together with a description of the principal risks and uncertainties that they face.
