overview business review governance financial statements ENGAGE, ENHANCE, ENABlE EnQuest engages to find new opportunities, we review to establish how much EnQuest can enhance the opportunity by adding our value, and if it all adds up we deploy our resources to enable the development we execute our plans, relentlessly maintaining our focus.
EnQuest PLC Annual Report 2010 23 Project execution 24 EnQuest PLC Annual Report 2010 overview business review governance financial statements ENGAGE, ENHANCE, ENABlE Maintaining excellent working relationships with contractors, operations and the three partners on the field was just one of the key factors behind the successful execution of the project.
Broom augmentation When one of the two production main contract was awarded, all the pipelines which tie the Broom subcontracts instantly followed.
field back to the Heather platform needed to be replaced, EnQuest One main contractor was appointed decided to take the opportunity to manage the extensive project to increase the capacity of the elements and interfaces, from pipeline and extend its life at the engineering to procurement, same time whilst keeping to an installation and commissioning.
A reeled Pipe in Pipe solution was elected with the new pipeline, Back in 2009, an unexplained mainly constructed onshore, reduction in crude oil arrival then transported to the field by temperature at the Heather a reel pipelay vessel and laid in platform was the first indication two sections.
Metre for metre, it of a problem: diagnostics was one of the heaviest pipelines combined with intelligent pigging ever installed by the contractors revealed that the pipeline was vessel one of seven different no longer fit for purpose.
vessels used during the project.
"During the accelerated project define Maintaining excellent working phase, an extensive evaluation of relationships with contractors, the options was undertaken to get operations and the three partners the right design solution before on the field was just one of the the project was sanctioned these key factors behind the successful included replacing the 8"" diameter execution of the project within an pipeline with a 10"" diameter pipeline."
The new This was a fast track project: close pipeline tie-in was co-ordinated to senior management involvement coincide with a Heather platform meant the required decisions planned maintenance shutdown to were made quickly, a project team minimise the impact on production, of highly skilled individuals was with production coming back online assembled and the supply chain in September 2010, with all key was aligned so that as soon as the performance indicators achieved including zero safety incidents.
EnQuest PLC Annual Report 2010 25 ENGAGE, ENHANCE, ENABlE Creativity, collaboration and challenge were the critical factors underpinning EnQuests record breaking drilling programme in the Don fields.
Fast track to success in the Dons Creativity, collaboration and the time to process the cuttings, part challenge were the critical factors of a major investment to upgrade the underpinning EnQuests record rig.
Whilst the rig was in the shipyard, breaking drilling programme in the team focused their efforts on the Don fields, combined with a driving up performance.
The whole relentless focus on delivery and team, from drillers to subsurface, safety.
Stepping up to the challenge subsea to engineering, plus all key of drilling a well in 50 days, the team service providers, were challenged to completed three successful wells S5, make their part of the project more S6, W4 decisively ahead of target, efficient with impressive results: including drilling 3,000 feet in 24 drilling performance accelerated hours a record for the Don fields.
Retaining the same team meant The outcome of these measures EnQuest was able to capitalise on was exceptional.
The rig arrived in the knowledge gained during the the Dons in early May and S5 was first phase of activity in the Don completed by the end of June in 41 fields early in 2010.
Experience days against a budget of 53.
Drilling from phase one led to an innovative on S6 commenced on 1 July and approach to the well design for within 33 days, the team were ready phase two.
A simplified well to move on to W4, well ahead of the design, combined with careful risk 55 days planned.
43 days later, W4 assessment, allowed the drillers to was complete, ahead of schedule and miss out a casing section and drill 30% below budget.
The reservoirs continuously into the reservoir, in both S5 and W4 were at the top saving considerable time.
end of quality expectations and combined with an extra months New cranes and cuttings handling production from the accelerated equipment installed on the John drilling programme, production Shaw rig before it left the shipyard from the Dons rose threefold played a significant role in reducing above 2009 to 11,660 Boepd.
26 EnQuest PLC Annual Report 2010 overview business review governance financial statements Subsurface experts EnQuest PLC Annual Report 2010 27 Operator excellence 28 EnQuest PLC Annual Report 2010 overview business review governance financial statements ENGAGE, ENHANCE, ENABlE The well added to 2P reserves demonstrating the future potential of the reservoir, extending the life of this mature asset and adding value to the EnQuest portfolio.
Revitalising a key North Sea asset Drilling the first successful new and defined key values working producer well on the Thistle behaviours, this proved a powerful field since 1990 was a significant tool in building a high-performing, achievement in more ways than enthusiastic and committed team.
The drilling rig was completely rebuilt, a newly-formed drilling The safe start up of the newly crew arrived on the platform to refurbished rig in February 2010 was start up a rig for the first time a significant milestone and source in 20 years and a new well was of pride for the team.
Working completed safely and under budget.
initially on the A46 workover and the partial abandonment of four The condition of the drilling rig wells undertaken on behalf of the had degraded during 20 years of fields previous owners, the new rig inactivity requiring an extensive commenced drilling SFB-P1, the new US$70 million investment to bring well, in September.
A relentless focus it back up to standard, including on planning and execution resulted installing a top drive.
By early 2010 a in delivery of the project in 47 days, new drilling crew had been mobilised ahead of schedule and under budget.
but before they arrived on the platform, team-building exercises The well came onstream at a healthy onshore that included production 800 Boepd and added to 2P reserves and maintenance staff ensured demonstrating the future potential that the teams integrated rapidly of the reservoir, extending the life offshore.
Underpinned by the Team of this mature asset and adding Thistle Charter that set out a clear value to the EnQuest portfolio.
vision for the future of the field EnQuest PLC Annual Report 2010 29
