Directors report The directors present their report and accounts for the year ended 30 September 2010.
Certain information required for disclosure in this report is provided in other sections of this Annual Report.
These include the Business Review, the Corporate Governance and Remuneration Reports and the Group Financial Statements and accordingly these are incorporated into this report by reference.
Accounts and dividends The Group profit for the year, after taxation, amounted to 26 million 2009 6 million.
The directors are not recommending the payment of any dividend on its ordinary shares for the year ended 30 September 2010 2009 nil.
principal activities and review of the business The principal activity of the Group continues to be that of a leased and tenanted pub operator in the UK.
A review of the years activities and future developments is given in the Chief Executives Review incorporating the Business Review on pages 2 to 8.
Directors and their interests The names of the current directors together with related biographical information are set out on pages 9 and 10.
All directors served throughout the year and were in place on the date of signing of these financial statements.
The rules for the appointment and replacement of directors are set out in the Companys Articles of Association.
Directors are appointed by the Company by ordinary resolution at a general meeting of holders of ordinary shares or by the Board on the recommendation of the Nominations Committee.
The Corporate Governance Report sets out further details of the requirements for re-election of directors on page 26.
In addition, further details of the workings of the Nominations Committee are set out on page 29.
In accordance with the Articles of Association of the Company, Mr Tuppen and Mrs Murray retire from the Board at the Annual General Meeting and offer themselves for reappointment.
The Board believes that their performance continues to be effective, that they demonstrate commitment to their roles and have a range of skills and experience relevant to the direction and control of the Company.
In addition, Mrs Murray considers that she has sufficient time to commit to the Companys affairs notwithstanding her other business commitments and has no conflicting interests.
In addition Mr George and Mr Stewart will be retiring from the Board at the conclusion of the Annual General Meeting.
Mr Stewart is considered independent by the Board notwithstanding he has been a director for more than nine years.
Other than employment contracts, at no time during the year did any of the directors have an interest in any contract with the Group.
The interests of the directors in the share capital of the Company, other than with respect to options to acquire ordinary shares which are detailed in the Directors Remuneration Report were as follows: 30 September 30 September Ordinary Shares of 2.5 pence each 2010 i 2009 H V Reid Beneficial 245,000 245,000 G E Tuppen Beneficial 2,551,348 2,295,313 As Trustee 636,000 601,000 D C George Beneficial 1,715,000 1,906,024 As Trustee 285,000 160,000 W S Townsend Beneficial 700,000 550,000 A J Stewart Beneficial 40,000 40,000 D A Harding Beneficial 3,000 3,000 S E Murray Beneficial 4,000 4,000 D O Maloney Beneficial 25,000 10,000 Enterprise Inns plc Annual Report 2010 11 18532.04 03 12 10 Proof 6 Directors report i These shares include the number of Partnership and Matching Shares the executive directors hold in the Enterprise Inns 2005 Share Incentive Plan purchased on 15 December 2009 at 101.98 pence per share as follows: At At 1 October Partnership Matching 30 September 2009 Shares Shares 2010 G E Tuppen 6,566 1,471 2,942 10,979 D C George 6,566 1,471 2,942 10,979 W S Townsend 6,566 1,471 2,942 10,979 The executive directors, along with other employees, have been granted options over the shares of the Company.
Details of these interests are disclosed in the Directors Remuneration Report.
There have been no changes in the interests of directors between the balance sheet date and the date of approval of the accounts.
powers of the Directors Subject to the Companys Articles of Association, UK legislation and any directions given by special resolution, the business of the Company is managed by the Board.
The directors have been authorised to allot and issue ordinary shares and to make market purchases of the Companys ordinary shares.
These powers are exercised under authority of resolutions of the Company passed at its Annual General Meeting.
Further details of resolutions the Company is seeking for the allotment, issue and purchase of its ordinary shares are set out in the explanatory notes to the notice of the Annual General Meeting set out on pages 136 to 139.
Notifiable interests in shares As at 15 November 2010 the Company had been notified of the following holdings of 3% or more of the voting rights in the Companys issued share capital excluding shares held in treasury : Percentage of voting rights Number of of the issued ordinary shares share capital BlackRock Inc 76,329,818 15.09 Glenview Capital Management LLC 62,083,386 12.27 Deutsche Bank AG 34,676,334 6.85 AXA S. A 25,357,249 5.01 Share Capital As at 15 November 2010, the Companys issued share capital comprised a single class of share capital which is divided into ordinary shares of 2.5 pence each.
Details of the share capital of the Company are set out in note 29 to the Group accounts on page 85.
The Company did not issue any shares during the period under review.
The rights and obligations attaching to the Companys ordinary shares are set out in the Companys Articles of Association, copies of which can be obtained from Companies House in the UK or by writing to the Company Secretary.
The Articles of Association are also available on the Companys website.
Subject to applicable statutes, shares may be issued with such rights and restrictions as the Company may by ordinary resolution decide, or if there is no such resolution or so far as it does not make specific provision as the Board may decide.
Holders of ordinary shares are entitled to attend and speak at general meetings of the Company, to appoint one or more proxies and, if they are corporations, corporate representatives and to exercise voting rights.
Holders of ordinary shares may receive a dividend and on liquidation may share in the assets of the 12 Enterprise Inns plc Annual Report 2010 18532.04 03 12 10 Proof 6 Directors report Company.
Holders of ordinary shares are entitled to receive the Companys annual report and accounts.
Subject to meeting certain thresholds, holders of ordinary shares may requisition a general meeting of the Company or the proposal of resolutions at Annual General Meetings.
Voting rights and restrictions on transfer of shares On a show of hands at a general meeting of the Company every holder of ordinary shares present in person or by proxy and entitled to vote has one vote and on a poll every member present in person or by proxy and entitled to vote has one vote for every ordinary share held.
Further details regarding voting at the Annual General Meeting can be found in the Corporate Governance Report on page 32 and in the notes to the notice of the Annual General Meeting on pages 133 to 135.
Details of the exercise of voting rights attached to the ordinary shares held by the Employee Share Trust are set out in the section entitled Shares held by the Employee Share Trust below.
Voting rights for the ordinary shares held in treasury are suspended.
None of the ordinary shares, including the shares held by the Employee Share Trust, carry any special rights with regard to control of the Company.
Electronic and paper proxy appointments and voting instructions must be received by the Companys Registrars not later than 48 hours before a general meeting.
There are no restrictions on the transfer of ordinary shares in the Company other than: n certain restrictions may from time to time be imposed by laws and regulations for example, insider trading laws : n pursuant to the Companys share dealing code whereby the directors and certain employees of the Company require approval of the Company to deal in the Companys shares: and n where a person with at least a 0.25% interest in the Companys certificated shares has been served with a disclosure notice and has failed to provide the Company with information concerning interests in those shares.
The Company is not aware of any arrangements between shareholders that may result in restrictions on the transfer of ordinary shares and on voting rights.
own shares acquired and held by the Company At the Annual General Meeting held on 21 January 2010, the Company was given authority to purchase up to 75,846,017 of its ordinary shares during the next 15 months or until the date of its next Annual General Meeting.
During the financial year the Company did not make any purchases of its shares.
As at 30 September 2010 50,000,000 shares were held in treasury.
The maximum number of shares held in treasury during the year ended 30 September 2010 was 50,000,000 on 1 October 2009 for a period of 365 days, representing 9% of total called up share capital at that time.
The present authority for the Company to purchase its own shares will expire at the Annual General Meeting to be held on 20 January 2011.
The directors will be seeking a new authority for the Company to purchase its ordinary shares which will only be exercised if market and financial conditions make it advantageous to do so.
It is expected that any shares purchased pursuant to a share buy-back programme will be cancelled and the number of shares in issue reduced accordingly.
Alternatively the shares may be purchased and held as treasury shares.
Further details are set out in the explanatory notes to the notice of Annual General Meeting on pages 136 to 139.
Shares held by the Employee Share Trust The Company has established an employee benefit trust EBT, the trustee of which is EES Trustees International Limited part of Computershare Plan Managers.
As at 30 September 2010 the trustee held 7,021,056 shares, representing 1.39% of the total called up share capital excluding treasury shares at that date, which are used to satisfy awards made under the Enterprise Inns Incentive Plans and other share option schemes.
The voting rights in relation to these shares are exercisable by the trustee: however, in accordance with investor protection guidelines the trustee abstains from voting.
The executive directors as employees of the Company are potential beneficiaries of shares held by the EBT.
The maximum number of shares held by the EBT during the year ended 30 September 2010 was 7,992,048 on 1 October 2009, representing 1.58% of total called up share capital excluding treasury shares at that time.
Enterprise Inns plc Annual Report 2010 13 18532.04 03 12 10 Proof 6 Directors report During the year, 970,992 shares with a nominal value of 24,275 were disposed of by the EBT by way of the exercise of share options under the share schemes.
Of these, a total of 925,678 shares were disposed of through the exercise of short-term and long-term incentives for a consideration of 35.
Articles of Association The Companys Articles of Association adopted by special resolution on 17 January 2008 and amended by special resolution on 21 January 2010 may only be amended by special resolution at a general meeting of the shareholders.
Significant Agreements The Company has entered into supply and distribution contracts with Scottish & Newcastle UK Limited and InBev UK Limited which are terminable upon a change of control of the Company.
In addition, the Company is a party to certain funding documents which contain provisions that allow the counterparties to terminate funding to the Company in certain circumstances where there has been a change of control of the Company.
These are: n the forward start facility agreement dated 10 May 2010 between the Company and the financial institutions named therein which provides that if any person or group of persons acting in concert gains control of the Company, then the Company shall promptly notify the agents and lenders.
If any lender so requires, it may cancel its commitments to the Company and require the Company to repay all loans outstanding to it: n the second supplemental credit agreement the Credit Agreement dated 15 May 2006 between the Company and the financial institutions named in the Credit Agreement which provides that if any person or persons acting in concert gains control of the Company, the Company must promptly notify the agent and the lenders must then negotiate with the Company with a view to continuing the loan facilities under the Credit Agreement.
If at the end of the required time frame, the Company has not received a notice of continuance of the loan facilities from the lenders, the loan facilities will be terminated and all of the loan commitments cancelled under the Credit Agreement: and n the 60 million 6% Secured Bonds due 2014, the 125 million 6.875% Secured Bonds due 2025, the 125 million 6.875% Secured Bonds due 2021, the 275 million 6.375% Secured Bonds due 2031, the 600 million 6.5% Secured Bonds due 2018 collectively the Secured Bonds the terms and conditions of each of which provide that following the occurrence of a restructuring event defined in the terms and conditions to include i any person or persons acting in concert becoming interested in more than 50% of the shares of the Company, ii any person or group of connected persons acquiring control of the Company, or iii any person or persons acquiring the right to appoint more than 50% of the directors of the Company the Secured Bonds must, if they are not rated, after a written resolution of the bondholders, be either redeemed by the Company or the Company must successfully seek an investment grade rating for the Secured Bonds.
If the Secured Bonds are rated, on a restructuring event, they must be redeemed by the Company where such rating is below investment grade or later falls below investment grade.
Compensation for Loss of office There are no agreements between the Company and its directors or employees providing for compensation for loss of office or employment that occurs as a result of a takeover bid.
Further details of the directors service contracts can be found in the Directors Remuneration Report on page 38.
Directors indemnities The Companys Articles of Association permit the Board to grant the directors indemnities in relation to their duties as directors, including qualifying third party indemnity provisions within the meaning of the Companies Act 2006 in respect of any liabilities incurred by them in connection with any negligence, default, breach of duty or breach of trust in relation to the Company.
No such indemnities have been granted.
14 Enterprise Inns plc Annual Report 2010 18532.04 03 12 10 Proof 6 Directors report Employment policies The Group is dependent on the skills and commitment of its employees and recognises the importance of creating a workplace in which all employees are inspired and enabled to give their best.
A core set of common values means that employees at all levels of the business are encouraged to make the fullest possible contribution as their performance is central to the successful delivery of its objectives.
To attract and retain these skills the Group is committed to equal opportunities and the creation of an entirely non-discriminatory and diverse working environment.
The aim of the policy is to ensure that no job applicant or employee receives less favourable treatment because of, amongst other matters, gender, marital status, race, age, sexual preference, religion, belief or disability.
All decisions are based on merit of the individual concerned.
The Group is dedicated to undertaking its business operations in a way which respects individual human rights, treats individuals with dignity and allows freedom of association.
The Group gives full consideration to applications for employment from disabled persons where the requirements of the job can be adequately fulfilled by a handicapped or disabled person.
Where existing employees become disabled, it is the Groups policy wherever practicable to provide continuing employment under normal terms and conditions and to provide training and career development and promotion to disabled employees wherever appropriate.
The Groups employment policies and procedures are described in detail in a Staff Handbook which is provided to all employees upon joining the Group.
The Staff Handbook is regularly reviewed and updated to take account of relevant employment legislation and best practice, and new policies and procedures are developed if required.
These include specific policies on equal opportunities, flexible working, training and development, acceptance of gifts and hospitality, fraud prevention and whistle-blowing.
The Group has systems in place to comply with the Data Protection Act 1998 to ensure the privacy of personal information.
Employee involvement and reward The Group actively encourages learning and development and believes that effective training is essential to the maintenance and improvement of the Groups success and individual performance.
The Group is committed to providing all employees with relevant training to meet the business needs of the Group and to improve individual employee skills.
In providing this training and support we expect high standards and commitment in return.
All employees are provided with initial induction training and are set challenging personal objectives and participate in discretionary bonus schemes.
The Group operates a comprehensive employee appraisal process which ensures that clear goals are set, personal objectives are monitored, key competencies are assessed and any performance concerns addressed through appropriate training and focus.
Every employee has the opportunity to discuss work-related aspirations and participate in appropriate training and development programmes.
Emphasis is placed on effective communication regarding matters which may affect employees and the overall performance and development of the Group.
The policy of providing employees with information about the Group has continued.
Employee engagement is met through a variety of means including, conducting an employee satisfaction survey, regular briefings and team meetings through its management structure which allows a free flow of information and ideas via publications such as the Innsider and Eagle Eye.
Employees can also ask the executive management team questions on an anonymous basis via the Ask the Exec forum.
In addition, regular departmental reviews provide an opportunity for employees to be made aware of key objectives and strategy.
The use of email and the corporate intranet supplement effective communication to all employees.
Enterprise Inns plc Annual Report 2010 15 18532.04 03 12 10 Proof 6 Directors report The Company continues to encourage employee ownership of its shares through the provision of the following employee share plans administered by Computershare Plan Manager: n the Save As You Earn Scheme in which 239 employees have entered into savings contracts for either five or seven years at the end of which they are entitled to purchase shares at a discount of 20% to the market price of the shares at the time of the issue of the options: and n the Share Incentive Plan in which 291 employees have purchased shares out of pre-tax income up to statutory limits which are held in a trust.
The Company currently offers employees purchasing shares into the trust a matching share award.
In recognition of our policies regarding employee involvement we have during the year attained the status of Investors In People Champion.
Community, environment and corporate responsibility The Group recognises its responsibilities to achieve good environmental practice and to continue to strive for improvement in areas of environmental impact.
Our approach is to work through education, communication and direct action wherever possible.
In addition, the Group believes that the interests of responsible, entrepreneurial pub businesses need to be aligned to the interests of local communities and consumers.
We therefore seek to ensure that our pubs provide a friendly, safe and controlled environment, and to promote the positive contribution that pubs make to their local communities.
We work to ensure that we provide the right resources, energy and focus to meet the expectations of our licensees and other stakeholders in this area.
This work has been recognised by our continued inclusion in the FTSE4Good index.
Full details of our responsibility policies and initiatives can be found on our website, www.
com risks and uncertainties This section highlights the principal risks and uncertainties facing the Group.
The Group is exposed to a variety of financial, operational, economic and regulatory risks and uncertainties.
This is not an exhaustive analysis of all the risks the Group may face and some risks are not considered to be material.
The Group has formal management processes in place to identify and evaluate these risks.
Some of the risks are external and therefore beyond our control.
The Board formally reviews these material risks and ensures that these are appropriately managed by the executive management team and the Board retains overall responsibility for the Groups risk management framework.
The internal audit function provides assurance to the Audit Committee on the effectiveness of the internal control procedures.
This is done through completion of the annual internal audit plan, which takes into account current business risks.
The Audit Committee is responsible for annually reviewing the overall effectiveness of the risk management programme.
16 Enterprise Inns plc Annual Report 2010 18532.04 03 12 10 Proof 6 Directors report The table below sets out the principal risks and uncertainties and how we mitigate them.
risks and uncertainties Mitigation processes Financial Liquidity risk The Group has a flexible financing structure n The Board regularly reviews detailed financial comprising bonds issued from the Unique forecasts to ensure there is sufficient cash available securitisation securitised bonds, corporate to meet the requirements of the Group.
bonds issued by Enterprise Inns plc Enterprise corporate bonds and bank debt.
n Under the existing bank arrangements which run until May 2011 the senior debt committed facility At the year end committed bank facilities of has reduced during the year from 1 billion to 800 114 million were undrawn and a liquidity facility of million.
Drawn bank debt has fallen during the year 190 million is in place in respect of the securitised from 802 million to 686 million.
Whilst the existing banking facilities remain in place there is sufficient headroom to meet the n The bank facility was successfully refinanced in liquidity requirements of the Group.
May 2010 through a forward start facility which becomes effective in May 2011.
This new facility is The key short-term liquidity risk is the requirement 625 million and matures in December 2012 206 to refinance 206 million of the new bank facility million and December 2013 419 million.
before December 2012 and 419 million of the new bank facility before December 2013.
After that, the n The Board initiated a debt reduction programme in next significant refinancing event is not until 2018 2008 and there are a number of options available to when the 600 million corporate bond matures.
the Group to reduce debt including the acceleration of the disposal of underperforming pubs and the suspension of acquiring new ones.
The Group has also successfully implemented a sale & leaseback programme and continues to review the suitability of alternative sources of financing.
Interest rate risk The Group is exposed to movements in interest n The Group manages interest rate exposure in respect rates in respect of the drawn bank debt of 686 of floating rate debt through the use of derivative million and the 116 million securitised bond.
All transactions, specifically interest rate swaps.
other debt is borrowed at fixed rates.
n There are three interest rate swaps within the Group over 116 million of floating rate debt.
The average fixed rate of these swaps is 6.02%.
n Interest rate swaps provide hedging for 14% of the Groups floating rate debt and ensured that total borrowings were 80% fixed at 30 September 2010 with an average interest rate of 6.4% for nine years.
Further information on management of interest rate risk can be found in note 23 to the Group accounts on page 77.
