Directors report risks and uncertainties Mitigation processes Financial covenants risk There are financial covenants that relate to the n When new financing is agreed the Board reviews financing structure of the Group.
a wide range of financial forecasts to ensure that there is sufficient headroom on all covenants There are two covenants that relate to the Unique throughout the period of the new facilities.
securitisation which are tested at each quarter end.
These covenants are based solely on the assets n Throughout the year the Board regularly reviews held within the Unique securitisation.
There is a detailed financial forecasts of the Group to ensure net asset covenant and a debt service cover there is sufficient headroom on all covenants.
There is sufficient headroom in both of these covenants.
At the year end there is an annual valuation of the pub estate and a review of the annual income for the pubs secured under each of the Enterprise corporate bonds.
The valuation is completed by a firm of independent chartered surveyors.
The directors certify the net annual income as part of an annual compliance exercise.
In the event that pub values or pub incomes have fallen there may be a requirement to add more pubs to the security of the corporate bonds and any addition of new pubs must be completed within 90 days of the year end.
There are four covenants that relate to the bank debt, which are tested quarterly.
There are two leverage covenants and two asset valuation covenants.
The Board is satisfied that there is sufficient headroom on all four of these covenants.
Leasehold rents payable The Group leases a proportion of its licensed n Pubs that are leased from landlords under finance estate from landlords under both finance and and operating leases are let to tenants.
These leases have varying terms, escalation clauses and renewal rights.
n As a result of the sale & leaseback programme 71 pubs have been sold for 114 million and leased back to the Group with total annual rents of 7 million.
Any onerous leases are fully provided for by the Group.
pension risk The Group makes defined contribution payments n The Group has only one defined benefit pension to employees own pension plans and also scheme which is closed to new members and operates one defined benefit pension scheme.
for the future accrual of benefits to existing members.
Assets at 30 September 2010 were 19 million and liabilities were 19 million resulting in no net deficit.
Further information on pensions is provided in note 28 to the Group accounts on page 82.
18 Enterprise Inns plc Annual Report 2010 18532.04 03 12 10 Proof 6 Directors report risks and uncertainties Mitigation processes operational Information technology The Groups daily operations are reliant on its n A business continuity plan is in place to ensure the information technology systems for accounting, business could continue to function in the event of a reporting, communication and internal financial major systems failure.
This plan is regularly tested.
There is a risk that serious disruption could result if these systems fail n There are comprehensive controls in place to protect for an extended period of time.
information technology systems including the back-up and off-site storage of data.
Supply chain management The Group places reliance on key suppliers and n The Group works closely with its key suppliers and distributors to ensure that there is a continuous distribution partners to ensure good working supply of drink and other products to its licensees.
The Group is exposed to interruption or failure of these key suppliers which could result in such n The Group takes reasonable steps to try to ensure products not being delivered to licensees on time.
that key suppliers have appropriate disaster recovery plans in place to maintain continuity of supply.
people The Group is reliant on the ability to attract, train n The Groups licensee recruitment and training and retain the best quality licensees for its leased programme and its variety of tenancy and lease pubs, and failure to do this could impact on the agreements are designed to attract the best Groups strategic objectives.
Equally, the Group is quality people.
We offer an industry leading reliant on its employees to provide key support range of flexible agreements, funding options and functions in order to achieve its strategic aims.
tailored deals for appropriate applicants.
n We have in house legal support teams who process our own lease and tenancy agreements.
n The Group is committed to providing appropriate employee training, retention and reward policies and has attained the prestigious accolade of Champion status for Investors in People.
Economic General economic conditions The Groups business operations are sensitive to n The Group regularly monitors its key income streams economic conditions and recent economic and licensees performance to ensure the Group is conditions have had an adverse impact on competitively placed in the market.
This has impacted on Group revenues and could continue if the downturn n The Group regularly reviews financial forecasts to persists or worsens.
The general economic assess the impact of economic conditions on its outlook remains uncertain.
n The Group gives careful consideration to licensees requests for additional operational and financial support.
n The Group continues to foster mutually beneficial relationships with key suppliers to ensure the impact of any price increases is minimised wherever possible.
Enterprise Inns plc Annual Report 2010 19 18532.04 03 12 10 Proof 6 Directors report risks and uncertainties Mitigation processes property valuations Valuations of the Groups property portfolio have n The Group ensures that every pub in its portfolio is been affected by general economic conditions and valued annually at the market value by qualified resulting downwards pressure on maintainable external and internal valuers in accordance with RICS income streams.
These circumstances could Valuation Standards 6th Edition.
These valuations continue and therefore reduce the valuation of the comply with the requirement of Financial Reporting portfolio over time.
n As part of the debt reduction programme underperforming pubs are sold.
regulatory regulation of the Tied pub Model Despite the reports published by the Office of Fair n The Group remains committed to the tied pub model Trading into the tied pub model in 2009 and 2010 and continues to work hard to ensure its Code of and the renewal in 2010 of the block exemption Practice ensures a transparent and mutually beneficial by the EU, the report published by the Business and relationship with its licensees.
Enterprise Committee during 2009 could continue to impact on the Groups operational strategy and n The Group actively engages with Government, trade the relationship with our licensees.
bodies and other stakeholders to further evolve the tied pub model.
Health and safety A health and safety incident could result in a n The Group has policies and procedures in place to serious injury to the Groups employees, licensees ensure compliance with Health and Safety regulations or their customers.
and such systems are regularly reviewed with training provided as appropriate.
n The Group employs a Health and Safety Manager to identify and remedy specific risks and to ensure employees are aware of regulatory requirements.
n The Group has a Health and Safety Committee which meets regularly to consider all aspects of health and safety and reports to the Board periodically.
Litigation The Group operates in a heavily regulated industry n The Group employs a Legal Services Manager and other and may be involved in legal or statutory in-house specialists to ensure we comply with proceedings in relation to our licensees.
The legislation and to manage any litigation with our impact of such litigation may be immaterial in licensees.
value but may result in harm to the Groups reputation.
Where appropriate, the Group takes n The Group will work with Local Authorities as necessary legal proceedings against licensees to ensure whenever any statutory issues are raised in relation compliance with their agreements.
Licensing and other regulatory factors Changes to the regulations relating to the sale of n The Group works closely with Local Authorities as alcohol can have an impact on the Groups necessary to ensure licensing requirements are dealt business.
These risks include changes to licensing with whenever appropriate.
legislation and increases to alcohol duties imposed by the Government and the impact of n The Group is a member of a number of trade bodies social responsibility issues on the industry and associations, is a contributor to the Drinkaware in general.
trust, and works closely with these organisations to promote responsible drinking practices.
Further details can be found in the Corporate Social Responsibility section of our website at www.
20 Enterprise Inns plc Annual Report 2010 18532.04 03 12 10 Proof 6 Directors report Charitable and political Donations At pub level, the Company supports local community initiatives and charitable causes through the appropriate use of marketing investment.
The Company does not make any corporate charitable donations.
The Company has not made any political donations during the year and intends to continue its policy of not doing so for the foreseeable future.
Creditors payment policy and practice The Group and the Company agree terms and conditions for their business transactions with suppliers.
Payment is then made in accordance with these terms, subject to the terms and conditions being met by the supplier.
At the year end the Group and the Company had an average of 66 days purchases outstanding in trade creditors.
Financial Instruments For further details of our financial risk management objectives and policies, please see note 23 to the Group accounts on page 74.
Going Concern The Groups business activities, including a description of its financial position, cash flows, debt and borrowing facilities, is set out in the Business Review on pages 2 to 8.
In addition a summary of factors likely to effect the Groups future development and performance is set out in the this report on pages 16 to 20.
Further details on the Groups financial instruments and risks can be found in note 23 to the Group accounts on pages 74 to 77.
The directors have made enquiries into the adequacy of the Groups financial resources including a review of its budget and medium-term financial plan, including a review of cash flow forecasts and financial covenant calculations, and have a reasonable expectation that the Group has adequate resources to continue in operational existence for the foreseeable future.
For this reason the directors continue to adopt the going concern basis of accounting in preparing the financial statements.
Directors statement as to disclosure of information to auditors Each person who is a director at the date of approval of this report confirms that: n so far as the director is aware, there is no relevant audit information of which the Companys auditor is unaware: and n the director has taken all of the steps that he she ought to have taken as a director to make himself herself aware of any relevant audit information and to establish that the Companys auditor is aware of that information.
This confirmation is given and should be interpreted in accordance with the provisions of section 418 of the Companies Act 2006.
Annual General Meeting The Annual General Meeting will be held on 20 January 2011 at 11.00 a. m. The notice convening the Annual General Meeting and an explanation of the resolutions sought are set out on pages 131 to 139.
At the meeting, the Company will be seeking shareholder approval, amongst other matters, for the: n adoption of new Articles of Association to incorporate further changes introduced by the Companies Act 2006: and n ability to convene general meetings other than the Annual General Meeting on 14 clear days notice.
The directors consider that all the resolutions proposed are in the best interests of the Company and it is their recommendation that you support these proposals as they intend to do so in respect of their own holdings.
Auditors A resolution to reappoint Ernst & Young LLP as the Groups auditors will be put to shareholders at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting.
By order of the Board J A poole Secretary 15 November 2010 Registered Company name: Enterprise Inns plc Registered Company number: 2562808 Enterprise Inns plc Annual Report 2010 21 18532.04 03 12 10 Proof 6
