Directors and Advisers H V rEID# A J STEWArT # Chairman Independent Non-Executive Director Appointed to the Board 21 01 97 Appointed to the Board 29 05 01 Hubert Reid, 69, is Chairman of Midas Income and Jo Stewart, 61, is a fellow of the Institute of Grocery Growth Trust PLC, Deputy Chairman of Majedie Distribution.
He has over 30 years of experience in Investments PLC and a non-executive director of the food industry, was Managing Director of Pizzaland Michael Page International plc.
He was previously International and Chief Executive of Northern Foods Managing Director and then Chairman of the plc until September 2003.
Jo will be retiring from Boddington Group plc and a non-executive director the Board at the conclusion of the Annual General and then Chairman of Ibstock Plc, Bryant Group plc Meeting on 20 January 2011. and the Royal London Group.
S E MurrAy # G E TuppEN# Independent Non-Executive Director Chief Executive Appointed to the Board 03 11 04 Appointed to the Board 22 02 91 Susan Murray, 53, is Chairman of Farrow & Ball and a Ted Tuppen, 58, led the management buy-in which non-executive director of Compass Group PLC, Imperial resulted in the formation of the Company in 1991.
Tobacco plc and Pernod Ricard.
She was previously He is a chartered accountant and was in practice Chief Executive of Littlewoods Stores Limited and until 1980 with KPMG in London, North America Worldwide President and Chief Executive of The and Europe.
He then qualified with an MBA from the Pierre Smirnoff Company a part of Diageo Plc.
She Cranfield School of Management before becoming has previously held non-executive directorships with managing director of a privately owned international Aberdeen Asset Management PLC, SSL International engineering company where he worked until 1989. plc and Wm Morrison Supermarkets plc and was a He has also worked in, and acted as a consultant to, a member of the Independent Complaints Panel of the variety of businesses.
He is Vice President, and former Portman Group and a Director and council member of Chairman of the British Beer and Pub Association, the Advertising Standards Authority.
a trustee of Drinkaware and was awarded a CBE in the 2006 New Years Honours List in respect of his contribution to the hospitality industry.
D o MALoNEy # Independent Non-Executive Director D A HArDING # Appointed to the Board 10 07 08 Independent Non-Executive Director David Maloney, 55, is currently a non-executive director of Cineworld Group Plc, Ludorum Plc, Micro Appointed to the Board 06 11 03 Focus International Plc and Carillion Plc.
He was David Harding, 63, is Chairman of Coventry Building previously Chairman of Hoseasons Holidays Limited, Society and a non-executive director of the Royal a non-executive director of Virgin Mobile Holdings Mint.
He was previously Finance Director of Railtrack UK plc, Chief Financial Officer of Meridien Services Group plc.
He was also Group Finance Director of Company plc the holding company for the global Rugby Group plc and T&N plc.
He is a fellow of the hotel group Le Meridien Hotels & Resorts, Thomson Chartered Institute of Management Accountants and a Travel Group and Preussag Airlines and Group Finance local magistrate.
Director of Avis Europe plc.
He is a fellow of the Chartered Institute of Management Accountants and has a degree in economics from Heriot-Watt University, Edinburgh.
He is also Chairman of the Member of the Audit and Remuneration board of trustees of the Make A Wish Foundation.
Committees # Member of the Nominations Committee Enterprise Inns plc Annual Report 2010 9 18532.04 03 12 10 Proof 6 Directors and Advisers D C GEorGE Secretary J A Poole Chief Financial Officer Auditors Appointed to the Board 08 07 91 Ernst & Young LLP, No.
1 Colmore Square, David George, 59, joined the Company on its Birmingham, B4 6HQ formation as part of the management buy-in team.
A Bankers qualified accountant, he spent ten years in industry including six years at Massey Ferguson Manufacturing Bank of Scotland, 124 Colmore Row, Birmingham, Limited.
He then spent ten years with Grand B3 4AU Metropolitan Brewing Limited in various finance Financial Adviser roles, including Finance Director of The Manns and HSBC Investment Bank plc, Vintners Place, Norwich Brewery Company Limited and subsequently as Finance Director of the production division of Grand 68 Upper Thames Street, London, EC4V 3BJ Metropolitan Brewing.
David will be retiring from Stockbrokers the Board at the conclusion of the Annual General Deutsche Bank AG London, Winchester House, Meeting on 20 January 2011 1 Great Winchester Street, London, EC2N 2DB Barclays Capital, 5 The North Colonnade, Canary Wharf, E14 4BB W S ToWNSEND registrar Chief Operating Officer Computershare Investor Services PLC, The Pavilions, Appointed to the Board 01 10 00 Bridgwater Road, Bristol, BS13 8AE Simon Townsend, 48, joined the Company in Solicitors February 1999, and was appointed to the Board in CMS Cameron McKenna LLP, Mitre House, October 2000.
He has worked in the pub and leisure 160 Aldersgate Street, London, EC1A 4DD industry for over 20 years in various sales, marketing, commercial and operational roles, previously with Financial public relations Whitbread plc, Allied Domecq PLC, Rank Group Tulchan Communications Group Ltd, 85 Fleet Street, PLC and Marston, Thompson & Evershed PLC.
He is London, EC4Y 1AE currently Chairman of the Communications Group of the British Beer and Pub Association.
registered office 3 Monkspath Hall Road, Solihull, West Midlands, B90 4SJ Company number 2562808 10 Enterprise Inns plc Annual Report 2010 18532.04 03 12 10 Proof 6
