Essar Energy plc Annual report accounts 2010 50 Directors report The Directors have the pleasure in presenting their Relationship agreement annual report and audited accounts for the period ending Prior to Listing, Essar Energy was a wholly owned subsidiary of 31 December 2010.
The information contained in the Business Essar Global.
On 30 April 2010 Essar Energy and Essar Global review, Board of Directors, the Corporate Governance report entered into a relationship agreement to regulate the ongoing and the Statement of Directors responsibilities forms part relationship between the Company and Essar Global.
The of the Directors report.
principal purpose of the Relationship Agreement is to ensure that the Group is capable of carrying on its business Principal activities independently of Essar Global and its associates for the Essar Energy is a world-class, low-cost, India-focused energy purpose of this summary, as defined in the Relationship Agreement and that transactions and relationships are at company with an established track record and US$12 billion of assets across the power and the oil and gas industry.
It has arms length and on normal commercial terms other than been created by combining the existing energy portfolio of the certain fide minimis transactions.
Essar Group, a diversified Indian business group established over 40 years ago.
The Group comprises three divisions: The Relationship Agreement will continue for so long as the Power: ordinary shares are listed on the premium listing segment of Exploration and Production: and the Official List and traded on the LSE and Essar Global, Refining and Marketing.
together with its associates, have an aggregate interest at least of 30% in the issued shares of Essar Energy.
Business review A detailed Business review for the Group as required by The key terms of the Relationship Agreement are set out in section 417 of the Companies Act 2006 can be found in the Appendix 2 of this Report on page 116. sections of this annual report listed below, which are incorporated into this Directors report by reference.
These The Directors believe that the terms of the Relationship comment on the operation and development of the business Agreement will enable the Company to carry on its business and its future prospects along with details of key performance independently from the Essar Group and its associates.
indicators and the description of the principal risks and uncertainties facing the Group.
Directors Highlights on page 01: The names and biographies of the current Directors of the Chairman and Vice Chairmans statement on pages 02 to 03: Company are set out on pages 08 to 10.
Chief Executives report on pages 04 to 05: Essar Energy at a glance on pages 06 to 07: The Company was incorporated on 18 December 2009.
Our strategic position on pages 12 to 13: Mr Raman Jaggi was appointed as a Director when the Review of the businesses on pages 14 to 19: Company was incorporated and resigned as a Director on 6 April 2010 when the current Board was appointed.
Market overview on pages 20 to 23: Our strategy and performance on pages 24 to 25: Operating review on pages 26 to 31: Directors appointment and retirement Corporate responsibility on pages 32 to 37: The Directors may from time to time appoint one or more Directors.
Any such Director shall hold office only until the Financial review on pages 38 to 43: and Principal risks and uncertainties on pages 44 to 49. next Annual General Meeting AGM and shall then offer themselves for election by the Companys shareholders.
In This Business review and other sections of this annual report accordance with the Companys articles of association, which require the Directors to retire and offer themselves for election contain forward looking statements.
The extent to which the Companys shareholders or anyone may rely on these forward by shareholders at the first AGM after their appointment, all looking statements is set out inside the back cover of this the Directors will be offering themselves for election at the annual report.
This is also in accordance with current best practice as outlined in the UK Corporate Governance Code Corporate governance which applies to the Company from 1 January 2011 and The Company is required to comply with the Combined Code provides for all directors of FTSE 350 companies to be subject on corporate governance published in June 2008 by the to election or re-election by their shareholders every year.
Financial Reporting Council or explain its reasons for noncompliance.
A report on corporate governance and Directors indemnities and insurance compliance with the provisions of the Combined Code is set Directors and officers are indemnified under the articles of out on pages 54 to 60. association of the Company, to the extent permitted by the Companies Act 2006.
In addition, the Company has entered Dividends into deeds of indemnity with each Director in respect of A final dividend for the year ended 31 December 2010 has not proceedings brought by third parties, subject to the conditions been declared.
set out in the Companies Act 2006.
The Company has also purchased Directors and Officers liability insurance which remains in place at the date of this report.
company overview business review Governance financial statements Essar Energy plc Annual report accounts 2010 51 Directors interests voting rights The number of ordinary shares of the Company in which Ordinary shareholders are entitled to receive notice and to the Directors or a person connected with a Director were attend and speak at any general meeting of the Company.
beneficially interested, as at 31 December 2010, were On a show of hands every shareholder present in person or as follows: by proxy or being a corporation present by a duly authorised representative shall have one vote, and on a poll every 31 December shareholder who is present in person or by proxy or in 2010 the case of a corporate member by a duly authorised 1 Mr Ravi Ruia see below representative shall have one vote for every share of which 1 Mr Prashant Ruia see below he is the holder.
2 Mr Naresh Nayyar 204,444 A shareholder entitled to attend and vote at a general meeting Mr Philip Aiken 14,285 may appoint one or more proxies to attend and vote instead Mr Sattar Hajee Abdoula 23,809 of him.
If a member appoints more than one proxy he must Mr Simon Murray 71,428 specify the number of shares which each proxy is entitled Mr Subhash Lallah 0 to exercise rights over.
A proxy need not be a shareholder of the Company.
1 Mr Ravi Ruia and Mr Prashant Ruia have an indirect interest in the Company.
Essar Global has beneficial interests in 1,000,000,000 ordinary shares 76.72% of the Company.
The variation of rights ultimate shareholders of EGL are the Virgo Trust and the Triton Trust, discretionary trusts, whose beneficiaries include, among others, companies whose 100% shareholders are Mr Subject to the Companies Act 2006, whenever the share Ravi Ruia and Mr Prashant Ruia.
EGL also acquired an economic interest in up to a capital of the Company is divided into different classes of further 16,973,961 Ordinary Shares of the Company on 18 January 2011 pursuant to an shares, the rights attaching to any class of shares may be Equity Swap Transaction as part of the convertible bond arrangements see Post balance sheet events on page 52. varied with the consent in writing of the holders of three- 2 Outstanding executive share option awards held by Mr Naresh Nayyar, further details of quarters in nominal value of the issued shares of the class or which are set out in the Remuneration report on page 63. with the sanction of a special resolution passed at a separate general meeting of the shareholders.
No Director had any dealings in the shares of the Company between 31 December 2010 and 18 March 2011, being a date transfer of shares less than one month prior to the date of the notice convening Essar Global and the Directors are subject to a lock-up the AGM.
arrangement in accordance with an underwriting agreement dated 30 April 2010 and related arrangements under which share capital they are not permitted to sell their shares for a period of 365 Details of the Companys share capital are set out in Note 22 days following the Listing.
The issued share capital of the Company at 31 December 2010 was 1,303,437,293 ordinary The Company itself is also subject to a lock-up arrangement shares of 5 pence each.
The Company is listed on the London pursuant to the Underwriting Agreement.
The Company has Stock Exchange and was included in the FTSE 100 index agreed that, subject to certain exceptions, during the period of leading shares listed on the Main Market of the LSE in of 365 days from Listing, it will not, without the prior written June 2010. consent of the joint global coordinators and the Sponsor, issue, offer, sell or contract to sell, or otherwise dispose of, Since the Company was formed it has issued 1,000,000,000 directly or indirectly, any shares or any interest therein or fully paid ordinary shares to Essar Global for a total of enter into any transaction with the same economic effect US$1,491.1 million together with 303,030,302 fully paid as any of the foregoing.
ordinary shares at a price of 4.20 per share in the initial public offering on 7 May 2010.
A further 406,991 ordinary shares As at 31 December 2010, there were no further restrictions were issued to Essar Global on 4 June 2010 pursuant to the on the transfer of the ordinary shares other than as set out in exercise of an over-allotment option at the initial public offering the articles of association and certain restrictions that may price of 4.20 per share.
The rights and obligations attached to from time to time be imposed by laws and regulations and these shares are governed by English law and the Companys pursuant to the Listing Rules of the Financial Services Authority articles of association.
whereby certain Directors, officers and employees of the Company require the approval of the Company to deal in powers of Directors the ordinary shares.
The Directors were given authority by a shareholders resolution passed at a general meeting held in April 2010 to On 18 January 2011, the Company entered into an additional allot up to an aggregate nominal amount of 21,717,171.67 lock-up arrangement in relation to the convertible bond issue being an amount equal to one third of the ordinary share referred to under Post balance sheet events on page 52 capital of the Company in issue immediately prior to Listing.
under which it agreed that, subject to certain exceptions, it will The Company was also authorised by a shareholders not, during the period of 60 days from the date of agreement, resolution to purchase up to 130,303,030 ordinary shares issue, offer, sell or contract to sell or otherwise dispose of, representing 10% of its issued ordinary share capital directly or indirectly, any ordinary shares or any interest therein immediately following Listing.
These authorities will expire at or enter into any transaction with a similar economic effect as the forthcoming AGM to be held in May 2011 and resolutions to any of the foregoing.
renew the authority for a further year will be proposed.
No shares were purchased by the Company during the period from Listing to 31 December 2010.
Essar Energy plc Annual report accounts 2010 52 Directors report continued No shareholder holds securities carrying special rights as to Pursuant to the final terms attaching to the bonds, the the control of the Company.
There are no limitations on the bondholders will have the right to require the Group to redeem holding of securities.
Other than those defined in the the bonds at a price equal to the principal amount, together Relationship Agreement there are no restrictions on voting with accrued and unpaid interest to the date of redemption rights or any arrangements by which, with the Companys or if there is a change of control of the Company in which any cooperation, financial rights carried by securities are held by person or persons, acting together other than Essar Global a person other than the holder of the securities.
There are no or any person s controlled by or acting together with Essar agreements between holders of securities that are known to Global acquires or becomes entitled to control more than the Company which may result in restrictions on the transfer 50% of the voting rights of the Company.
Relationship agreement major interests in shares The Relationship agreement between Essar Global and the As at 18 March 2011, the Company had been notified, in Company described in detail on page 50 will terminate should accordance with the Disclosure and Transparency Rules of Essar Global, together with its associates as defined in the the Financial Services Authority, of the following notifiable Relationship Agreement, cease to have an aggregate interest interests of 3% or more whether directly or indirectly held in 30% or more of the issued share capital of the Company.
in its voting rights: other number of voting rights % The Executive Directors contracts of employment do not 1 2 Essar Global 1,000,000,000 76.72 contain any provision for compensation to be provided on loss of office in event of a takeover bid.
1 The ultimate shareholders of Essar Global are the Virgo Trust and the Triton Trust, discretionary trusts, whose beneficiaries include, among others, companies whose 100% employees shareholders are Mr Ravi Ruia and Mr Prashant Ruia.
2 On 18 January 2011, Essar Global acquired an economic interest in a further 16,973,961 Information relating to employees is contained in the Corporate shares pursuant to an equity swap transaction as part of the convertible bond Responsibility report on page 36. arrangements see Post balance sheet events below.
Creditor payment policy essential contracts It is the Groups payment policy, in respect of all suppliers, to The Company has entered into long term refined petroleum settle agreed outstanding accounts in accordance with terms product off-take agreements, which together accounted for and conditions agreed with suppliers when placing orders and 52% of the Groups net sales, with the following Indian national suppliers are made aware of these payment conditions.
The oil companies: a four year agreement with Bharat Petroleum Groups trade creditors as a proportion of amounts invoiced by Corporation Limited effective from April 2008, a four year suppliers represented 62 days at 31 December 2010. agreement with Hindustan Petroleum Corporation Limited effective from January 2008 extendable by one year and a Post balance sheet events two year agreement with Indian Oil Corporation Limited On 18 January 2011, Essar Energy launched an offering of effective from April 2009, the renewal of which is currently US$500 million of convertible bonds due 2016.
Under the terms of these agreements, the were successfully priced with a coupon of 4.25% payable Company is not guaranteed any binding minimum off-take semi-annually in arrears and a conversion price set at a quantity from the Indian national oil companies, however, premium of 30% to the reference price of US$8.5277 c. 5.37 due to the pricing terms for sales to the Indian national oil per share.
The offering size was subsequently increased to companies, the Company is able to generate higher margins US$550 million due to the exercise of an over-allotment option on sales to these customers than on export sales and the of US$50 million.
The convertible bonds were issued on Company considers these arrangements are essential to the 1 February 2011.
Essar Global, the majority shareholder of business of the Group within the meaning of Section 417 5 c Essar Energy, did not participate in the convertible bond of the Companies Act 2006. transaction, but they did enter into an equity swap transaction with Standard Chartered Bank whereby EGL acquired an amendments to the articles of association additional economic interest of US$144.75 million in Essar Any amendments to the articles of association of the Company Energys ordinary shares.
The swap will last for the life of the may be made by special resolution of the shareholders.
convertible bonds and may be settled by EGL receiving cash or, at EGLs option, shares.
The result of the equity swap significant agreements transaction is to increase EGLs economic interest in Essar The Companies Act 2006 requires disclosure of significant Energy to 78.02% from 76.72% as at 31 December 2010. agreements that take effect, alter or terminate on a change of control of the Company.
These are as set out below: Convertible bond issue In February 2011, the Group issued US$500 million 4.25% guaranteed senior unsecured convertible bonds due 2016, described in more detail in Post balance sheet events below.
The bond issue was subsequently increased to US$550 million due to the exercise of an over-allotment option of US$50 million.
ComPany oveRview Business Review GoveRnanCe finanCial statements Essar Energy plc Annual report accounts 2010 53 On 18 February 2011, Essar Energy announced that it had auditors entered into an exclusivity agreement with Shell UK Limited The Companys auditors, Deloitte LLP, have indicated their and made an offer to purchase the oil refinery and other willingness to continue in office and resolutions seeking to associated assets at Stanlow, near Ellesmere Port, Cheshire reappoint them as the Companys auditors and to authorise the for a cash consideration of US$350 million.
There will also be Directors to determine their remuneration will be proposed at the forthcoming AGM.
a separate payment for the crude oil, refined products and certain other inventory on the Stanlow refinery site, to be valued on completion of the acquisition based on prevailing annual General meeting market prices estimated to be in the region of US$780 million.
The Companys AGM will be held at 11 am on Wednesday 18 The acquisition of the high complexity Stanlow refinery, which May 2011 at Deutsche Bank Auditorium, Winchester House, 1 is the second largest refinery in the UK, will give Essar Energy Great Winchester Street, London EC2N 2DB.
Details of the direct access to the UK market, is aligned with the Companys meeting and the resolutions to be proposed are set out in a strategy to provide options for the export of products from the separate Notice of Meeting which accompanies this annual Vadinar refinery in India, and is being acquired at a competitive report.
price when compared to other recent comparable refinery transactions.
The acquisition will be conditional, amongst other By order of the Board items, on the approval of Essar Energys shareholders at a general meeting.
The acquisition is expected to be completed in the second half of 2011.
Christian angseesing for and on behalf of market value of land and buildings Executive Services Limited Mauritius Land is carried at cost within the financial statements.
It is not Company Secretary practical to estimate the market value of land at each balance sheet date.
18 March 2011 Political and charitable donations The Company has made no charitable or political donations in 2010 including in India.
Further information in respect of the Groups community initiatives are set out in the Corporate Responsibility report on pages 32 to 37. financial instruments Details of the Companys use of financial instruments, together with objectives and policies on financial risk including information on the Companys exposures to foreign currency, credit, commodity, price, liquidity and interest rate risks can be found in Notes 23 and 24 to the financial statements.
Going concern Disclosures in respect of going concern are provided in the Financial review on page 43. audit information Each of the Directors at the date of the approval of this report confirms that: so far as the Director is aware, there is no relevant audit information which the Companys auditors are unaware: and the Director has taken all the steps that he ought to have taken as a Director to make himself aware of any relevant audit information and to establish that the Companys auditors are aware of the information.
The confirmation is given and should be interpreted in accordance with the provisions of section 418 of the Companies Act 2006.
