Essar Energy plc Annual report accounts 2010 08 board of Directors mr ravi ruia, 61 mr prashant ruia, 41 mr naresh nayyar, 58 chairman vice chairman chief executive Mr Ravi Ruia, a non-resident Indian, Mr Prashant Ruia, a non-resident Mr Nayyar is the Chief Executive of Essar Energy as well as the Managing is the Chairman of Essar Energy Indian, is Vice Chairman of Essar and Vice Chairman of Essar Group.
Energy and Chief Executive of Essar Director and Chief Executive of Essar Mr Ruia belongs to the generation Group.
Mr Nayyar joined Essar Oil in of industrialists who have played been involved with the Essar Groups October 2007.
Prior to joining Essar Oil, Mr Nayyar was the CEO of ONGC a significant role in leading Indias operations and management since industrial renaissance.
He is fundamental to Essar Mittal Energy Limited a joint venture by training, his entrepreneurial Groups strategy, and is actively involved between Oil & Natural Gas Corporation abilities have enabled the Essar in the its growth and diversification Limited and Mittal Investments from November 2005 to September 2007.
Group to become one of the leading both within India and internationally.
names in the global industry.
The Essar Group is today a multinational Previously, Mr Nayyar was Director of Mr Ruia began his career in the family conglomerate and a leading player planning and business development at Indian Oil Corporation Limited from business and has worked with his in the sectors of Steel, Oil & Gas, elder brother, Shashi Ruia, towards Power, Communications, Shipping, October 2002 to November 2005, steering the Essar Group to its current Ports & Logistics, Constructions where he had worked since 1975.
Mr position of eminence, helping in the and Minerals.
With operations in Nayyar was also Chairman of Lanka more than 20 countries across IOC Limited from October 2002 to consolidation of its businesses through backward and forward integration, and five continents, the Essar Group November 2005 and a member of the through setting up overseas ventures.
boards of Oil & Natural Gas Corporation Limited, Petronet LNG and IBP.
He Mr Ruia is known for his project was also the Chairman of the Indian Mr Ruia has overseen Essar Groups globalisation plans, including new management skills, financial expertise Oil Marubeni Panipat Power Project ventures in Africa, South East Asia and and people management capabilities.
from March 2003 to November 2005. the Middle East.
He has led the recent Mr Ruia holds several key positions acquisitions of Algoma Steel now called Essar Steel Algoma in Canada, and on various regulatory and professional Minnesota Steel now called Essar Steel boards, and was recently appointed Minnesota and Trinity Coal in the USA.
to the audit committee of the World Steel Association.
He was also a Mr Ruia is a recipient of the member of the Prime Minister of Business India Businessman Indias advisory council on trade of the Year Award 2010. and industry in 2007.
Mr Ruia is a member of the Energy Boardroom at the World Economic Forum.
company overview business review Governance financial statements Essar Energy plc Annual report accounts 2010 09 mr philip aiken, 62 mr sattar Hajee abdoula, 51 independent non-executive Director independent non-executive Director Mr Aiken is an independent NonMr Hajee Abdoula is an independent Executive Director on the Board Non-Executive Director on the Board of the Company.
He is currently of the Company.
He has been the Chairman of Robert Walters plc, Senior transaction services partner of Grant Independent Director of Kazakhmys Thornton in Mauritius since its launch plc and a Non-Executive Director of in 1999.
Mr Hajee Abdoula is also National Grid plc and Miclyn Express the lead partner for litigation support.
He has over 35 years He has over 30 years experience in experience in industry and commerce accounting, audit and consultancy.
having previously from 1997 to 2006, been Group President Energy and Since 1999 he has been specialising in President Petroleum of BHP Billiton.
transaction services and advising clients in various sectors including, banking, Prior to that he held senior positions financial services, insolvency and global with BTR 19951997 and the BOC business.
Mr Hajee Abdoula is actively Group 19701995, both in the UK involved in providing support to Grant and Australia.
He has also been a Thornton offices in African countries.
Senior Advisor for Macquarie Capital Europe, was Chairman of the 2004 He sits as an independent member Sydney World Energy Congress and on the board of two non-bank served on the boards of Governor of financial institutions in Mauritius and is also the Chairman of the Audit Guangdong International Consultative Council, World Energy Council and Committee.
Mr Hajee Abdoula has Monash Mt Eliza Business School.
significant experience in global business offshore where he has been advising on structures and tax issues.
Mr Hajee Abdoula is a lead advisor to the Government of Ghana in setting up the Ghana International Financial Services Centre.
Mr Hajee Abdoula qualified as a Chartered Accountant ICAEW in 1985 and became a fellow of the Institute in 1995.
Essar Energy plc Annual report accounts 2010 10 board of Directors continued mr simon murray, 70 mr subhash lallah s. c. 65 senior independent independent non-executive Director non-executive Director Mr Lallah is an independent NonExecutive Director on the Board of Mr Murray is the Senior Independent Non-Executive Director on the Board the Company.
He has represented of the Company.
Currently, Mr Murray domestic and international companies is also a Director of a number of public in arbitration and has a legal career that spans 40 years.
Mr Lallah sits as companies: Cheung Kong Holdings Ltd. : Orient Overseas International independent Director on the boards Ltd. : USI Holdings Ltd. : and Richemont of many international funds.
Previously, between 1975 and independent directorships include Mauritian Eagle Insurance Company 1993, Mr Murray served on the boards of a number of Hong Kong Ltd, Mauritian Eagle Leasing Co Ltd and public companies including South Deutsche Bank Offshore Mauritius Ltd. China Morning Post: Cross Harbour He is a former member of the Tunnel Company: Hong Kong Aircraft & Engineering Corporation: and Board of Governors of the Mauritius Hong Kong Electric.
He was also Broadcasting Corporation and he has Chairman of the Sheraton and Hilton acted as Chairman of the National Transport Corporation and appeared as Hotels between 1985 and 1993.
Chairman and counsel in a number of In 1984 Mr Murray became the Group enquiries.
Mr Lallah was a member of Managing Director of Hutchison parliament of the Republic of Mauritius between 1982 and 1995 and was Whampoa, where he stayed for the next 10 years.
He was instrumental in also a deputy chief whip and deputy the launching of AsiaSat, Chinas first speaker of the national assembly.
international launching of a satellite, Mr Lallah read law and political science on the Board of which he served as Chairman between 1989 and 1993. and was called to the UK Bar in 1970 After 10 years at Hutchison, Mr Murray and the Mauritius Bar in 1971. became the Executive Chairman of Asia Pacific, Deutsche Bank Group.
Mr Murray was also a member of the advisory board of China National Offshore Oil Corporation and is on the advisory council of Imperial College London.
Mr Murray has served as a member of the International Advisory Board of General Electric Co. USA : Bain the consultancy company : and N. M. Rothschild.
He is currently the Chairman of GEMS, a private equity investment company which he founded in 1998.
