company overview business review Governance financial statements Essar Energy plc Annual report accounts 2010 11 senior management team in addition to the vice chairman and chief executive, the senior management team consists of: mr p sampath mr Kvb reddy mr mark lidiard chief financial officer executive Director essar power Director of investor relations Mr P Sampath was appointed the Mr Reddy is the Executive Director and communications Chief Financial Officer of Essar Energy of Essar Power.
He is responsible for Mr Lidiard is the Director of Investor in September 2010.
He joined the formulating and directing the overall Relations and Communications Essar Group in August 2008 and was business strategy of the Power business for Essar Energy and joined the previously the Chief Financial Officer group and project execution and has Company in April 2010.
Mr Lidiard was previously the Group Communications of Essar Oil Limited.
He has over 30 been with the Essar Group since 1995. years of experience in various fields Director at Lloyds TSB from 2008 including global corporate finance and Mr Reddy has more than 25 years to 2009, Vice President of Investor treasury, mergers and acquisitions, of experience in the power industry Relations and Communications at BHP Billiton from 2002 to 2007, corporate business planning, investor and has previously worked for the relations, global HR strategy and National Thermal Power Corporation and Head of Investor Relations at financial and management accounting.
where he gained in-depth experience Powergen Plc from 2000 to 2002. in the areas of project planning, From 1997 to 2000, Mr Lidiard was Prior to this, Mr Sampath held a materials, commercial and erection number of senior finance roles and commissioning.
During this the Assistant Group Treasurer and including Group Chief Financial Officer time, he set up three gas-based Head of Project Finance at Powergen for RPG Enterprises Limited and combined cycle power projects which included responsibility for power project financings in India.
Managing Director of GHCL Limited.
at Anta, Auraiya and Kawas.
Mr Sampath has a first class Bachelor Mr Reddy is a graduate in mechanical He has a post graduate certificate of Commerce degree from Madras engineering from NIT Bhopal.
in business management from Thames Valley University and a University, is a Fellow Member of both the Institute of Cost and Works degree in Physics with Geology Accountants of India and the Institute from Southampton University.
of Company Secretaries of India
