Essar Energy plc Annual report accounts 2010 24 our strategy and performance stated strategy performance Essar Energy intends to capitalise on 2010 has seen a record operating performance from the power the existing assets by drawing on the plants as well as the Vadinar refinery.
Operationally, all plants Optimise Essar Groups significant experience have performed well with availability between 94% and 99% and expertise to carry out a number of and 2010 has seen an 8.5% increase in overall generation over optimisation projects that will consolidate 2009.
The Vadinar refinery witnessed a record throughput of performance of all Essar Energys position as one of 14.7 mmtpa in 2010 and a 57% increase in CP GRM in 2010.
This will be achieved through a combination of existing assets debottlenecking operating plants, further improving efficiency, expanding output and increasing economies of scale.
Essar Energy plans to pursue further Unit #1 of the Vadinar P1 380 MW gas fired power station growth through both green-field and synchronised with the grid in October 2010, the first one to do Deliver growth brown-field energy projects in the areas so since our IPO.
Essar Energy also moved four of its power of exploration and production, refining, projects into the construction phase taking the capacity under marketing, power generation, raw material construction to 8,070 MW.
The Refinery Phase 1 expansion is through a variety of acquisition, transmission and distribution.
now more than 84% complete as of end February 2011 and the expansion of the refining capacity to 20 mmtpa is expected by September 2012, at a very competitive capital cost.
power and oil and gas projects Essar Energy intends to leverage its Essar Energy acquired coal mines in Indonesia and Mozambique established skills and Indian asset in 2010 comprising 100 mmt of mineable reserves.
These Leverage skills and base in oil and gas, and power, to mines are currently progressing through the approval process seek organic and inorganic growth and will supply coal to the upcoming power plants of Essar opportunities in India and overseas, Energy.
In June 2010, Essar Energy was declared the winner Indian asset base with the objective of improving market of four CBM exploration blocks, which will give Essar Energy leadership, economies of scale, synergies additional in place prospective resources of over 7.6 tcf and maximising shareholder value.
In July 2010, Essar Energy announced the to identify growth acquisition of Navabharat Power Pvt.
Limited, a company setting up a 2,250 MW coal fired power station in Orissa, India, including allocation of the Rampia coal block of 112 mmt.
In opportunities November 2010, Essar Energy announced a project to further enhance the capacity of the Vadinar refinery by 2 mmtpa to take the total capacity to 20 mmtpa by September 2012.
Essar Energy will continue to act as a Essar Energys strong focus on health, safety and environment good corporate citizen with respect to has been instrumental in the Vadinar refinery completing 1,000 Be a good the health and safety of its employees days of refinery operations without any lost-time incident, and the communities in which it thus achieving over 18 million man hours without a lost time operates.
The maintenance of high incident as of 31 December 2010.
The Refinery also received corporate citizen environmental performance standards the Gujarat Safetys winner shield for the Lowest Disability are significant responsibilities within the Injury Index in 2009, thus reinforcing Essar Energys focus on conduct of Essar Energys operations health and safety.
The Vadinar refinery and the Bhander Power and the aim of the Company is to be plant at Hazira have received Integrated Management Systems recognised as a leader in health, safety IMS certification from the British Standards Institution after and environmental management.
earning both ISO9001 14001 and OHSAS 18001 certification.
company overview business review Governance financial statements Essar Energy plc Annual report accounts 2010 25 stated strategy performance Essar Energy intends to capitalise on 2010 has seen a record operating performance from the power the existing assets by drawing on the plants as well as the Vadinar refinery.
