Essar Energy plc Annual report accounts 2010 20 market overview company overview business review Governance financial statements Essar Energy plc Annual report accounts 2010 21 Meeting Indias energy demand strong india GDp growth outlook % GDP growth is on track to be 8.6% 8.6 for the fiscal year 201011 GDP growth on track for 201011 Planning Commission of India targets 9% annual growth 20072012 % Government spending increasing at 12.6 CAGR 22% between 20072012 Of expected peak power deficit in 200910 significant indian power deficit set to continue % Peak power deficit expected to be 12.6% in 200910 source: CEA 70 Of Indian oil and gas needs Per capita power consumption far below other were imported in 2009 BRIC markets: 736 kWh in 2008 vs 2,598 kWh in China, 2,631 kWh in Brazil and 7,194 kWh in Russia source: IEA Energy Statistics 2010 44% of Indian households do not currently have access to electricity source: World Bank increasing indian oil and gas consumption Low per capita oil consumption compared to other BRIC markets: 1.0 barrel per person in 2009 vs 2.4 in China source: BP Statistical Review 2010 Low per capita gas consumption compared to other BRIC markets: 1.6 cubic feet per person in 2009 vs 2.3 in China source: BP Statistical Review 2010 India, imported nearly 2.1 million bbl d, or about 70%, of its oil needs in 2009, becoming the sixth largest net importer of oil in the world source: US Energy Information Administration Essar Energy plc Annual report accounts 2010 22 market overview continued economic outlook demand growth.
Energy usage is activity across both the retail and India has seen a swift and solid both broadening in the economy industrial sectors.
The supply of new economic recovery over the last and deepening as income levels capacity has been unable to keep rise.
This will result in increased up with demand, meaning that India year, contrasting positively with many developed economies.
GDP growth levels of energy intensity.
continues to experience large and is on track to be 8.6% for the fiscal consistent power deficits which are year 2010-11, one of the highest rates It is estimated that Indias total primary set to continue for the foreseeable among the worlds major economies.
energy consumption will grow by 39% future.
This lack of reliable power With nominal GDP forecast at US$1.73 in the 10 year period from 1995 to 2015 supply, particularly to industry, will trillion, India will make the transition and increase a further 55% by 2035 have a negative impact on growth.
from a low income country to a middle International Energy Outlook, 2010 income country as per capita income US Energy Information Authority.
This High raw material and energy costs, crosses US$1,200.
High inflation, increasing trend of energy consumption particularly gas and coal, will continue double-digit for food, remains a concern supports our strategy to focus on the to put upward pressure on long term as it erodes real income.
This risk to energy demand growth in India.
This is of particular growth remains a priority for the Indian concern given Indias reliance on Government as can be seen from the business outlook imported coal and gas for power.
RBIs continued monetary tightening The second half of 2010 saw heavy The use of domestic resources has through increases in interest rates.
rains during the monsoon season the potential to reduce these risks, in India reducing peak power but progress on the development of High rates of growth however, are requirements in the country.
November domestic resources remains slow.
improving the fiscal position of the 2010 saw a reduction in demand economy and it is anticipated that and merchant power prices fell as The Government of India has put in the fiscal deficit will be better than State Electricity Boards reduced their place a regulatory environment to the target of 5.5% for this year.
This power requirements to avoid paying encourage private sector participation will give the Indian Government more high prices in the merchant market.
in the power generation sector, scope to spend, with an expected January 2011 saw a sharp rebound in but still the process of receiving focus on welfare and infrastructure.
In merchant prices due to an increase in regulatory approvals and delays to the the most recent budget, infrastructure demand as a result of state elections access of fuel supplies means that spending was increased by 23% and an increase in the penalties progress is slower than expected.
This payable by the State Electricity Boards The current five year plan has forecast should offset any dampening of for reducing system frequency.
growth in generation capacity of investment from higher interest rates.
150 GW over the plan period, but Despite this short term volatility, the this target looks challenging.
Increasing economic growth is fundamental drivers of power demand positively impacting Indias energy remain robust: increased economic company overview business review Governance financial statements Essar Energy plc Annual report accounts 2010 23 Petroleum product demand in India continues to demonstrate strong growth supported by growth in the Indian economy, increases in per capita income, growth in vehicle ownership and the focus on infrastructure spending.
India will remain the anchor market for Essar Energys expanded refinery capacity albeit that export sales in the medium term are likely to increase to around 40% of sales due to new capacity additions by the public sector refiners.
The planned acquisition of the Stanlow refinery in the UK will increase the sales options available for the export of high value products produced from Vadinar.
Deregulation of gasoline prices in India in June 2010 increased the competitiveness of our retail fuel outlets.
However, increasing oil prices with a resultant impact on gasoil prices has adversely impacted the Government of Indias roadmap toward gasoil deregulation.
A rebound in global demand in 2010 had a clear impact on oil prices.
Current events in the Middle East and North Africa have the potential to impact oil supplies putting further pressure on prices.
This is of particular concern for India which imports around 80-85% of its crude oil needs.
This situation is expected to continue despite significant discoveries of both oil and gas in India in recent years.
The Company has 11 of its 17 oil and gas and CBM blocks located in India and given the domestic demand scenario, commercialisation of these assets represents a significant opportunity for Essar Energy.
