Overview Operations History Strengths Strategy Filtronas business is built around several key factors, including many years experience of manufacturing within our chosen market sectors Strong international Well invested flexible market positions global infrastructure Filtrona has secured leading positions Filtrona has a well invested and flexible across the globe in many of its served international production, sourcing and markets, with key sources of differentiation supply chain infrastructure.
This ensures provided by its investment in international the delivery of cost competitive and high infrastructure, technology, innovation quality products in response to customers and people.
The strength of the Filtrona requirements and the levels of service and businesses within their respective served geographic reach provide an important markets has enabled the Group to deliver competitive differentiator.
The Company attractive margins over a sustained period.
has effectively leveraged individual locations by offering businesses across Long-term customer relationships the Group the opportunity to use the Filtrona has developed its business by existing infrastructure and management maintaining a close relationship with a to exploit new opportunities efficiently wide portfolio of blue chip customers who and cost effectively.
are successful leaders in their respective markets.
The high standards of service and supply demanded by such customers have helped to drive continuous improvement across the Group.
The Companys manufacturing and distribution expertise add value in response to customer demands and its innovative capabilities drive the joint development of new products and services with key strategic partners.
Experienced management team Operational efficiency Filtrona has a highly experienced and Filtrona has a comprehensive production well regarded management team that and distribution footprint which can be has established itself as one of the flexed to respond to customers needs, industry leaders in terms of operating whether they be product, service, cost performance and knowledge.
The detailed or supply chain driven.
Supported by knowledge of customer needs and market sophisticated IT systems, the Company trends enables positive actions to drive is focused on being a low cost producer performance and secures swift responses to secure revenue growth at attractive to changing priorities.
Continuous improvement is reflected in production and supply chain programmes, with tight cost control efficiencies and product innovation.
and productivity gains, serve to reduce conversion costs.
Reputation for quality and innovation The continued successful launch of new products and services is a key driver for the future growth of Filtrona.
Investment in research and development functions, supported by the identification of additional product sourcing opportunities, to deliver product innovation and range development provides the platform to further enhance Filtronas competitive positions.
Robust quality systems to internationally accredited standards assist the fulfilment of customers demands.
