66 Filtrona plc Annual Report 2010 Corporate Governance Report continued Name Attendance Key Activities of the Audit Committee during Chairman Jeff Harris 5 of 5 the year - examined the full year financial statements and half Non-executive Directors year results, reviewing, challenging and approving Paul Drechsler 4 of 5 Lars Emilson 5 of 5 the going concern basis of preparation, the Terry Twigger 5 of 5 accounting policies, the financial reporting issues and the judgement of the finance management The Nomination Committee is responsible for selecting and - received a report from the external auditor on their recommending candidates for appointment as Executive independence and objectivity including quality and Non-executive Directors of the Company.
In furtherance control procedures of these duties and when considering succession planning, the Nomination Committee looks at the balance, structure - reviewed and considered reports from the Group and composition of the Board and takes into account the Head of Audit including any issues relating to internal future challenges and opportunities facing the Company.
controls and the status of actions taken in response The selection process is, in the Boards view, both rigorous to any identified concerns and transparent in order to ensure that appointments are - reviewed the output from the Group process used to made on merit and against objective criteria set by the Nomination Committee.
identify, evaluate and mitigate risk and considered the key risks arising from the Companys activities The Nomination Committee meets as required and during and the response of senior management to 2010 it met five times.
those challenges - assessed the qualifications, expertise, resources The Nomination Committee was focused on the and independence of the external auditor and the appointment of a new Chief Executive in the light of Mark Harpers intention to take early retirement at a mutually effectiveness of the audit process which enabled the agreed opportunity.
The Nomination Committee worked Committee to recommend the reappointment of in conjunction with external service providers in the the external auditor at the AGM development of an appropriate job specification and - reviewed and approved proposals for the conducted a thorough and comprehensive search in the engagement of the external auditor for non-audit identification of suitable candidates for the role.
The services and implemented a revised policy relating culmination of the Nomination Committees work during 2010 saw the announcement of the appointment of Colin to any such engagements Day as the Groups new Chief Executive with effect from - oversaw the implementation of new compliance 1 April 2011. programmes across the Group and approved the adoption of new whistleblowing procedures During the year, the Nomination Committee reviewed the Group Conflict of Interests policy and register and was - engaged in a formal review of the Companys satisfied that there were no material issues of conflict.
The internal audit and risk management processes in Company has established a procedure whereby actual or consultation with external service providers potential conflicts of interest are regularly reviewed and proper authorisation is sought as necessary prior to the The Audit Committee considers annually the engagement appointment of any new Director.
of the external auditor to supply non-audit services.
The importance of maintaining the objectivity and Remuneration Committee independence of the external auditor, by minimising its The Remuneration Committee currently comprises Paul involvement in projects of a non-audit nature, is of concern Drechsler who chairs the Committee, Lars Emilson and Terry to the Audit Committee.
It is, however, also acknowledged Twigger.
The composition and role of the Remuneration that, due to its detailed understanding of the Companys Committee is described more fully in the Report of the business, it is often beneficial to involve the external auditor Remuneration Committee on pages 51 to 61. in non-audit related work, principally comprising further assurance services relating to due diligence and other duties The Company Secretary & General Counsel acts as Secretary carried out in respect of acquisitions, disposals and tax to the Remuneration Committee.
During the course of the year, the Audit Committee Name Attendance adopted a revised policy relating to the engagement of the external auditor.
Chairman Paul Drechsler 3 of 3 Nomination Committee The Nomination Committee currently comprises Jeff Harris, Non-executive Directors who chairs the Committee, Paul Drechsler, Lars Emilson and Lars Emilson 3 of 3 Terry Twigger.
The Chief Executive and Director of Group Terry Twigger 3 of 3 Human Resources attend by invitation as appropriate.
The Company Secretary & General Counsel acts as Secretary to the Nomination Committee.
