58 Unlocking Resources Board of Directors 3 Professor Dr Dieter Ameling age 69 1 Dr Johannes Sittard age 67 6 Mr Jim Cochrane age 47 Chairman and non-executive Director Independent non-executive Director Chief Commercial Officer Professor Dr Dieter Ameling has been Senior Dr Sittard is the non-executive Chairman Mr Cochrane was appointed to the Board of the Company, having been the Chief Executive Counselor of ThyssenKrupp Steel Europe AG as Chief Commercial Officer on 13 August 2010. since 2008 and is an associate professor at Officer until 20 August 2009.
He has over 25 years Prior to this he was CEO of ENRC Marketing AG, experience in the natural resource and steel the Technical University Clausthal.
From 2000 responsible for developing and implementing the to 2008 Professor Dr Ameling was the Chairman industries.
Prior to joining the Group in 2001, sales and marketing strategy of the Group.
Dr Sittard was the President and Chief Operating of the Steel Institute VDEh and President of the Before joining the Group in 2001, Mr Cochrane German Steel Federation.
He was appointed Officer of ISPAT International NV now known as gained extensive experience in the steel and ArcelorMittal.
He is also the Chairman of Alferon.
to the Board on 26 January 2010. mining industry, having spent 12 years with BHP He is Chairman of the Nomination Committee and Professor Dr Ameling is a member of the Health, Billiton and before that with Samancor Chrome, a member of the Health, Safety, Environment and Safety, Environment and Sustainability Committee Impala Platinum and Schlumberger.
and of the Mergers and Acquisitions Committee.
2006, Mr Cochrane has been President of the International Chromium Development Association.
He is a non-executive Director of Jindal Steel Ltd. 2 Sir Richard Sykes age 68 4 Mr Gerhard Ammann age 66 Senior Independent Director and Independent non-executive Director He is a member of the Executive Committee.
non-executive Deputy Chairman Mr Ammann is currently President of Bank Von Sir Richard is Chairman of the UK Stem Cell Roll, a private bank in Switzerland.
Prior to joining 7 Mr Mehmet Dalman age 52 Foundation and was, until May 2010, Chairman the ENRC Board he was Chairman and CEO Independent non-executive Director of NHS London.
Prior to that, he was the Rector of Deloitte in Switzerland until May 2007 and Mr Dalman has spent 20 years as an investment of Imperial College, London and the Senior has over 30 years experience as an auditor of banker, working in Japan, Hong Kong, Frankfurt Independent Director of Rio Tinto plc.
international companies, primarily in banking, and London.
Mr Dalman is currently Vice finance and international trade.
He has over 30 years of experience within the Chairman of Toscafund Asset Management LLP.
biotechnology and pharmaceutical industries, Mr Ammann is Chairman of the Audit Committee, Prior to this he was Chief Executive Officer of serving as Chief Executive and Chairman of and a member of the Nomination Committee.
WMG Group, a financial services firm that he GlaxoWellcome from 1995 to 2000 and then founded in 2004, a member of the Supervisory as Chairman of GlaxoSmithKline until 2002.
Boards of Deutsche Brse and EUREX Zurich AG 5 Mr Marat Beketayev age 33 Sir Richard is the Senior Independent Director and a member of the Board of Commerzbank AG.
Non-executive Director and representative and Chairman of the Remuneration Committee of the Government of Kazakhstan Mr Dalman is Chairman of the Mergers and of ENRC.
He is also a member of the Nomination Mr Beketayev is Vice-minister of Justice of the Acquisitions Committee and a member of the Committee and of the Mergers and Acquisitions Republic of Kazakhstan and was previously an Remuneration Committee.
adviser to the Prime Minister of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
Mr Beketayev graduated in 1998 from the Kazakh State Law Institute.
In 2000 he completed an LLM in International Business Law at the London School of Economics.
Mr Beketayev is a member of the Health, Safety, Environment and Sustainability Committee, the Nomination Committee and the Mergers and Acquisitions Committee.
1 Dr Johannes Sittard 2 Sir Richard Sykes 3 Professor Dr Dieter Ameling 4 Mr Gerhard Ammann Chairman and Senior Independent Director and Independent non-executive Independent non-executive non-executive Director non-executive Deputy Chairman Director Director 5 Mr Marat Beketayev 6 Mr Jim Cochrane 7 Mr Mehmet Dalman Non-executive Director and Chief Commercial Officer Independent non-executive representative of the Director Government of Kazakhstan ENRC Annual Report and Accounts 2010 59 11 Mr Eduard Utepov age 57 8 Sir Paul Judge age 61 13 Mr Abdraman Yedilbayev age 51 Independent non-executive Director Non-executive Director and representative Non-executive Director appointed of the Government of Kazakhstan Sir Paul spent 13 years with Cadbury Schweppes by Mr Ibragimov plc, where he led the buyout of its food Mr Utepov has held numerous leading positions Mr Yedilbayev has wide experience working in within the state property authorities of the companies to form Premier Brands Ltd. the mining industry, in both the public and private Sir Paul is the Chairman of Schroder Income Republic of Kazakhstan since 1994.
For the past 10 years Mr Yedilbayev has 1995 and 1997 he served as Chairman of the Growth Fund plc and Director of the United been at Gornoe Buro LLP, which provides a Kingdom Accreditation Service, Standard Bank State Privatisation Committee of the Republic variety of technological and scientific services to of Kazakhstan and since January 2006 has Group Ltd of Johannesburg, Tempur-Pedic the mining industry and is currently its Chairman International Inc. of Kentucky and Abraaj served as Chairman of the State Property and and Finance Director.
Privatisation Committee at the Ministry of Finance Mr Yedilbayev is a member of the Health, Safety, of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
Sir Paul is a member of the Audit and Environment and Sustainability Committee.
Mr Utepov is a member of the Health, Safety, Environment and Sustainability Committee.
14 Dr Zaure Zaurbekova age 48 9 Mr Kenneth Olisa age 59 Chief Financial Officer Independent non-executive Director 12 Mr Felix Vulis age 55 Dr Zaurbekova became Chief Financial Officer Mr Olisa is a Director of Thomson Reuters PLC Chief Executive Officer in September 2009, having been Chief Financial and the founder and Chairman of Restoration Mr Vulis has been Chief Executive Officer since Officer of ENRC Kazakhstan since 2001.
Prior to Partners Ltd, a boutique technology merchant August 2009.
Prior to this he was Chief Operating that, she was Finance Director and later first Vice bank.
From 1992 to 2006, Mr Olisa was Chairman Officer of ENRC from December 2006.
and CEO of Interregnum PLC, a listed technology 2002 and 2006, Mr Vulis was First Vice President Before joining ENRC, Dr Zaurbekova worked in merchant bank.
Prior to that, he was a senior of Eurasia Industrial Association.
the Ministry of Industry and Trade of the Republic executive for over 20 years at Wang Labs and Before joining the Group in 2001, Mr Vulis was of Kazakhstan and she began her career in IBM.
He serves on the Board of several UK President of UNICHEM K, LLC.
From 1990 until the Kazakh Research Institute of Automation not-for-profit organisations including Thames 1995 he was President and CEO of AGC Group, of Planning.
He is an ordinary member of the Inc. Mr Vulis is Deputy Chairman of the Governing Independent Parliamentary Standards Authority.
She is a member of the Executive Committee.
Board and Co-Chairman of the Operating Mr Olisa is a member of the Audit and Working Group of the Foreign Investors Council Remuneration Committees.
Mr Vulis is Chairman of the Health, Safety, 10 Mr Roderick Thomson age 71 Environment and Sustainability Committee Independent non-executive Director and he chairs the Executive Committee.
Mr Thomson is an international financier, venture capitalist and philanthropist with over 40 years of international business experience.
He has provided capital from his own private investment portfolios to numerous companies in the information technology, biotechnology, oil and gas, real estate and telecommunications sectors.
Mr Thomson is a member of the Audit and Nomination Committees.
8 Sir Paul Judge 9 Mr Kenneth Olisa 10 Mr Roderick Thomson 11 Mr Eduard Utepov Independent non-executive Independent non-executive Independent non-executive Non-executive Director and Director Director Director representative of the Government of Kazakhstan 12 Mr Felix Vulis 13 Mr Abdraman Yedilbayev 14 Dr Zaure Zaurbekova Chief Executive Officer Non-executive Director Chief Financial Officer appointed by Mr Ibragimov
