ENRC Annual Report and Accounts 2010 7 Key Messages A business with tremendous assets and an established track record Dynamic and growing business with the capacity for continued growth Specialist in emerging markets Commitment to Corporate Social Responsibility and Sustainable Development www.
com 8 Unlocking Resources A Business with Tremendous Assets and an Established Track Record ENRC has interests in Kazakhstan, China, Russia, Brazil and Africa the Democratic Republic of the Congo, Zambia, Mozambique and South Africa.
The Groups strategy is to build on its long-established Kazakhstani operations to become a diversified natural resources group with world class assets.
48 Years of chrome ore reserves ENRC Annual Report and Accounts 2010 9 Since its inception, the Group has established a track record for enhancing existing assets and for organic and acquisitive growth.
Over the years ENRC has put together a portfolio of world class assets focused on the core products of ferroalloys, iron ore, alumina and aluminium, coal and energy.
This track record and asset portfolio was of Today, ENRC is proud to be one of the worlds fundamental importance to the successful largest producers of ferrochrome, a significant listing of ENRCs shares on the London Stock exporter of iron ore, one of the worlds largest Exchange in 2007 and the Kazakhstan Stock producers of traded alumina and one of the largest Exchange in 2008, and its entry into the electricity providers in Kazakhstan.
It is an important FTSE 100 Index.
global resources group, currently selling the majority of its products worldwide.
During the last two years management has taken advantage of opportunities arising from the economic downturn in order to boost and diversify the Groups asset portfolio.
Management has built on the strength of the Groups low cost and integrated operations and its strong balance sheet to acquire a number of important assets in Africa and Brazil.
10 Unlocking Resources Dynamic and Growing Business with the Capacity for Continued Growth A key strength of the Group is its large scale, scaleable and long-life assets in its principal commodities.
This has been an important factor in the dynamic growth of the Groups Kazakhstani businesses and is reinforced by the integral energy and logistics capacity of the Group in the region.
Together these help maintain the advantageous low cost position of the Group in its key commodities.
72% Growth in Group revenue in 2010 ENRC Annual Report and Accounts 2010 11 The Groups commodities portfolio is well supported by the growth prospects of emerging markets and their commodityintensive requirements.
In Kazakhstan, the mine reserves life of the Groups In the Democratic Republic of the Congo, main commodities chrome and iron ore, bauxite acquisitions in 2010 have scaled up and broadened and coal range between 32 and 48 years.
With the established production base of the businesses.
the addition of resources the mine life is potentially The options for the further development of the extended by between one and three times.
This business from the joint venture with Camrose, has enabled the Group to plan a capital expenditure with its various licence holdings, offer potential programme that will grow the processing capacity material synergies from the complementary and of the domestic ferroalloys business by some contiguous nature of the ore bodies relating to 30% and the domestic iron ore business extraction energy, logistics, processing and mine planning.
The growth We see opportunity for real scale in the business, potential in the region is further underpinned by even before considering the potential offered by the Groups strategic location, with its proximity other projects acquired as part of Central African to the longer-term, high-growth prospects of China Mining and Exploration Company CAMEC Plc and the potential of Russia, built on demographics, in 2009. urbanisation, rising consumer demand and infrastructure needs.
The Groups commodities In Brazil, where the Group has been building suite is well supported by the growth prospects the potential for iron ore capacity since its entry of emerging markets and their commodity in 2008, the opportunity exists to enter the seaborne intensive requirements.
market and to supply a new group of customers in China, the Atlantic and the Middle East.
The The Group has also looked to increase its growth development builds on the Groups established options by acquisition, broadening its commodity technical knowledge base and marketing contacts.
base and reinforcing its market position in its The capacity to grow the iron ore business, established commodities.
The Group has sought in combination with the growth in Kazakhstan, assets that are or have the prospect of being could make the Group one of the top iron ore large scale and scaleable, as well as the potential producers in the world in the years ahead.
to be towards the lower end of the cost curve.
To this end the Group has been willing to consider acquisition at a relatively early stage in the development of projects.
The Group continues to build its asset resource capacity with the potential to be large scale and scaleable.
12 Unlocking Resources Specialist in Emerging Markets The Groups successful development of its Kazakhstani operations has provided it with considerable emerging markets experience.
This has been important in ENRCs acquisitions activity, particularly in the Democratic Republic of the Congo, where we have sought to build on the skills and experience of operating in emerging market environments.
US$ 63 million total community and social investment in 2010 ENRC Annual Report and Accounts 2010 13 The Groups senior management team possesses an extensive experience of operating in Eurasia, Africa and the developing world.
The Group believes that it is important to work In emerging markets the role of central government in partnership with its host governments and to in the provision of social welfare is at an early stage accommodate the wider development objectives of development.
In addition, the Group often of the countries in which it operates.
operates in isolated areas where it is the major employer and where it can be difficult to attract The Groups existing senior management team and retain employees.
As a consequence, taking incorporates extensive experience of operating on responsibilities for housing, healthcare, education in Eurasia, in Africa and in the developing world and facilities, as well as supporting local, regional more generally.
In addition, in emerging markets, and central government social infrastructure on-the-ground experienced management is often initiatives becomes key to our success.
the important ingredient that ensures that the business model can be integrated and then can The expenditure on community social investment continue to operate successfully.
The Group can in Kazakhstan and Russia in 2010 amounted to provide additional financial, technical and marketing US$58 million 2009: US$37million.
This increase expertise, as well as international opportunities was largely a result of increased funding towards for its employees.
The community investment spend in Africa was The entities of ENRC in Kazakhstan have long of the order of US$5 million in 2010. had the Kazakhstani Government as a partner and shareholder.
Today, the Government continues In the DRC the Group has undertaken a number of to be an 11.6% shareholder in the Group, with two projects and in 2011 will continue the roll-out of its seats on the Board.
In the Democratic Republic of welfare programme.
the Congo DRC the Government, or other State entities, is typically a 25%-30% participant in our key licences.
14 Unlocking Resources Commitment to Corporate Social Responsibility and Sustainable Development A commitment to high standards of corporate responsibility, particularly health and safety, is one of the core principles of ENRCs strategy.
The Group aims to grow its business while maintaining its commitment to respecting the environment, providing safe and healthy workplaces and making a positive contribution to the societies in which it operates.
The Group believes that investment in this area brings long-term benefits, helping it to improve efficiency and reduce operational costs, better manage risk practices, and attract and retain the best employees.
18 New standards for safety risk management approved in 2010 ENRC Annual Report and Accounts 2010 15 ENRC works extensively with the communities involved with the Group, undertaking significant charitable projects via the ENRC Komek Corporate Foundation.
In 2010 our values and an awareness of ENRCs Environmental awareness is also central to the responsibilities were further embedded into Group and ENRC is committed to the efficient use every area of the business, starting with the of resources and to reducing any negative impacts safety of employees.
The Group continued the of operations on water, air and land.
The priority implementation of the entity-wide Project Ray, areas of environmental investment in 2010 included launched in April 2009, which is aimed at improving the improvement of energy efficiency and reduction the workplace safety culture, aspiring to a zero of greenhouse gas emissions, waste generation injury rate a priority objective for the Group.
The and disposal, as well as a reduction in the use of Groups housing programme also continued, with hazardous chemicals.
the intention of providing Kazakhstani employees with housing and preferential mortgage rates and ENRC was the first company in Kazakhstan enhancing the quality of their lives.
to introduce an environmental management system which met the international standard ENRC works extensively with the communities ISO 14001.
All ENRC operations in Kazakhstan met involved with the Group, undertaking significant this standard by the end of June 2010.
In 2010 the charitable projects via the ENRC Komek Corporate construction of new gas cleaning facilities continued Foundation.
The Foundation provides cultural, at Kazchrome, Eurasian Energy Corporation and educational and other social support in Kazakhstan SSGPO.
These are the leading facilities of their and beyond.
Working with regional governments, kind in Kazakhstan, and have helped the Group the Foundation has invested in both their economic in its objectives to reduce pollutant emissions.
and social development, including the construction of infrastructure facilities, environmental initiatives and the creation and preservation of jobs for local communities.
