60 Unlocking Resources Senior Management 4 Mr Jeff Couch 1 Mr Andrew Balgarnie Group Head of HR, Business Performance Head of Business Development Mr Couch joined the Group in January 2009 & Transformation Mr Balgarnie was a career corporate financier as Head of Business Development.
Formerly, he was a Director of Metals and Mining at at Morgan Stanley before joining the Group in October 2009.
He has worked in New York, Credit Suisse in London.
5 Mr Beat Ehrensberger He is a member of the Executive Committee.
Head of Mergers & Acquisitions Mr Ehrensberger is the Head of Mergers & 2 Mr Randal Barker Acquisitions.
Mr Ehrensberger originally joined General Counsel and Company Secretary ENRC as General Counsel in 2003 and until mid Mr Barker joined ENRC as General Counsel 2008 was responsible for the Groups legal affairs.
and Company Secretary in September 2008.
He began his career as an Associate of the He was previously Group Legal Director and Tax and Legal Department at Ernst & Young in Group Company Secretary at Resolution plc.
He later worked at a Zurich-based Prior to this, Mr Barker held positions at General law firm commercial and corporate law.
Electric Company and Lovells LLP.
He is a member of the Executive Committee.
6 Mr Victor Hanna not pictured Head of Strategy and CEO for Africa 3 Ms Mounissa Chodieva Mr Hannas role is to lead on Business Head of Investor & Public Relations Development and Mergers & Acquisitions Ms Chodieva has been Head of Investor and programmes.
He is also Chief Executive Public Relations since 2006, having previously Officer for Africa.
held the position of Vice President of Corporate He is a member of the Executive Committee, Finance.
Prior to this Ms Chodieva acted as and the Health, Safety, Environment and Vice President of Corporate Restructuring at Sustainability Committee.
CIM Global AG, and undertook a legal training contract at Nicholson Graham & Jones, now Kirkpatrick & Lockhart Preston Gates Ellis LLP.
She is a member of the Executive Committee.
1 Mr Andrew Balgarnie 2 Mr Randal Barker 3 Ms Mounissa Chodieva Group Head of HR, General Counsel and Head of Investor & Business Performance & Company Secretary Public Relations Transformation 4 Mr Jeff Couch 5 Mr Beat Ehrensberger Head of Business Development Head of Mergers & Acquisitions ENRC Annual Report and Accounts 2010 61 9 Mr Arif Shadiev 7 Mr Almaz Ibragimov President of JSC Aluminium of Kazakhstan General Director of ENRC Logistics Mr Shadiev held the position of Deputy General Mr Ibragimov has been the President of JSC Aluminium of Kazakhstan since 2001.
Director at LLP Transystema from 1999 to 2006.
He was appointed as General Director of ENRC From 1994 until 2001 he held various positions at the JSC Pavlodar Alumina Plant.
Prior to Logistics in 2007. that he was Chief Engineer at the collective farm Pervoye Maya in Kyrgyzstan.
10 Mr Victor Til General Director of JSC Kazchrome 8 Mr Abduazim Rustambayev Mr Til started his career at the Kazchrome mine Molodejnaya in 1977 and worked in various President of JSC Eurasian Energy Corporation Mr Rustambayev has been the President of JSC positions within Kazchrome.
In 2004 he Eurasian Energy Corporation since 1999.
Prior was appointed as the General Director of to assuming this role Mr Rustambayev held the JSC Kazchrome.
position of General Director of the Yermakovskaya GRESS State district power plant in Kazakhstan 11 Mr Mukhamejan Turdakhunov for three years.
Mr Rustambayev previously President of SSGPO worked at The Regional Consumer Cooperation Mr Turdakhunov has held the position of Society of Frunze, Kyrgyzstan as the Deputy Chief President of SSGPO since 1999.
He began Manager for seven years.
his career in the metals and mining industry in 1995 as the Director of the Aksu Factory of the Ferroalloys Division in the Pavlodar Region in Kazakhstan.
Mr Turdakhunov then spent two years as the General Director of the public corporation Khimfarm in Shymkent City, Kazakhstan.
He joined SSGPO as its First Vice President in 1997.
7 Mr Almaz Ibragimov 8 Mr Abduazim Rustambayev 9 Mr Arif Shadiev President of JSC Aluminium of President of JSC Eurasian General Director of ENRC Kazakhstan Energy Corporation Logistics 10 Mr Victor Til 11 Mr Mukhamejan Turdakhunov General Director of JSC President of SSGPO Kazchrome
