Our Divisions Financial PublisHing Training 23% 9% of group of group Turnover Turnover 76.6m Revenue 29.9m Revenue Financial publishing includes an extensive The training division runs a comprehensive portfolio of titles covering the international range of banking, finance and legal capital markets as well as a number of courses, both public and in-house, under specialist financial titles.
Products include: the Euromoney and DC Gardner brands.
magazines, newsletters, journals, surveys Courses are run all over the world for and research, directories, and books.
A both financial institutions and corporates.
selection of the companys leading financial In addition, the companys Boston-based brands includes: Euromoney, Institutional subsidiary, MIS, runs a wide range of Investor, EuroWeek, Latin Finance, courses for the audit and information Asiamoney, Global Investor, Project Finance, security market.
Futures & Options World, Total Derivatives and the hedge fund titles EuroHedge, InvestHedge, AsiaHedge and AR.
business PublisHing 18% of group Turnover 59.1m Revenue The business publishing division produces specialist magazines and other publications PrinciPal branDs covering the metals and mining, legal, telecoms and energy sectors.
Its leading brands include: Metal Bulletin, American Metal Market: International Financial Law Review, International Tax Review and Managing Intellectual Property: Capacity: Petroleum Economist, World Oil and Hydrocarbon Processing.
Euromoney Institutional Investor PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2010 02 20082.04 09 12 10 Proof 6 DaTabases anD cOnFerences inFOrmaTiOn services anD seminars 23% 27% of group of group Turnover Turnover 78.8m Revenue 89.8m Revenue The group runs a large number of The group provides a number of sponsored conferences and seminars for the subscription-based database and electronic international financial markets, mostly under information services for financial markets.
the Euromoney, Institutional Investor, Metal Montreal based BCA Research is one of the Bulletin and IMN brands.
Many of these worlds leading independent providers of conferences are the leading annual events global investment research.
The companys in their sector and provide sponsors with a US subsidiary, Internet Securities, Inc. high quality programme and speakers, and provides the worlds most comprehensive outstanding networking opportunities.
Such service for news and data on global events include: The Global Borrowers and emerging markets under the Emerging Investors Forum: the Annual Global Hedge Markets Information Service EMIS brand, Fund Summit: the European Airfinance and also includes CEIC, one of the leading Conference: the Islamic Finance Summit: the providers of time-series macro-economic Super Bowl of Indexing: and Global ABS data for emerging markets.
The company and ABS East for the asset-backed securities also offers global capital market databases market.
In the energy sector, the group runs through a venture with its AIM-listed the worlds leading annual coal conferences, partner, Dealogic plc.
Coaltrans and Coaltrans Asia: TelCap runs International Telecoms Week, the best meeting place worldwide for telecom carriers and service providers: and MIS runs a leading event for the information security sector in the US, InfoSec World.
Euromoney Institutional Investor PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2010 Euromoney Institutional Investor PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2010 03 20082.04 09 12 10 Proof 6 Our Divisions Company Accounts Group Accounts Our Governance Our Performance
