Directors report The directors submit their annual report and group accounts for the year ended September 30 2010.
2. strategy Certain statements made in this document are forward-looking statements.
Such statements are based on current expectations and are subject to a number of risks and uncertainties that could cause The key elements of the groups strategy are: actual events or results to differ materially from any expected future events or results referred to in these forward-looking statements.
Unless driving top-line revenue growth from both new and existing products: otherwise required by applicable law, regulation or accounting standard, building robust subscription and repeat revenues and reducing the the directors do not undertake any obligation to update or revise any dependence on advertising: forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, improving operating margins through revenue growth and tight cost future development or otherwise.
Nothing in this document shall be control: regarded as a profit forecast.
investing from profits in new businesses, technology and the online migration of its publishing activities: The Directors Report has been prepared for the group as a whole and, leveraging technology to launch specialised new electronic therefore, gives greater emphasis to those matters which are significant information services: to Euromoney Institutional Investor PLC and its subsidiary undertakings making acquisitions that supplement the groups existing businesses, when viewed as a whole.
It has been prepared solely to provide strengthen the companys market position in key areas and have the additional information to shareholders to assess the companys strategy capacity for organic growth using the existing knowledge base of the and the potential for that strategy to succeed, and the directors report group: and should not be relied upon by any other party for any other purpose.
The keeping its debt within a net debt to EBITDA limit of three times.
corporate governance report forms part of this directors report.
In 2009, to supplement this strategy, the board set the group a profit target of 100 million to be achieved by 2013 against a base of 62.3 million in 2009.
At the companys 2010 AGM, shareholders approved a new long-term incentive scheme, the Capital Appreciation Plan 2010 CAP 2010, with performance criteria linked to the groups 100 million 1.
The board is firmly of the view that this incentive scheme is an essential element of the groups strategy to drive above average long-term profit growth.
Further details of CAP 2010 are set out in the Euromoney Institutional Investor PLC is listed on the London Stock remuneration report.
Exchange and is a member of the FTSE 250 share index.
It is a leading international business-to-business media group focused primarily on the international finance, metals and commodities sectors.
It publishes more than 70 magazines, newsletters and journals, including Euromoney, Institutional Investor and Metal Bulletin.
It also runs an extensive portfolio of conferences, seminars and training courses and is a leading provider of electronic information and data covering international finance, metals and commodities, and emerging markets.
Its main offices are located in London, New York, Montreal and Hong Kong and more than a third of its revenues are derived from emerging markets.
Details of the groups legal entities can be found in note 13.
Profit before tax excluding acquired intangible amortisation, long-term incentive expense, exceptional items, net movements in acquisition option commitments values, imputed interest on acquisition option commitments, foreign exchange loss interest charge on tax equalisation contracts and foreign exchange on restructured hedging arrangements but including redundancy costs as set out in the Income Statement, note 5 and note 7.
Euromoney Institutional Investor PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2010 Euromoney Institutional Investor PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2010 07 20082.04 09 12 10 Proof 6 Directors Report Company Accounts Group Accounts Our Governance Our Performance Directors Report continued 3. Business Review 3.1 Group results and dividends The group profit for the year attributable to shareholders amounted to 58.1 million 2009: loss 6.3 million.
The directors recommend a final dividend of 11.75 pence per ordinary share 2009: 7.75 pence, payable on February 4 2011 to shareholders on the register on November 19 2010.
This, together with the interim dividend of 6.25 pence per ordinary share 2009: 6.25 pence which was declared on May 13 2010 and paid on July 15 2010, brings the total dividend for the year to 18.0 pence per ordinary share 2009: 14.0 pence.
3.2 Key performance indicators The group monitors its performance against its strategy using the following key performance indicators.
Gross profit and revenue are both as per note 4 in the financial statements.
2 adjusted operating margin: operating profit before acquired intangible amortisation, long-term incentive plan expense, exceptional items and associates as a percentage of revenue.
Operating profit and revenue are both as per the Group Income Statement in the financial statements.
3 like-for-like growth in profits: proportion of operating profit growth that relates to organic growth, rather than acquisitions.
Operating profit is from continuing operations and excludes closed businesses, acquired intangible amortisation and exceptional items and is adjusted for significant timing differences.
4 Headcount: number of permanent people employed at the end of the period including people employed in associates.
5 net debt to ebiTDa: the amount of the groups net debt converted at the groups weighted average exchange rate for the rolling 12 month period to earnings before interest, tax, depreciation, amortisation and also before exceptional items but after the long-term incentive plan expense.
6 caP profit: profit before tax excluding acquired intangible amortisation, long-term incentive plan expense, exceptional items, net movements in acquisition option commitments values, imputed interest on acquisition option commitments, foreign exchange loss interest charge on tax equalisation contracts and foreign exchange on restructured hedging arrangements but including redundancy costs as set out in the group income statement, note 5 and note 7.
7 adjusted PbT: CAP profit after the deduction of long-term incentive expense and the exclusion of redundancy costs as set out on page 6.
3.3 KPis explained The faster than expected recovery of subscription revenues was the The key performance indicators are all within the boards expectations most encouraging trading sign during the second half.
The pick-up in and support its successful strategy.
These indicators are discussed in subscription renewal rates began in the summer of 2009, and has been detail in the Chairmans Statement on pages 4 and 5, and in section followed by a recovery in sales of new subscriptions.
combination of stronger markets, increased investment in marketing and electronic publishing, as well as many new customers identified in 3.4 Development of the business of the group the aftermath of the credit crisis.
Subscriptions continue to account for 3.4.
1 Trading review nearly 50% of group revenues.
Total revenue increased by 4% to 330.0 million, but with a marked difference between the revenue performance in each half: an 8% fall Most of the groups biggest subscription businesses, including BCA in the first half was offset by a 16% increase in revenue in the second Research, II Memberships and CEIC have seen revenues and renewal see table below.
Traditionally the recovery in revenue at the end of rates return to pre-credit crisis levels earlier than expected.
Subscription a downturn tends to be slower than the fall at the start, but this has revenues increased by 1% over the year, while the quarterly year-onnot been the case following the credit crisis, when the recovery has year growth rate at constant exchange rates improved to 7% by the happened much earlier and faster than expected.
Change at constant 2010 2009 Headline change exchange Revenues m m H1 H2 Year rates Subscriptions 153.7 152.3 7% 9% 1% 1% Advertising 57.6 54.8 7% 16% 5% 5% Sponsorship 41.8 38.5 18% 34% 9% 8% Delegates 71.4 69.6 11% 19% 3% 2% Other closed 9.7 10.5 14% 3% 8% 8% Foreign exchange losses on forward currency contracts 4.2 8.1 Total revenue 330.0 317.6 8% 16% 4% 4% Euromoney Institutional Investor PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2010 Euromoney Institutional Investor PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2010 09 20082.04 09 12 10 Proof 6 Million Directors Report Company Accounts Group Accounts Our Governance Our Performance Directors report continued Advertising revenues were the first to suffer during the credit crisis, business Publishing: the groups activities outside finance are less and the first to recover.
Advertising budgets and campaigns tend to be volatile, reflecting the spread of sectors covered including metals, linked to the calendar year, although the rate of recovery has improved commodities, energy, telecoms and law, and the higher proportion of each quarter as global financial institutions became more confident revenues derived from subscriptions.
These sectors held up relatively about the outlook for financial markets.
In addition, the financial year well during the credit crisis and were not subject to significant cost closed with a particularly strong September, the key month of the year cuts, leaving limited margin upside.
Revenues increased by 5% to 59.1 for many of the groups advertising-led businesses.
million and the adjusted operating margin was unchanged at 42%.
Metal Bulletin was again the best performer as subscription revenues Revenues from events, which comprise both sponsorship and paying continued to grow, driven by a combination of product investment and delegates, experienced the most rapid recovery in 2010.
Event revenues increased marketing spend.
were hit hard during the credit crisis as customers exercised tight controls over training, event attendance and travel.
At the same time Training: the groups Training division predominantly serves the global the group cut event volumes by eliminating many of its smaller, low financial sector and was the hardest hit by the credit crisis and cuts in margin events, and continued to invest to enhance the market leading training spend, headcount and travel budgets.
Training revenues, which positions of its annual conferences and meetings.
The majority of the are mostly derived from paying delegates, fell by 6% to 29.9 million, groups largest events are held in the second half of its financial year largely due to a 26% decline in the first quarter as the impact of the and as markets have recovered, so attendance at these events has credit crisis continued into the early part of the financial year.
From returned rapidly to pre-credit crisis levels or better.
January, as customer training budgets returned, delegate bookings gradually improved, although course volumes have been held back As in the first half, emerging markets, which account for more than a until there is more certainty over the recovery.
The resultant increase in third of the groups revenue, continued to hold up reasonably well, with average bookings per course helped the margin improve from 20% to Asia and Latin America providing the main sources of growth.
24%, and adjusted operating profit increased by 14% to 7.2 million.
The group derives nearly two-thirds of its revenue in US dollars and conferences and seminars: revenues comprise both sponsorship and movements in the sterlingUS dollar rate have had a significant impact paying delegates and increased by 4% to 78.8 million.
The recovery on reported revenues in some years.
However, in 2010 the average in the adjusted operating margin from 21% to 29% helped drive an sterlingUS dollar exchange rate was $1.55, against $1.58 a year ago, increase in adjusted operating profit of nearly 50% to 23.2 million, and movements in exchange rates have not had a significant impact on and demonstrates the success of the groups strategy to cut low margin reported revenues or margins.
events in a downturn, while continuing to focus on building its larger, must-attend annual events in niche markets.
As markets have recovered, While the results for the first half reflected the continuing benefit of the groups bigger events have seen a sharp recovery in demand and cost cuts in 2009, the return to revenue growth in the second half has attendance has improved.
Growth has come across all sectors, with meant the increased investment in technology and new products has some such as structured finance and hedge funds rebounding faster been executed with minimal impact on margins.
Inevitably headcount than expected, and others such as metals, coal and telecoms, with their has increased permanent headcount at September 30 was 1,988, an strong emerging markets exposure, achieving record attendance and increase of 141 during the second half but the adjusted operating revenues.
margin in the second was 30%, very similar to that achieved in the first half.
Databases and information services: revenues are predominantly derived from subscription contracts of 12 months or longer, and the 3.4.
2 business division review performance of this division therefore tends to lag the others.
Revenues Financial Publishing: revenues, approximately 40% of which are increased by 3% to nearly 90 million and, with a steady adjusted subscription-driven, increased by 3% to 76.6 million.
However, operating margin of 41%, adjusted operating profit increased by 2% adjusted operating profit increased by 29% to 26.2 million on the to 37.0 million.
Revenue growth in this division slowed from the back of an improvement in the adjusted operating margin from 27% second half of 2009, a trend which continued into the first half of 2010 to 34%.
The better margin partly reflects the cost-cuts made in 2009 before recovering in the second half.
This largely reflects the lag effect the Financial Publishing division was one of those most affected by the of cuts in headcount and information-buying by customers in the first credit crisis and partly the strong end to the year as many of the titles half of 2009.
BCA returned to growth from the third quarter, earlier publish their biggest issue of the year in September.
Among the best than expected, and margins were maintained despite the start of a performers were Euromoney, EuroWeek and Latin Finance, all of which substantial investment programme to build BCAs editorial resource and have a significant emerging market exposure.
to expand its sales teams.
CEIC continued to experience strong growth in revenue from its emerging markets data service, which helped offset weaker demand for ISIs emerging markets information service.
Euromoney Institutional Investor PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2010 10 20082.04 09 12 10 Proof 6 3.4.
3 Financial review The groups interest cost in 2009 included 19.9 million 2010: nil The adjusted profit before tax of 86.6 million compares to a statutory in relation to foreign exchange losses on hedges on intra-group profit before tax of 71.4 million.
A detailed reconciliation of the financing.
These were matched by an equal and opposite tax credit in groups underlying and statutory results is set out in the appendix the groups tax line from tax equalisation swaps designed to hedge this to the Chairmans Statement.
The statutory profit is generally lower transaction.
In addition, last year the group also restructured its hedging than the adjusted profit before tax because of the impact of acquired arrangements see note 7 and note 19 and incurred foreign exchange intangible amortisation.
losses of 7.9 million 2010: nil on its resultant ineffective hedges.
Underlying net finance costs for the groups committed borrowing Excluding these amounts, the groups net finance cost decreased from facility fell by 4.7 million to 9.3 million, reflecting both lower debt 14.0 million to 9.3 million, reflecting the lower cost of the groups levels and lower interest rates.
The average cost of funds for the year debt facility following the strengthening of its net debt to EBTIDA was 5.2% 2009: 6.0%.
The groups policy of swapping 80% of its covenant coupled with lower debt levels.
The group continues to follow debt into fixed rates for at least the next 12 months means that the its treasury policy of fixing the interest rate on a portion of its long-term average cost of funds in 2011 is unlikely to increase significantly.
borrowings see treasury section below and hence changes to LIBOR rates do not immediately affect the groups interest cost.
The underlying effective tax rate for the year was 27%, the same as 2009.
The tax rate depends on the geographic mix of profits and is not 3.4.
5 net debt, cash flow and dividend expected to change significantly in 2011.
Net cash taxes paid were only Net debt at September 30 was 128.8 million compared with 178.1 1.9 million, reflecting the benefit of tax losses in 2009.
However, the million at March 31.
The reduction in net debt of nearly 50 million strong profit performance and utilisation of tax losses means the group since the half year reflects the strong operating cash flows of the group.
is now paying taxes in all jurisdictions and cash taxes will match more These are traditionally weighted to the second half due to the timing of closely the underlying tax expense in 2011. payment for annual profit shares, dividends and acquisition earn-outs.
Cash generated from operations increased by 28.2 million to 100.8 The group continues to generate nearly two-thirds of its revenues in million and the operating cash conversion rate was 101% 2009: 91%.
US dollars, including approximately 30% of the revenues in its UKbased businesses, and more than half its operating profits are US dollarIn August, the group completed the acquisition of Arete Consulting denominated.
The group hedges its exposure to the US dollar revenues Limited, its first material transaction since the acquisition of Metal in its UK businesses by using forward contracts to sell surplus US dollars.
The group acquired a 100% interest in Arete This delays the impact of movements in exchange rates for at least a for an expected net consideration of 5.8 million, of which 0.6 million year.
As a result of this hedging policy, the group benefited from a 3.9 is deferred until April 2011, with the final price dependent on Aretes million reduction in hedging losses compared to last year.
profit for its financial year to February 28 2011.
Aretes revenue for that year is expected to be in the region of 3 million.
The group does not hedge the foreign exchange risk on the translation of overseas profits, although it does endeavour to match foreign The groups debt is provided through a $400 million multi-currency currency borrowings with investments.
The related foreign currency committed facility from Daily Mail and General Trust plc.
The facility finance costs provide a partial hedge against the translation of overseas is provided in a mix of sterling and US dollar funds over three and profits.
In 2010, the impact of foreign exchange rates movements on five year terms expiring in December 2011 and 2013 respectively.
the translation of profits was not significant.
The reduction in debt levels in 2010 and expected continued strong cash flows in 2011 means any remaining debt under the three year 3.4.
4 Finance costs facility can be rolled into the five year facility at the December 2011 IAS 39 Financial Instruments: Recognition and Measurement requires expiry date.
an imputed interest charge to be recognised on the groups future acquisition payments under option agreements.
This additional finance The net debt to EBITDA covenant on the groups committed facility is charge increased the groups interest cost by 0.1 million 2009: 0.6 subject to a limit of four times, although the group manages its gearing million.
IAS 39 also requires any movements in the estimated value to a more conservative internal limit of three times EBITDA.
The ratio at of acquisition option commitments to be recognised in interest and in the end of September was 1.3 times against just under 2.0 times a year 2010 this amount was 1.2 million 2009: 2.2 million.
There are no significant capital or acquisition cash commitments related cash effect of these amounts.
Euromoney Institutional Investor PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2010 Euromoney Institutional Investor PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2010 11 20082.04 09 12 10 Proof 6 Directors Report Company Accounts Group Accounts Our Governance Our Performance Directors report continued In 2009, the board increased the companys target dividend cover to The terms of CAP 2010 broadly require an adjusted profit before tax three times after-tax earnings.
Pursuant to this policy, the board has and before CAP long-term incentive expense of 100 million to be recommended a final dividend of 11.75p a share 2009: 7.75p making achieved, from a base profit of 62.3 million in 2009, within the four a total dividend for the year of 18.0p 2009: 14.0p.
The final dividend year performance period ending in September 2013.
If achieved, will be paid on February 4 2011 to shareholders on the register at rewards under CAP 2010 will be satisfied by the issue of approximately November 19 2010.
A scrip dividend alternative will again be available 3.5 million new ordinary shares and 15 million cash, with 50% of to shareholders and the groups majority shareholder, Daily Mail the reward deferred for a further 12 months and subject to additional and General Trust plc, has indicated its intention to accept the scrip performance tests.
The total cost of CAP 2010 will be no more than 30 million, which is 3.4.
6 balance sheet being expensed over the expected life of the plan.
The CAP expense The net assets of the group were 169.5 million compared to 105.0 for the seven months since it was launched in March 2010 was 3.9 million in 2009.
The main movements in the balance sheet items million.
In the event the CAP profit target is achieved a year before were in: intangible assets, reflecting the recognition of 7.7 million the end of the 2013 performance period, the expected life of the plan of goodwill and other intangible assets following the acquisition of would be shortened and the annual CAP expense would increase.
For Arete, foreign exchange gains of 4.8 million, amortisation costs of the financial years 2011 and 2012, if the 100 million CAP profit target 13.9 million and impairment costs of 1.8 million: property, plant was achieved in 2012, the annual CAP expense would increase from and equipment fell by 0.3 million to 19.5 million, largely as a result 6.8 million to 9.2 million.
Further details on the CAP 2010 are set out of depreciation of 2.7 million and disposals of 0.8 million, offset in the Directors Remuneration Report.
by regular capital expenditure across the group of 3.1 million.
net derivative financial instrument due less than one year and more 3.4.
8 acquisitions and disposals than one year fell from a liability of 23.4 million to a liability of Acquisitions remain an important part of the groups growth strategy.
In 13.6 million reflecting the lower level of forward currency contracts particular the board believes that acquisitions are valuable for taking the in place: acquisition option commitments due in less than one year group into new sectors, for bringing new technologies into the group fell 10.2 million to 1.1 million reflecting the exercise during the and for increasing the groups revenues by buying into rapidly growing year of the option commitments over ISI, Total Derivatives, TelCap and niche businesses.
The group continues to look for strategic acquisitions Coaltrans and 1.0 million of true-up adjustments: trade and other in the areas of international finance, commodities and energy, and in payables fell 27.9 million to 31.3 million reflecting the payment emerging markets.
of a 23.9 million balance due to a DMGT group undertaking from a 2009 intergroup funding transaction: deferred income increased Acquisition 11.1 million to 93.7 million reflecting the increase in the groups In August 2010 the group acquired 100% of the equity of Arete forward sold subscription and event revenues: loan notes fell 3.7 Consulting Limited, the market leading database of retail structured million to 2.0 million, a result of loan note redemption during the investment products, for a cash consideration of 6.1 million with a year: committed loan facility fell 33.5 million to 137.9 million, further payment in 2011 of approximately 0.6 million dependent on reflecting the net cash generated by the group from operations: net the audited profits of the business.
pension deficit increased from a deficit of 0.4 million to a deficit of 1.5 million reflecting a 3.9 million increased in the pension obligation Increase in equity holdings offset by a 2.7 million increased in the asset value: the net deferred During the year the group has invested 11.6 million in increasing its tax liability has remained level at 3.3 million, the asset increasing equity interests in a number of its subsidiaries under acquisition earndue to recognition of tax losses following the agreement by the tax out agreements.
This includes: the acquisition of the final 5% minority authorities of open tax matters offset by an increased liability from the interest in Coaltrans Conferences Limited, the provider of high-calibre tax effect on the successful resolution of an outstanding legal claim, the conferences for the international coal industry, for 1.3 million: the use of tax losses and the unwinding of deferred tax on intangible assets acquisition of the final 10.8% minority interest in Total Derivatives and goodwill impairment.
Limited, a leading provider of real-time news and analysis about the global fixed income derivatives market, for 1.8 million: the acquisition 3.4.
7 capital appreciation Plan caP of the final 15% minority interest in TelCap Limited, the global wholesale The CAP is the groups long-term, performance-based incentive telecoms publisher and conference organiser, for 5.7 million: and the designed to retain and reward those who drive profit growth and acquisition, through Internet Securities Inc. of the final 49% interest in is an integral part of the groups successful growth strategy.
CAP Benchmark Financials Limited, a leading provider of company financial 2010 was approved by shareholders at the Annual General Meeting data, analysis and business credit ratings for Colombian companies, in January 2010. for 1.0 million.
The group also spent 1.7 million on an additional Euromoney Institutional Investor PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2010 12 20082.04 09 12 10 Proof 6 1% interest in Internet Securities Inc. the emerging market content 3.4.
11 systems and information technology aggregator and data business, taking its holding to 98.7%.
Further The group continues to invest across all technology areas.
details are provided in note 14.
Following these payments, the total commitment under outstanding acquisition option agreements has The group has an active programme to implement specialised fallen from 11.9 million at September 30 2009 to 1.1 million.
During 2010 new central CRM technology was rolled out to sales teams across the group.
9 Headcount has implemented cutting-edge event management and registration The number of people employed is monitored monthly to ensure that technology, integrating systems with the conference business websites.
there are sufficient resources to meet the forthcoming demands of each The group continues to implement the central advertising billing business and also to make sure that the businesses continue to deliver software globally.
sufficient profits to support the people they employ.
During 2009, given the down-turn in trading, the directors reduced the groups headcount Desktop technology is kept up to date annually: a refresh of office by nearly 20% and employed 1,841 people at the end of September application software was undertaken globally during the year.
The number of employees was unchanged during the first half of 2010 but has increased during the second half as revenues recover and The group has invested in resilient and high capacity telecom the group stepped up its investment in new businesses.
At the end of infrastructure: the VoIP networks provide increased internet bandwidth September 2010, the group employed 1,988 people.
and a scalable and feature-rich telephony network across the group.
The group is continuing to develop a unified communications 3.4.
10 marketing and digital development platform, providing businesses with a single interface for accessing In 2010 the marketing strategy has focused on driving more revenue email, voicemail, instant messaging and fax communications, for both bookings through the groups online channels.
In 2010 11.8 million office-based employees and remote workers.
This year the group has was booked directly through the groups websites, an increase of 39% invested in high resolution video conferencing technology between on 2009.
This has been achieved both by improvements to the usability the offices in London, New York, Montreal and Hong Kong, improving of websites and a significant shift from traditional marketing methods communication and reducing global travel costs.
Telecom suppliers and to more focused online marketing.
Social media is now being used services are reviewed annually to ensure costs are managed tightly.
across the portfolio to drive leads which are then converted to sales on the websites.
Investment in technology to support online businesses continues.
The group is investing significantly in new hosting technology during 2011 In conjunction with the marketing strategy to drive more customers to ensure its websites maintain the very highest performance.
The group to book online, online product development has also been a significant has also developed new technology for launching products on mobile focus in 2010.
In 2010 18 websites were either redeveloped or platforms including Blackberry and iPad.
Many sites were relaunched launched resulting in online subscription revenues across the financial during 2010 with fresh designs and updated technologies.
and business publishing titles up 9% and online advertising up 31%.
Investment in e-commerce infrastructure continued throughout 2010.
During 2010 5.5 million was invested in central digital infrastructure, New technology has been developed to enhance how the group in particular in a new online subscription platform.
A three year digital manages its website customers, products and online orders: new access technology strategy has been implemented including a complete control software has increased the number of ways it can deliver content redevelopment of the content management and database systems, and online.
A comprehensive training programme is underway to support mobile delivery structure.
Investment will continue in 2011 as these the software roll-out across the group.
There was a full review of the groups information security policy in 2010.
Eight new online products that started development in 2010 which will All company laptops are encrypted and new software was introduced be launched and start generating revenues in 2011. across the networks to track and control access to corporate data.
Security and penetration tests are run against networks and systems As part of its strategy to manage cost-effectively the group has annually, including tests this year at the BCA office in Montreal and continued to outsource two key areas of marketing: telesales and list against the central marketing system in London.
In 2010, 7% of all sales generated by telesales were taken via the outsource operation in Manila.
Management have also outsourced list research to India resulting in significant savings for the group.
Euromoney Institutional Investor PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2010 Euromoney Institutional Investor PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2010 13 20082.04 09 12 10 Proof 6 Directors Report Company Accounts Group Accounts Our Governance Our Performance Directors report continued In 2010 the group established a new recovery site to support the The group does not hedge the foreign exchange risk on the translation business in the event of the London office being unavailable.
Disaster of overseas profits, although it does endeavour to match foreign recovery and business continuity plans for all businesses were updated currency borrowings with investments and the related foreign currency during the year and the group has an active programme for testing finance costs provide a partial hedge against the translation of overseas these disaster recovery plans for all business units.
As a result of this hedging strategy, any profit or loss from the strengthening or weakening of the US dollar will largely be delayed until 3.4.
12 Tax and treasury the following financial year and beyond.
Committee The groups tax and treasury committee normally meets twice a year and Details of the financial instruments used are set out in note 19 to is responsible for recommending policy to the board.
members are the chairman, managing director and finance director of the company, and the finance director and the deputy finance director Tax of DMGT.
The chairman of the audit committee is also invited to attend The underlying effective tax rate based on adjusted profit before tax and tax and treasury meetings.
The groups treasury policies are directed to excluding deferred tax movements on intangible assets, prior year items giving greater certainty of future costs and revenues and ensuring that and exceptionals is 27% 2009: 27%.
The groups reported effective the group has adequate liquidity for working capital and debt capacity tax rate decreased to an expense of 18% compared to 60% credit for funding acquisitions.
In 2009, a credit of 19.9 million relating to tax on foreign exchange losses was treated as exceptional as it was hedged by 19.9 Treasury million of foreign exchange losses on tax equalisation contracts included The treasury department does not act as a profit centre, nor does it within net finance costs note 7.
There were no such foreign exchange undertake any speculative trading activity, and it operates within losses in 2010.
A reconciliation to the underlying effective rate is set out policies and procedures approved by the board.
Interest rate swaps are used to manage the groups exposure to The total net deferred tax balance held is a liability of 3.3 million 2009: fluctuations in interest rates on its floating rate borrowings.
The 3.3 million and relates primarily to capitalised intangible assets, tax maturity profile of these derivatives is matched with the expected future deductible US goodwill and rolled over capital gains, net of deferred debt profile of the group.
The groups policy is to fix the interest rates tax assets held in respect of US and UK tax losses and short-term timing on approximately 80% of its term debt looking forward over five years.
differences and the future deductions available for the CAP.
The maturity dates are spread in order to avoid interest rate basis risk and also to mitigate short-term changes in interest rates.
Principal risks and At September 30 2010, the group had 90% of its gross debt fixed uncertainties by the use of interest rate hedges.
The predictability of interest costs is deemed to be more important than the possible opportunity cost forgone of achieving lower interest rates and this hedging strategy The group has continued to develop its processes for risk management.
has the effect of spreading the groups exposure to fluctuations arising Management of significant risk is regularly on the agenda of the board from changes in interest rates and hence protects the groups interest and other senior management meetings.
charge against sudden increases in rates but also prevents the group from benefiting immediately from falls in rates.
Specific risk areas that potentially could have a material impact on the groups long-term performance include: The group generates approximately two-thirds of its revenues in US dollars, including approximately 30% of the revenues in its UK-based 4.1 Operational risks businesses, and approximately 60% of its operating profits are US dollarDownturn in economy or market sector denominated.
The group is therefore exposed to foreign exchange risk The group generates significant income from certain key geographical on the US dollar revenues in its UK businesses, and on the translation of regions and market sectors for both its publishing and events businesses.
the results of its US dollar-denominated businesses.
Uncertainty in global financial markets increases the risk of a downturn or potential collapse in one of these areas, and should this occur, In order to hedge its exposure to US dollar revenues in its UK businesses, income is likely to be adversely affected and for events businesses some a series of forward contracts are put in place to sell forward surplus US abandonment costs may also be incurred.
In 2008, the group hedged fully for the coming 12 months and partially for a further 36 months.
In 2009, the directors reviewed the However, the group has a diverse product mix and operates in multiple groups hedging policy and as a result reduced the period of partial geographical locations which reduces dependency on any one sector or hedging from up to 48 months to between 12 and 18 months and region.
Management has shown a proven ability to switch the groups reduced the percentage of revenues hedged in the first 12 months focus to new or unaffected markets e. g. following the SARS outbreak to 80%.
The transition to the revised policy will take some time, in Asia and terrorist attacks in New York.
with forward deals in excess of 18 months being allowed to naturally unwind.
Euromoney Institutional Investor PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2010 14 20082.04 09 12 10 Proof 6 Travel risk To mitigate this risk the group runs rolling annual internal audits and The conference, seminars and training businesses account for 33% regularly monitors internal controls designed to cover circulation.
of the groups revenues and 30% of the groups profits.
The success Detailed guidance is provided to all relevant employees and their of these events and courses relies heavily on the confidence in and understanding of the rules is regularly monitored.
There are a large ability of delegates and speakers to travel internationally.
Significant number of mutually exclusive titles and it is unlikely that an incorrect disruptions to or reductions in international travel for any reason could circulation claim, should it arise, would affect the circulation of other lead to events and courses being postponed or cancelled and could titles within the wider group.
Similar controls are applied to claims for have a significant impact on the groups performance.
Past incidents electronic publishing activities.
such as transport strikes, extreme weather including hurricanes, terrorist attacks, fears over SARS and swine flu, and more recently the Acquisition and disposal risk disruption from volcanic ash in Europe, have all had a negative impact Part of the groups strategy is to make strategic acquisitions.
Management on the groups results, although none materially.
review a number of potential acquisitions each year with only a small proportion of these going through to due diligence stage and possible Where possible, contingency plans are in place to minimise the subsequent purchase.
The group could suffer an impairment loss if an disruption from travel restrictions.
Events can be postponed or moved acquired business does not generate the expected returns or fails to to another location, or increasingly can be attended remotely using operate or grow in its markets and products areas.
The expected risks new online technologies.
Cancellation and abandonment insurance is of a newly acquired entity may be misunderstood.
As a consequence also in place for the groups largest events.
a significant amount of management time could be diverted from other operational matters.
The group is also subject to disposal risk, London, New York, Montreal or Hong Kong wide disaster possibly failing to achieve optimal value from disposed businesses or The group has its main offices located in London, New York, Montreal underestimating the impact on the remaining group businesses from and Hong Kong.
An area-wide disaster could have serious consequences such a disposal.
with office space potentially becoming unusable for several months and a lack of suitable alternative accommodation, loss of key clients To mitigate this risk experienced senior management perform detailed and staff in an affected area and difficult communications with both in-house due diligence and call on expert external advisers where customers and staff.
As a consequence of the above, the group could deemed necessary.
Acquisition agreements are usually structured so as suffer a loss of revenue.
to retain key employees in the acquired company and there is close monitoring of performance at board level of the entity concerned postTo mitigate this risk the group has detailed disaster recovery DR plans acquisition.
All employees can work remotely.
The group regularly tests its DR plans.
It has robust systems in place with key locations Key staff leaving including the UK, US, Canada and Asia benefiting from dual location The group is reliant on key management and staff across many of its of back-ups, dual loading of live back-ups for key systems and thirdbusinesses, and many of its products are reliant on the technological party 24-hour support.
and specialist expertise provided by a number of talented staff.
All key staff are engaged in long-term incentive plans to encourage retention.
Publishing legislation In addition, the directors remain committed to recruitment and retention The group generates a significant amount of its revenue from publishing of high quality management and talent, and provide a programme of and hence has an inherent libel risk.
A successful libel claim could affect career opportunity and progression for employees including extensive the groups reputation in the market where the libel claim arose and training and international transfer opportunities.
where the publication was published.
As a consequence the group could suffer a loss of advertising and other revenue streams.
Reliance on key brands The group has a portfolio of significant brands.
Damage to any of these To mitigate this risk the group runs mandatory annual libel courses for brands, or increasing popularity of a competitor brand, could affect the all journalists and editors.
Key staff are aware of the significant nature groups reported profits.
The group works hard to manage the quality of libel risk and strong internal controls are in place for reporting to and reputation of its brands and products and protects these where senior management if a potential issue arises.
The group also has libel necessary with trademarks which are monitored by external advisers.
addition, the group has a broad range of products, and brands which helps diversify the brand risk.
Circulation The group publishes over 70 titles and publications and sells advertising Technological change and IT infrastructure based partly on circulation figures.
An incorrect claim for circulation All of the groups businesses are dependent on technology to some could adversely affect the groups reputation in the applicable degree.
Information systems are critical for the effective management marketplace with a potential knock-on effect for other titles within the and provision of services around the group.
This could lead to the permanent loss of advertisers and other technology could adversely affect the business and damage the groups revenue streams.
The internet is becoming an increasingly important revenue stream for the group and with this comes risk.
The internet, through Euromoney Institutional Investor PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2010 Euromoney Institutional Investor PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2010 15 20082.04 09 12 10 Proof 6 Directors Report Company Accounts Group Accounts Our Governance Our Performance Directors report continued the proliferation of free content and content aggregators, has the Under the DMGT facility, at September 30 2010, the group had 117.8 potential to erode hard copy advertising and subscription revenues.
million of undrawn but committed facilities available.
This is more than The groups increasing dependence on information systems has also sufficient for the group to meet expected and unexpected short-term heightened the information security risk to the group with breaches in working capital requirements.
Although the level of uncertainty in the data security systems having a potential impact on the groups business global economy and financial markets has eased since 2009, there and reputation.
is a risk that the undrawn portion of the facility may be unavailable or withdrawn if DMGT experience funding difficulties themselves.
The group is already embracing these challenges, and overall sees However, if DMGT were unable to fulfil its funding commitment to the the internet and other technological advances as an opportunity not group, the directors are confident that the group would be in a position a threat.
Business continuity plans are in place in each business and to secure adequate external facilities, although probably at a higher cost include comprehensive back-up plans for IT infrastructure, with the aim of funding.
to protect the businesses from unnecessary disruption.
The group has comprehensive information security standards and practices in place Market price risk which are reviewed on a regular basis.
Many of the groups businesses Market price risk is the possibility that changes in currency exchange already produce soft copies of publications to supplement the hard rates, interest rates or commodity prices will adversely affect the value copies.
While the internet is an important tool for generating additional of the groups financial assets, liabilities or expected future cash flows.
revenue the groups product mix provides protection for any potential The groups primary market risks are interest rate fluctuations and unforeseen problems.
For example, the groups share of profit from exchange rate movements.
Derivatives are used to hedge or reduce event businesses is significant, with face-to-face meetings of increasing the risks of interest rate and exchange rate movements and are not importance.
entered into unless such risks exist.
Derivatives used by the group for hedging a particular risk are not specialised and are generally available 4.2 Financial risks from numerous sources.
The fair values of interest rate swaps, currency Liquidity risk options and forward exchange contracts set out in note 19 represent The group has significant borrowings and is an approved borrower the replacement costs calculated using the market rates of interest under a Daily Mail and General Trust plc DMGT $400 million dedicated and exchange at September 30 2010.
The group has no other material multi-currency facility.
The facility is divided into four quantums of market price risks.
US dollar and sterling funds with three and five year terms with a total maximum borrowing capacity as follows: Interest rate risk The groups borrowings are in both pounds sterling and US dollars with 3 year tranche 5 year tranche the related interest tied to GBP and US dollar LIBOR.
This results in the groups interest charge being at risk to fluctuations in interest rates.
It is US dollar $60 million $250 million Sterling 26 million 33 million the groups policy to hedge approximately 80% of its interest exposure, converting its floating rate debt into fixed debt by means of interest The three year quantums of the facility are due for renewal in December rate swaps.
The maturity dates are spread in order to avoid interest rate 2011 and the five year quantums in December 2013.
The facility requires basis risk and also to negate short-term changes in interest rates.
The the group to meet certain covenants based on net debt and profits predictability of interest costs is deemed to be more important than the adjusted for certain non-cash items and the impact of foreign exchange.
possible opportunity cost forgone of achieving lower interest rates and Failure to do so would result in the group being in breach of the facility this hedging strategy has the effect of spreading the groups exposure potentially resulting in the facility being withdrawn or impediment of to fluctuations arising from changes in interest rates and hence protects management decision making by the lender.
Management regularly the groups interest charge against sudden increases in rates but also monitor the covenants and prepare detailed cash flow forecasts to prevents the group from benefiting immediately from falls in rates.
ensure that sufficient headroom is available and that the covenants are Details of the groups interest rate swaps are given in note 19. not close or potentially close to breach.
At September 30 2010, the groups net debt to adjusted EBITDA was 1.28 times.
Foreign currency risk The group generates approximately two-thirds of its revenues in US The groups strategy is to use excess operating cash to pay down its dollars, including approximately 30% of the revenues in its UK-based debt.
The group generally has an annual cash conversion rate the businesses, and approximately 60% of its operating profits are US dollarpercentage by which cash generated from operations covers operating denominated.
The group is therefore exposed to foreign exchange risk profit before acquired intangible amortisation, long-term incentive on the US dollar revenues in its UK businesses, and on the translation of expense, and exceptional items of over 100% due to much of its the results of its US dollar-denominated businesses.
subscription, sponsorship and delegate revenue being paid in advance.
For the year to September 30 2010 the groups cash conversion rate The group does not hedge the translation of the results of its US dollarwas 101%.
Consequently, fluctuations in the value of sterling versus the US dollar could materially affect the translation of Euromoney Institutional Investor PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2010 16 20082.04 09 12 10 Proof 6 their results in the consolidated financial statements.
However, the Tax group endeavours to match foreign currency borrowings to investments The group operates within many jurisdictions: earnings are therefore in order to provide a natural hedge for the translation of the net assets subject to taxation at differing rates across these jurisdictions.
The of overseas subsidiaries with the related foreign currency interest cost directors endeavour to manage the tax affairs of the group in an arising from these borrowings providing a part natural hedge against efficient manner: however, due to an ever more complex international the translation of foreign currency profits.
tax environment there will always be a level of uncertainty when provisioning for tax liabilities.
There is also a risk of tax laws being Subsidiaries normally do not hedge transactions in foreign currencies amended by authorities in the different jurisdictions in which the group into the functional currency of their own operations.
However, at a operates which could have an adverse effect on the financial results.
group level, a series of US dollar forward contracts are put in place to External tax experts and in-house tax specialists, reporting to the tax sell forward surplus US dollars between 12 and 18 months to hedge and treasury committee, work together to review all tax arrangements 80% of revenues for the first 12 months and 50% for the following within the group and keep abreast of changes in global tax legislation.
The timing and value of these forward contracts is based on managements estimate of its future US dollar revenues over an 18 month period.
If management materially underestimated the 5.
Future development groups future US dollar revenues this would lead to too few forward in the business contracts being in place and the group being more exposed to swings in US dollar to sterling exchange rates.
An overestimate of the groups US dollar revenue would lead to associated costs in unwinding the An indication of the trading outlook for the group is given in the excess forward contracts.
At September 30 2010, the fair value of Chairmans Statement on page 5.
In 2011 the directors will manage the the groups forward contracts was a liability of 7.8 million 2009: a business to take advantage of the economic recovery and to facilitate liability of 15.8 million.
growth in an improving global market and to continue to shape the business to remain competitive in the economic environments in Credit risk which it operates.
The group is well placed to diversify its product and The group seeks to limit interest rate and foreign currency risks geographical base and remains committed to its strategy set out on described above by the use of financial instruments and as a result has page 7. a credit risk from the potential non-performance by the counterparties to these financial instruments, which are unsecured.
The amount of this The board will continue to review the portfolio of businesses, credit risk is normally restricted to the amounts of any hedge gain and disposing, closing or restructuring any under-performing businesses not the principal amount being hedged.
The group also has a credit to allow the group to have the necessary resources and skills to exposure to counterparties for the full principal amount of cash and remain acquisitive.
The group will invest in technology and new cash equivalents.
Credit risks are controlled by monitoring the amounts businesses, particularly electronic information products, as well as in outstanding with, and the credit quality of, these counterparties.
the groups cash and cash equivalents these are principally licensed commercial banks and investment banks with strong long-term credit ratings, and for derivative financial instruments DMGT who have 6.
Directors and treasury policies in place which do not allow concentrations of risk their interests with individual counterparties and do not allow significant treasury exposures with counterparties which are rated lower than AA.
The companys Articles of Association give power to the board to The group also has credit risk with respect to trade and other receivables, appoint directors from time to time.
In addition to the statutory rights of prepayments and accrued income.
The concentration of credit risk from shareholders to remove a director by ordinary resolution, the board may trade receivables is limited due to the groups large and broad customer also remove a director where 75% of the board give written notice to base.
Trade receivable exposures are managed locally in the business such director.
The Articles of Association themselves may be amended units where they arise.
Allowance is made for bad and doubtful debts by a special resolution of the shareholders.
based on managements assessment of the risk of non-payment taking into account the ageing profile, experience and circumstance.
The directors who served during the year are listed on page 37.
The directors interests are given on page 44.
B AL-Rehany was appointed The maximum exposure to credit risk is represented by the carrying an executive director on November 11 2009, MJ Carroll resigned as amount of each financial asset, including derivative financial an executive director at the companys Annual General Meeting on instruments, recorded in the balance sheet.
January 21 2010 and GG Mueller resigned as an executive director on September 30 2010.
Euromoney Institutional Investor PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2010 Euromoney Institutional Investor PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2010 17 20082.04 09 12 10 Proof 6 Directors Report Company Accounts Group Accounts Our Governance Our Performance Directors report continued Following best practice under the June 2010 UK Corporate Governance Details of the directors entitlement to compensation for loss of office Code and in accordance with the companys Articles of Association, following a takeover or contract termination are given in the Directors all directors submit themselves for re-election annually.
all executive directors will retire at the forthcoming annual general meeting and, being eligible, will offer themselves for re-election.
Also, as required by best practice under the June 2010 UK Corporate 8. eu Takeovers Directive Governance Code, all non-executive directors will submit themselves for re-election on an annual basis.
In addition, in accordance with the June 2010 UK Combined Code on Corporate Governance, before the Pursuant to s992 of the Companies Act 2006, which implements the re-election of a non-executive director, the chairman is required to EU Takeovers Directive, the company is required to disclose certain confirm to shareholders that, following formal performance evaluation, additional information.
Such disclosures, which are not covered the non-executive directors performance continues to be effective and elsewhere in this annual report, include a number of agreements that demonstrates commitment to the role.
Accordingly, the non-executive take effect, alter or terminate upon a change of control of the company directors will retire at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting and, following a takeover bid, such as commercial contracts, bank loan being eligible following a formal performance evaluation by the agreements, property lease arrangements, directors service agreements chairman, offer themselves for re-election.
None of these agreements are deemed to be significant in terms of their potential impact on the business of the Details of the interests of the directors in the ordinary shares of the group as a whole.
company and of options held by the directors to subscribe for ordinary shares in the company are set out in the Directors Remuneration 9. authority to purchase Report on pages 30 to 45. and allot own shares The companys authority to purchase up to 10% of its own shares expires 7. capital structure and at the conclusion of the companys next Annual General Meeting.
A significant shareholdings resolution to renew this authority for a further period will be put to shareholders at this meeting.
Details of the companys share capital are given in note 23.
The companys share capital is divided into ordinary shares of 0.25 pence At the Annual General Meeting of the company on January 21 2010, the each.
Each share entitles its holder to one vote at shareholders shareholders authorised the directors to allot shares up to an aggregate meetings and the right to receive one share of the companys dividends.
nominal amount of 85,339 expiring at the conclusion of the Annual General Meeting to be held in 2011.
A resolution to renew this authority At November 9 2010, being the latest practical date before approval for a further period will be put to shareholders at this meeting.
of the accounts, notification had been received, in accordance with chapter 5 of the Disclosure and Transparency Rules, of the following 10.
Political and charitable voting rights as a shareholder of the company: contributions nature of number of % of voting name of holder holding shares rights During the year the group raised charitable contributions of 445,000 2009: 207,000.
There were no political contributions in either year.
Daily Mail See pages 28 and 29 for details of the groups charitable projects.
Directors idemnities Until December 14 2009 Banque Internationale Luxembourg SA had in issue international depositary receipts IDR in bearer form in The company has directors and officers liability and corporate respect of a total of 812,800 shares 0.7% registered in its name.
Each reimbursement insurance for the benefit of the companys directors and IDR in issue equated to one underlying ordinary share in the capital those of other associated companies.
This insurance has been in place of Euromoney Institutional Investor PLC.
On December 14 2009 the throughout the year and remains in force at the date of this report.
company terminated the deposit agreement and delisted the underlying shares from the Luxemburg Stock Exchange.
Euromoney Institutional Investor PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2010 18 20082.04 09 12 10 Proof 6 12. annual general meeting The companys next Annual General Meeting will be held on January 20 2011.
13. auditors A resolution to reappoint Deloitte LLP as the companys auditors is expected to be proposed at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting.
Disclosure of information of auditors In the case of each of the persons who is a director of the company at November 10 2010: so far as each of the directors is aware, there is no relevant audit information as defined in the Companies Act 2006 of which the companys auditors are unaware: and each of the directors has taken all the steps that he she ought to have taken as a director to make himself herself aware of any relevant audit information as defined and to establish that the companys auditors are aware of the information.
This confirmation is given and should be interpreted in accordance with the provisions of s418 of the Companies Act 2006.
By order of the board colin Jones Company Secretary November 10 2010 Euromoney Institutional Investor PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2010 Euromoney Institutional Investor PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2010 19 20082.04 09 12 10 Proof 6 Directors Report Company Accounts Group Accounts Our Governance Our Performance
