Exillon Energy Directors Report Directors The Directors who served in office during the financial year were as follows: Maksat Arip Alessandro Manghi L. Stuard Detmer Anne Belvze Ezio Bracco Further details about the Directors and their roles within the Group are given in the Corporate Governance Report on pages 35 to 41.
Details of the directors remuneration and their interests in shares in the Company are set out in the Remuneration Report on pages 28 to 34.
Appointment and replacement of Directors Directors may be appointed by the Company Governance Code Governance Code which by ordinary resolution or by the Board.
A is applicable for the first time for the year ending Director appointed by the Board holds office 31 December 2011, all directors have agreed only until the next AGM and is then eligible for to submit themselves to re-appointment at the appointment by the shareholders.
shall retire at the annual general meeting held in the third year following the year in which Details of the Directors service contracts, he was appointed or last reappointed by the including the arrangements for compensation for Company.
However, in order to conform to loss of office, are contained in the Remuneration the requirements of the new UK Corporate Report on pages 31 to 33.
Powers of the Directors Subject to the Companys Articles of Association, the Isle of Man Companies Act 2006 and any directions given by special resolution, the business of the Company will be managed by the Board who may exercise all the powers of the Company.
Share Capital and Shareholders Restrictions The Company has one class of share capital that is The rights and obligations attached to these divided into 138,072,911 ordinary shares 2009: shares are governed by Isle of Man law and the 125,520,829 of US$0.0000125 each Ordinary Companys Articles of Association.
Further details of the share capital shareholders are entitled to receive notice and to together with the specific movements in share attend and speak at any general meeting of the capital during the year are included in note 28 to Company.
There are no restrictions on the transfer the financial statements on pages 71 to 72. of the Ordinary Shares other than as set out in the Articles of Association and: certain restrictions that may from time to time be imposed by laws and regulations for example, insider trading laws : and pursuant to the Listing Rules of the Financial Services Authority whereby certain Directors, officers and employees of the Company require the approval of the Company to deal in the Ordinary Shares.
