Directors Report Exillon WS DIRECTORS REPORT Board of Directors of Exillon Energy plc Maksat Arip Chairman Mr Arip was appointed as Chairman of the Group in November 2009.
He previously served as Chief Executive Officer of Kazakhstan Kagazy plc a company listed on the London Stock Exchange since July 2007 between 2003 and April 2008 and as a Director of Kazakhstan Kagazy JSC until July 2009.
Between 2000 and 2003, Mr Arip was First Deputy General Director of KazTransCom, a telecommunications company operating in Kazakhstan, which is a subsidiary of KazMunaiGaz, a leader in the Kazakhstan oil and gas industry.
Prior to that, between 1999 and 2000, he served as Finance Director of Spectrum LLP, a KazakhAmerican joint venture in mobile communications and a European Bank for Reconstruction and Development investee company.
Mr Arip has also held senior positions with Tumar Insurance Company and Kyz-Zhibek Investment Fund.
Mr Arip holds a Masters degree in Business Administration from the International Academy of Business in Almaty and a Law degree from the Kunayev Humanities University.
Alessandro Manghi Chief Executive Officer Mr Manghi was appointed Chief Executive Officer of the Group in November 2009 and has served as a Director since 2008.
Mr Manghi served as Chairman of Kazakhstan Kagazy plc between April 2008 and January 2010 and prior to that was head of corporate finance and investor relations at Kazakhstan Kagazy plc since joining in 2005.
He is also a nonexecutive Chairman of the Leasing Group JSC.
Mr Manghi has fifteen years of finance and investment experience in the CIS.
Prior to joining Kazakhstan Kagazy plc, Mr Manghi was the Chief Financial Officer of a London-based insurance management group that was active in Central Asia, the Caucasus and Eastern Europe.
Between 1998 and 2001, Mr Manghi was Senior Investment Manager at EBRD Eagle Kazakhstan Fund, where he held positions on the Board of Directors of JSC Arna part of Kazakhstan's then largest private fixed-line and satellite telecoms operator, Rainbow Paint LLP a paint production group, Bauta LLP a water desalination and packaging joint venture, and Spectrum LLP.
He has several years of audit and transaction support experience with Price Waterhouse and Barents Group.
Mr Manghi qualified as a Chartered Accountant and is a member of the Institute of Chartered Accountants in England and Wales.
18 Exillon Energy Directors Report Outlook L. Stuard Detmer Senior Independent Non-executive Director Mr Detmer was most recently CEO of Sibir Energy plc, an integrated oil and gas company with 80,000 bopd of crude production in West Siberia, 100,000 bopd of refining capacity in Moscow and over 130 petrol service stations in the greater Moscow region.
As CEO of Sibir, he led the company out of crisis and concluded its successful sale to Gazprom in 2009.
Mr. Detmer also worked with Mobil Oil Corporation in Russia, Latin America and the United States and has over 16 years of experience in emerging markets.
Mr. Detmer holds an MBA from the Darden School of Business Administration at the University of Virginia, a BA from Vanderbilt University and attended Leningrad State University.
He is fluent in Russian and speaks Spanish and French.
Ezio Bracco Independent Non-executive Director Mr Bracco is the President, founder and major shareholder of Expertise srl.
Expertise is an oil and gas engineering company that provides services to major onshore and offshore projects in Kazakhstan, Turkmenistan, the Middle East, Africa and Russia for clients such as Agip KCO, KPO-Karachaganak Petroleum Operating, ADNOC and ENI.
Mr Bracco founded Expertise srl.
Mr Bracco graduated in Chemical Engineering at the University of Genoa.
Anne Belvze Independent Non-executive Director Ms Belvze is the Managing Partner of the Russian office of accounting firm Mazars, which she joined in 2005 as its head of outsourcing.
She is a senior external trade advisor to the French government, a position she has held since July 2009.
Prior to this Ms Belvze held the following positions: General Manager of Sansha: Zone Finance Director with Castel Group in Moscow: Regional Financial Controller of the Barents Group in Almaty: Professor of Mathematics of Finance and Financial Statements Analysis at the European University of Brussels.
Ms Belvze has a BBA and a degree in Information Systems from the European University of Brussels, and a degree in Mechanical Engineering from the University of Nantes.
