Directors Report Subject to any rights or restrictions attached AGM and published on the Companys website to any shares, on a show of hands every after the meeting.
shareholder present in person or by proxy or being a corporation present by a duly authorised No shareholder holds shares carrying special representative shall have one vote, and on a poll rights as to the control of the Company.
There are every shareholder who is present in person or by no limitations on the holding of shares.
There are proxy shall have one vote for every share of which no agreements between holders of shares that he is the holder.
are known to the Company which may result in restrictions on the transfer or on voting rights.
The Notice of AGM specifies deadlines for exercising voting rights and appointing a proxy Any of the rights attached to any class of share may or proxies to vote in relation to resolutions to be be varied by consent in writing of not less than three passed at the AGM.
All proxy votes are counted quarters in par value of the issued shares of the class and the numbers for, against or withheld in or by special resolution passed at a separate meeting relation to each resolution are announced at the of the holders of shares of the class.
Authority to Purchase Own Shares Powers relating to the issuing and buy back Share capital.
This authority will expire at the of shares are also included in the Articles and forthcoming Annual General Meeting and a the authority to issue shares is renewed by resolution to renew the authority for a further shareholders each year at the Annual General year will be proposed.
The Company was authorised by a shareholder resolution passed on 14 June 2010 No shares were purchased by the Company to purchase up to 10% of its issued Ordinary during the year.
Employee Share Plan The Company has established an employee benefit trust and are not entitled to dividends until after the plan EBP by which shares may be awarded to end of the vesting period.
Executive Directors excluding the Chairman and senior managers.
Participants holding restricted The trustees of the EBP may vote or abstain from share awards may not vote shares held in the voting on shares held in the Employee Benefit Trust trust until after the end of the vesting period but EBT as they think fit and in doing so may take into will be entitled to dividends.
Participants holding account both financial and non-financial interests of conditional shares may not vote shares held in the the beneficiaries of the EBP or their dependants.
Admission Share Awards The key elements of the award of Ordinary Shares to nine employees on Admission, including one Director Alessandro Manghi, are set out in the Remuneration Report on page 30.
