52 Experian Annual Report 2010 Governance Board of directors John Peace 61 Don Robert 51 Paul Brooks 56 Chairman Chief Executive Officer Chief Financial Officer John Peace is also Chairman of Burberry Don Robert was appointed Chief Paul Brooks became Chief Financial Group plc and Standard Chartered Executive Officer in February 2005, with Officer of Experian in October 2001, PLC.
From 2000 until 2006, he was Group responsibility for Experian globally.
He having joined Experian in 1999 as Finance Chief Executive of the former GUS plc, was previously Chief Executive Officer Director of the former International having been a director of GUS since of Experian North America, having division.
John is also a director of The First joined Experian from The First American Inchcape, where he became Marketing American Corporation, a member of the Corporation in 2001.
From 1995 to 2001, Services Finance Director in 1994, based Board of Governors of Nottingham Trent he held positions with First American in Singapore.
He previously spent five University, Deputy Lieutenant for the and, before that, served as President at years with GKNs Industrial Services County of Nottinghamshire, a fellow of Credco, Inc. the largest specialist credit Division, mostly as Divisional Chief the Royal Society of Arts and Chairman reporting company in the USA, which Financial Officer in the USA.
Before that, of The Work Foundation.
John was was acquired by The First American he worked for ICIs Plastics Division in appointed to the Experian plc Board on 6 Corporation in 1995.
Don began his Brussels and its Corporate Reporting July 2006. career with US Bancorp, a multi-state Group in London.
Paul qualified as a bank holding company, where he held chartered accountant with KPMG, having positions of increasing responsibility graduated from Cambridge University over 15 years.
He graduated from Oregon with an economics degree.
Paul was State University with a degree in Business appointed to the Experian plc Board on 6 Administration.
Don is a non-executive July 2006. director of Compass Group PLC, a director and trustee of the National Education and Employer Partnership Taskforce, a past director of the former GUS plc and a past chairman of the Consumer Data Industry Association.
Don was appointed to the Experian plc Board on 6 July 2006.
Roger Davis 53 Alan Jebson 60 Judith Sprieser 56 Non-executive director Non-executive director Non-executive director Roger Davis is Chairman of Gem Alan Jebson is a non-executive director Judith Sprieser is the former President Diamonds Limited.
He is Chairman of of Vodafone Group plc and MacDonald and Chief Executive Officer of Experians Remuneration Committee.
He is Chairman of Transora, a technology software and Roger previously spent some eight years Experians Audit Committee.
She previously at Barclays, latterly as the Chief Executive in May 2006 as Group Chief Operating served as Executive Vice President, Officer of the 45,000 strong UK Banking Officer of HSBC Holdings plc, a position Food Operations and, before that, as operation and as a member of the Board that included responsibility for IT and Chief Financial Officer of Sara Lee of Barclays PLC.
Prior to that, he was in Global Resourcing.
Judith is a non-executive investment banking for some ten years with HSBC, he held various positions in director of Reckitt Benckiser Group plc, in London and in various positions in IT, including the position of Group Chief Allstate Corporation, USG Corporation, Asia for Flemings and BZW.
His roles included InterContinental Exchange, Inc. Royal appointed to the Experian plc Board on 1 responsibility for HSBCs international Ahold N. V. and Adecco SA.
She holds January 2007. systems, including the consolidation of BA and MBA degrees from Northwestern HSBC and Midland systems following University.
Judith has been appointed to HSBCs acquisition of Midland Bank the Experian plc Board with effect from 1 in 1993.
Alan is a fellow of the Institute June 2010. of Chartered Accountants in England and Wales.
Alan was appointed to the Experian plc Board on 1 January 2007.
Introduction Business review Governance Financial statements 2 11 12 51 52 84 85 160 Experian Annual Report 2010 Governance 53 Chris Callero 58 Sir Alan Rudge 72 Fabiola Arredondo 43 President and Chief Operating Senior Independent Director Non-executive director Officer Sir Alan Rudge is Chairman of The ERA Fabiola Arredondo is the Managing Foundation Limited and of the Board of Partner of Siempre Holdings, a private Chris Callero was appointed President Management of the Royal Commission investment firm based in the USA and a and Chief Operating Officer of Experian for the Exhibition of 1851.
Sir Alan was non-executive director of Rodale, Inc. in April 2008.
He previously served as Pro Chancellor of Surrey University until the World Wildlife Fund and Sesame Chief Executive Officer of Experian December 2007, a non-executive director Workshop.
Previously, she held senior Americas, having joined Experian in 2002. of the former GUS plc until October operating positions at Yahoo!, the BBC Prior to joining Experian, Chris spent 2006, President of CELTEL International and Bertelsmann AG and non-executive 27 years at Bank of America, where his B. V. and a non-executive director of directorships of Bankinter S. A. BOC roles included Group Executive Vice S. E. S. A. AG until March 2005, Special Group plc and Intelsat Corporation.
He also Advisor to General Atlantic Partners Fabiola has a BA degree from Stanford served as Chief Operating Officer at Wink until 2004, Chairman of ERA Technology University and an MBA from the Harvard Communications, a leading interactive until October 2003, Chairman of WS Business School.
Fabiola was appointed television company at the time.
Chris Atkins until March 2001 and Deputy Chief to the Experian plc Board on 1 January is a member of the Chancellors Chief Executive of BT until November 1997.
Executive Roundtable at the University has a PhD in Electrical Engineering and is of California, Irvine.
He also serves in an a fellow of the Royal Society and the Royal advisory capacity for the Paul Merage Academy of Engineering, a past chairman School of Business, as well as the Bren of the Engineering and Physical Sciences School of Information and Computer Research Council and a past president of Sciences.
Chris was appointed to the the Institution of Electrical Engineers.
Sir Experian plc Board on 1 April 2009.
Alan was appointed to the Experian plc Board on 6 September 2006.
Audit Committee Alan Jebson Chairman Fabiola Arredondo Roger Davis Sir Alan Rudge David Tyler Paul Walker from 1 June 2010 Remuneration Committee Roger Davis Chairman Fabiola Arredondo Alan Jebson Sir Alan Rudge David Tyler 57 Paul Walker 53 Judith Sprieser from 1 June 2010 Non-executive director Non-executive director David Tyler Paul Walker from 1 June 2010 David Tyler is Chairman of J Sainsbury Paul Walker has been Chief Executive of plc and Logica plc and a non-executive The Sage Group plc, a worldwide leader in Nomination and director of Burberry Group plc where he business solutions for small and mediumCorporate Governance Committee chairs the Remuneration Committee.
He joined John Peace Chairman He was Group Finance Director of the Sage in 1984 as Financial Controller and Fabiola Arredondo former GUS plc until it was demerged into was appointed as Finance Director in 1987 Roger Davis Experian plc and Home Retail Group plc prior to flotation on the London Stock Alan Jebson at the end of 2006.
Paul qualified as a chartered Don Robert was in financial and general management accountant with Ernst & Young, having Sir Alan Rudge with the former GUS plc, Christies graduated from York University with an Judith Sprieser from 1 June 2010 International plc, County NatWest Limited economics degree.
He is a non-executive David Tyler and Unilever plc.
David has a degree in director of Diageo plc, Chair of the Paul Walker from 1 June 2010 economics from Cambridge University, Newcastle Science City Partnership and a is a fellow of the Chartered Institute director of the Entrepreneurs Forum.
Paul Company Secretary of Management Accountants and a has been appointed to the Experian plc Charles Brown FCIS member of the Association of Corporate Board with effect from 1 June 2010.
David was appointed to the Auditors Experian plc Board on 6 July 2006.
