6 Experian Annual Report 2010 Introduction Business and market overview Experians vision is for its people, data and technology to become a necessary part of every major consumer economy in the world.
The Group provides information, analytical tools and marketing services to organisations around the world.
Clients use these services to manage risk, find and retain customers, and automate decision-making.
Experian also helps consumers to manage their credit relationships and to minimise the risk of identity theft.
Business lines Credit Services Decision Analytics Experian provides data, analytical Credit Services enables organisations Decision Analytics helps tools and marketing services to to manage the risks associated with organisations with large customer organisations in North America, lending money.
Experian helps clients bases to manage and automate huge Latin America, UK and Ireland and to find new customers for credit, volumes of day-to-day decisions.
to predict and manage credit risk, Clients include international banks, and to reduce exposure to bad debt utility companies and public service The Group's financial performance is and fraud.
It maintains very large, providers, who rely on Experians reported by geography.
Activities in comprehensive databases that hold predictive tools and sophisticated these regions are grouped into four the credit application and repayment software to control decisionprincipal activities.
histories of millions of consumers making at all points of contact with and businesses.
operates 16 consumer credit bureaux and 12 business credit bureaux around the world.
Revenue by region Revenue by region North America 42% UK and Ireland 14% North America 26% UK and Ireland 44% Latin America 32% EMEA Asia Pacific 12% Latin America 2% EMEA Asia Pacific 28% Contribution to Group revenue Contribution to Group revenue 43% 11% Market position Experian is the global leader in Experian is the primary provider of Experian is the market leader in the its industry, with strong market consumer credit information to many provision of decision analytics in positions.
It is more than twice financial instititutions in the US: the all geographies other than the US, the size of its nearest peer and other credit bureaux are Equifax and where Fair Isaac Corporation FICO considerably broader in its TransUnion.
In the UK and Brazil, is the market leader.
There is also capabilities and global reach.
This Experian is the clear market leader competition in individual markets diversity enables Experian to support and it has leading positions in many from smaller, local suppliers.
clients across many countries, other countries.
providing competitive advantage, and creates many opportunities for In business information, Experian growth in growing economies.
is the leading provider in the UK and Brazil, and in a number of other There is no single competitor that markets.
Dun & Bradstreet D&B is operates across all four principal the only global competitor in activities, although the Group does this field.
have a number of competitors within each.
Introduction Business review Governance Financial statements 2 11 12 51 52 84 85 160 Experian Annual Report 2010 Introduction 7 Revenue by geography North America 12% Latin America UK and 20% Ireland 53% EMEA Asia Pacific 15% Revenue by activity Credit Services Decision 27% Analytics Marketing 43% Services Marketing Services Interactive Interactive 19% Marketing Services helps Interactive enables consumers to 11% organisations to target and engage manage and protect their personal customers effectively, improving credit files, as well as to make returns on marketing investment.
more informed online purchasing Revenue by client Experian maintains extensive decisions.
Credit reports are Top 10 clients geographic, demographic and provided directly to consumers, Top 50 clients lifestyle data on consumers and along with credit scores.
This information is also provides online monitoring 13% used in conjunction with advanced services that help consumers to analytical systems to enable clients protect themselves from identity 76% to understand their customers and theft.
Its lead generation services execute relevant communications help businesses to find new across a variety of channels.
Revenue by region Revenue by region Revenue by industry Financial services Direct-toconsumer 16% Retail North America 45% UK and Ireland 33% North America 89% 5% Public 36% Latin America 2% UK and Ireland 11% EMEA Asia Pacific 20% 5% sector and education 5% Telecoms Contribution to Group revenue Contribution to Group revenue and utilities 14% 19% Automotive 19% 27% Other During the year, Experian expanded Experians direct-to-consumer, credit Competitive position its global reach and now has a information business is the clear Global revenue US$m Marketing Services presence in market leader in both the US and UK.
1 Experian 53% 47% 3,859 major economies around the world, In the US, competition is provided by including the UK, US, Germany, Equifax, TransUnion, FICO and other 2 Equifax 1,825 81% 19% France, China and Japan.
This smaller specialists, but Experian 2 D&B 78% 22% 1,687 enables the Group to provide is more than twice the size of any marketing solutions to global of these competitors.
competition is provided by Equifax 2 Harte-Hanks 860 90% 10% and smaller niche suppliers.
In the US, large marketing 4 FICO 631 68% 32% competitors for traditional direct North America International marketing services include Acxiom Source: Latest full-year revenue, Company financials and Harte-Hanks.
Competition 1 Year ended 31 March 2010 2 elsewhere tends to be fragmented Year ended 31 December 2009 3 Year ended 31 March 2009 and specialised.
4 Year ended 30 September 2009 US only
