22 Experian Annual Report 2010 Business review Latin America Latin America delivered an excellent performance, driven by double-digit growth in Credit Services.
There was significant margin progression, up 420 basis points, reflecting strong positive operating leverage.
Total Organic Strong performance in 1 1 2010 2009 growth growth Year ended 31 March US$m US$m % % Credit Services, with Revenue organic revenue up 17% Credit Services 538 437 17 17 Good growth across both Decision Analytics 7 10 26 26 consumer and business Marketing Services 14 15 13 13 information Total Latin America 559 462 16 16 Launch of several EBIT Decision Analytics and Total Latin America 166 118 34 Marketing Services EBIT margin 29.7% 25.5% products 1.
Growth at constant exchange rates Credit Services Decision Analytics and There was strong growth in Credit Marketing Services Services, with total revenue at constant While organic revenue declined at exchange rates and organic revenue Decision Analytics and Marketing up 17%.
Market conditions in Brazil Services, this was off a small base in improved as the year progressed, each case.
Experian launched a number with a rebound in credit demand.
of new products during the year, Experian continued to deliver good including account management and growth across both consumer and fraud prevention products in Decision business information activities, helped Analytics and competitive intelligence by demand for higher value-added Hitwise and consumer segmentation products and new client acquisition Mosaic tools in Marketing Services.
across the small and medium enterprise channel.
There was also a significant contribution from authentication products, as new tax filing regulations in Brazil drove increased volumes.
2010 Revenue by activity Credit Services Decision Analytics Marketing Services Introduction Business review Governance Financial statements 2 11 12 51 52 84 85 160 Experian Annual Report 2010 Business review 23 Expand our global reach Deliver innovative data and analytics Execute superior sales and operations DEvELopinG thE SME MArkEt in LAtin AMEriCA Of the 10 million businesses in Brazil, some 99% are classed as small to medium-sized enterprises SMEs.
They employ most of the Brazilian workforce and represent a huge opportunity for further growth and prosperity in the region.
For many of these businesses though, access to the type of prospecting and customer management information that larger organisations have come to rely upon, has been a challenge.
Over the past year, Experian has combined many of its capabilities in Latin America into a suite of highly accessible products for the smaller business user.
The product range extends from prospecting for new customers to assessing the credit risk of existing customers and managing the collection of overdue accounts.
New online and telephone ordering channels have been established, together with a sales team of over 500 people to support sales across the region.
Laercio Pinto, President of Experians Consumer and Business Information Services in Latin America, explains: We have already acquired many thousands of new SME customers as a result of this initiative.
It has required investment and a change in culture to address this new market, which will contribute significantly to our own growth in the coming years and to the strength of the SME sector.
24 Experian Annual Report 2010 Business review Latin America continued Financial review 48 Social, ethical and environmental Total revenue was US$559m for Latin SEE risks and opportunities America, up 16% at constant exchange Serasa Experian is well recognised in rates.
Organic revenue growth was Brazil for its sustainability credentials.
The business continued to develop its community and environmental EBIT in the year was US$166m, up 34% programmes, and to ensure disability at constant exchange rates.
The EBIT and diversity are addressed in the margin expanded by 420 basis points to workplace.
The margin improvement reflects Experian launched a new information strong positive operating leverage in product that enables companies Credit Services, arising from volume to investigate the environmental growth and the migration towards compliance records of thousands of higher value-added services.
It will potentially be of great use to ethical investors and companies wishing to influence their stakeholders and encourage them to take a more sustainable approach to business.
EBIT US$m and margin Organic revenue growth 10 166 29.7% 10 16% 09 118 25.5% 09 18% 08 75 23.1% 08 43% 4 07 07 38% EBIT Introduction Business review Governance Financial statements 2 11 12 51 52 84 85 160 Experian Annual Report 2010 Business review 25 E Ex x p p a a nn d o d o ur g ur g lob lo al r ba ea l r ce hach D fide e li lv iv er i er i nn n o n vo at v iv a e d tiv ae d ta a a nt d a a a n n ad a lytic n s alytics E Ex xe ec cu ut te s e su up pe er ri io or s r sa al le es a s an nd o d op pe er ra at ti io on ns s EnABLinG MAJor BrAnDS to St A y in t ouCh with thEir CuStoMErS Email marketing has become one of the fastest growing ways for businesses to keep in touch with their customers.
For many marketers, it is now a principal tool for acquiring new customers and developing existing relationships.
During the past year, Experian CheetahMail has continued to develop its leading position as a global email service provider, delivering permission-based emails in over 40 languages on behalf of wellknown international brands.
New CheetahMail offices were opened in Australia, New Zealand and South Africa, and expansion was also supported by the acquisition of email marketing businesses in the important markets of Japan and Germany.
Electronic Arts is the worlds leading interactive entertainment software company and a major client of Experian CheetahMail.
Robert Slinn, Senior Director of Marketing at Electronic Arts, explains: CheetahMail aids us in delivering information such as new product offers and service updates to more than five million customers throughout the US and Europe.
Were able to communicate regularly in a very personal and cost-effective way, providing them with information that is based on their preferences.
