54 Experian Annual Report 2010 Governance Directors report The directors present their report and Company financial statements commitment to the role.
Further details the audited financial statements for the The financial statements of the regarding the evaluation process are year ended 31 March 2010.
Company for the financial year ended 61 contained in the corporate governance 31 March 2010 have been prepared and statement.
Principal activities presented in US dollars as the US dollar and business review is the currency of the primary economic Judith Sprieser and Paul Walker will Experian provides data and analytical environment in which the Company also retire at the annual general meeting, tools to businesses to help manage operated during the year.
Comparative being the first annual general meeting credit risk, prevent fraud, target and figures, which were originally reported following their appointment, and, engage customers and automate in sterling as the Companys previous being eligible, will offer themselves for decision making.
Experian also helps functional currency, have been election.
individuals to manage their credit represented in US dollars.
relationships and protect against Insurance and third party identity theft.
Directors indemnification The names and biographical details During the year, the Company Details of the development and of the directors are shown on the maintained liability insurance and third performance of the Groups businesses immediately preceding pages.
Laurence party indemnification provisions for its during the year, an indication of the Danon resigned as a director of the directors.
16 key performance indicators and Company on 31 December 2009.
Judith information regarding principal risks and Sprieser and Paul Walker have been Acquisitions and disposals 34 uncertainties are set out, together with appointed as directors of the Company Details of acquisitions and disposals information equivalent to that required with effect from 1 June 2010. made during the year are contained in for a business review, in the business the business review and in note 36 to the review section of the annual report and Particulars of directors remuneration, Group financial statements.
are incorporated into this report by service contracts and interests in reference.
the ordinary shares of the Company Post balance sheet events are shown in the report on directors On 23 April 2010, the Company Research and development 68 remuneration.
There were no changes in announced that The First American Research and development plays a key the directors interests in such ordinary Corporation had notified Experian that it role in supporting Experians activities shares between the end of the financial had exercised its option over Experian's and details of such activities are given year and 19 May 2010. residual interest in FARES for gross in the business review section of the cash consideration of approximately annual report.
In accordance with the Companys US$314m.
On 12 May 2010, the Company articles of association, each director is announced that it had reached Results and dividends required to retire at the annual general agreement to divest part of its UK The Group income statement shows meeting held in the third calendar year database marketing activities to a newly a profit for the financial year ended following the year in which he or she was formed business venture with British 31 March 2010 of US$636m 2009: elected or last re-elected.
The directors have Don Robert and David Tyler will retire at announced the payment of a second the annual general meeting in July 2010 Substantial shareholdings interim dividend in lieu of a final dividend and, being eligible, will offer themselves Substantial shareholders are required to of 16.00 US cents per ordinary share for re-election.
Formal evaluations of notify their interests in accordance with 2009: 13.25 US cents to be paid on 23 Board performance, the performance the Companys articles of association, July 2010 to shareholders on the register of the principal Board committees and which obliges shareholders to comply of members on 25 June 2010.
An interim the performance of individual directors with the notification obligations to the dividend of 7.00 US cents per ordinary were carried out during the year ended Company contained in the Disclosure share was paid on 29 January 2010 giving 31 March 2010 and the Board is satisfied and Transparency Rules.
As at 19 May a total dividend for the year of 23.00 US that each of the three directors retiring at 2010, the Company had been notified of cents per ordinary share 2009: 20.00 US the annual general meeting contributes the interests below in its issued ordinary cents.
effectively and demonstrates share capital or voting rights.
Substantial shareholdings Percentage of issued Direct indirect Number of ordinary share capital voting Date of notification Shareholder interest shares voting rights rights 14 October 2009 Legal & General Group plc Direct 40,756,800 3.97% 4 March 2010 Artisan Partners Limited Partnership Indirect 51,639,960 5.03% Introduction Business review Governance Financial statements 2 11 12 51 52 84 85 160 Experian Annual Report 2010 Governance 55 Share capital Articles of association The Group is party to a limited Details of the authorised and issued The articles of association of the number of operational arrangements share capital of the Company and Company may be amended by the which can be terminated or changes to the Companys share capital passing of a special resolution.
altered upon a change of control during the year ended 31 March 2010 of the Company, but these are are set out in note K to the Companys Restrictions on transfers of shares not considered to be individually financial statements.
The rights and and or voting rights significant to the business of the obligations attaching to the ordinary The Company is not aware of any Group as a whole or, in certain and deferred shares are also set out in agreements between shareholders that cases, it is considered that their note K and the articles of association may result in restrictions on the transfer disclosure would be seriously of the Company, a copy of which can be of securities and or voting rights and, prejudicial to the Company.
obtained from the Experian website at apart from those matters described The provisions relating to a change www.
below, there are no restrictions on the of control in directors service transfer of ordinary shares in the capital contracts are described in the report The Company has a Level 1 American of the Company and or voting rights: on directors remuneration.
Depositary Receipt 'ADR' programme Certain restrictions on transfers in the USA for which the Bank of New Contractual arrangements of shares may from time to time York Mellon acts as depositary.
The The licences granted to Group be imposed by law, for example, ADRs are traded on the US over-thecompanies by governmental entities insider dealing regulations.
In counter market, where each ADR in respect of the operation of its credit accordance with the Listing Rules of represents one Experian plc ordinary bureaux in key jurisdictions are essential the UK Financial Services Authority, share.
Further details are given in the to the Groups business.
The Group directors and certain employees are 160 shareholder information section of the also has several key agreements with required to seek the approval of the annual report.
its technology and data providers.
Company to deal in its shares.
Although the Group has numerous other Significant agreements Some of Experians share-based third party contractual arrangements, change of control employee incentive plans include none of these is considered essential to There are a number of agreements to restrictions on transfer of shares its business.
which the Group is party that take effect, while the shares are subject to the alter or terminate, or have the potential plan.
Appointment and removal to do so, upon a change of control of of directors the Company following a takeover bid.
77 As described in the report on Both the Company by ordinary Details of the agreements of this nature directors remuneration, nonresolution and the directors may elect are: executive directors receive a any person to be a director, but the proportion of fees in shares which number of directors shall not exceed the The Groups banking facilities may not normally be transferred maximum number fixed by the articles of contain provisions which, in the during their period of office.
Any person event of a change of control of appointed by the directors shall only the Company, could result in a Where, under a share-based hold office until the next annual general renegotiation or withdrawal of such employee incentive plan operated meeting and shall then be eligible for facilities.
by Experian, participants are the election.
The office of a director shall be beneficial owners of the shares but The 334m 5.625% Euronotes due vacated on the occurrence of any of the not the registered owner, the voting 2013 and the 500m 4.75% Euronotes events listed in article 92 of the articles rights are normally exercised by the due 2020, issued by the Group, of association of the Company.
The registered owner at the direction of provide that holders may require Company may, in accordance with the the participants.
repayment of the notes in the event provisions of the Companies Jersey that a rating agency re-rates the No member shall, unless the Law 1991, remove any director from notes to below investment grade directors otherwise determine, be office and elect another person in place following a change of control of the entitled in respect of any share held of a director so removed.
by him her to vote either personally or by proxy at a shareholders All of Experians share-based meeting or to exercise any other employee incentive plans contain right conferred by membership in provisions relating to a change of relation to shareholders meetings control.
Outstanding awards and if any call or other sum presently options would normally vest and payable by him her to the Company become exercisable on a change of in respect of that share remains control, subject to the satisfaction unpaid.
of any performance conditions at that time.
56 Experian Annual Report 2010 Governance Directors report continued Details of the new authority being Employee involvement No member shall, unless the requested are contained in the circular Experian is committed to employee directors otherwise determine, be to shareholders, which accompanies involvement throughout the business entitled to vote either personally this annual report or is available on the and is intent on motivating and keeping or by proxy at a shareholders Companys website at www.
staff informed on matters that concern meeting or to exercise any other com.
them in the context of their employment right conferred by membership in and involving them through local relation to shareholders meetings The Companies Jersey Law 1991 consultative procedures.
Where there if he she fails within the prescribed permits the Company to hold any shares are recognition agreements with trade period to provide the Company with bought back as treasury shares as an unions, the consultation process is information concerning interests in alternative to immediately cancelling established through national and those shares required to be provided them and the directors intend to decide local trade union representatives and after being duly served with a whether to cancel shares pursuant to through joint consultation committees.
notice pursuant to the articles of this authority or hold them as treasury Employees are kept well informed on association of the Company.
shares based on the interests of the matters of concern and the financial and In accordance with the articles Company and shareholders as a whole economic factors affecting the Groups of association of the Company at the relevant time.
performance through management and save for certain limited channels, conferences, meetings, circumstances, if the number of Details of the shares in the Company publications and intranet sites.
More shares in the Company beneficially purchased by and held under The detail on employee engagement, owned by residents of the USA Experian plc Employee Share Trust and together with information on diversity, exceeds a defined permitted the Experian UK Approved All Employee succession planning and talent maximum and the directors give Share Plan are set out in note L to the 10 development can be found in the key notice to the holder s of such Companys financial statements.
resources section of the annual report.
shares, such shares shall not confer on the holder s thereof the right to Charitable donations Experian continues to support employee receive notice of, attend or vote at During the year the Group donated share ownership through the provision general meetings of the Company.
of save as you earn and other allFunds from the GUS Charitable Trust employee share plan arrangements Financial risk management, disbursed through Experian during the which are intended to align the objectives and policies year totalled US$0.6m.
interests of employees with those of Descriptions of the use of financial shareholders.
instruments and Experians treasury In addition to cash contributions, the and risk management objectives and Groups employees are encouraged to Creditor payment 42 policies are set out in the financial review give their time and skills for the benefit of For all trade creditors, it is Group policy within the business review section of the a variety of charitable causes.
to: annual report and also in note 5 to the Group financial statements.
Agree and confirm the terms of Political donations payment at the commencement of Experian did not make any EU political Own shares business with that supplier: donations during the year ended 31 The existing authority for the Company March 2010.
Pay in accordance with any contract to purchase its own shares, which agreed with the supplier or as expires at the end of this years annual Employment of people required by law: and general meeting, was given at the annual with disabilities general meeting held on 15 July 2009 and People with disabilities have equal Continually review payment permitted the Company to purchase, opportunities when applying for procedures and liaise with in the market, 102,547,586 of its own vacancies.
In addition to complying with suppliers as a means of eliminating shares.
The Company did not utilise the legislative requirements, procedures difficulties and maintaining good authority to make any purchases of its are in place to ensure that disabled working relationships.
own shares during the year under review, employees are fairly treated and that or up to the date of approval of this their training and career development Trade creditors of the Group at 31 March annual report.
For those 2010 were 21 days based on the ratio of employees becoming disabled during Group trade creditors at the end of the the course of their employment, the year to the amounts invoiced during the Group is supportive, whether through year by trade creditors.
The Company re-training or re-deployment, so as has no trade creditors.
to provide an opportunity for them to remain with the Group whenever possible.
Introduction Business review Governance Financial statements 2 11 12 51 52 84 85 160 Experian Annual Report 2010 Governance 57 Going concern Auditors Details of the adoption by the Group and The auditors,  the Company of the going concern basis LLP, have indicated their willingness to in preparing the financial statements are continue in office and a resolution that set out in the financial review within the they be re-appointed as auditors of the 44 business review section of the annual Company will be proposed at the annual report and are incorporated into this general meeting.
By order of the Board Relevant audit information Charles Brown As at 19 May 2010, so far as each Company Secretary director is aware, there is no relevant 19 May 2010 audit information, being information needed by the auditors in connection Corporate headquarters: with preparing their report, of which the Newenham House auditors are unaware and each director Northern Cross has taken all steps that he she ought to Malahide Road have taken as a director in order to make Dublin 17 himself herself aware of any relevant Ireland audit information and to establish that the auditors are aware of that Registered office: information.
22 Grenville Street St Helier Annual general meeting Jersey The 2010 annual general meeting of the JE4 8PX Company will be held at The Merrion Hotel, Upper Merrion Street, Dublin 2, Ireland at 9.30am on Wednesday 21 July 2010.
Shareholders who are unable to attend in person may submit questions beforehand via email to agmquestions@ experianplc.
com or on the prepaid card sent to shareholders with the notice of meeting.
The questions will be addressed at the meeting, via the Companys website at www.
com or individually as appropriate.
The notice of meeting has been circulated to shareholders and can also be viewed at the Companys website.
