10 Experian Annual Report 2010 Introduction Key resources People, data and technology are the resources that Experian considers to be fundamental to its business.
People and general employee base is a key 75% of senior leadership The management of talent is critical objective.
The following business appointments are now the result of to Experians success and the Group actions have been implemented in order internal promotions and development invests over 50% of its cost base in to achieve this change: programmes.
attracting, developing and retaining its people.
The Experian Business Network: this 75% of senior leadership roles within is primarily a forum for supporting Experian have two successors ready Experian employs around 15,000 people diversity.
The network was launched now, or within one to two years of globally with around 36% of these being in October 2008 and now runs within readiness, in line with best practice.
based in North America, 24% in the UK the UK and Ireland, EMEA, North & Ireland and 19% in Latin America.
The America and Latin America regions.
52 cross-regional development role remainder are spread across Europe, change relocations were made over Middle East, Africa and Asia.
Senior hiring review: a programme the 12 months ended September to ensure that Experian accesses the 2009, a good indicator of strong talent Diversity: widest pool possible to secure the management.
expanding our talent pool best candidate for the job.
Employees are drawn from as diverse a 17 Talent development: pool as possible and the ethnic profile FTSE 100 Cross Company Mentoring investing in high potential employees broadly reflects that of the populations Programme: Experian participates Experian is committed to ensuring in which Experian operates, with data in the FTSE 100 Cross Company that talented individuals at all levels indicating that: Mentoring Programme, which pairs are provided with the skills and high potential female executives with experiences needed to become Around 46% of the global employee CEO or Chairman Mentors from other realistic future successors.
Actions population is female and 54% male.
taken this year include expansion of leadership development programmes, Data from 55% of employees indicates Succession planning: enhanced career planning support and that broadly 43% are white and 12% building bench strength commitment to talent development non-white.
More detailed information Succession planning ensures that forums, such as CEO breakfasts and is available at a regional level and is appropriate leadership resources are Board lunches.
available in the CR report at in place to achieve Experians strategic www.
Plans are regularly reviewed The leadership development 62 by the Boards Nomination and programme, Inspire, continues to Ensuring the future senior leadership Corporate Governance Committee.
evolve and has become Experians team better reflects the diversity primary global leadership development of Experians customer, investor initiative for the UK and Ireland, EMEA and North America regions.
It engages leaders in an inspirational community challenge as part of the Groups Investment in people commitment to widening social and Cost profile ethical awareness.
accounts for over global percentage of cost Labour 2% 50% 9% IT Data of expenditure Marketing 16% 52% Other Central 14% Activities 7% Introduction Business review Governance Financial statements 2 11 12 51 52 84 85 160 Experian Annual Report 2010 Introduction 11 Employee engagement: Data consumers, who are the subjects of the listening to Experians people At the core of Experians strategy, data.
The Group therefore operates very rigorous security and control policies, Experians global people survey, carried and underpinning its success, are which are reviewed on a regular basis.
out every 18 months, provides valuable comprehensive databases of credit and insights into the views of employees marketing information on consumers T echnology and their level of engagement with the and businesses.
The Group strives Experians information technology IT business.
for market leadership in each of the systems are used to store, process three key measures of data capability - and deliver the data that forms the Experians second global people breadth, depth and quality.
These survey in 2009 achieved 84% employee systems enable the business to meet participation, up from 73% the previous Experian holds credit application and its growth goals by maximising global year, with improvements across payment history data on approximately technology synergies and leveraging all survey categories.
The Groups 500 million consumers and 40 million economies of scale.
performance is now at or above the businesses globally.
norm in 10 out of 14 of categories when IT is foundational in the support of compared with its closest peer group of The Group also holds demographic Experians products and services and global financial services companies.
data on over 260 million households is critical to its ability to innovate.
For worldwide, as well as online behaviour example, highly secure and highly Action plans are in place as a result of data for 25 million internet users across available processing centres in each the 2009 survey and the following key more than one million web sites.
of Experians regions provide world measures of success have been selected: class service to its clients.
Sub-second Globally, Experian has segmented response times and best in class a tangible improvement in employee more than 2.2 billion consumers in 30 availability are hallmarks of the Groups engagement scores: and countries, across the worlds most systems.
a positive response regarding Experian is committed to the ongoing employees belief that action has The Group invests heavily each year to provision of market leading, high quality been taken as a result of the survey.
maintain complete, accurate and upsolutions to its clients.
For this reason, to-date information, while continuing the Group is executing a programme of to add new data sources that may be of The next global survey will take place global IT integration and consolidation.
For example, Experian in June 2010 and Experian has set an This brings competitive advantage, has recently added vehicle accident employee participation target of 85%.
leverages its global scale and enables data, and income data in the US.
It has The results, available in September Experian to enhance the value it added data on consumers to its bureaux 2010, will be used to benchmark delivers to clients.
It will also globalise in Russia and Morocco, and has performance against the 2009 results.
the Groups software engineering expanded its Marketing Services data capabilities to accelerate revenue sources in Brazil.
Experians target is for the Group growth and to more quickly build new, to be in the global high performing high quality systems.
Experian is the trusted steward of organisations category by 2012.
In databases containing sensitive order to achieve this, an improvement information.
It has an obligation to of 3% points in all survey categories is protect this for clients, who are the required by June 2010 and further 3% by source of much of the data, and for the 2012 survey.
Credit application and Information payment history data on technology systems are used to store, 500 million process and deliver consumers and the data that forms the foundation of the 40 million business businesses globally
