Taking control of growth 8 Experian Annual Report 2010 Introduction Strategy Experian's strategic goal is to grow the business and increase shareholder value by leveraging its global scale, maximising opportunities in new market segments and sustaining its leadership position through constant innovation.
The Group's strategic framework has three elements: focus on data and analytics, drive profitable growth and optimise capital efficiency.
Expand global reach Focus on data Experian is continuing to expand its global reach and analytics and extend its capabilities into new geographies and new market sectors.
Experians core expertise lies in the ownership and operation of This year, the Group launched a new credit comprehensive databases about bureau in Morocco and was awarded a licence consumers and businesses.
From these to operate a bureau in India through a joint it is able to extract significant extra value venture with seven leading Indian financial by applying its own proprietary analytics institutions.
Experian's credit bureau in Russia and software.
was also strengthened with a new joint venture partner, Sberbank.
Acquisitions in Germany and Japan expanded the global reach of Marketing Deliver innovative data and analytics Drive profitable Innovation lies at the heart of Experian and growth promotes long-term client relationships.
Experian's aim is to drive sustainable, The Group is investing in new data to ensure profitable revenue growth through that clients continue to have access to the most prioritising specific growth initiatives comprehensive and up-to-date information and mobilising its talent around to drive their decision making.
sources include income, employment, property valuations and positive credit data.
It has continued to invest in ground-breaking new products such as ProtectMyID, the consumer identity theft protection service, and Future Delphi, which is a risk model that combines credit and macro-economic data.
Optimise capital efficiency Execute superior sales and operations Experian is a very cash generative Experian is investing in its people and business and seeks to use its cash infrastructure to maintain a high performance wisely, in the interests of all stakeholders.
culture and ensure that it continues to be a The Group's aim is to use its strong great partner to clients.
cash flow to reinvest to retain competitive advantage.
Experian will The Group is driving sales excellence by seek acquisitions where they fit with establishing best practice processes for its strategy and meet its financial performance management, training and hurdles and will evaluate additional career development.
It is investing in new opportunities for returning surplus technology platforms to help connect the cash to shareholders.
Introduction Business review Governance Financial statements 2 11 12 51 52 84 85 160 Experian Annual Report 2010 Introduction 9 Strategy in action Services, while new product innovations and client wins increased Experian's presence across a range of fast growing markets.
Many of Experians products can be adapted 23 27 39 47 and repurposed to enable quick deployment Developing the Reducing the high Driving customer Strengthening SME market in Latin cost of housing satisfaction at patient relations in sectors beyond financial services.
This is America benefit fraud Guangqi Honda through financial enabling the Group to diversify its revenue base intelligence by developing opportunities in vertical markets such as the public sector, telecommunications, utilities and healthcare.
Experian is also building the next generation of platforms for its global credit bureau operations and decision analytics products, and is making some major investments in its marketing platforms.
19 21 25 29 Making TV Minimising the risk Enabling major Identifying fraud advertising more for used car buyers brands to stay in within existing relevant and touch with their customer accounts accountable customers 43 49 Increasing Helping protect collections efficiency consumers from and profits identity theft global organisation, enabling Experian to share expertise and resources more effectively, bring products to market more quickly and better serve its clients around the world.
15 31 33 The Group is also increasing its focus on new Understanding Improving customer Providing customer behaviour decisions across a information to keep vertical markets within all regions, investing at National Grid global enterprise industry on the move in additional expert talent, and expanding its strategic client programme to drive additional cross-selling.
