Directors Report Other Statutory Information SUBSTANTIAL SHAREHOLDINGS The directors submit their report and the audited Group financial statements for the financial year ended 31 August 2010.
As of 10 November 2010, the following interests in shares have been notified to the Company: PRINCIPAL ACTIVITIES Fenner PLC is a global manufacturer and distributor of reinforced polymer Number of % of issued products including conveyor belting, precision polymer products Interested party shares share capital including precision motion control products for office automation and mechanical equipment markets, sealing products for mining, hydraulic Standard Life Investments Limited 28,086,051 14.62 and energy industries and products for the medical device industry.
Threadneedle Asset Management Holdings Limited 15,442,321 8.04 The Company is a public limited company which is listed on the London HSBC Holdings Plc 12,399,456 6.46 Stock Exchange and is incorporated and domiciled in the United Lloyds Banking Group plc 9,380,087 4.88 Kingdom.
The address of the registered office is Hesslewood Country Legal & General Group Plc 9,147,041 4.76 Office Park, Ferriby Road, Hessle, East Yorkshire, HU13 0PW.
Invesco Limited 7,751,542 4.04 RESULTS AND DIVIDENDS 2010 2009 DIRECTORS AND THEIR INTERESTS m m The directors of the Company who served during any part of the year are shown in the Board Remuneration Report on page 36.
Group profit for the year 26.5 4.6 Details of the directors beneficial interests in the ordinary shares of the Dividends: Company, in share options over the ordinary share capital of the Company Interim 2.4p per share 2009 2.2p payable 4.6 3.8 and in the Performance Share Plan are given in the Board Remuneration Final 4.8p per share 2009 4.4p proposed 9.2 7.7 Report on pages 31 to 37.
13.8 11.5 Save as disclosed in the Board Remuneration Report: - no director has any interest beneficial or non-beneficial in any share or loan capital of the Company or any of its subsidiaries: DONATIONS - no change in the interests of directors has occurred between the end During the year, the Group contributed 6,000 2009 10,000 to United of the financial year and 10 November 2010: and Kingdom charitable organisations.
No donations are made to political - there were no contracts of significance subsisting during or at the end parties.
of the financial year in which a director of the Company was materially interested.
Richard Perry will be retiring by rotation at the forthcoming AGM.
In addition, two further non-executive directors were appointed to the Board: Alan Wood who was appointed with effect from 1 April 2010 and John Sheldrick who was appointed with effect from 1 September 2010 offer themselves for election, this being the first opportunity for them to do so since their respective appointments to the Company.
David Buttfield will retire at the conclusion of the AGM having served as a non-executive director since 8 January 2003.
The performance of Messrs Perry, Wood and Sheldrick is effective and they continue to demonstrate commitment to the role and the Company.
1 6 F E N N E R P L C A N N U A L R E P O R T 2 0 1 0 Given the length of his tenure, Colin Cooke will also retire by rotation and retraining would be made available using Group resources as well as by offer himself up for re-election in accordance with best practice.
His contact with the local disabilities employment adviser.
performance continues to be effective and his re-election is fully supported by the Board.
Further details of the Groups employment policy are given on page 8 and in the Corporate Responsibility Report on pages 27 and 28.
The Group holds appropriate Directors and Officers Liability Insurance.
ENVIRONMENTAL POLICY SUPPLIER PAYMENT POLICY The Group recognises and accepts that concern for the environment is an Given the international nature of the Groups operations, the Group does not integral and fundamental part of the Groups corporate business strategy.
operate a standard code in respect of payments to suppliers.
Individual operating businesses are responsible for agreeing the terms and conditions Details of the Groups environmental policy are given on page 9 and in the under which transactions with their suppliers are conducted, including the Corporate Responsibility Report on pages 29 and 30. terms of payment.
It is the Groups policy that payments to suppliers are made in accordance with these terms.
The average creditor days for the FINANCIAL RISK MANAGEMENT Group during the year ended 31 August 2010 was 54 days 2009: 59 days.
Details of the Groups financial risk management policies are given in The Company does not have any trade creditors.
note 20 to the Group financial statements on pages 60 to 62.
EMPLOYMENT POLICY OTHER STATUTORY INFORMATION The Group operates worldwide and its employment policies are designed Set out below is a summary of certain provisions of the Companys current to meet local conditions and requirements but are established on the basis Articles of Association the Articles and the Companies Act 2006 of the best practices in each country.
Wherever the Group operates, it Companies Act.
If further information is required, the relevant provisions encourages the provision of equal employment opportunities.
of the Articles and the Companies Act should be consulted.
The Groups policy is to secure good relations between management and Share capital all employees, to promote a better understanding of all the issues, both The Companys issued share capital as at 31 August 2010, together with internal and external, that influence the Groups business performance and details of shares issued during the year, is set out in note 9 to the Company to improve performance and productivity.
Formal and informal meetings financial statements on page 81.
Each ordinary share of the Company are used to consult employees and to keep them informed about the carries one vote.
The Company has a single class of share capital which is performance of the Group.
The practices of consultation and involvement divided into ordinary shares of 25p each.
vary from country to country according to local customs, legal considerations and the size of the operation.
The regular worldwide issue Dividends and distributions of a Group magazine assists the process of communication, as do briefing Subject to the provisions of the Companies Act, the Company may, by ordinary meetings, information bulletins and meetings with employee resolution, from time to time declare dividends not exceeding the amount representatives.
The Board may pay interim dividends, including fixed rate dividends, whenever the financial position of the Company, in the The Group continues to recognise its social and statutory duty to employ opinion of the Board, justifies such payment.
Dividends will be paid pro rata to disabled persons and does all that is practicable to meet this the amounts paid up on the shares.
In specie and scrip dividends can be responsibility.
Full and fair consideration is given to the recruitment, authorised at a General Meeting at the Boards recommendation.
training, career development and promotion of disabled persons bearing in mind the aptitude and ability of the individual concerned.
Voting rights Subject to any rights or restrictions attaching to any shares by or in If an employee becomes disabled while employed by the Group, accordance with the Articles, at a General Meeting, every member who is wherever possible, he or she will continue to be employed in the same present in person or by proxy shall have one vote and on a poll, every job.
If this action is not practicable or possible then every effort will be member present in person or by proxy shall have one vote for each share.
made to find suitable alternative employment.
In these circumstances, In the case of joint holders of a share, the vote of the senior holder who F E N N E R P L C A N N U A L R E P O R T 2 0 1 0 1 7 Directors Report Other Statutory Information continued tenders a vote, whether in person or by proxy, shall be accepted to the the office or at another place appointed by the Board, accompanied by the exclusion of the votes of the other joint holders.
certificate for the share to which it relates and such other evidence as the Board may reasonably require to show the right of the transferor to make the For this purpose, seniority shall be determined by the order in which the transfer and, if the instrument of transfer is executed by some other person names of the holders stand in the register.
on his behalf, the authority of that person to do so : is in respect of only one class of shares: and is in favour of not more than four transferees.
Restrictions on voting Unless the Board determine otherwise, no member shall be entitled to vote If the Board refuses to register a transfer of a share, it shall send the at a General Meeting, either in person or by proxy, in respect of any share transferee notice of its refusal together with reasons for the refusal within two held unless all moneys are fully paid up on that share.
In addition, no months after the date on which the instrument of transfer was lodged with member shall be entitled to vote if he has been served with a notice after the Company.
failure to provide the Company with information concerning interests in those shares required to be provided under the Companies Act.
The registration of transfers of shares or of transfers of any class of shares may be suspended at such times and for such periods not exceeding 30 Deadline for exercising voting rights business days in any one year as the Board may determine, except that the Voting rights may be exercised in person, by proxy, or by a Corporate Board may not suspend the registration of transfers of any participating Representative.
The deadline for submission of proxy forms is not less than security without the consent of CREST.
48 hours before the time appointed for holding the meeting or adjourned meeting.
Appointment and replacement of directors Unless varied by ordinary resolution, the number of directors other than Variation of rights alternate directors shall be not less than two nor more than fifteen in Subject to the provisions of legislation, the Articles specify that rights number.
Directors are not required to hold any shares in the Company by attaching to any class of shares may be varied or abrogated, either with the way of qualification although the majority of the directors currently hold consent in writing of the holders of three-quarters in nominal value of the shares in the company on a voluntary basis.
issued shares of the class being varied or with the sanction of an extraordinary resolution passed at a separate General Meeting of the holders At each AGM, all those directors who have been in office for three years or of the shares of that class.
more since their last re-election shall retire from office and be eligible for re-election.
A director who has held office for a continuous period of nine Transfer of shares years or more at the date of the AGM shall retire from office and be eligible All transfers of certificated shares may be in any usual form or in any other for re-election, in line with best corporate practice.
form which the Board may approve.
The instrument of transfer shall be signed by or on behalf of the transferor and, unless the share is fully paid, The Board may appoint a director either to fill a casual vacancy or as an by or on behalf of the transferee.
An instrument of transfer need not be under additional director provided that the appointment does not cause the seal.
Transfers of shares which are in uncertificated form are effected by number of directors to exceed the maximum prescribed by the Articles.
A means of the CREST system.
director so appointed shall hold office only until the next following AGM.
If not re-elected at such AGM, he shall vacate office at its conclusion.
The Board may refuse to register the transfer of a share which is not fully paid, provided that the refusal does not prevent dealings in shares in the Powers of directors Company from taking place on an open and proper basis.
In the case of Subject to the provisions of the Companies Act and Articles and to any uncertificated shares, the Board may exercise its discretion to refuse to directions given by special resolution, the business of the Company shall register a transfer of a share to the extent permitted by the regulations and be managed by the Board which may exercise all the powers of the the facilities and requirements of the relevant system.
The Board may also refuse to register the transfer of a certificated share The Board may exercise all the powers of the Company to borrow money, to unless the instrument of transfer is lodged, duly stamped if stampable at mortgage or charge all or any part of its undertaking, property, assets 1 8 F E N N E R P L C A N N U A L R E P O R T 2 0 1 0 present or future and uncalled capital and to issue debentures and other securities whether outright or as collateral security for any debt, liability or obligation of the Company or of any third party.
Subject to the provisions of the Companies Act and Articles, at a General Meeting, the Board may request the power to allot the relevant securities including for cash and to buy the Company's own ordinary shares in the market.
Currently the Board request such consent at each AGM.
The details of requested authorities in connection with the AGM to be held on 12 January 2011 are set out in the Notice of Annual General Meeting.
Significant agreements: change of control All of the Companys current share plans contain provisions relating to a change of control.
Outstanding awards and options would normally vest and become exercisable on a change of control, subject to the satisfaction of any performance conditions at that time.
Amendment to articles of association Any amendments to the Articles may be made in accordance with the provisions of the Companies Act by way of special resolution.
INDEPENDENT AUDITORS A resolution to re-appoint  LLP as independent auditors to the Company will be proposed at the AGM.
As far as each director is aware, there is no relevant audit information of which the Companys auditors are unaware.
Each director has taken all the steps that they ought to have taken as a director in order to make themselves aware of any relevant audit information and to establish that the Companys auditors are aware of that information.
ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING As special business at the forthcoming AGM, resolutions will be proposed to renew the directors authority to allot relevant securities, to disapply the statutory pre-emption rights to a limited extent and to make market purchases of ordinary shares in the Company subject to defined limits.
The proposed resolutions and further details regarding these proposals are set out in the Chairmans explanatory letter accompanying the Notice of Annual General Meeting.
Signed on behalf of the Board of Directors C I Cooke Chairman 10 November 2010 F E N N E R P L C A N N U A L R E P O R T 2 0 1 0 1 9
