"Directors Report Business Review - Chief Executive Officers Review Positive Progress ""Against the background of a slow economic recovery we are beginning to see the benefits from our enhanced capability and capacity. """
Mark Abrahams - Chief Executive Officer INTRODUCTION AND STRATEGY indicators are complemented by quantitative measurements including Our strategy continues to be to increase market share and target new value customer surveys and on time in full performance.
We concentrate on growing those businesses where we already demonstrate leadership through our skills in applications, As a diversified group, Fenner uses a wide range of materials, from design, materials technology and dedication to customer service as well thousands of tonnes of rubber compound to a few hundred grammes of as by carefully planned acquisitions.
This common aim, across a wide metallic and polymeric biomaterials.
Not only do we use large volumes of range of industrial markets, gives Fenner a solid basis for long-term some materials, we also work closely with selected suppliers to ensure growth, stability and shareholder value.
Fenner is proud to be a world class that our customers benefit from the latest technical developments in global manufacturer, with a strong commitment to health and safety, materials and processes.
The majority of these relationships are in the operating in key territories in established and emerging markets.
normal course of business, ensuring quality, continuity of supply and reasonable commercial terms.
Where appropriate, and usually relating to During the year under review, Fenner has made good progress rebuilding technical developments, relationships are formally documented.
its business to levels greater than seen before the downturn.
This is in part Operations remain vigilant to potential problems in the supply chain to due to market recovery but is more importantly due to increased market ensure continued stability and continuity of supply.
penetration and growth in share from new developments and products.
The investments made over the last few years have started to demonstrate In line with our strategic aims, we acquired a second medical business, a payback and we believe that they have only just begun to show their true MRI Medical, in July 2010 as a step towards Fenners medium term goal worth.
of building a Medical Division with a broad platform of complementary technologies.
MRI Medical is a polymer device development and The Fenner Group consists of two Divisions: the Conveyor Belting CB manufacturing company focused solely on the medical industry.
Through Division and the Advanced Engineered Products AEP Division.
innovative designs and modern manufacturing techniques, MRI Medical leads the industry in the production of cutting-edge silicone based Both CB and AEP provide high quality, comprehensive, whole life value devices.
Further investment in the medical businesses to broaden the products for their customers and both have a strong brand and reputation technical capability and product platform is seen as a key strategy for in their chosen markets.
These characteristics are considered to have these businesses and continues to be progressed as a priority.
Whilst not been the key to the success of the Group over its long history.
Customer having a significant impact to date, the potential changes in US healthcare satisfaction is of importance to all business units, who ensure they are are creating some uncertainty, however demographic trends will meeting their customer expectations which are specific to each market.
inexorably increase demand over the next 10 to 20 years.
Experienced sales teams maintain close contact with customers, providing feedback on expectations and performance.
