Ferrexpo plc 10 Annual Report and Accounts 2010 January March Our Year in Review Long-term sales Traded profitability through the downturn Following signs of a recovery in the European steel markets and Ferrexpo reports its 2009 full year improved demand visibility, a results where the Group reveals that positive trading update confirmed despite a sharp fall in iron ore prices that 86% of sales in 4Q 2009 were and a collapse in the global economy, on a long-term contract basis.
it maintained full production and traded profitably throughout the downturn.
This was due to Ferrexpos strategy of strict cost control, continued production at full capacity and established logistics infrastructure which enabled the Group to sell all its production by diverting sales away from its Traditional customer base to its Growth markets.
Increase in sales on a long term contract basis September November Refinances principal debt facility Capital investment programme Ferrexpo refinances its principal debt facility, replacing The Board approves US$647 million of capital expenditure the previous US$230 million pre-export finance facility following record production and significantly higher cash with a new US$350 million loan through a syndicate of flow generation.
The capital investment programme is the first stage of the Groups plans to significantly increase the quality and quantity of its pellet output.
This stage will increase the Groups pellet output from own ore by one third by 2013, extend the life of the existing mine by 12 years and increase the production of 65% Fe pellets to 100% of production by 2014.
Record pellet production Ferrexpo produces the highest monthly production of 65% Record pellet production pellets on record Ferrexpo achieves the highest monthly pellet production on record since 1987 Ferrexpo plc 11 Annual Report and Accounts 2010 May June August Strong production levels Recovering price Increase in revenues environment and EBITDA Ferrexpo reports at its AGM that due to strong production levels the Ferrexpo reports that revenues in the Interim results at 30 June show a 74% Group is well positioned to capitalise 1Q of 2010 increased 34% compared increase in revenues and a 257% on improved conditions in the iron to 2009 and that EBITDA increased increase in EBITDA.
1H 2010 Increase in EBITDA 257 % December Acquisition of Helogistics New Chief Operating Officer As part of the Companys strategy to further develop its As part of the development of the Groups capabilities, logistics infrastructure, Ferrexpo announces the Ferrexpo announces that Brian Maynard is to join the acquisition of Helogistics.
Vienna-based Helogistics is a Company as Chief Operating Officer.
Brian joins Ferrexpo barging company operating on the Rhine Danube river from Vale and has over 30 years experience in the mining corridor.
The acquisition allows the Group to access new industry.
markets and improve its service to existing customers in Western Europe.
250 millionth tonne of pellets produced On 1 December 2010 the 250 millionth tonne of pellets was produced.
The first tonne of pellets was made at production line no 1 on 25 April 1977.
Ferrexpo plc 12 Annual Report and Accounts 2010 A large resource base underpins Ferrexpos sustainable growth strategy Ferrexpos world class resource base is situated along a single ore body, which will allow the Group to efficiently expand production through brownfield ventures.
Ferrexpo plc 13 Annual Report and Accounts 2010 The FPM mine has consistent geology and allows for As of 1 January 2011, Ferrexpo had estimated a longlife production profile while the development resources of over 6.8 billion tonnes classified of FYM will utilise known and existing technology according to the JORC code and further estimated and infrastructure as well as Ferrexpos current resources of over 14.2 billion tonnes classified workforce.
according to the Soviet GKZ code.
JORC reserves 6.8 bn tonnes Ferrexpo plc 14 Annual Report and Accounts 2010 Consistent production and strong cost control FPM has been producing iron ore pellets continuously for the last 30 years through the Soviet administration, the fall of the Berlin wall, Ukrainian independence and several Ukrainian governments.
In 2010 record production levels were reached as the Group produced at full capacity throughout the period.
Ferrexpo plc 15 Annual Report and Accounts 2010 Ferrexpo is one of the lowest cost producers of The BIP has significantly decreased the consumption pellets in the world on an FOB basis.
The Groups of key production inputs such as energy and raw cost reduction strategy is to maximise production materials, and reduced the cash costs of production outputs and continually implement efficiency by US$5.27 per tonne since 2005.
For the year ended enhancements through the Business Improvement 31 December 2010, the cash cost of production of pellets from own ore was approximately US$39.70 per Programme BIP.
Relative to the peer group, Ferrexpos low cost position enables it to sustain profitability in periods of downturn such as in 2009.
This has allowed Ferrexpo to maintain a positive operating cash flow each quarter since 2006.
BIP reduction on C1 cash costs since 2005 $5.27 per tonne of pellets from own ore Ferrexpo plc 16 Annual Report and Accounts 2010 Expand the high quality customer base Ferrexpo remains committed to long-term framework agreements with customers who are focused on producing sophisticated steel products.
FPM has supplied the vast majority of its customer portfolio for a number of decades.
This allows Ferrexpo to produce at maximum capacity.
Ferrexpo plc 17 Annual Report and Accounts 2010 Production delivered under long-term volume The Group allocates approximately 10% of sales to framework agreements accounted for over 90% potential new customers through trial spot cargos, of sales in 2010, allowing for stable and and plans to conduct such trials with several reliable revenue.
significant producers in Asia ahead of the planned production growth from FYM.
% of production in 2010 allocated under long-term volume contracts 90%
