Ferrexpo plc 44 Annual Report and Accounts 2010 Board of Directors and Executive Committee 1.
Christopher Mawe, FCA 49 Chief Financial Officer 1.
Michael Abrahams, CBE DL 73 Chris Mawe joined the Board on 7 January 2008.
He Non-executive Chairman qualified as a Chartered Accountant with Coopers and Michael Abrahams joined the Board on 14 June 2007.
He Lybrand in 1991, having gained a First Class Honours is chairman of the London Clinic, the Prudential Staff degree in Engineering.
He has held senior financial Pension Scheme and imJack plc.
He was deputy chairman positions for the past 16 years, first with IMI plc in both of Prudential plc until May 2000, and has served as the UK and Europe, and then with Carclo plc as finance chairman and as a director of a number of quoted and director.
Most recently he was finance director of UK Coal plc.
Kostyantin Zhevago 37 Senior Independent Non-executive Director Chief Executive Officer Oliver Baring joined the Board on 1 December 2007.
He Kostyantin Zhevago joined the Board as a Non-executive has been chairman of Mwana Africa plc since its reverse Director on 14 June 2007 and was appointed Chief takeover of African Gold plc in September 2005.
He retired Executive on 1 November 2008.
He is ultimately the from UBS Warburg in 2001, having led the International controlling shareholder of Ferrexpo.
He has been a Mining Group with responsibility for Africa and Europe.
member of the Ukrainian Parliament since 1998.
He is Previously he had been head of the UBS Warburg mining currently a member of the Parliamentary Committee on equity sales team and was responsible for its respected Law Policy and Chairman of the Parliamentary Group for coverage and sales capability.
He was a partner in Rowe Inter-Parliamentary Relations with Japan.
Since 2002, he and Pitman before its merger with SG Warburg.
He is has been a member of the permanent delegation of the non-executive chairman of First Africa Holdings Limited, Ukrainian Parliament in the Parliamentary Assembly of the and is a non-executive director of BlackRock World Mining European Council and a member of the Ukrainian faction Trust plc, and a member of the Advisory Council of of the Committee for Parliamentary Cooperation between Sentient Resources Fund.
Ukraine and the European Union.
He has previously served as chairman of the management board and deputy 5.
Raffaele Lucio Genovese 49 chairman of the supervisory board of CJSC Commercial Independent Non-executive Director Bank Finance and Credit Bank F&C and as a member of Lucio Genovese joined the Board on 14 June 2007.
He is the supervisory board of JSC Ukrnafta.
Between 1993 and the chief executive officer of Nage Capital Management, a 1996, he was financial director of Bank F&C.
He is a Swiss-based advisory and proprietary company non-executive director of New World Resources NV, a specialising in the metals and mining sector, and serves on subsidiary of BXR Group Limited.
Kostyantin Zhevago a number of boards of directors.
He has previously served graduated from the Kyiv State Economic University in as investment officer and a member of the board of Taj 1996, specialising in international economics.
Investment Limited with responsibility for its Indian public and private investment portfolio.
Prior to that, he held a number of positions with Glencore International, including senior member of the Copper Division, CEO of CIS Operations, manager of the Moscow office and trader in the Ferrous Division.
He was an assistant manager in the Audit Division of  in South Africa.
He is a Chartered Accountant South Africa.
Ferrexpo plc 45 Annual Report and Accounts 2010 6.
Wolfram Kuoni 44 The Executive Committee Independent Non-executive Director Wolfram Kuoni joined the Board on 14 June 2007.
He is the Kostyantin Zhevago founder and senior partner of Kuoni Attorneys-at-Law, Chief Executive Officer Zurich, Switzerland, and serves on a number of boards of See profile under The Board directors.
He has over 12 years of experience in investment banking.
Prior to 2005, he held a number of positions Christopher Mawe, FCA within UBS Investment Banking Zurich and New York, Chief Financial Officer including head of the European Export and Project Finance See profile under The Board Team.
He also originated and structured cross-border acquisitions and equity capital markets transactions.
He Yaroslavna Blonska 37 graduated with a law degree from the University of Berne, Acting Chief Marketing Officer and holds a doctorate in law from the University of Zurich Yaroslavna Blonska has worked in the Ferrexpo Poltava and an MBA from INSEAD in France.
He is a member of Marketing Group since 2002, and in 2007 she was the Zurich Bar.
appointed the Marketing Manager of the Ferrexpo Group, where she was responsible for CIS and Eastern European 7.
She has also been a Member of the TIS-Ruda Independent Non-executive Director Supervisory Board since 2007.
On 1 January 2011 she Ihor Mitiukov joined the Board on 14 June 2007.
He is the was appointed Acting Chief Marketing Officer of Ferrexpo managing director and head of country for Ukraine, plc.
Yaroslavna Blonska graduated from Kyiv State Morgan Stanley.
He was the general director of the Economic University in 1996, with a degree of MSc in Financial Policy Institute until March 2008.
From 2002 to International management, and completed post graduate 2005 he served as Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary studies in Law at Kyiv State University.
Ambassador of Ukraine in the United Kingdom.
He also represented Ukraine in the International Maritime Nikolay Goroshko 51 Organisation.
From 1997 to 2001 he served as Minister of Chief Financial Officer, Yeristovo Project Finance of Ukraine and, from 1995 to 1997, as Ukraines Nikolay Goroshko has worked for Ferrexpo Poltava Mining Special Representative with Vice-Prime Ministerial status since 1984.
He was Acting Group Chief Financial Officer in to the European Union in Brussels.
In 1994, he was deputy April 2007 and Chief Commercial Officer in charge of the governor of the National Bank of Ukraine and then Groups Growth Projects in December 2007 prior to his Vice-Prime Minister of Ukraine for Banking and Finance.
He is a graduate of the Kyiv Institute of Prior to that, he held various positions at Agrarian-Industrial National Economics, specialising in Industrial Planning.
Bank Ukraine, and was appointed as its deputy governor in 1992.
Ihor Mitiukov graduated from the Cybernetics Nikolay Kladiev 38 Department, Kyiv State University and has a PhD in Chief Financial Officer, Ferrexpo Poltava Mining Economics 1985 from the Institute of Economy, Academy Nikolay Kladiev joined FPM in June 2005.
Over the course of Sciences Ukraine.
of his career Nikolay Kladiev spent several years as an audit manager with Ernst & Young and CFO of a large 8.
He holds a Masters in International Non-executive Director Economic Relations from the Kyiv National University Mike Salamon joined the Board on 27 March 2009.
executive chairman of New World Resources NV, a subsidiary of BXR Group Limited.
He is also a nonViktor Lotous 46 executive member of the board of directors of OKD, Chief Operating Officer, Ferrexpo Poltava Mining Co-President of AMCI Capital and a non-executive director Viktor Lotous joined Ferrexpo Poltava Mining in 1986.
He of Central Rand Gold and of Gem Diamonds.
With a career became chief engineer in 1997, and General Director and spanning more than 30 years, recently with BHP Billiton, he Chief Operating Officer in April 2007.
He is a graduate of has extensive knowledge of the international mining and Kryvy Rih Mining and Ore Institute, and of the Kyiv State extractive industries.
Between 2003 and 2006, he served Economic University, specialising in Finance.
as an executive director of BHP Billiton with responsibilities for the aluminium, copper and nickel businesses.
From Brian Maynard 51 2001 to 2006, he also chaired BHP Billitons Operating Group Chief Operating Officer Committee, which was accountable for inter alia the BHP Brian Maynard joined the Group in January 2011.
He spent Billiton groups health, safety and environment, projects, 30 years with Vale Inco & Vale Australia in their nickel and purchasing and operating excellence.
In 2001 Mr. Salamon coal operations respectively, working in technical, oversaw the merger integration of Billiton plc and BHP operations management, and executive roles.
He was a co-founding director of Billiton plc in was appointed Vice President, Mining in the Vale Inco 1997, and oversaw the companys listing on the London Ontario, Canada operations.
He moved to the Presidents Stock Exchange in 1997.
Before 1997 he held a number of role in the Manitoba, Canada operations in 2008 and was positions, first at Anglo American and later in the coal accountable for the fully integrated mining, milling, smelting divisions of Shell and Gencor Ltd.
He graduated in 1975 and refining complex.
Most recently he was the Global from The University of the Witwatersrand, Johannesburg Coal Director Technical & Administrative Support with a degree in Mining Engineering Cum Laude and including Finance, Sustainability, Logistics, Technical obtained an MBA from the London Business School, Services in the Brisbane head office of the Vale Australia University of London in 1981. operations.
He graduated in 1981 from the University of Manitoba, Canada with a BSc in Geological Engineering.
