Ferrexpo plc 59 Annual Report and Accounts 2010 Directors Report The Directors present their report to shareholders for the financial In compliance with the 2010 UK Corporate Governance Code all of year ending 31 December 2010. the Directors will retire at the forthcoming AGM and, being eligible, will offer themselves for re-election.
The Company was incorporated under the name Ferrexpo plc as a public company limited by shares on 22 April 2005.
Ferrexpo plc Further details about the Directors and their roles within the Group listed on the London Stock Exchange in June 2007 and is a member are given in the Directors biographies on pages 44 and 45.
Details of of the FTSE 250 index.
the remuneration of the Directors, their interests in shares of the Company and service contracts are contained in the Remuneration Business review Report on pages 52 to 58.
A review of the business, its principal activities and likely future developments can be found in the sections listed below which are Appointment and replacement of Directors incorporated into this Directors Report by reference.
The pages Directors may be elected by the shareholders by ordinary resolution referred to incorporate all requirements of section 417 Companies or appointed by the Board.
A Director appointed by the Board holds Act 2006 the Act, including details of the principal risks and office only until the next following AGM and is then eligible for election uncertainties facing the Group and analysis using Key Performance by the shareholders.
Indicators as set out in the Business Review.
Powers of the Directors The Chairmans and Chief Executive Officers Statement on Subject to the Companys Articles, the Act and any directions given pages 6 to 9 by special resolution, the business of the Company will be managed The Operating Review on pages 20 to 25 by the Board who may exercise all the powers of the Company.
The Financial Highlights on pages 26 to 29 The statement of risks on pages 30 to 33 Directors and Officers insurance The Corporate Social Responsibility Review on pages 34 to 43.
The Company maintains Directors and Officers Liability Insurance in respect of legal action that may be brought against its Directors Directors duties and Officers.
The duties of Directors are set out in sections 170 to 177 of the Act.
The duties that are specifically referred to in the Corporate Directors indemnity provision Governance Report on pages 46 to 51 include the duties under During the period under review, the Group had in force a qualifying section 172 to promote the success of the Company, section 175 to third-party indemnity provision in favour of one or more of the avoid conflicts of interest, section 176 not to accept benefits from Directors of Ferrexpo plc against liability in respect of proceedings third parties, and section 177 to declare any interests in existing or brought by third parties, subject to the conditions set out in the Act.
proposed transactions or arrangements with the Company.
Share capital and rights attaching to the Companys shares Results and dividends Share capital and rights attaching to the Companys shares Results for the year are set out in the Consolidated Income Statement The Company has a single class of Ordinary Shares of 10p each.
Subject to applicable statutes and other shareholders rights, shares The Directors recommend a final dividend of 3.3 US cents per may be issued with such rights and restrictions as the Company may Ordinary Share.
Subject to shareholders approving this by ordinary resolution decide, or if there is no such resolution or so recommendation at the Annual General Meeting the AGM, the far as it does not make specific provision as the Board may decide.
dividend will be paid in UK pounds sterling on 3 June 2011 to At each AGM, the Board proposes to put in place annual shareholder shareholders on the register at the close of business on 3 May 2011. authority for the Companys Directors to allot new shares in Shareholders may receive UK pounds sterling dividends by direct accordance with the guidelines of the Investor Protection Committee.
bank transfer, provided that they have notified the Companys registrars in advance.
Shareholders may also elect to receive Details of the issued share capital of the Company are shown in note dividends in US dollars the procedure for this is set out in the Notice 29 of the financial statements.
Directors The Directors of the Company who served during the year were: Michael Abrahams Oliver Baring Lucio Genovese Marek Jelinek retired 27 May 2010 Wolfram Kuoni Chris Mawe Ihor Mitiukov Mike Salamon Kostyantin Zhevago Ferrexpo plc 60 Annual Report and Accounts 2010 Directors Report continued Variation of rights Dividends and distributions Subject to the provisions of the Act, the rights attached to a class of Subject to the provisions of the Act, the shareholders may by shares may be varied or abrogated either with the consent in writing ordinary resolution, from time to time, declare dividends not of the holders of at least three-quarters of the nominal amount of the exceeding the amount recommended by the Board.
The Board issued shares of that class excluding any shares of that class held as may pay interim dividends and also any fixed rate dividends treasury shares or with the sanction of a special resolution passed at whenever the financial position of the Group, in the opinion a separate meeting of the holders of the issued shares of that class of the Board, justifies their payment.
validly held in accordance with the Articles.
Under the Companys Articles, the Board may withhold payment of Transfer of shares all or any part of any dividends or other monies payable in respect of Any share in the Company may be held in uncertificated form and, the Companys shares from a person with a 0.25% or greater interest subject to the Articles, title to uncertificated shares may be as defined in the Articles if such person has been served with a transferred by means of a relevant system.
Registration of a transfer notice under section 793 of the Companies Act 2006 and has failed of an uncertificated share may be refused in the circumstances set within 14 days to provide the Company with information concerning out in the Uncertificated Securities Regulations 2001 and where, in interests in those shares required to be provided under the Acts.
the case of a transfer to joint holders, the number of joint holders to whom the uncertificated share is to be transferred exceeds four.
Voting At a general meeting of the Company, every member has one vote on Subject to the Articles, any member may transfer all or any of his a show of hands and on a poll, one vote for each share held.
Under certificated shares by an instrument of transfer in any usual form or in the Act, members are entitled to appoint a proxy or proxies to any other form which the Board may approve.
The Board may exercise all or any of their rights to attend, speak and vote at a decline to register a transfer of a certificated share if it is not in the general meeting.
A member that is a corporation may appoint one or approved form.
The Board may also decline to register any transfer of more individuals to act on its behalf at a general meeting as a any share which is not a fully paid share.
The Board may decline to corporate representative.
register a transfer of any of the Companys certificated shares by a person with a 0.25% or greater interest if such a person has been Restrictions on voting served with a notice and has failed within 14 days to provide the No member is entitled to vote at any general meeting in respect of Company with information concerning interests in those shares any shares held by him if any call or other sum outstanding in respect required to be provided under the Act, unless the transfer is shown to of that share remains unpaid.
Currently, all issued shares are fully the Board to be pursuant to an arms length sale.
In addition, subject to the Articles no member shall be entitled to vote if he has failed to provide the Company with information Repurchase of shares concerning interests in those shares required to be provided under Subject to authorisation by shareholder resolution, the Company may the Act.
purchase its own shares in accordance with the Act.
Any shares which have been bought back may be held as treasury shares or Shares held in the EBT cancelled immediately upon completion of the purchase.
The trustees of the Company employee benefit trust EBT may vote or abstain from voting on shares held in the EBT as they think fit and The Company was given authority to make market purchases of up in doing so may take into account both financial and non financial to approximately 10% of its existing Ordinary Share capital by a interests of the beneficiaries of the EBT or their dependants.
This authority will expire at the conclusion of the Companys 2011 AGM.
A special resolution to Deadline for voting rights renew the authority will be proposed at the forthcoming AGM.
Details The Articles provide a deadline for submission of proxy forms of not of the resolution renewing the authority to purchase Ordinary Shares less than 48 hours before the meeting.
The Directors will also specify are set out in the notice of Annual General Meeting enclosed with in the notice of any general meeting a time, being not more that 48 this report.
hours before the meeting, by which a person must be entered in the register of members in order to have the right to attend and vote at The Company did not make use of the authority mentioned above the meeting The Directors may decide, at their discretion, that no during 2010. account should be taken of any day that is not a working day when calculating the 48 hour period.
Ferrexpo plc 61 Annual Report and Accounts 2010 Substantial shareholdings As at 15 March 2011, the Company had been advised in accordance with the Disclosure and Transparency Rules, of the following notifiable interests in its voting rights: % of the Companys total voting Ordinary Number of rights at date Name of shareholder Shares voting rights of notification 1 Fevamotinico S. a. r. l. 300,198,313 300,198,313 51.00% 2 Wigmore Street Investments No.
3 Ltd 76,656,035 76,656,035 13.02% 1 Fevamotinico S. a. r. l. is a wholly owned subsidiary of The Minco Trust of which Kostyantin Zhevago is a beneficiary.
2 BXR Group Ltd is the ultimate parent undertaking and indirect controller of Wigmore Street Investments No.
3 Ltd, which holds 76,656,035 shares through its nominee Lynchwood Nominees ltd.
In addition, Wigmore Street Investments No.
3 Ltd Is Interested In Total Return Swaps covering 70,500,000 shares.
Significant agreements change of control The Company does not have any agreements with Directors or employees that would provide for compensation for loss of office or employment resulting from a takeover.
There are no circumstances connected with any other significant agreements to which the Company is a party that would take effect, alter or terminate upon a change of control following a takeover bid, except those referred to below: Long-Term Incentive Plan The rules of the Companys Long-Term Incentive Plan set out the consequences of a change of control of the Company on employee rights under the plan.
Generally, such rights will vest on a change of control to the extent that the performance conditions have been satisfied and on a time pro-rated basis, subject to the discretion of the Remuneration Committee.
Participants will become entitled to acquire shares in the Company, or in some cases, to the payment of a cash sum of equivalent basis.
Bank loan facility Under the US$350 million pre-export finance facility with Deutsche Bank AG and other banks, entered into in September 2010, if Kostyantin Zhevago ceases to own directly or indirectly at least 50% plus one share of the Company, any of the lenders is entitled to demand repayment of its commitment.
Relationship Agreement Details of the Relationship Agreement entered into between Fevamotinico S. a. r. l. Kostyantin Zhevago, The Minco Trust and the Company can be found in the Financial Highlights page 29 and in the Corporate Governance Report page 47.
The Relationship Agreement ceases to apply if the holding of Fevamotinico S. a. r. l. The Minco Trust or Mr Zhevago individually or collectively falls below 25% of the issued share capital of the Company.
Events since the balance sheet date Information on events since the balance sheet date is provided in note 42 to the financial statements on page 119.
Market value of land and buildings Land is carried in the balance sheet at deemed cost resulting from a valuation undertaken on 1 January 2003 as part of the Groups transition to reporting under IFRS.
It is not practicable to estimate the market value of land and mineral reserves and resources at each balance sheet date.
Policy on derivatives and financial instruments The Group does not hold any derivative financial instruments.
Group policy on financial instruments is set out in note 38 to the Consolidated Financial Information on pages 107 to 115.
Ferrexpo plc 62 Annual Report and Accounts 2010 Directors Report continued Creditor payment policy and practice Statement on disclosure of information to auditors It is the Groups policy that payments to suppliers are made in The Directors who held office at the date of approval of this Directors accordance with the terms and conditions agreed between the Report confirm that, so far as they are each aware, there is no Company and its suppliers, provided that all relevant trading terms relevant audit information of which the Groups auditors are unaware, and conditions have been complied with.
The average creditor and that each Director has taken all reasonable steps to make himself payment period for the period ended 31 December 2010 for the aware of any relevant audit information and to establish that the Company was 20 days 2009: 27 days.
Groups auditors are aware of that information.
Charitable and political donations A Statement of the Responsibilities of the Directors for preparing the The Group made no political donations during the year.
Group Group and Company financial statements is set out on page 63. donations to charities worldwide were US$4,418,000 2009: US$4,043,000, with UK charities receiving US$nil 2009: US$nil.
Amendments to Articles of Association The Articles may be amended by special resolution in accordance Risk management policies with the Act.
Full details of the Groups policy on risk and uncertainty and an overview of the Groups exposure to credit, liquidity and market risks Annual General Meeting are set out in note 38 of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial The Annual General Meeting of the Company will be held at 11.00am Information on pages 107 to 115.
Further references to risk are made on Thursday 26 May 2011 at the Intercontinental Hotel, 1 Hamilton on pages 30 to 33 and in the Internal Control section of the Corporate Place, Park Lane, London W1J 7QY.
A separate letter from the Governance Report on page 49 which provides a summary of the Chairman summarising the business of the meeting and the Notice internal control procedures put in place by the Board to identify key convening the AGM have been sent to shareholders with this risks and review risk management and its effectiveness.
Going concern Auditors The Groups business activities, together with the risk factors likely to Having reviewed the independence and effectiveness of the auditors, affect its future development, performance and position are set out the Audit Committee has recommended to the Board that the on pages 26 to 33.
The financial position of the company, its cash existing auditors, Ernst & Young LLP, be reappointed.
Ernst & Young flows, liquidity position and borrowing facilities are described in the LLP have indicated their willingness to continue in office and an Financial Review on pages 26 to 29.
In addition, note 38 of the Notes ordinary resolution reappointing them as auditors and authorising the to the Consolidated Financial Information on pages 107 to 115 sets Directors to set their remuneration will be proposed at the 2011 out the Groups objectives, policies and processes for managing its Annual General Meeting.
capital: its financial risk management objectives and details of its financial instruments: and its exposures to credit risk, liquidity risk, This report was approved by the Board on 22 March 2011. currency risk and interest rate risk.
David Leonard The Groups forecasts and projections, taking into account possible Company Secretary changes in the iron ore market and general economic environment, show that the Group generates sufficient operating cash flows to Ferrexpo plc comply with the amortisation schedule for the existing major debt facility and to finance the anticipated development projects.
Registered Office: 24 King Street After making enquiries, the Directors have a reasonable expectation London SW1Y 6QL that the Group has adequate financial resources to continue in Registered number: 5432915 operational existence for the foreseeable future.
For this reason, the Directors continue to adopt the going concern basis of accounting in Headquarters: preparing the financial statements of the Group.
Bahnhofstrasse 13 CH6340 Baar Corporate governance statement Switzerland The Disclosure and Transparency Rules DTR 7.2 require certain information to be included in a corporate governance statement set out in a companys Directors Report.
In common with many companies, Ferrexpo has an existing practice of issuing, within its annual report, a Corporate Governance Report that is separate from its Directors Report.
The information that fulfils the requirements of DTR 7.2 is located in Ferrexpos Corporate Governance Report on pages 46 to 51 and is incorporated into this Directors Report by reference, with the exception of the information referred to in DTR 7.2.
6, which is located in this Directors Report.
