Fidessa group plc 14 Annual Report and Accounts 2010 Directors report continued Corporate information The directors present their report and the audited financial statements for Fidessa group plc company number 03234176 for the year ended 31st December 2010.
These will be laid before the shareholders at the Annual General Meeting to be held on 6th May 2011.
1 Directors The Board comprises a Chairman, three independent non-executive directors and two executive directors.
The Board considers its overall size and composition to be appropriate, having regard to the experience and skills which the Board members bring together and the fact that the Board considers the three non-executive directors to be independent of management.
The serving directors are: John Hamer age 51, Chairman John Hamer joined the Group in January 1983.
in Computer Science from Leeds University and was Chief Executive of the Group between 1992 and July 2001 when the Group had multiple divisions, each division having its own Chief Executive.
John became Chairman of the Group in July 2001 when the Group focused on the Fidessa business by divesting the help desk and call centre software businesses.
The Board considers the Chairman role to be similar to that performed prior to July 2001 when there were multiple businesses and there to be no conflict with Chris Aspinwall, the Chief Executive, who was already the Chief Executive of the Fidessa business prior to July 2001.
He currently has no other material business commitments.
Chris Aspinwall age 47, Chief Executive Chris Aspinwall joined the Group in August 1986 as a software engineer and was appointed to the Board in 1992.
He became Chief Executive of the Fidessa business in 1992 and has grown it to its current world leading position.
In July 2001 he became Group Chief Executive.
in Computer Science from York University.
Andy Malpass age 49, Finance Director Andy Malpass joined the Group in 1995 as Finance Director and has over 25 years experience in the software industry, with both private and public companies.
in Accounting and Finance from Lancaster University and is a fellow of the Chartered Institute of Management Accountants.
Ron Mackintosh age 62, Senior Independent Non-Executive Director Ron Mackintosh was appointed to the Board in June 2004.
Ron has held a number of senior executive positions in European technology companies.
Between 1992 and 2000 he was chief executive of Computer Sciences Corporations CSC European business which had revenue of $2.5 billion.
He is also the former chairman of each of Smartstream Technologies Limited, Northgate Information Solutions plc and Differentis Limited and a former director of Gemplus SA.
Philip Hardaker age 63, Independent Non-Executive Director Philip Hardaker joined the Board as a non-executive director in February 2005.
Philip is an experienced Chartered Accountant who previously served for 20 years as a partner in KPMG UK.
As a partner he led teams providing audit, advisory and transaction due diligence services to a broad portfolio of clients.
In addition, he held a series of managerial and leadership positions in KPMG, both in the UK and overseas.
Philip is a Trustee of Charities Aid Foundation, chairing the Audit, Risk and Compliance Committee and is a director of CAF Bank Limited.
He is also a director of The St. John of Jerusalem Eye Hospital.
Elizabeth Lake age 68, Independent Non-Executive Director Elizabeth Lake was appointed to the Board as a non-executive director in October 2008.
Until the end of June 2009, Elizabeth was a director and president of Securities Processing Solutions International, a subsidiary of Broadridge Financial Solutions, Inc Broadridge, a global provider of technology based outsourcing solutions to the financial services industry.
She continues as a strategic adviser to Broadridge.
She was a partner in the consultancy practice of Fidessa group plc 15 Annual Report and Accounts 2010 KPMG and has also held senior executive positions at CSC Index consultancy within the financial services sector and at Ziff-Davis Technical Information Company, where she was responsible for software products and services for the financial services industry.
7.1 of the UK Corporate Governance Code, the directors will retire at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting and, being eligible, offer themselves for re-election.
The biographies of the directors are set out above.
Following formal performance evaluation of Chris Aspinwall, Andy Malpass, Ron Mackintosh, Elizabeth Lake and Philip Hardaker, the Chairman confirms that the performance of each of them continues to be effective and that they continue to demonstrate commitment to their roles, bringing their considerable commercial experience to the Company: accordingly their re-election is recommended.
The senior independent director, Ron Mackintosh, confirms that following formal performance evaluation of John Hamer by himself and the other non-executive directors, the performance of the Chairman continues to be effective and his re-election is recommended accordingly.
Directors interests in shares and share incentives in the Company are detailed in the Directors Remuneration Report.
At the date of this Directors Report, indemnities are in force under which the Company has agreed to indemnify the directors and the Company Secretary to the extent permitted by law and by the Companys Articles of Association in respect of all losses arising in their capacity as officer of the Company or of any member of the Group.
In addition, the Group has purchased and maintained throughout the financial period, directors and officers liability insurance in respect of itself and its directors.
2 Principal activities and business review The Group is the leading supplier of multi-asset trading, portfolio analysis, decision support, compliance, market data and connectivity solutions for firms involved in trading the worlds financial markets.
The Groups products and services are built on the simple vision of making it easier to buy, sell and own financial assets of all types on a global basis.
With product suites serving the buy-side as well as the sell-side, combined with connectivity and market data solutions, the Group understands the complete lifecycle of investment management through to trading and trade processing, as well as the needs of all tiers of both communities.
The Group uses this strong positioning to offer unrivalled services tailored to each of these audiences that leverage its experience and knowledge across the marketplace as a whole.
This ensures that the Groups solutions smooth the whole process and deliver high performance, cost-effective and innovative functionality to each community accordingly.
Further details of the Groups primary markets and the development of the business are stated in the Overview and Market Review sections of this Directors Report.
The Company is required to set out in this report a fair review of the business of the Group during the financial year ended 31st December 2010 and of the position of the Group at the end of the financial year along with a description of the principal risks and uncertainties facing the Group, constituting the business review.
The information that fulfils the requirements of the business review can be found in this Directors Report in the Corporate Information, Overview, Market Review and the Finance Review sections.
Details of the Groups compliance with the revised Combined Code on Corporate Governance issued by the Financial Reporting Council in June 2008 are set out in the Corporate Governance section of this Annual Report.
3 Risk factors This Directors Report contains certain forward looking statements which by their nature involve risk and uncertainty.
The forward looking statements are based on the knowledge and information available at the date of preparation and on what are believed to be reasonable judgements.
A wide range of factors may cause the actual results to differ materially from those contained within, or implied by, these forward looking statements.
The forward looking statements should not be construed as a profit forecast.
Identification and management of risk is an integral part of the day-to-day activities of the Group: please refer to the paragraph headed Internal Control in the Corporate Governance section of this Directors Report for more detail on the Groups risk management systems.
Fidessa group plc 16 Annual Report and Accounts 2010 Directors report continued There are a number of potential risk factors which could have a material, adverse financial effect on the business as well as on the value and liquidity of the Companys securities some of which have been identified below although the list may not be exhaustive.
There may also be risks that we do not currently consider to be serious or which are currently unknown to us.
Where reasonably possible, the Company or the Group as applicable has taken steps to mitigate the risks or potential risks of which the Company or the Group are aware but they cannot be entirely safeguarded against all of them.
The Groups products are dependent on the rapid transmission of data either over the internet or using dedicated communications lines in order to provide financial information to its customer base and to enable customers to effect trades in financial instruments.
A major power outage, network failure or network interruption whether caused by failure of the network provider, power provider or power infrastructure, interference with or destruction of one of the Groups data centres or errors in or lack of sufficient protection of its software, IT viruses, terrorist attack or sabotage could result in the failure of its hosted service, the transmission of old or incorrect data and trades being missed, repeated or incorrectly executed particularly in the event where algorithmic or other automated trading is used.
Such issues could have an adverse impact on the Groups customers and on the Group financially as well as on its reputation in its markets.
The Group takes these issues very seriously and tries to take appropriate measures to prevent them: it has a business continuity plan under which it invests heavily in multiple secure, highly resilient data centre facilities.
It takes steps to ensure it has sufficient power supplies in the premises in which it operates and that its systems have adequate protection against sabotage.
Under the Groups software testing protocols, it takes steps to prevent test trades from being executed live and to limit the impact of such an eventuality by using a separate test site and imposing conditions on the testing, such as limiting the size of test trades.
However, it is possible that such an event could take place and prove very costly to the Group.
The nature of financial market data is such that it needs to be constantly updated which may mean that the Groups network capacity could at some point become saturated and as a consequence adversely affect its product and network performance.
While the Group has implemented measures to mitigate this risk by contracting for sufficient network capacity using market-leading providers of network services, there can be no guarantees that the Group and its communications network providers will be able to accommodate rapid growth in traffic volumes or avoid network failures or interruptions.
The Groups products include tools that support investment decisions, from asset allocations through what-if scenarios to implementation.
The tools are high performance but have to operate in a fast moving environment which creates some timing risk.
There is also some risk to the Group and its product and services in the event that implementations or deployments were to be delayed or fail.
The Group mitigates this risk by employing appropriate project management processes and conducting internal audits and rigorous testing procedures.
The Group is exposed to contractual risk under its contracts with its customers and suppliers but it endeavours to ensure that it has processes in place to reduce these risks.
Templates and contracts are carefully prepared, reviewed, negotiated and approved in line with internal processes.
However, the Group has signed agreements with overseas exchanges for the provision of financial data where the suppliers have a monopoly position and refuse to provide their data on terms other than their standard terms which can contain onerous provisions which the Group would not accept under normal circumstances, including, but not limited to, unlimited liability, liability for consequential loss and the application of local law.
The Groups staff are vital to the success of the business.
If the Group were unable to attract adequate skilled staff to meet its requirements or were to lose key managerial, sales, professional or technical staff this could seriously affect its business.
Succession planning is taken seriously by the Board and it is believed that long-term incentives under the share option schemes as well as the Share Bonus Plan and Exceptional Growth Rate Incentive Plan have aided staff Fidessa group plc 17 Annual Report and Accounts 2010 retention.
The last grant of incentives from the Exceptional Growth Rate Incentive Plan occurred in the year and the Directors Remuneration Report presents the Remuneration Committees proposals for future share incentives.
The Group endeavours to ensure that staff are motivated by the nature of the business of the Group and the work that they carry out in their roles as employees.
They are regularly appraised and encouraged to develop their skills and where appropriate are promoted in line with their potential.
Although careful steps are taken to minimise the risks posed by disaffected employees, such as protecting the Groups systems and trying to resolve any potentially volatile human resource issues, disaffected employees with access to sensitive information could be inclined to harm the Group.
It is possible that they could do significant damage to the business and the reputation of the Group by impairing its systems, misappropriating the Groups intellectual property by attempting to reveal its source codes or trade secrets or allocating passwords or access to its systems to third parties for financial gain or to cause financial loss or reputational damage to the Group.
As a software group, infringement of the Groups intellectual property rights by third parties or the Groups failure to defend infringement claims from third parties could cause damage to the business although it has taken reasonable steps to ensure that its intellectual property rights are appropriately protected by law and that it does not infringe the intellectual property rights of others.
The Group invests its cash deposits with highly rated financial institutions and spreads its risk.
Credit limits are set for each financial institution that the Group deposits funds with.
However, in the event that one of the institutions holding the Groups deposits were to collapse, there is a risk of the Group being unable to access its cash deposits or losing them altogether.
The Group operates internationally and is exposed to foreign currency risk on transactions denominated in a currency other than the functional currency and on the translation of the balance sheet and income statement of foreign operations into Sterling.
The currencies giving rise to this risk are primarily US Dollars, Euros and Japanese Yen.
The Group has both cash inflows and outflows in these currencies that create a natural hedge.
In managing currency risks, the Group aims to reduce the impact of short-term fluctuations on the Groups cash inflows and outflows in a foreign currency.
The Group has not entered into hedging contracts for either cash or net investment positions denominated in foreign currencies.
Over the longer term, however, permanent changes in foreign exchange would have an impact on consolidated earnings.
The Groups suite of products is limited in range in so far as all its products are financial software related.
It could fail to retain existing customers or attract a new client base, which would impact the growth rate and potentially profits.
Factors beyond its control such as instability of the financial system, a material downturn in financial markets, recession, reduced stock market valuations, market disruptions or suspensions, or factors such as the insolvency, consolidation or nationalisation of parts of its customer base could adversely affect the sales of the Groups products due to the consequential reduction in the budgets of financial institutions for expenditure on technology products and their reduced ability to pay for, or requirement for, such products.
In the event of turmoil in financial markets, there could be a reduction in the types of financial instrument traded or a reduction in trading volumes of financial instruments globally.
These could negatively affect Group profits because it could reduce sums billed under the Groups contracts with its customers.
The Group invests heavily in research and development of new products yet it is possible that at a future date the Group may not have the resources to respond rapidly enough to market changes or to changes in customer requirements.
The strategy it adopts in developing new products may not be on target and resource may be channelled into products that are ineffective or surplus to market requirements.
Fidessa group plc 18 Annual Report and Accounts 2010 Directors report continued The cost of compliance by the Group with changes in laws or regulations by governments and other regulatory authorities in the countries in which it does business, such as for example anti-bribery and corruption, environmental or data protection legislation, could have an adverse financial effect on the business, as could prosecution of the Group for any alleged breaches of such laws or regulations due to the potential resulting defence costs and penalties involved.
The Group endeavours to comply with any such changes with the help of its financial and legal advisers where necessary.
In the future the Group may decide to acquire new businesses or companies and or dispose of companies or businesses.
Any given acquisition or disposal will entail costs whilst also having the potential to increase the profitability of the Group.
Although in depth due diligence would be carried out by the Group and its advisers prior to undertaking such a transaction, an acquisition could have a negative effect on the profits of the Group in the event that a target acquired could not be successfully integrated into the Group, were unable to adapt to the Groups culture, if disaffected staff from the acquired company were to leave the Group or if the acquisition did not prove as valuable to the Group as anticipated.
4 Results and dividends The financial results and position are shown in the financial statements.
A fuller explanation of the results and position is provided in the Overview, the Finance Review and the Market Review sections of this Directors Report.
An interim dividend of 11p per ordinary share was paid on 27th September 2010.
The directors propose a final dividend of 22.0p per ordinary share, 7,893,000, and a special dividend of 45.0p per ordinary share, 16,145,000.
These will be payable on 13th June 2011 to shareholders on the register on 13th May 2011, with an ex dividend date of 11th May 2011.
These dividends are subject to approval by shareholders at the Annual General Meeting and have not been included as a liability in these financial statements.
5 Research and development The Group has continued its commitment to research and development and places a high priority on maintaining and improving the functionality, quality and competitive position of its business software products.
During the year the total expenditure on research and product development was 26,279,000 2009: 23,497,000.
This is measured on a direct cost only basis with no overheads allocated.
6 Employment and health and safety policies The Group is a service provider and therefore our employees are key stakeholders in our business and we aim to maintain it as an attractive place to work, where employees can develop successful careers for themselves.
This year, we carried out an employee engagement survey and invited all European staff and, for the first time, all Hong Kong employees, to participate.
The response rate was 63% in Europe and 59% in Hong Kong.
We are pleased that the survey revealed that overall staff engagement levels are positive.
Good and effective employee communications and openness with staff are vital and the Group promotes the understanding and involvement of all employees in its business aims and performance.
The policy of providing employees with information about new products, operations and the performance and development of the Group has continued through the Groups intranet site and product seminars and through regular staff meetings at which progress updates on the Group are given by the directors and senior management.
The Group started to hold bi-monthly informal lunches with Chris Aspinwall for employees from the London and Woking offices so that there is a greater opportunity for both parties to have more contact with each other.
Also implemented in the year has been a director question and answer facility whereby all employees globally have the opportunity to email business related questions which are then distributed to the appropriate senior manager to provide a response.
All answers are posted on the intranet for employees to view.
The Group has introduced in the UK a learning and career development portal, Fidessa Endeavour.
This enables employees to browse and search for learning opportunities and access online training and support materials.
The aim of the portal is to develop employees skills to support their future careers in the Group.
For 2011 it is planned that the portal will also include online performance management, linked personal development planning, career ladders and Fidessa group plc 19 Annual Report and Accounts 2010 competency skills mapping, to improve professional development for all staff.
The long-term goal is to implement the portal for staff in all our offices worldwide.
Over the past year the Group has been working to update its statement of values and this has been achieved as a result of the output from focus groups, workshops and an online survey completed by employees from around the world.
Ultimately, input was received from over 900 employees.
In summary, the Groups values are teamwork and collaboration, service, commitment and dedication, excellence and innovation.
The Group is committed to continuing to be a diverse and inclusive place to work and its employment policies, including the commitment to equal opportunity, are designed to attract, retain and motivate the very best staff regardless of colour, nationality, sex, marital status, sexual orientation, age, religion, disability or any other characteristic protected by law.
Applications for employment by disabled persons are always fully considered, bearing in mind the aptitudes of the applicant concerned.
Wherever possible the employment of employees who become disabled will be continued and appropriate training and career development will be offered.
The health and safety of the Groups employees, customers and visitors is of primary importance.
Therefore, the Group is committed to maintaining a safe and healthy working environment by managing its activities so as to avoid unnecessary or unacceptable risks.
Health and safety audits and risk assessments, including fire risk assessments, are carried out regularly and workstation assessments are carried out periodically.
Any employees with questions or concerns about any type of discrimination, behaviour or practice in the Group are encouraged to bring these issues to the attention of their manager.
These concerns will be investigated promptly, appropriate action taken and feedback given to the employee concerned.
Any attempt to deter employees from raising proper concerns will be treated as a serious disciplinary offence.
The Group has implemented an anonymous reporting box on its intranet where employees can raise any such concerns which will be copied to the Chairman of the Audit Committee and dealt with promptly.
7 Environmental policy The Group recognises the importance of meeting globally recognised corporate responsibility standards as illustrated by Fidessa group plc being a constituent company in the FTSE4Good Index Series.
It is important to our staff, our customers and our suppliers that we act in an environmentally responsible manner and the Group has endeavoured to manage the effect that it has on the environment and to support sustainability.
The Group environmental policy is regularly reviewed and is published on its website and intranet.
The intranet is just one of several ways through which staff are encouraged to make suggestions on how we can improve our environmental practices.
The Groups business requires no manufacturing facilities and no freight transportation needs.
As a software product and services office-based provider it has no activities that pose major environmental issues.
Usage of energy to facilitate the computing requirements of our data centres and our staff, as well as international travel, are considered to be the greatest environmental impacts associated with daily operations in the Group.
Other factors include the use of electrical and electronic equipment, the use of paper and the disposal of waste.
In order to reduce the Groups environmental impact in line with its business needs the following are some of the measures that have been implemented: moving into purpose built modern environmentally friendly data centres as illustrated by the move to a new data centre in the UK: making available, where practical in our worldwide offices, receptacles for recycling various materials, such as paper, tins and printer cartridges.
In the UK, we also donate surplus older models of computer equipment to Computer Aid International and encourage staff to bring redundant mobile phones to work to recycle them for charity: Fidessa group plc 20 Annual Report and Accounts 2010 Directors report continued gradually replacing personal computers where practical for terminals that only require 12 volts in comparison to personal computer which run off 220240 volts: powering down unused facilities outside working hours where practical and personal computers shutting down automatically to conserve energy: encouraging responsible use of energy and water and encouraging staff to report promptly any unnecessary wastage.
Air conditioning in most of our offices automatically switches off at the end of the day: encouraging black and white and duplex printing where practical as well as greater use of email rather than paper based correspondence.
This includes the use of email for customer Christmas greetings in the UK with money being donated to charity rather than sending paper cards: providing bicycle storage facilities, showers and changing facilities to encourage cycling to work: reducing the need for overseas travel by the use of video conferencing where appropriate: decommissioning old inefficient servers and replacing them with new servers each of which uses half the electricity of the old ones and can run several virtual servers thus reducing the air conditioning requirements.
The Operations Director produces an environmental report on the Groups activities each year.
The report for 2010 showed that the Groups improvement targets for the year have been met together with details of the annual audit on the Groups environmental and social and ethics policy.
The report indicated no risks but contained a number of suggestions where further improvements can be made.
Appropriate action is being taken regarding the suggestions.
8 Corporate social responsibility Employees are encouraged to follow good principles of social behaviour which are reflected in the Groups social and ethics policy.
This policy is regularly updated and communicated to staff via the intranet.
The Board believes the Group has a relatively low social impact but nevertheless sees the value that can be added through corporate social responsibility.
Participation in activities with local communities where it carries out its business helps to integrate the Group with local communities.
This year the Group became one of a number of business trust partners with a state secondary school local to our Woking office, Kings College for the Arts and Technology.
The aim is for the Group to provide support, information and guidance to senior students at the school to help them make good career choices.
Employees are encouraged to nominate charities they would like to raise funds for and to participate actively in raising money for these charities through internal fundraising events, several of which are typically held each year.
In addition, the Group sponsors charity events, such as for example charity runs or bicycle rides, and also gives sponsorship to individual staff who undertake activities for charity.
9 Customers as stakeholders Our customers are important and valued stakeholders because the business has been built on their support for our products and services.
We endeavour to provide excellent levels of service and to work closely with our customers to assist them in developing their businesses.
Although they comprise almost exclusively financial institutions on both the sell-side and the buy-side, they vary greatly in their business models, structures and size.
We have worked closely with them to endeavour to ensure we meet their immediate business needs and support them where practical, by being adaptable in finding solutions that fit their businesses, as their needs change from time to time.
10 The Fidessa group plc Employee Benefit Trust The Fidessa group plc Employee Benefit Trust 1997 is a discretionary trust established for the benefit of the Groups employees.
It has an independent, professional trustee, RBC cees Trustee Limited and the trust has been financed by advances from the Company.
The shares held by the trust rank pari passu with all the other shares in issue and have no special rights but rights to dividends and to vote the shares have been waived by the trust.
The costs of administering the Employee Benefit Trust are charged to the Income Statement as incurred.
The trust acquired its shares in the Company for use in connection with the Companys Performance Related Share Plan at the time of the placing for the flotation in June 1997.
The Company Share Option Plan 2006 further details of which are set out in the Directors Fidessa group plc 21 Annual Report and Accounts 2010 Remuneration Report was approved by shareholders at the Extraordinary General Meeting held in February 2006 and the Company can request the trust to transfer its shares to satisfy grants made on the recommendation of the Remuneration Committee under this scheme too.
11 The Fidessa group plc Share Bonus Trust The Fidessa group plc Share Bonus Trust is a discretionary trust established for the benefit of participants in the Fidessa group plc Share Bonus Plan.
It has an independent, professional trustee, Kleinwort Benson Jersey Trustees Limited, and is currently financed by advances from the Company.
All rights to dividends and voting the shares have been waived by the trust.
The costs of administering the trust are charged to the Income Statement as incurred.
The trust purchases shares to match and to provide a National Insurance Contribution hedge against purchases of ordinary shares by participants in the Fidessa group plc Share Bonus Plan at the same time as the participants acquire their participating shares.
Please see the Directors Remuneration Report for further details.
12 Donations The total amount of charitable donations made by the Group during 2010 was 29,000 2009: 27,000.
Donations were made to various charities including Crisis and the Haiti earthquake appeal.
There were no political donations.
13 Payments to creditors It is the Companys and the Groups policy to agree terms and conditions for business transactions with their suppliers.
The Company and the Group value their suppliers and recognise the benefits to be derived from maintaining good relationships with them.
They therefore seek to abide by the payment terms agreed whenever satisfied that the supplier has provided the goods and services in accordance with the agreed terms and conditions.
As at 31st December 2010 the number of days of annual purchases represented by the year-end creditors for the Company amounted to 19 days 2009: 24 days and for the Group amounted to 12 days 2009: 25 days.
14 Off-balance sheet arrangements The Group does not have any off-balance sheet arrangements.
15 Disclosure of information to auditors The directors who held office at the date of approval of this Directors Report confirm that, so far as they are each aware, there is no relevant audit information of which the Companys auditors are unaware: and each director has taken all the steps that he ought to have taken as a director to make himself aware of any relevant audit information and to establish that the Companys auditors are aware of that information.
16 Auditors In accordance with Section 489 of the Companies Act 2006 a resolution for the re-appointment of KPMG Audit plc as auditors of the Company is to be proposed at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting.
By order of the Board Andy Malpass Director 11th February 2011
