Fidessa group plc 05 Annual Report and Accounts 2010 Outlook on top of further strong growth Fidessa believes that its market will throughout Asia, where Fidessa has remain difficult for some time to opened a new office in Singapore, 45.0p come, although it expects there as well as solid progress in the core will still be growth opportunities.
markets in North America and Europe.
Special dividend In particular Fidessa is already seeing The number of customers using proposed an increase in the level of consultancy Fidessas services has continued it is providing, which is often a lead to increase with 900 firms taking 1 indicator, and there is a sound sales Market review solutions from Fidessa and over 2 pipeline coming into 2011.
Fidessa believes that the strength As expected, market conditions during of its business will enable it to deliver 2010 have remained challenging as Whilst market conditions for the further good growth in 2011, with this financial firms come to terms with financial community are still growth likely to be at similar levels tighter market conditions at the same challenging, there is a growing to that seen during 2010.
Fidessa time as having to deal with an unclear realisation that the markets are also believes that on an approximate and potentially difficult regulatory stabilising and the level of business 24 month timeframe, there will be environment.
For Fidessas customers firms are seeing is perhaps the new improvements in market sentiment this has resulted in pressure on their normal.
As a result, more customers starting to come through as financial revenue and, for some, it has also are looking at how they move forward firms adjust to the new environment, resulted in a lack of clarity about the in the current environment and this is and regulation and market structure likely structure of their operations starting to create new opportunities.
As a result of this in the future.
The investments that Fidessa expects this cycle to continue anticipated improvement, Fidessa Fidessa has made in a range of during 2011 and will combine with the is starting to cautiously increase its products that can assist its customers growing clarity around regulation and development spending and expects to reduce their costs and manage market structure.
As a result, Fidessa that the margin is likely to reduce their operations more effectively, believes that on an approximate slightly in 2011, although it is still have left it well positioned to weather 24 month timeframe it will see expected to be above historic levels.
the challenges and continue to deliver improvements in market sentiment growth.
However, the pressure being starting to come through.
In Looking further ahead, Fidessa felt by customers has delayed some anticipation of this Fidessa is believes that it will play an increasingly decisions and resulted in some now starting to slowly increase its important role in providing the consolidation within Fidessas development spending and, among solutions that the industry needs customer base.
This has made it other initiatives, has invested in more and will continue to be an important more difficult for Fidessa to progress development resource in Asia and participant within the financial some of its newer initiatives as quickly announced the expansion of its Belfast community.
Fidessa expects that as would normally be expected.
It is expected as the markets develop, this will that this increase in development result in further significant growth Fidessa has continued to make good spending will have a small impact opportunities, and it will maintain its progress in new regions with deals on margin for 2011, although the strategy of investment in the business signed in Latin America, the Middle margin is still expected to stay to bring the right solutions to its East and the Nordics.
This has been above historic levels.
customers across all the regions in which it operates.
1 The Market Review addresses the structure of the marketplace and therefore differs from the segment reporting which reflects the structure of the business operations focused on the method of delivery to the marketplace.
2 Fidessa expects to review its total user count during 2011 to take account of differences in the calculation of enterprise and  SaaS users and also to reflect the growing number of users of Fidessas web portal services not included in the current number.
Fidessa group plc 06 Annual Report and Accounts 2010 Directors report continued Buy-side trading 10 partnership deals signed with Fidessa has continued The buy-side business has been existing major enterprise customers.
to win deals with challenging during 2010 with difficult These cover strategic product over 30 new buy-side market conditions.
The gentle development, fully managed upgrades clients signed.
improvement in market sentiment and outsourced operational services seen during the first half of 2010 did in both Europe and North America.
not translate into significant new sales In Asia it has resulted in the successful and this slowed progress both with go live of our first customer in existing products and the newer mainland China.
The exception to this has been in the area of compliance Fidessa has continued to win deals where Fidessa has continued to make with over 30 new buy-side clients progress as firms ready themselves for signed.
A significant number of these increased regulation, and the first sale deals have been in the workstation of the Sentinel compliance product has and connectivity services space been made in the Japanese market.
reflecting an appetite towards lower In addition, the important element of cost and outsourced solutions.
This recurring revenue strengthened in the is an area where Fidessa will increase second half of 2010, and good growth its development focus over the is expected to return to the business next period.
The strength of Fidessas portfolio of During 2010, Fidessa has changed buy-side products has been recognised the management within the buy-side in the industry with a number of business and has focused on awards including best compliance developing the business as a high solution for Sentinel at the Buy-Side quality strategic partner with a Technology awards, and best front robust delivery methodology.
In office provider at the annual Funds doing this, it is moving away from Europe Awards.
These awards confirm the entrepreneurial start-up that that Fidessa continues to be seen was acquired in 2007 to a more as a provider of market-leading mature business model consistent solutions to buy-side firms and is with Fidessas sell-side operations.
well positioned for when market This is a natural evolution for the conditions improve.
business and aligns with a growing trend that Fidessa is seeing for larger Despite the challenges in 2010, customers to look for long-term Fidessa expects that its strategy strategic relationships that can deliver of developing the business model cost effective, cross asset, global by working with its largest clients solutions.
Broadening the scope of and expanding its workstation and the relationship and taking increased operational services, will build on responsibility in implementing the the sound foundation that it has sophisticated products in this way established.
As a result, Fidessa both increases the effectiveness of the believes that the buy-side business end solution, whilst also significantly will deliver good overall growth reducing the total cost of ownership.
This activity has already delivered some significant success, with around Fidessa group plc 07 Annual Report and Accounts 2010 Global connectivity and consolidating, pooling their resources are now receiving US equity options market data to improve their efficiency and flow across the network, and the Challenging conditions have compete more effectively.
interest in trading derivatives continued to affect the financial contracts generally within the community throughout 2010.
Despite Fidessas connectivity solutions allow Fidessa community has increased.
these factors, the demand for fast, all these entities to communicate by reliable information and market providing low-latency access direct Alongside global connectivity comes connectivity has remained, and the to exchanges, dark pools and other the need for fast, accurate market strength of Fidessas market-leading trading venues.
It then allows buy-side data, and Fidessa has continued to connectivity services meant its investment firms to smart-route expand its capabilities in this area.
share of global trading volume their orders to a broad spectrum New markets are always being added has continued to increase.
of brokers and provides the tools and technology upgraded to cope needed to monitor and manage all with increased data traffic.
With data their connectivity on a global basis.
handling ticker plants located in key Ten partnership financial centres around the world, deals signed with During 2010 Fidessas network Fidessas market data content is existing major community has continued to grow rapidly becoming a valuable asset and it now supports over 13,000 in its own right.
connections carrying an order flow data has been a core part of Fidessas value of around $800 billion every trading products for some time, a Buy-side firms continue to trade more month representing a 25% increase standalone, direct datafeed solution asset classes electronically across on a year ago.
Advanced trading was launched in 2010, with eight clients more international markets, as they strategies, such as algorithmic and signed to take this new service.
This search for alpha and for ways to high frequency trading, have also clearly demonstrates the independent remain competitive.
This means that helped drive network activity, as value that Fidessas investment in data globally they require access to more well as drive demand for faster collection has provided.
At the same trading links.
time the sell-side brokers need more Looking forward, new regulations than ever to protect their transactional Despite already offering a global such as Dodd-Frank in the US and business flows, and so compete to footprint to clients, new trading MiFID II in Europe are expected to fuel diversify and offer more sophisticated venues are still appearing, and interest initiatives at trading venues, as they services across more asset classes in emerging regions is increasing.
take advantage of the opportunities to more global venues.
The venues As such Fidessa has continued to created.
Although not yet certain, themselves are also fighting to retain extend its network reach by adding a focus on derivatives instruments and attract order flow as fragmentation further markets in South-East Asia, in particular is anticipated as trading continues to dominate, and so are Latin America and Japan.
Investment in these instruments may be forced expanding the trading services that in the infrastructure has also continued on exchange and demand will grow they offer and the asset classes that with new network hubs opened in for fast and comprehensive access they support.
Singapore and planned in Scandinavia.
to these evolving markets around the world.
Against this backdrop lies an everAs well as providing access to evolving regulatory environment, traditional equity markets, the The connectivity and data services which in recent years has driven demand for more exotic instruments, that Fidessa now offers remain key a proliferation of new, alternative such as derivatives, continues to and integrated parts of the trading trading venues and caused trading grow and 20% of destinations on solutions available, as well as valuable liquidity to fragment.
However, there the Fidessa network now support standalone services in their own right.
are now clear signs that venues are these asset classes too.
In the US, The immense value of the trading in particular, more and more brokers community now connected through Fidessa group plc 08 Annual Report and Accounts 2010 Directors report continued these services is clearly evident, In EMEA, additional clients were Fidessas marketand the desire to be a part of this signed in Scandinavia and Germany, leading connectivity community is now proving to be as well as Fidessas first large sell-side services meant its a draw in its own right.
client in the Middle East.
In Europe, share of global the fragmentation of liquidity away Sell-side trading from traditional exchanges and onto trading volume has Pressure on the sell-side financial new venues has continued, which has continued to increase.
community has continued in 2010, driven a preference for regional or with trading volumes still down on international trading solutions over historical highs across much of the purely domestic systems, as well as world.
Overall headcount within many the desire for advanced trading tools trading firms has remained generally such as Smart Order Routing SOR.
flat, as firms attempt to leverage the The spread of technology across the people they have and find ways to do central market landscape is also set more with less.
Both large and small to continue with the Oslo exchange firms are under consistent pressure in Norway migrating onto London to focus on reducing their costs and market technology, Warsaw planning improving their efficiency as they to migrate to NYSE technology face a tighter market with lower and fragmentation developing in commissions, and all are striving Scandinavia.
to offer more and better services in order to remain competitive.
In North America Fidessa saw significant new business during the Against this backdrop Fidessa has year with over 30 new clients signing continued to make steady progress, for Fidessas  as its market-leading products SaaS trading solution.
In the US position it firmly as a key supplier a key driver has been in the equity in the space.
New clients have come options space, where firms want to on board to take advantage of the handle the options and underlying efficiencies that a complete trading cash instruments in a single integrated workflow solution can achieve, and solution.
In Canada, the marketplace new and existing clients alike have has been rapidly embracing new looked to develop new services trading venues and the liquidity and expand their offerings into fragmentation that ensues.
driven the demand for sophisticated trading workflow systems which For many firms, a drive to look outside Fidessa, through its growing regional their domestic markets is clearly presence, has been well positioned apparent.
Larger firms have been to support.
In the light of this growth expanding into new regions over the and in order to provide the best last few years, particularly into Asia, possible service to the Canadian and this theme is now being followed market, Fidessa has announced by smaller firms who are seeing a plans to open two new data centres similar opportunity.
In total Fidessa in Canada during the first half of 2011. has signed over 80 new clients in the year for its trading solutions with these clients spread across the world.
Fidessa group plc 09 Annual Report and Accounts 2010 Interest in Asia remains strong with Looking forward, the markets are battle with other liquidity venues many international firms, including expected to evolve across a number for market share, and more of these the large domestic Japanese banks, of different themes.
Although much venues are already investing in the setting up operations in Hong Kong of it has still to be finalised, regulation infrastructure required to enable which is seen as the logical gateway is expected to be a significant driver them to trade derivative instruments.
With Hong Kong being for change and open up a number of Sell-side firms themselves are keen by far the largest IPO market in 2010, potential opportunities.
In Asia Pacific, to realign their technology away there is a strong anticipation that the Australian market is set for change from asset-centric silos, driven by this market is likely to deliver further as the local regulator ASIC looks the need to get more value from their opportunities.
As would be expected, to open up the market to alternative technology investment and deliver volumes in the region have been trading venues and so alter the greater efficiency.
Fidessa believes picking up and this is attracting more trading landscape by introducing that all of these trends should play alternative trading venues which, new competition.
In Europe MiFID II towards its strengths, enabling it to if successful, are likely to create is expected to address new asset realise the investment it is making requirements for more sophisticated classes, although this is not expected in a world leading derivative execution tools.
In Japan the launch to materialise until the end of 2011. trading platform.
of the Tokyo Stock Exchanges TSE In the US, the Volcker Rule already new Arrowhead exchange platform appears to be forcing some larger Whilst the exact timing of has also fuelled opportunities, driving institutions to spin out their proprietary developments within the market is demand from tier two firms for more trading businesses into separate always difficult to predict, Fidessa sophisticated trading platforms.
The entities, and the SECs ruling, banning expects that it will see increasing high performance nature of the new buy-sides from naked access to opportunities for expansion and TSE system has also driven demand markets, is forcing brokers to have growing requirements for new for High Frequency Trading HFT high performance systems in place products across its customer base.
tools which Fidessas advanced which can manage real-time risk architecture is ideally placed to and exposure control.
During 2010, Fidessa was named the best sell-side trading Fidessa believes the trend for multiFidessa has signed platform in the Asian Banker Markets asset systems is likely to continue, over 80 new clients and Exchanges awards confirming with particular interest around in the year for its its growing presence and reputation derivatives.
in this area over recent years has positioned it well to take advantage In 2010 Fidessa celebrated 10 years of of this opportunity, and Fidessa providing  SaaS believes that the momentum will trading services and was recognised increase over the next few years, for its achievements winning Best spurred on by a number of key drivers.
Sell-side Trading Platform and Best The current regulatory trend is likely Order Management System from to demand greater transparency the Financial News and Banking across derivative trading and this is Technology respectively.
From small likely to drive some Over The Counter beginnings with a single client in OTC trading onto exchanges and London, Fidessas SaaS solution has other lit liquidity venues, significantly developed into a world leader serving increasing the volumes traded in this over 230 brokers located in financial way.
The derivative market is also centres all around the globe.
shaping up to be a key battleground for the primary exchanges as they
