delivering our key priorities Our strategy is to provide safe, reliable, innovative and sustainable transport services and to deliver long term value for shareholders through profitable growth in our core markets.
There can be no doubt that continued economic uncertainty made 2009 10 a challenging year.
Our strategy to build a balanced, diverse portfolio, together with the actions we have taken, has provided resilience in a difficult economic environment.
Our clear strategy to manage the Group through these challenging times enabled us to take swift, decisive action to mitigate the effects of the recession on trading.
mANAGiNG OUr cOsTs mAximisiNG The FlexiBiliTy iN OUr BUsiNesses With our experience and strong track record in cost management In those areas of our business that are dependent on passenger and improving operating efficiencies we were able to take prompt revenues we responded quickly to the challenges presented by the action to reduce costs throughout the Group.
These actions mitigated recession and the adverse impact on passenger volumes.
As well the impact of the weaker economy and higher hedged fuel costs, as rigorous cost control we focused on network management and which increased by approximately 90m during the year.
targeted mileage reduction which protected revenue per mile, while ensuring that we retained the capability to restore service levels At the start of the year we had already devised and implemented when demand returns.
comprehensive plans to reduce costs throughout the UK and North America.
Throughout the year we continued to bear down on costs, In UK Bus we reduced mileage, primarily through service frequency reducing overheads and increasing operating efficiencies.
As a result adjustments while remaining focused on operating performance of the relentless focus and drive throughout the business we have and customer service.
At Greyhound where, as we anticipated, exceeded our original cost reduction target and achieved annual passenger revenues were adversely impacted as a result of the weak savings of 228m.
economic environment and increased unemployment, we were able to maximise the highly flexible operating model.
With approximately 60% of the cost base being variable we were able to manage service provision on a route by route basis to match any changing demand.
sTreNGTheNiNG OUr FiNANciAl deliveriNG prOFiTABle GrOWTh pOsiTiON redUciNG NeT deBT Net debt reduction is a key priority for the Group.
Despite the As we expected, the continued economic weakness presented challenging trading environment we were pleased to increase net a number of challenges during the year.
The Group delivered cash generation during the year which was used to reduce net a resilient performance with overall trading in line with management debt.
We are confident of further opportunities to increase net cash expectations.
In this tough trading environment we exceeded our cash generation within the Group to accelerate our deleveraging plans.
target for the year and expect to return to earnings growth in 2010 11.
Our robust financial position was strengthened during the year The Board is confident in the underlying strength of the businesses as we made further progress in executing our strategy to extend which, combined with the many actions we have taken to mitigate the maturity profile of the Groups debt and reduce reliance on the adverse effects of recession, will ensure the Group continues bank finance.
The Groups recent bond issues in the capital to trade robustly through the economic cycle and deliver long term markets attracted strong support from fixed income investors value for shareholders.
and demonstrated the continued confidence in the underlying strength and resilience of the Group.
8 FirstGroup Annual Report and Accounts 2010 OperATiNG ANd FiNANciAl revieW Key perFOrmANce iNdicATOrs The Groups management use a wide range of financial and non-financial key performance indicators to assess our performance during the year.
revenue m Adjusted operating profit m reduction in lost Time injuries 6,319.3 497.5 6,187.3 453.9 18% 4,707.6 360.1 We are committed to a targeted reduction 3,708.8 in workplace accidents across the Group 259.2 3,030.9 229.7 and this year achieved an 18% reduction in Lost Time Injuries.
2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 Adjusted eBiTdA m Adjusted basic earnings contract retention in North America per share pence 772.2 769.6 48.6 40.9 90% 39.5 560.8 33.7 Contract retention in both First Student 30.9 and First Transit remained strong during 398.9 351.7 the year at over 90%.
