Board of Directors 1 2 3 4 5 7 6 8 9 10 11 1 Member of the Audit Committee 2 Member of the Remuneration Committee 3 Member of the Nomination Committee 4 Member of the Executive Safety Committee 5 Member of the Executive Committee 28 FirstGroup Annual Report and Accounts 2010 RepoRt oF the DiRectoRs 1 MARtiN GiLBeRt LLD MA LLB cA 6 AUDReY BAXteR DBA LLD DipAcc BA 1,2, 3 chairman Non-executive Director 3 chairman of the Nomination committee chairman of the Remuneration committee A Chartered Accountant, he is one of the founders and Chief Appointed to the Board as Non-Executive Director in August 2006.
Executive of Aberdeen Asset Management PLC.
He was appointed She is Chairman and Chief Executive of W. A. Baxter & Sons Limited.
to the Board of FirstGroup plc in 1995.
He is Chairman of Chaucer She has held a number of non-executive positions and was formerly Holdings PLC and a director of a number of investment trusts.
a member of the Scottish Business Forum and the Scottish He is a Non-Executive Director of Primary Health Properties PLC Economic Council.
and Aberdeen Football Club plc.
7 pRoFessoR DAViD BeGG Dsc BA 1,2, 3 2 siR MoiR LocKheAD oBe Non-executive Director Deputy chairman and chief executive Appointed to the Board as Non-Executive Director in August 2005.
4,5 chairman of the executive safety committee He is Chairman of Tube Lines Limited and Northern Way Transport Chief Executive and Deputy Chairman since the Groups formation Compact and a Director of Portobello Partnership.
Originally a mechanical engineer he joined Grampian professor at Plymouth University and an adviser to Greater Transport in 1985 as General Manager and went on to lead the Manchester Passenger Transport Executive.
He is also the publisher successful employee buy-out of GRT Bus Group PLC.
Until 2005 he was Chairman of the Commission was awarded the OBE for services to the bus industry and in 2008 for Integrated Transport and a Non-Executive Director of the he was awarded a Knighthood for services to transport.
He is a past Strategic Rail Authority.
President of the Confederation of Passenger Transport and currently President of the Chartered Institute of Logistics and Transport and 8 coLiN hooD Bsc Msc Fiet 1,2, 3 Senior Governor of the University of Aberdeen.
Non-executive Director Appointed to the Board as a Non-Executive Director in May 2009, 3 siDNeY BARRie LLB he is a Director and Chief Operating Officer of Scottish and Southern 4,5 commercial Director: company secretary Energy plc.
He is a Director of Scotia Gas Networks.
Appointed to the Board in August 2005 as Commercial Director and subsequently Company Secretary.
He joined the Group from 9 tiM otooLe cBe JD 1,2, 3 Paull & Williamsons, solicitors in Aberdeen, where he was a senior Non-executive Director partner and Head of Corporate acting for a number of listed and Appointed to the Board as a Non-Executive Director in May 2009, private companies.
He had a long association with the Group in he was, until the end of April 2009, Managing Director, London an advisory capacity going back to the original employee buy-out Underground.
He joined Transport for London in 2003 prior to of GRT Bus Group PLC.
In his current role he has responsibility which he was President and Chief Executive of Consolidated Rail for arange of commercial activities across the Group.
Corporation, one of Americas most successful rail networks.
4 JeFF cARR Beng AcMA 10 JohN sieVWRiGht MA cA 4,5 1,2, 3 Finance Director senior independent Non-executive Director Appointed to the Board in September 2009 as Finance Director, chairman of the Audit committee he joined the Group from easyJet plc where he was Group Finance Appointed to the Board in May 2002, he was, until 2008, a Senior Director since 2005.
Prior to that he held a number of senior financial Vice President and Chief Operating Officer of International for Merrill roles at Associated British Foods plc, Reckitt Benckiser Group plc, Lynch & Co. A Chartered Accountant, he has held various senior Grand Metropolitan PLC and Unilever plc.
management positions in banking in London, New York, Dublin and Japan.
He is a member of the North American Board of the Michael 5 NicoLA shAW BA Mst Smurfit Business School, Dublin and a Non-Executive Director of 4,5 Director Bus UK, ireland and Germany ICAP plc.
Appointed to the Board in January 2009 as Director responsible for Bus in the UK, Ireland and Germany.
She joined the Group in May 11 MARtYN WiLLiAMs 2005 as Managing Director UK Bus from the Strategic Rail Authority Non-executive employee Director where she was Managing Director of Operations.
Her career in the Appointed to the Board as Employee Director in January 2003, he is public transport sector, both in the UK and overseas, has included currently serving a third term as Employee Director.
He is employed roles at the Office of the Rail Regulator, Bechtel, Halcrow, the World as a customer services supervisor in Swansea and has worked for Bank and London Transport.
She is a Non-Executive Director of the Group for 32 years.
FirstGroup Annual Report and Accounts 2010 29
