Our Group FirstGroup plc is the leading transport operator in the UK and North America with revenues of over 6 billion a year.
We employ more than 130,000 staff throughout the UK and North America and transport some 2.5 billion passengers a year.
NOrTh AmericA cONTrAcT BUsiNess We are the leading provider of transportation services in North America.
First Student is the largest provider of student transport with a fleet of approximately 60,000 yellow school buses operating every day across the US and Canada.
First Transit is one of the largest private sector providers of transit management and contracting, managing public transport systems on behalf of Transit Authorities.
We are one of the largest providers of airport shuttle bus services in the US and also manage call centres, paratransit operations and other light transit activities.
First Services is the largest private sector provider of vehicle maintenance and ancillary support services in the US.
GreyhOUNd Greyhound is the only national provider of scheduled intercity coach transportation services in the US and Canada.
Greyhound provides scheduled passenger services to 3,800 destinations throughout North America carrying some 20 million passengers annually.
We also operate BoltBus, a network of low cost, high quality intercity coach services linking city pairs within the North East corridor of the US.
We have three operating subsidiaries in the US: Valley Transit Company Texas-Mexico border, Crucero USA southern California and Arizona into Mexico and Americanos USA Mexico from Texas and New Mexico.
Greyhound PackageXpress provides package delivery services to thousands of destinations in North America.
UK BUs We are the largest bus operator in the UK with a fleet of 8,500 buses and a market share of approximately 23%.
We carry approximately 3 million passengers every day.
The majority of our operations are in urban areas where the bus is the most effective means of tackling traffic congestion.
We are working with local authorities and other stakeholders to provide punctual and reliable services for our customers and we continue to develop and promote effective partnerships.
We also operate Greyhound UK providing regular intercity coach services on three routes between London and Bournemouth, Portsmouth and Southampton.
UK rAil Our UK Rail division operates passenger and freight services in the UK.
We have a strong balanced portfolio of intercity, regional and commuter franchises.
Passenger rail franchises consist of First Capital Connect, First Great Western, First ScotRail and First TransPennine Express and one open access operator First Hull Trains.
We also operate rail freight services through First GBRf and operate the London Tramlink network on behalf of Transport for London carrying 28 million passengers annually.
We are the UKs largest rail operator carrying over 280 million passengers a year.
2 FirstGroup Annual Report and Accounts 2010 OperATiNG ANd FiNANciAl revieW First Student Seattle First Transit First Services Detroit Chicago First Canada New York Washington San Francisco Cincinnati Los Angeles revenue Operating profit employees Where we operate ALASKA PUERTO RICO 2,333.7m 233.9m 87,000 First Student First Student Miami Seattle Seattle First Transit First Transit First Student First Services First Services Detroit Seattle Detroit First Transit Chicago Chicago First Canada New York New York First Canada Washington First Services Washington San Francisco Detroit San Francisco Cincinnati Cincinnati Chicago New York First Canada Los Angeles Washington Los Angeles San Francisco Cincinnati ALASKA ALASKA PUERTO PUERTO RICO RICO Find out more on page 13 Los Angeles ALASKA Miami Miami PUERTO www.
com north america RICO Miami revenue Operating profit employees Where we operate 603.3m 23.9m 8,000 Greyhound network Greyhound network in the US in the US Greyhound network Greyhound network in Canada in Canada Afliated carriers Afliated carriers in Mexico in Mexico Find out more on page 15 www.
ca revenue Operating profit employees Where we operate Aberdeen 1,170.6m 124.6m 25,000 Aberdeen UK Bus operations Edinburgh UK Bus operations Glasgow Edinburgh Glasgow York Leeds York Manchester Bradford Leeds Manchester Bradford Shefeld Stoke-on-Trent Shefeld Leicester Stoke-on-Trent Norwich Birmingham Leicester Norwich Northampton Birmingham Worcester Ipswich Northampton Worcester Swansea London Ipswich Chelmsford Swansea London Cardiff Bristol Chelmsford Slough Find out more on page 16 Cardiff Bristol Southampton Slough Portsmouth Southampton Portsmouth Plymouth www.
com ukbus Plymouth revenue Operating profit employees Where we operate 2,188.4m 92.6m 13,000 First Capital Connect First Capital Connect First Great Western First Great Western First Hull Trains First Hull Trains First ScotRail First ScotRail First TransPennine Express First TransPennine Express First GBRf operates rail freight First GBRf operates rail freight services throughout the UK services throughout the UK Find out more on page 18 www.
com uktrain FirstGroup Annual Report and Accounts 2010 3
