Our markets Our businesses in the UK and North America operate in local markets with different commercial and regulatory features.
This overview illustrates the markets in which we operate, their scale and characteristics together with our position in each one.
Our position in the local bus and rail markets in the UK and in the student transportation, transit, vehicle services and intercity coach markets in the Us and canada provides us with unrivalled knowledge and experience of the many different commercial and regulatory frameworks in place and also puts us at the forefront in developing new and future opportunities.
Our portfolio of businesses is diversified by geography and customer base and structured in to four main operating divisions: UK Bus, UK rail, North America contract businesses student transportation, Transit and services and Greyhound.
We also have small bus operations in Germany and ireland and are joint venture partners in rail operations in denmark and sweden.
Our strength lies in our diversity.
The Group has a balanced portfolio of operations providing a mix of contract-backed and passenger revenues.
during these challenging economic times this mix of operations has provided strength and resilience against a fast changing trading backdrop.
Approximate market share UK BUs Local bus services in the UK operate on two very different models.
Outside London the market is deregulated and within London the market is regulated and competitively tendered.
The market 23% Outside london Local bus services in the UK, outside London, were deregulated in the mid-1980s.
The market is highly competitive between commercial bus operators large and small and between the bus and the private car.
Revenue principally comes directly from fare paying passengers and indirectly from reimbursement by local authorities for concessionary passengers.
Bus operators take revenue risk and cost risk.
Approximate passengers we carry per day Bus markets are local and are affected by local issues from demographics to politics to topography.
Local bus services operate on a flexible model with bus operators setting fares, frequencies and routes on a commercial basis to meet customer 3 million demand and also running socially necessary local bus services under contract to local authorities.
market features london High customer satisfaction Bus services in London are operated on behalf of Transport for London TfL.
Contracts are gross cost and typically five years in length.
TfL specifies fares, Investment in new vehicles routes, timetables and vehicles, takes the revenue risk and pays operators for Innovation in ticketing, marketing and information running services with a bonus and penalty regime linked to service quality.
changes in market during 2009 10 Our market share Lower passenger revenue growth as a result of We are the UKs largest bus operator economic weakness and higher unemployment We operate one in five of all local bus services Mileage reduced in response to fall in Our operations are diversified by geography 40 major towns and cities passenger demand and by customer and journey purpose OFT report and Competition Commission We operate a modern fleet at half life investigation in to local bus services in the UK We also operate Greyhound intercity coach services in the UK Local Transport Act provisions enacted Passenger Focus became statutory watchdog 4 FirstGroup Annual Report and Accounts 2010 OperATiNG ANd FiNANciAl revieW Approximate market share UK rAil The operation of passenger rail services in the UK is mainly competitively tendered and also includes a limited number of open access companies.
The market Privatised in the mid-1990s the UK rail market is a competitive environment between 23% transport operators for the award of passenger rail franchises contracts with the Department for Transport and other franchising authorities for the provision of services and between rail services and other modes of transport.
Revenue comes directly from fare paying passengers or from franchising authorities.
Train operators share revenue risk with franchising authorities this is referred to as Approximate passengers we carry per year revenue support or revenue share but bear cost risk.
Franchises are net cost contracts of variable length often seven years plus a possible three year extension if performance targets are met.
Rail markets vary but are often grouped into three sectors London and South East commuter services, regional and long distance.
Some passenger rail franchises pay a premium to the franchising authority while others receive a subsidy.
In some 280 million franchises the premium increases or subsidy decreases over the duration of the franchise and in some franchises the level of premium or subsidy is constant.
market features Growing passenger numbers Operators are responsible for the day to day management of train services and while Increasing customer satisfaction many elements of the service provided to passengers are mandated as part of the contract, other features are left to the commercial judgment of operators.
Investment in new rolling stock Innovation in customer service Our market share We are the UKs largest rail operator changes in market during 2009 10 Our operations are diversified by sector and by customer and journey purpose Lower passenger revenue growth as a result of economic weakness and higher unemployment We operate First Hull Trains, an open access passenger rail service, and First GBRf, Start of Control Period 4, Network Rails access a rail freight operator charging regime Through our joint venture with Danish State Railways we operate passenger rail services in Denmark and Sweden DfT publication of the Future of Franchising consultation paper Refranchising of Essex Thameside, Greater Anglia and InterCity East Coast franchises Publication of new High Speed line proposals FirstGroup Annual Report and Accounts 2010 5 OUr mArKeTs cONTiNUed Approximate share of total market schOOl BUses iN NOrTh AmericA The market Yellow school buses provide home to school transportation to millions of students across the US and Canada.
There are over 15,000 school districts in North America 11% responsible for providing approximately 534,000 school buses each day.
In total, the North American market is estimated to be worth $22 billion per annum.
However, only around 30% of school districts have outsourced their operations Approximate students we carry per day approximately 183,000 school buses to the private sector.
The private outsourced MARKET sector market is highly fragmented with only ten operators running more than SHARE 1,000 buses.
School districts provide transportation for students depending on varying criteria 6 million determined at State level and contracts are typically awarded for three to five years.
School districts receive funding for their activities including school transportation primarily from State and local sources, including property taxes.
market features Our market share Contracted revenue We are the largest private sector operator of school buses in North America Safety and security is a priority more than four times bigger than the next largest competitor Trusted operator in the local community We operate approximately 60,000 yellow school buses with an average Innovation and investment in technology fleet age of 6.5 years We operate in 42 States in the US and eight Provinces in Canada changes in market during 2009 10 We have more than 1,600 different contracts in 650 locations Unprecedented pressure on public spending budgets as a result of economic weakness We consistently retain over 90% of our contracts that come up for renewal Reduction in school and non-school charter We provide charter hire services for school and non-school activities services as a result of recession Our scale enables us to develop value added services for existing and potential customers to provide greater on demand information and operating efficiencies Approximate passengers we carry per year NOrTh AmericA iNTerciTy cOAch The market Greyhound is the only national provider of scheduled intercity coach transportation in the US and Canada.
Intercity coach transportation competes with many other modes of mid to long distance travel and Greyhound serves a diverse, value-oriented customer base by offering scheduled passenger services with an unrivalled network and route coverage.
The majority of revenue is generated from passenger services but Greyhound also provides package express services, charter services and, 20 million in many terminals, food services.
market features In 2008 Greyhound launched BoltBus, a low cost, premium coach operation in the Passenger revenues North East of the US.
The region is the most dense travel corridor in the country Highly flexible operating model ability to match and is a highly competitive intercity coach market.
BoltBus operates between key services to changing passenger demand, city pair destinations such as New York and Boston and attracts a different customer particularly in the US demographic to Greyhound with yield managed fares, online reservation and a Value for money package of features including free wireless internet on all buses.
Main reason for travel is to see family and friends Our market share changes in market during 2009 10 We are the only national provider of scheduled intercity coach transportation Reduced passenger revenues as a result of services in the US and Canada weaker economy and increased unemployment We carry approximately 20 million passengers per annum Mileage reduced in response to fall in We have a fleet of approximately 2,200 vehicles with an average fleet age passenger demand of 9.9 years Agreement with Canadian Provinces to reduce mileage or receive financial support to run certain, low-utilised services in specific areas New BoltBus destinations launched 6 FirstGroup Annual Report and Accounts 2010 OperATiNG ANd FiNANciAl revieW Approximate share of outsourced transit market NOrTh AmericA TrANsiT ANd services TrANsiT cONTrAcTiNG ANd mANAGemeNT The market The transit contracting and management services market includes fixed route bus services, paratransit bus services, airport, university and private shuttle services.
The North American transit market is estimated to be worth $21 billion per annum 12% with approximately 30% in the private outsourced sector.
It is a fragmented market with the three largest private sector companies operating less than 35% of the total outsourced market.
Private transportation companies manage, operate, maintain and organise transportation services under contract to customers including Transit Authorities, Approximate share of outsourced Departments of Transportation, Federal, State and local agencies, as well as vehicle maintenance market private institutions.
The Americans with Disabilities Act requires public authorities operating fixed route transit to provide complementary paratransit services for eligible citizens.
Contracts are typically for three to five years.
Our market share We operate 226 locations in 45 US States, Puerto Rico and five Canadian 12% Provinces and Territories We operate and manage 10,800 buses Our strategy is to grow in the light transit market We are one of the largest providers of airport shuttle services in the US Approximate passengers we carry a year vehicle mAiNTeNANce ANd sUppOrT services The market First Vehicle Services is one of a number of companies that provide fleet vehicle maintenance services under contract to private and public sector clients including 300 the Federal Government, cities and Fire and Police Departments.
We estimate the vehicle maintenance market to be worth $2.9 billion per annum in total with million approximately 38% contracted out to private sector providers.
First Support Services provides operations and maintenance services, including Number of maintained vehicles facilities management and warehousing and supply to agencies of Federal, State and local governments as well as to businesses in the private sector.
Our market share We operate over 150 facilities in 33 US States and five international locations Over We maintain over 43,000 vehicles We provide fleet maintenance services for public and private sector customers 43,000 We provide support services including logistics support and facilities management to public and private sector clients including the US Navy and Air Force market features Contracted revenue High level of customer service and retention Typically low capital investment changes in market during 2009 10 Pressure on public spending budgets as a result of economic weakness FirstGroup Annual Report and Accounts 2010 7
