portS recycling Our ports business depends on Cost effective waste management understanding the supply chain and recycling allows us to needs of our customers which reduce our customers land fill give rise to secure, stable contracts.
requirements and benefit from Our customer relationships are reusable commodities.
Value is many and varied covering added at our port locations from producers, importers, exporters, recycling where materials are forwarders, shipping lines and processed and baled and then distributors across our four main exported in the case of Chatham, commodity categories: in the same vessels on which goods are imported again lowering the Dry bulks carbon effect in the supply chain.
Liquid bulks Paper and forestry Containers and Ro-Ro Investing in equipment, facilities and our people, allows us to increase productivity and efficiency which, in turn, improves supply chain efficiencies.
The location of our ports results in easy access to centres of population by distribution for most commodities and therefore can offer shipping and distribution close to the point of consumption.
This in turn allows for a lower carbon supply chain and a more cost effective one.
This approach to delivering port services and Port Centric development will grow our business and benefit our customers.
underStanding our marketplace 02 waterFront land Forth Ports at the heart of the Scottish economy and the Thames Gateway in London Our extensive land assets at Leith Our ports in Scotland are located at the centre of the allow us to play a significant role Scottish economy and are set to play a major part in in the regeneration of Edinburghs growth and recovery in Scotland.
Tilbury is Londons waterfront, both in terms of our major port sitting at the heart of the regeneration of property business and also in the the Thurrock Thames Gateway region in the south developing area of renewables.
east of England and is pivotal to economic growth We own one of the largest and development in that area.
brownfield areas of land capable of being developed in Edinburgh.
The regeneration process has already established a retail demand at the waterfront which is growing.
The City of Edinburgh Council has approved the surrounding land for mixed use development to provide a heart to the waterfront and a destination for retail, tourism and leisure generally, as well as much needed affordable housing.
The Harbour at Leith Docks is a significant partnering opportunity for large scale developers and the public sector.
renewableS Our ports in the Forth and Tay are in close proximity to the Round 3 Offshore Territorial Developments.
We have significant areas of surplus land, access to deep water quays, heavy load-out, assembly and distribution experience in our ports and also a skills base within the cities of Dundee and Edinburgh which can be utilised to progress these markets from research and development to mass manufacturing.
Forth Ports Annual Report and Accounts 2010 03
