a value baSed buSineSS model We should combine our areas of expertise with our extensive asset base to create both revenue and value for our shareholders.
our revenue value expertiSe generation creation People Skills Relationships By maximising the use of assets and repositioning We invest continuously in improving Our understanding of customer and modernising them, we can create value.
the skills efficiency and safety of needs, services, facilities and Planning consents will also create the opportunity our people.
assets allow us to generate revenue to build new facilities which in turn will create value.
from a variety of different sources.
Ability to Run Groups of Ports All our ports have different service the value platForm model offerings and market positions, but we combine best practice in all for the benefit of the Group.
portS Customer Relationships We build long term relationships with our customers to understand their needs in the supply chain: project next this gives us stability in the business to create opportunities for future growth.
renewableS in Scotland Asset Base Our extensive asset base allows us to expand our customer facilities Forth energy and create value in complementary areas to our ports business.
Masterplanning property We actively create space for new initiatives by repositioning assets and businesses within our ports to ensure that our regeneration growth and value and renewables initiatives For ShareholderS complement our core business.
This is the foundation of our flexibility of response which has given us a track record in delivering on major projects.
Understanding Markets Future value caSe Study: We are active in the markets in expanding our capacity which we operate, understanding the future needs of our customers in the thameS eStuary and are able to respond flexibly and innovatively to their needs.
We are also building partnership relationships with both the public and private sector to ensure regeneration and renewables initiatives gather momentum.
08 Project NEXT the opportunity The development of additional capacity from Project For Forth portS NEXT will create at least 1,000 additional jobs in the area.
Tilbury is already Britains greenest port and our facilities and throughputs at the port will help to contribute to the lower carbon supply chain in the south east.
The combination of additional jobs, more revenues and lower carbon will deliver prosperity to the Thurrock area from one of its biggest assets.
The London Organising Committee for the Olympic london Games will occupy 0.5m sq.
ft. of warehousing at 2012 Tilbury to create a distribution and supply chain olympicS system which will contribute to the greenest games.
Tilbury has the ability to distribute goods by barge, rail and road and the expertise to organise and store any type of cargo.
We are proud to be serving the Olympics and believe this will highlight our supply chain potential to businesses who are looking for a more efficient and greener supply chain.
by 20%, create employment The Port of Tilbury our current in the Thurrock Thames Gateway Tilbury is the major port of thameS area and underpin new landside London, unique in its ability capacity facilities needed to grow to serve a market of up to 30m throughputs which are targeted people from a deep water port to grow significantly.
which also operates as a distribution hub for London and the South East.
Project NEXT will expand the warehousing and distribution capacity of Tilbury Forth Ports Annual Report and Accounts 2010 09
