David Richardson 59 Chairman Charles Hammond 49 Wilson Murray 60 David Richardson is a chartered Charles Hammond joined Forth Ports Wilson Murray was appointed Finance accountant.
He was appointed as a Authority as Company Secretary Director of Forth Ports Authority in Non-Executive Director in June 2005. in 1989 having been previously with 1986.
Previously, he worked in the He is also a Non-Executive Director the law firm of McGrigor Donald.
accounting profession with Deloitte, of Serco Group Plc.
He retired as He became Commercial Director Haskins & Sells and Price Waterhouse.
Finance Director of Whitbread plc in in 1992, was appointed Managing 2005 after 22 years with the company.
Director, Port of Tilbury London Limited in December 1995 and became Group Chief Executive in February 2001.
He is Chairman of the United Kingdom Major Ports Group.
He is a member of the Scottish Energy Advisory Board and a Director of Edinburgh Chamber of Commerce.
Perry Glading 52 Struan Robertson 61 Chairman of Gerry Brown 66 the Remuneration Committee Senior Independent Director Perry Glading joined Forth Ports PLC in February 1999 as the Deputy Struan Robertson was appointed as a Gerry Brown was appointed as a Managing Director of Port of Tilbury Non-Executive Director in September Non-Executive Director in September London Limited.
He spent most of his career with 2003.
He is Chairman of Novaquest appointed Managing Director in BP in a variety of senior roles in the UK Capital Management LLC and of NFT February 2001.
He was appointed to and overseas.
After retiring from BP he Distribution Holdings Ltd.
He is also the Board of Forth Ports PLC in June was appointed Group Chief Executive the Senior Independent Director of 2001.
Previously he worked for a of the Wates Group Ltd.
He was formerly Chairman number of years in the European down from this role in 2004.
He is the of Biocompatibles plc, Upol Ltd and a logistics market.
He is a senior member Senior Independent Director at Non-Executive Director of Vantec Ltd, of the Management Committee of Port Henderson TR Pacific Investment Trust CH Jones Ltd, Michael Gerson Ltd Skills and Safety, which is the lead plc and Salamander Energy plc.
He was a Director body on safety and training matters in was previously Senior Independent of Quintiles Transnational Inc. the UK port industry, and a director of Director at Atkins plc and a NonHis executive career included senior Skills for Logistics, which is the Sector Executive Director of International positions with Exel Logistics plc, Skills Council for the UKs freight Power plc and Tomkins plc.
TDG plc and Tibbett & Britten plc.
28 Stuart Paterson 53 Directors Financial Advisers D. H. Richardson Commerzbank AG Stuart Paterson was appointed board oF Chairman PO Box 52715 Group Finance Director Designate Non-Executive 30 Gresham Street on 15th March 2011.
He is a Chartered C. G. Hammond London EC2P 2XY W. W. Murray Accountant.
Previously he was directorS S. R. Paterson Investec Bank plc Finance Director with Aggreko plc appointed 2 Gresham Street and Chief Financial Officer with 15th March 2011 London EC2V 7QP Johnston Press plc.
D. Glading Executive Director of Devro plc.
E. G. F. Brown Gleacher Shacklock LLP Non-Executive Cleveland House D. D. S. Robertson 33 King Street Non-Executive London SW1Y 6RJ J. L. Tuckey Non-Executive Stockbrokers M-L. Clayton Investec Bank plc Non-Executive 2 Gresham Street London EC2V 7QP Group Company Secretary Solicitors Morag McNeill McGrigors LLP Princes Exchange Registered Office 1 Earl Grey Street Forth Ports PLC Edinburgh 1 Prince of Wales Dock EH3 9AQ Leith Edinburgh Bankers EH6 7DX Lloyds Banking Group PLC Company Number New Uberior House SC 134741 Third Floor 11 Earl Grey Street Independent Edinburgh James Tuckey 64 Marie-Louise Clayton 50 Auditors EH3 9BN Pricewaterhouse Chair of the Audit Committee James Tuckey was appointed as a Coopers LLP Registrars Non-Executive Director on 1st July Marie-Louise Clayton was appointed Chartered Equiniti Limited 2007.
He is Chairman of Brookfield as a Non-Executive Director on Accountants and 1st Floor Statutory Auditors 34 South Gyle Crescent Europe and the former Chief Executive 1st January 2010.
She has held Erskine House South Gyle of MEPC plc.
several senior positions within GEC 68-73 Queen Street Business Park Alstom and was latterly Group Finance Edinburgh Edinburgh Director of Venture Production plc, EH2 4NH EH12 9EB a FTSE 250 company in the oil and Website Address gas sector.
co. uk Forth Ports Annual Report and Accounts 2010 29
