84 BOARd OF dIRECTORS Alberto Baillres Jaime lomeln, NoN-executive chAirmAN, 79 years old chief executive officer, 76 years old Chairman, Nominations Committee HSECR Committee Remuneration Committee Mr lomeln spent 36 years at Peoles where he Mr Baillres has been on the board of Industrias served as Group vice President of the metals and Peoles since 1962 and has served as Chairman chemicals division for four years and subsequently since 1967.
The Baillres family first acquired an inheld the position of CEO for 21 years.
Upon the IPO terest in Peoles in 1962 and Mr Baillres is currentof Fresnillo plc in May 2008, Mr lomeln became its ly the controlling shareholder.
In addition to Peoles, Chief Executive Officer.
Mr lomeln holds a bachelor as part of the BAl group of companies, Mr Baillres of science degree in chemical engineering from the has interests in Grupo Palacio fide Hierro, a chain of Universidad Nacional Autnoma fide Mexico UNAM department stores mainly located in Mexico City, and undertook business administration studies at the Grupo Nacional Provincial, a leading Mexican insurUniversity of Wisconsin 1958-1959 as well as the ance company, Grupo Profuturo, a pensions and anAD2 program at the Instituto Panamericano fide Alta nuities business, and other businesses relating to Direccin fide Empresas IPADE in 1975 and also the financial services and agriculture.
Stanford Executive Program at Stanford University 1984.
Mr lomeln is a member of the Board of TrusMr Baillres became non-independent Non-executees of ITAM and an alternate director of Palacio fide tive Chairman on 15 April 2008.
Mr Baillres holds Hierro, Grupo Nacional Provincial, valores Mexicanos numerous other board appointments, being the Casa fide Bolsa and is also Chairman of the Board of Chairman of the Board of Directors of Grupo NaTrustees of the Chemistry School at the Universidad cional Provincial, Grupo Profuturo, valores MexiNacional Autnoma fide Mxico UNAM as well as a canos Casa fide Bolsa, Crdito Afianzador, Grupo member of the Fundacin UNAM.
Palacio fide Hierro, and a member of the Board of Fomento Econmico Mexicano FEMSA, a leading lord cairns international beverage producer and distributor, SeNior iNdepeNdeNt Grupo Televisa, Grupo Kuo Dine and BBvA BancomNoN-executive director, 71 years old er.
Mr. Baillres is also currently President of Grupo Chairman, Remuneration Committee BAl and President of the Board of Trustees of Asolord Cairns was appointed to the Board on 15 April ciacin Mexicana fide Cultura, A. C. and Instituto Tec- 2008.
He previously served as Chairman of the nolgico Autnomo fide Mxico ITAM.
In addition, Charities Aid Foundation and is a board member of Mr Baillres is a member of the Consejo Mexicano the Mo Ibrahim Foundation.
He also has previously fide Hombres fide Negocios and also of Fundacin served as Chairman of Zain Africa B. v. formerly para las letras Mexicanas, A. C. Celtel International Bv, Actis llP, CDC Group, Allied Zurich and BAT Industries after a career with SG Warburg where he had been Deputy Chairman and CEO.
He graduated from Trinity College, Cambridge.
GROUP OVERVIEW STRATEGY PERFORMANCE GOVERNANCE FINANCIALS 85 fernando ruiz rafael macgregor NoN-executive director, 67 years old NoN-executive director, 50 years old Audit, Remuneration and Nominations Committees Chairman, HSECR Committee Mr Ruiz was appointed to the Board on 15 April Mr MacGregor was appointed to the Board on 11 2008.
He is a former managing partner of Chevez, January 2008.
He has been a corporate director in Ruiz, Zamarripa y Cia.
S. C. tax advisers and consultTcnica Administrativa BAl since 1999.
He is a member of the Asociacin Mexicana ber of both the Board of Directors and the Executive fide Contadores Pblicos.
He is currently Chairman Committee of Industrias Peoles, Grupo Nacional of the tax committee of the Consejo Mexicano fide Provincial, Grupo Palacio fide Hierro, Grupo Profuturo, Hombres fide Negocios.
Mr Ruiz holds numerous valores Mexicanos Casa fide Bolsa, Crdito Afianzaboard appointments, including Kimberly Clark fide dor, Profuturo GNP Afore, Profuturo GNP Pensiones, Mxico, Mexichem, Grupo Cementos fide Chihuahua, Mdica Integral, Bal-Ondeo and a member of the Grupo Mxico, Empresas ICA and the Mexican Stock Board of Trustees of ITAM.
Mr Ruiz graduated from the UNAM with a by Mr MacGregor include CEO of valores Mexicanos degree in public accounting.
Casa fide Bolsa 1994-1999 : various positions, including corporate director, managing director and vice Javier fernndez president of mutual funds at Grupo Financiero InNoN-executive director, 55 years old verlat 1985-1994, manager of investment strategies Nominations and HSECR Committees of Operadora fide Bolsa, and investment assistant at Mr Fernndez was appointed to the Board on 15 Casa fide Bolsa Banamex 1982-1983.
He is Chairman of the Board of PrimeMacGregor has been a member of the Board of the ro Fianzas, a private surety company, since March Mexican Stock Exchange and is a former vice Chair- 2007.
He has been engaged as a consultant for man of Mercado Mexicano fide Derivados MexDer.
public and private investment transactions and has Mr MacGregor holds a bachelor of science in busibeen an active wealth management advisor since ness administration from ITAM and attended the 2002.
For the past 29 years Mr Fernndez has held Stanford Executive Program at Stanford University.
senior executive positions at leading Mexican companies, including 14 years of experience in financial Juan Bordes services.
He joined Grupo BBvA Bancomer, Mexicos NoN-executive director, 63 years old largest financial services company in 1991 as ExecMr Bordes was appointed to the Board on 11 January utive vice President Strategic Planning and succes- 2008.
Mr Bordes has been corporate director in Tcsively served as Deputy President for Systems and nica Administrativa BAl since 1979.
He was the CEO Operations and Chief Information Officer, Deputy of Artes Grficas Unidas from 1984-1986 and CEO of President and Chief Financial Officer, and in 1999 Fbricas fide Papel loreto y Pea Pobre from 1986- was named President.
Since 1989, Mr Bordes has been a member of the Board of Directors of FEMSA, a leading latin of both the Board of Directors and the Executive American beverage company: of Grupo AeroportuCommittee of Industrias Peoles, Grupo Nacional ario del Pacfico, Mexicos largest airport operator: Provincial, Grupo Palacio fide Hierro, Grupo Profuturo, of vISA, Inc. the worlds largest electronic payment valores Mexicanos Casa fide Bolsa, Crdito Afianzanetwork and of AlFA a Mexican listed conglomerate dor, Profuturo GNP Afore, Profuturo GNP Pensiones, with interests in petrochemicals, telecommunicaMdica Integral, Bal-Ondeo, Albacor and a member tions, autoparts and processed foods.
Mr Fernnof the Board of Trustees of ITAM.
Mr Bordes holds dez has a degree in Mechanical and Electrical engia bachelor of science in chemical engineering from neering from the Instituto Tecnolgico y fide Estudios UNAM and attended the Stanford Executive Program Superiores fide Monterrey ITESM and an MBA from at Stanford University.
He also attended the Business Harvard Business School.
Management Course at the Instituto Panamericano fide Alta Direccin fide Empresas IPADE.
Fresnillo plc 2010 Annual Report 86 BOARd OF dIRECTORS continued Arturo fernndez fernando Solana NoN-executive director, 57 years old NoN-executive director, 80 years old Mr Fernndez was appointed to the Board on 15 Audit Committee April 2008.
He is a member of both the Board of DiMr Solana was appointed to the Board on 18 Febrectors and the Executive Committee of Industrias ruary 2009.
He is currently President of Solana Peoles, Grupo Nacional Provincial, Grupo ProfuConsultores, Chairman of the Mexican Council on turo, El Palacio fide Hierro, valores Mexicanos Casa Foreign Relations and Chairman of the Mexican fide Bolsa and Crdito Afianzador.
Mr Fernndez is Fund for Education and Development.
He is also an also a member of the Board of Directors of Grupo associate consultant of Analtica Consultores AsoBimbo, Minera Penmont, Qumica del Rey and Tecciados as well as a member of the Boards of the nologa del Agua TECSA and an alternate director Euroamerica Foundation in Madrid and the Institute of FEMSA and BBvA Bancomer.
Mr Fernndez has of the Americas at the University of California in San been the rector of ITAM, an independent not-forDiego.
He is a member of the Advisory Board of the profit higher education institution, for 17 years.
Previously, Mr Solana also previously served as the head of the tax policy served in the Mexican government as Minister of office at the Mexican Ministry of Finance and as Trade 1976-1977, Minister of Education 1977- head of the economic deregulation office at the 1982 and Minister of Foreign Affairs 1988-1993, Mexican Ministry of Trade.
Mr Fernndez holds a and as a senator in the Parliament 1994-2000.
Mr bachelor of economics from ITAM as well as a PhD Solana was President and CEO of Banco Nacional in economics from the University of Chicago.
fide Mxico 1982-1988, and served as Chairman of the Mexican Banking Association 1986-1987.
Mr guy Wilson Solana studied civil engineering, philosophy, public NoN-executive director, 62 years old policy and administration at the National University Chairman, Audit Committee of Mexico.
Guy Wilson joined the Board on 1 July 2008 following his retirement from Ernst & Young llP.
He joined Ernst & Young in 1967 and became a partner in 1979.
Since 1972, he has specialised in corporate transactions covering IPOs, public fund raisings, acquisitions, disposals and defences against hostile bids.
From 1989 to 1991, he was seconded to HM Treasury to assist with the privatisations of the UK water and electricity industries and Scottish electricity.
From 2000, he primarily, but not exclusively, concentrated on transactions in the financial services sector.
