6 MARkET REVIEW pArt i: the Silver ANd gold iNduStry Jaime lomeln, Chief Executive Officer of Fresnillo plc shares some thoughts on the silver and gold market.
What are the prospects for the sector in the near future?
I am fairly positive about the market.
Fears of inflation and geopolitical tensions tend to encourage investment in precious metals as a safe haven.
Expectations for economic growth are improving, particularly in Asia, but the US and Europe remain weak.
Silver actually has a dual role in which its value can be driven both by investment as a safe haven and by industrial applications, so it benefits from both scenarios.
Industrial usage of silver has been growing quickly.
Because of its properties, it is a versatile metal.
It is the material of choice for a wide range of applications and its future does not depend on one industry as was the case in the past, when the photographic industry was the dominant consumer.
Tell us a bit more about those alternative applications.
Silver has unique properties such as electrical and thermal conductivity, strength, reflectivity, its use as a catalyst, and of course in photography.
There are few alternative metals in most of the applications where its being used today.
Given the number of patents submitted for products and applications requiring silver, you might even say it is a miracle metal.
For example, silver is being used in cell phones, and a range of consumer electronics.
The usage of silver zinc rechargeable batteries is growing rapidly because of fewer contamination risks compared to other types of batteries.
Silver is also employed as a bactericide and algaecide in an ever increasing number of applications including water purification, silver impregnated clothing and paints for hospitals.
The ornamental uses of silver remain strong, such as jewellery, silverware and in mirrors.
Thats to say nothing of its investment properties as small bars, coins, medals and ETFs.
GROUP OVERVIEW STRATEGY PERFORMANCE GOVERNANCE FINANCIALS 7 World Silver Supply ANd demANd, 2010e Isnt the latter more applicable to gold?
Million ounces Yes, absolutely the gold market has benefited 2010e from being a safe haven investment for centuries.
Supply This has been the driving force for the gold market Mine production 738.9 which has obviously helped Fresnillo.
The silver Net Government Sales 19.3 market has benefited in a similar fashion but it is Net producer hedging 29.5 balanced by the wider applications I touched on.
Scrap 180.1 Golds other principal use is in jewellery, although it Implied net disinvestment - also has many of the same properties as silver, but total Supply 967.9 consumption in these areas falls as the price rises.
In fact, the broader silver market has benefited as demANd the cost of gold becomes prohibitive for jewellery Fabrication and industrial applications.
Industrial 442.5 Photographic 72.1 What about activity in the mining sector?
Jewellery 165.9 How is that likely to impact the market and Silverware 53.6 Fresnillos prospects?
Coins & Medals 98.8 There are three sources of silver: mining, recycling Total Fabrication 832.8 of scrap and government sales, although the latNet producer fide-hedging - ter is insignificant at the moment.
The high price is Implied net investment 135.0 bringing more scrap to market but the main growth total demand 967.9 in supply is mining.
Most silver comes as a by-product of copper, lead, zinc and gold mining, but proGFMS Limited 2011 duction from this route depends on demand for the primary metal.
This is where the pure silver mines Silver etf holdiNgS like Fresnillo become important, and this is where Million ounces substantial growth in silver supply will come from.
Tonnes However, the great majority of exploration invest- 700 ment worldwide is going to two other commodi- 600 ties: copper and gold.
There are a lot of small new 500 gold mines coming into production globally.
Many of these are not efficient, and are low grade and high 400 cost, but are easy to mine.
With the high price of 300 gold, they can still make their margins.
Silver explo- 200 ration and mining is more expensive so the junior 100 exploration companies are more focused on gold or 0 on small and medium size silver mines.
When the 07 08 09 10 11 prices for these metals go down then margins will GFMS Limited 2011 decrease and some of these companies and operations will have to close.
That is why the strategy for Fresnillo plc is to maintain a strong pipeline of high quality exploration projects, to have an efficient operation, low cost mines and to consolidate districts.
Fresnillo plc 2010 Annual Report 8 MARkET REVIEW continued pArt ii: mexico, The mining industry A couNtry overvieW Mexico has a mining history extending almost 500 Fresnillo plc is headquartered in Mexico, as are the years and is among the worlds largest metal proGroups operating assets and the majority of its exducers.
Although best known for its production of ploration properties.
silver-over 10 billion ounces have been produced to date, and it was the second largest silver producer Government and economy in the world in 2010-the country also mines signifiMexico is a federal republic with a stable democratcant quantities of copper, gold, lead and zinc.
National elections will next take place in July 2012.
The geological potential remains strong.
The countrys terrain is one of the most tectonically active The country has a free market economy with a and complex in the world.
Orogenesis has pushed trade regime built upon agreements with the United up mountain chains all across Mexico, including States, Canada, the European Union, and 44 other the Sierra Madre Oriental, Sierra Madre Occidencountries.
Mexicos sovereign debt carries investtal and Sierra Madre del Sur.
These three regions ment grade ratings and a stable outlook.
have formed some of the key metallogenic areas.
Gold and silver mineralisation is commonly linked Security to the two belts of hydrothermal veins and gaps President Felipe Calderon has made combating organthat stretch out underneath both sides of the Sierra ised crime a priority of his administration and has fideMadre Occidental.
ployed the Mexican military to several Mexican states where Fresnillo plc has operations, including Zacatecas, That potential has attracted more than 250 private Durango and Sonora, to assist or replace local and state exploration companies to Mexico, with operations police.
Military and police have been increasingly succoncentrated in the northern states of Sonora, Zacessful in carrying out operations to remove top cartel catecas and Chihuahua.
Nonetheless, the Group has enhanced security measures at all facilities and is taking additional precauBecause mining is an important contributor to the tions to safeguard its personnel, who are the top priority.
countrys economy according to recent government figures 1.6% of GDP, 4.2% of exports and 283,000 direct Infrastructure jobs the industry benefits from a well-structured and Mexicos land transport network is one of the most supportive regulatory framework.
extensive in latin America with approximately 365,000 kilometres of paved roads and 27,000 kiloThe concession system metres of railroads.
Mexico has seven major comUnder the Mexican constitution, minerals are part of mercial container maritime ports and numerous the national patrimony.
Exploration, exploitation and international airlines serve the country.
beneficiation of minerals have preference over any World gold iNveStmeNt Tonnes 07.
Mexico was the second largest silver producer in the world in 2010. other use of the land.
The law permits up to 100% cluding water extraction, wastewater discharge and private ownership in exploration, development and tailings disposal.
The fiscal regime Concessions are required to explore for and exploit There are no taxes or levies imposed specifically mineral potential.
Concession holders are required on the mining industry.
Companies are subject to to negotiate with the surface land owner to access standard corporate income tax rates, which are the land under which the concession is located.
determined by the federal government.
Based on the Tax Reform Bill apExploration concessions are granted for six years proved in December 2009, this rate will decrease to and are not renewable.
There are no limits for mining 29% in 2013 and 28% in 2014 and beyond.
Production concessions are awarded Fraser Institute of Canada report places Mexico fifth for 50 years and are renewable for a similar period.
among 72 countries as a mining destination due to All concessions may specify required levels of capiits favourable fiscal and regulatory regime.
tal expenditure and minimum environmental, health and safety standards.
Workforce Mexicos long history of mining and an extensive Regulation for the mining sector is overseen by the natural resources sector provide a skilled workforce, Secretara fide Economa, while environmental peralthough the growth of the mining industry in recent mitting responsibility resides with the Secretara fide years has led to some scarcity of trained workers.
Medio Ambiente y Recursos Naturales SEMARNAT.
Under Mexican law, it is permissible for unionised employees to engage in work stoppages and other Environmental laws industrial actions for disputes with their own emMexican environmental regulations have become ployers or in sympathy with unionised employees increasingly stringent over the last decade as a reof other companies who are engaged in a dispute, sult of international agreements that Mexico has despite the absence of any dispute with their own ratified, including the North American Agreement on employer.
Fresnillo Group workers did not support Environmental Cooperation parallel to NAFTA, the any such actions in 2010.
United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change and the Convention on Biological Diversity.
i Information for this section was compiled from a number of sources, including Mexicos Secretariat of Economy Mining companies must obtain environmental imand Secretariat of Communications and Transportation, pact permits from SEMARNAT prior to any mining Global InfoMine, Pro Mexico, U. S. Department of State.
and exploration activities, and such activities are subsequently subject to several environmental permits from different offices within SEMARNAT, inWorld gold miNe productioN Tonnes 2,700 2,500 2,300 2,100 1,900 95 96 97 98 99 00 01 02 03 04 05 06 07 08 09 10 GFMS Limited 2011 Fresnillo plc 2010 Annual Report
