106 dIRECTORS REPORT The Directors have the pleasure in presenting their Annual Report and the audited Financial Statements for the year ending 31 December 2010.
PRINCIPAL ACTIVITIES The Fresnillo Group is a leading precious metals group with significant experience and expertise in all aspects of mining, from exploration through to mine construction and operation.
It is the worlds largest primary silver producer and Mexicos second largest gold producer.
RESULTS ANd dIVIdENdS Results for the year are set out in the Consolidated Income Statement on page 114.
An interim dividend of 9.20 US cents per share was paid on 14 September 2010 to shareholders on the register on 20 August 2010.
The Directors have recommended a final dividend for the year ended 31 fidecember 2010 of 35.6 US cents per Ordinary Share, which will be paid on 20 May 2011 to shareholders on the register on 3 May 2011.
The dividend will be paid in UK pounds sterling unless shareholders elect to be paid in US dollars.
BUSINESS REVIEW A detailed Business Review for the Group as required by section 417, Companies Act 2006 can be found on pages 6-81, inclusive, of this Annual Report.
The Business Review comments, among other things, on the operation and development of the business and its future prospects along with details of the strategy, business model, key performance indicators and the description of the principal risks and uncertainties facing the Group.
This Business Review and other sections of this Annual Report contain forward looking statements.
The extent to which the Companys shareholders or anyone else may rely on these forward looking statements is set out inside the back cover of this Annual Report.
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE The Company is required to comply with the 2008 Combined Code on Corporate Governance or explain its reasons for non-compliance.
A report on corporate governance and compliance with the provisions of the Combined Code is set out on pages 88-99. dIRECTORS The names and biographies of the current Directors of the Company are set out on pages 84-86.
In accordance with the Articles of Association, Directors may be appointed by the Company either by the Board or by ordinary resolution of shareholders.
If appointed by the Board, then a Director holds office until the next annual general meeting.
If appointed by the annual general meeting, Directors shall retire at the annual general meeting held in the third year following the year in which they were elected or last re-elected by the Companys shareholders.
Notwithstanding this, however, in accordance with Code Provision B.
7.1 of the UK Corporate Governance Code, the Company intends that all Directors will stand for re-election on an annual basis commencing at the 2011 AGM.
REMUNERATION OF dIRECTORS Details of Directors remuneration can be found in the Directors Remuneration Report on pages 100-105.
GROUP OVERVIEW STRATEGY PERFORMANCE GOVERNANCE FINANCIALS 107 dIRECTORS INdEMNITIES ANd INSURANCE The Company has entered into deeds of indemnity with each Director in respect of proceedings brought by third parties and pension scheme liabilities subject to the conditions set out in the Companies Act 2006.
The Company has purchased Directors & Officers liability insurance.
All of these arrangements remain in place at the date of this report.
SIGNIFICANT RELATIONSHIPS ANd AGREEMENTS Section 417 5 of the Companies Act 2006 requires the Company to disclose information on contractual or other arrangements which are essential to the business of the Company.
These significant relationships are described in the Strategic Resources section of the Business Review on pages 20-21.
Details of the agreement between Peoles and the Company the Relationship Agreement can be found on page 98 in the Corporate Governance Report.
CHANGE OF CONTROL SIGNIFICANT AGREEMENTS As required by Section 992 of the Companies Act 2006, the following represents the likely effect on significant agreements with the Company were it to be subject to a change of control: The Penmont Herradura and MAG Silver Juanicipio agreements each contain provisions ensuring that the respective interests of the shareholders in these respective companies may be transferred in accordance with their respective bye-laws subject to preferential rights of existing shareholders.
The New Services Agreement contains a discretionary provision for Servicios Administrativos Peoles, S. A. fide C. v to terminate the agreement should they so wish if there was a change of control of Fresnillo plc.
There are no formal change of control provisions within the Silverstream Contract or Met-Mex Arrangements.
The Groups mining concessions are held by several of its Mexican subsidiary companies.
As long as the companies holding the mining concessions remain Mexican resident companies, there are no provisions within the concession agreements which would be triggered by a change of control of the Company.
The Company does not have any agreements with any Non-executive Director, Executive Director or employee that would provide compensation for loss of office or employment resulting from a takeover.
ARTICLES OF ASSOCIATION Any amendments to the Articles of Association of the Company may be made by Special Resolution of the shareholders.
SHARE CAPITAL STRUCTURE, RIGHTS ANd RESTRICTIONS Details of the Companys share capital are set out in note 20 to the Financial Statements on page 144.
The Company has two classes of share capital 717,160,159 ordinary shares of US $0.50 Ordinary Shares and 50,000 deferred shares of 1.00 each Sterling Deferred Shares.
The Ordinary Shares are listed on the london Stock Exchange and the Mexican Stock Exchange.
The rights and obligations attaching to these shares are governed by UK law and the Companys Articles of Association.
Ordinary shareholders are entitled to receive notice and to attend and speak at any general meeting of the Company.
On a show of hands every shareholder present in person or by proxy or being a corporation present by a duly authorised representative shall have one vote, and on a poll every shareholder who is present in person or by proxy shall have one vote for every share of which he is the holder.
The Notice of Annual General Meeting specifies deadlines for exercising voting rights and appointing a proxy or proxies.
Fresnillo plc 2010 Annual Report 108 dIRECTORS REPORT continued There are no restrictions on the transfer of the Ordinary Shares other than as set out in the Articles of Association and: certain restrictions may from time to time be imposed by laws and regulations for example, insider trading laws : and pursuant to the listing Rules of the Financial Services Authority whereby certain Directors, officers and employees of the Company require the approval of the Company to deal in the Ordinary Shares.
No shareholder holds securities carrying special rights as to the control of the Company.
There are no limitations on the holding of securities.
There are no restrictions on voting rights or any arrangements by which, with the Companys co-operation, financial rights carried by securities are held by a person other than the holder of the securities.
There are no agreements between holders of securities that are known to the Company which may result in restrictions on the transfer of voting rights.
The Sterling Deferred Shares only entitle the shareholder to payment of the amount paid up after repayment to Ordinary Shareholders on winding up or on a return of capital.
The Sterling Deferred Shares do not entitle the holder to payment of any dividend, or to receive notice or to attend and speak at any general meeting of the Company.
The Company may also at its option redeem the Sterling Deferred Shares at a price of 1.00 or, as custodian, purchase or cancel the Sterling Deferred Shares or require the holder to transfer the Sterling Deferred Shares.
Except at the option of the Company, the Sterling Deferred Shares are not transferrable.
AUTHORITY TO PURCHASE OWN SHARES The Company was authorised by a shareholders resolution passed at the annual general meeting held in May 2010 to purchase up to 10% of its issued Ordinary Share capital.
Any shares which have been bought back may be held as treasury shares or, if not so held, must be cancelled immediately upon completion of the purchase, thereby reducing the amount of the Companys issued and authorised share capital.
This authority will expire at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting and a resolution to renew the authority for a further year will be proposed.
No shares were purchased by the Company during the year.
dIRECTORS INTERESTS The number of Ordinary Shares of the Company in which the Directors were beneficially interested at 1 January 2010 and at 31 December 2010 was: 1 JANuAry 2010 31 decemBer 2010 Alberto Baillres See below See below lord Cairns 15,000 15,000 Fernando Ruiz - 30,000 Javier Fernndez - - Guy Wilson 15,000 15,000 Juan Bordes 15,000 15,000 Arturo Fernndez - - Rafael MacGregor - - Fernando Solana - - Jaime lomeln - - Alberto Baillres holds an indirect interest in the Company.
Mr Baillres and companies controlled by Mr Baillres hold, in aggregate 61.3 per cent of the issued share capital and voting rights of Peoles.
Peoles holds 552,595,191 ordinary shares 77.1 per cent of the issued share capital in the Company.
No Director had any dealings in the shares of the Company between 31 December 2010 and 28 February 2011.
GROUP OVERVIEW STRATEGY PERFORMANCE GOVERNANCE FINANCIALS 109 MAJOR INTERESTS IN SHARES As at 28 February 2011, the Company had been advised, in accordance with the Disclosure and Transparency Rules of the Financial Services Authority, of the following notifiable interests whether directly or indirectly held in its voting rights: NotificAtioN received from: NumBer of votiNg rightS % Peoles 552,571,902 77.05 BlackRock, Inc 57,226,182 7.97 includes interests held by BlackRock Global Funds.
EMPLOYEES Information relating to employees is given in note 8 to the Financial Statements on page 134 and in the Sustainable Development Report on pages 58-59.
CREdITOR PAYMENT POLICY At 31 December 2010 the Company had no trade creditors 2009: nil.
It is the Companys policy to agree terms of trading, including payment terms, with all suppliers.
Provided suppliers perform in accordance with the agreed terms, payment will be made in accordance with the terms.
MARkET VALUE OF LANd ANd BUILdINGS land is carried in the balance sheet at deemed cost.
It is not practical to estimate the market value of land and buildings at each balance sheet date.
However, the Directors are confident that there is no material difference between the carrying value and the market value of land and buildings.
POLITICAL ANd CHARITABLE dONATIONS No donations were made to political organisations during the year including in Mexico.
The Group made charitable donations of US$0.5 million 2009: US$0.6 million during the year.
Further information concerning the community initiatives within the Fresnillo Group are included within the Sustainable Development Report set out on pages 66-69.
FINANCIAL RISk MANAGEMENT The Companys objectives and policies on financial risk management including information on the Companys exposures to foreign currency, credit, commodity price, liquidity and interest rate risks can be found in note 32 to the Financial Statements.
dIRECTORS RESPONSIBILITIES Information about the Directors responsibilities in respect of the preparation of the Annual Report and Financial Statements is provided on page 111.
GOING CONCERN The Companys business activities, together with the factors likely to affect its future development, performance and position are set out in the Business Review on pages 6-69.
The financial position of the Company is specifically described in the Financial Review on pages 70-81.
After making enquiries, the Directors have a reasonable expectation that the Company has adequate resources to continue in operational existence for the foreseeable future.
In making this assessment they have considered the Company and Group budget, the cashflow forecasts for the period to December 2012 including exploration and capital expenditure plans and sensitivities around those plans.
They have also considered the sensitivities of the cashflow forecasts to movements in metal prices and exchange rates.
Fresnillo plc 2010 Annual Report 110 dIRECTORS REPORT continued The Company has considerable financial resources, negligible liquidity risk and is operating within a sector that is experiencing increasing global demand for its products.
The Directors therefore have a reasonable expectation that the Company has adequate resources to continue in operational existence for the foreseeable future.
Thus, they continue to adopt the going concern basis of accounting in preparing the annual financial statements.
AUdIT INFORMATION Each of the Directors at the date of the approval of this report confirms that: so far as he is aware, there is no relevant audit information of which the Companys auditors are unaware: and he has taken all the reasonable steps that he ought to have taken as a Director to make himself aware of any relevant audit information and to establish that the Companys auditors are aware of the information.
The confirmation is given and should be interpreted in accordance with the provisions of section 418 of the Companies Act 2006.
AUdITORS The Auditors, Ernst & Young llP, have indicated their willingness to continue in office and a resolution seeking to reappoint them will be proposed at the Annual General Meeting.
ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING The Companys Annual General Meeting will be held at linklaters, One Silk Street, london, EC2Y 8HQ on 17 May 2011 at 12 noon.
Details of the meeting venue and the resolutions to be proposed are set out in a separate Notice of Meeting which accompanies the Annual Report.
For and on behalf of the Board prism cosec limited compANy SecretAry 28 February 2011 fresnillo plc Registered Office: 28 Grosvenor Street london W1K 4QR United Kingdom Company no: 6344120
