K R O W E M A R F T N E M E 10 BUSINESS MOdEL Fresnillo plc is a silver and gold mining company that seeks to create value for stakeholders throughout price cycles.
What differentiates us is how we execute our strategy across our value chain of exploration, mine development and operations.
G Operational excellence Low - cost production Mine life maintenance through resource replenishment Operate Disciplined execution to evaluate, design, develop Develop and build new mines Balanced pipeline across multiple stages of exploration Investment in Explore exploration through price cycles District consolidation Early stage aquisitions and partnerships Value Chain Strategic Financial Sustainability relationships strength & control Technology Our people Strategic Resources A N A M K S I R STRONG GROWTH PIPELINE HIGH QUALITY PROSPECTS PROYECTS ASSETS GROUP OVERVIEW STRATEGY PERFORMANCE GOVERNANCE FINANCIALS 11 Our business model is comprised of the followWe are committed to replenishing reserves every year.
ing components: The exploration team identifies new resources along with the operating team, who then convert those reTHE VALUE CHAIN sources into reserves by narrowing the drilling pattern Explore: The key growth driver for the Group is and mining works.
It is the combination of both efforts locating mineral deposits that extend our resource that enables the Group to achieve this goal.
base, with a focus on consolidating mining districts experience in Mexico and latin America.
We do this through continuous investment in exploration irrespective Skills of price cycles, and ongoing acquisition of mining optimal mining methods concessions and surface land.
Our geologists have significant technical expertise and a proven track technology record of new discoveries.
We also look for opporhigh quality assets tunities to acquire early-stage projects with strong growth potential or to partner with other groups operational value through agreements that allow us to share the inherent benefits and risks of prospect exploration.
STRATEGIC RESOURCES Sustainability: Initiatives are implemented from This comprehensive approach results in a pipeline the earliest stages of exploration until mine closure of projects that extend across the multiple stages of that seek to develop and benefit local economies exploration detection, discovery and definition and and achieve exemplary results in environmental, ensure long-term organic growth.
Develop: Projects must meet stringent criteria Strategic relationships: Sound and mutually benregarding the volume of silver gold contained and eficial relationships with federal, state and municipal embedded cost.
Economic viability is determined authorities, regulatory and governmental agencies, by evaluating factors such as optimal mine design, suppliers, labour unions, customers, communities, investment requirements, sustaining capital expenpartners and shareholders.
ditures and rates of return.
Furthermore, because of our focus on district consolidation, we evaluate Financial strength and control: Careful manpotential growth in the same geographic region that agement of all assets and cash while maintaining a may create synergies for new future mines.
During range of capital funding options.
development and construction stages, we maintain tight discipline to ensure adherence to approved Technology: Use of tools and processes that supschedules and budget.
Additionally, engineering and port exploration, increase productivity, reinforce construction teams work closely with the team that sustainability, and enhance accountability, decisionwill operate the mine, ensuring smooth transition making and financial planning processes.
Our people: The most fundamental resource upon Operate: Our formula to extract value from operawhich the successful execution of our strategy relies.
tions reflects the experience and skills of our people who seek and apply optimal mining methods in RISk MANAGEMENT FRAMEWORk accordance with the changing characteristics of As with any company, our strategy and business each mine, and develop initiatives to increase remodel are subject to a range of risks.
Fresnillo plcs coveries, operational efficiencies and reduce costs.
Board assesses and evaluates the principle risks Operations are supported by extensive investment that could affect the Companys ability to execute in technology that enhances productivity and effiits strategy and deliver on its commitments.
When coupled with high-quality assets seous risk management framework is an integral part lectively added in the exploration and development of our model to effectively manage and mitigate phase, we remain competitively positioned in cash these risks.
We are working toward integrating this cost performance among industry peers.
framework into the day-to-day operations.
