20 STRATEGIC RESOURCES SUSTAINABILITY We contract Servicios Administrativos Peoles, The Groups sustainability requires a balance beS.
A. fide C. v. SAPSA, a Peoles subsidiary, for adtween economic development and the social liministrative services.
The relationship is regulated cence to operate, which reflects corporate responsiby a Services Agreement NSA, or New Services bility in the areas of health, safety, environment and Agreement, ensuring that all services are delivcommunity relations.
To ensure that the needs of all ered on arms length and on normal commercial stakeholders are met, the Group relies on Boardterms as per the Relationship Agreement with the level HSECR oversight, sustainability measures emPeoles Group.
bedded in management compensation schemes, i Full details of the Relationship Agreement are provided an organisational chart that includes health, safety, in the Directors Report page 107. environment and community relations programme managers in each business unit, and clearly defined Partners: Under an agreement with Newmont USA strategic and operational policies and procedures limited, we hold 56% of Minera Penmont S. fide R. l. across the full value chain.
The Herradura and Solei Further details on our sustainability programme are indad-Dipolos mines and the Noche Buena project cluded in the Sustainable Development Report pages are held within Minera Penmont.
56% interest in the Juanicipio project, while MAG Silver Corporation MAG Silver has a 44% interest.
The STRATEGIC RELATIONSHIPS agreement with MAG Silver was entered into for the The Group maintains a number of relationships that development of the Juanicipio concession.
We also may directly or indirectly influence the performance partner with a number of junior exploration compaof the business and its value.
nies to conduct early stage prospecting.
STRATEGIC RESOURCES Government regulators: We are required to seIn December 2007 the Fresnillo Group entered into cure mining concessions from the federal governlong-term arrangements with the Peoles Group ment to explore for and exploit mineral deposits, in relation to the by-product silver output from the and to comply with the statutes and regulations Peoles-owned Sabinas polymetallic mine in Zathat govern all companies, and those for natural catecas, Mexico.
Under the Silverstream Contract, resources and mining companies in particular, that we are entitled to all of the proceeds before deducare promulgated by various branches of the govtion of treatment and refining charges in respect of ernment.
We are also subject to state and municithe payable silver produced by Sabinas during its pal laws and ordinances in the specific localities mine life.
The Silverstream Contract is accounted for where we operate.
As a publicly traded company, as a derivative financial instrument asset.
we are also subject to financial and regulatory i Further information can be found in note 15 of the Finanoversight from securities bodies and the stock excial Statements page 141. changes in london and Mexico where Fresnillo plc shares are traded.
Customers: In 2010 substantially all of the primary products from our mines were sold to Met-Mex Suppliers: We maintain close relations with our Penles, S. A. fide C. v. Met-Mex, a refining and smeltsuppliers and contractors, whom we consider ing facility at Torren, under a series of supply agreestrategic partners, and seek to secure high qualments the Met-Mex Arrangements that enable the ity products and services at a fair price.
As such Group to benefit from relatively low transport costs we consider them strategic partners.
To align their associated with the proximity of their operations.
practices and performance with our strategic obThe terms of the supply agreements with Met-Mex jectives, we provide them with training on Group are set on an arms length basis based on internasafety policies and procedures.
We sign purchase tional benchmarks, with revenue being determined agreements with a number of suppliers in order to by the amount of metal contents and the average secure better pricing and ensure timely availability market prices over a defined reference period net of of key equipment and materials.
Contractors are treatment and refining charges.
However, the Group integrated into the Groups employee managehas sold to other refiners and smelters in the past ment systems and training programmes.
and may do so in the future if conditions warrant.
GROUP OVERVIEW STRATEGY PERFORMANCE GOVERNANCE FINANCIALS 21 Communities: Healthy community relations reOUR PEOPLE quire a deep knowledge of, and respect for, cusOur ability to find, select, train and retain personnel toms, cultures, needs and expectations.
Our comwith the requisite knowledge, skills and experience munity engagement efforts begin in parallel with is fundamental to the Groups success.
To ensure the earliest phases of the exploration process, and that our people are trained and committed, we proextend throughout the life of a concession, from vide extensive personal and professional developthe advanced prospect phase, to development, to ment opportunities, competitive wages and comoperating mine, to closure.
Every year we invest pensation packages and a workplace culture that directly and through multi-stakeholder partnerfosters teamwork.
We are committed to providing ships in a range of initiatives that aim to enhance a safe, equitable and fair work environment, with a the quality of life and long-term sustainability of Board-level commitment to HSECR.
the communities where we operate.
Focus areas include environmental culture, education, health We strive to maintain mutually respectful relations and social integration, self-sustaining capacity, and with the local labour unions through continuous social infrastructure.
dialogue and collaboration, including yearly coni Further information is included in the Sustainable Develtract negotiations with that part of the workforce opment Report pages 66-69. that is unionised.
Fresnillo plc has never experienced a work stoppage or industrial action as a FINANCIAL STRENGTH consequence of labour disputes with the Company.
ANd CONTROL While it is permissible under Mexican law for union We have a strong balance sheet that ensures sufmembers to strike in sympathy with unionised emficient flexibility with US$559.5 million in cash at 31 ployees of other companies who are engaged in a December 2010 and no debt.
The Group maintains dispute with their employer, despite the absence of strict control of cash, management of assets, and any dispute with their own, Fresnillo Group workers containment of costs and expenses in order to maxdid not support any such actions in 2010. imise value creation and retain our competitive posii Further information on our employees can be found in tion as a low cash-cost producer in the industry.
We the Sustainable Development Report pages 58-59. maintain a range of capital funding options should our growth strategy require additional financing.
In accordance with our investors expectations, it continues to be the Groups policy not to hedge price exposure on silver and gold realisations.
TECHNOLOGY We continuously invest in new and current technology.
At the operational level we utilise the most advanced tools to identify ore bodies, analyse mineralisation and conduct metallurgical tests.
Mine fidevelopment and operations benefit from equipment and automated systems that increase productivity and efficiency.
At the corporate level, IT infrastructure including enterprise resource planning ERP systems have enhanced transparency and improved the quality of our internal audit, accountability, and financial planning processes, enabling the Group to make more rapid and informed decisions.
In our sustainability efforts, technology has supported our activities to measure and control emissions, reinforce safety, and monitor the progress of a range of initiatives.
