54 G4S plc Annual Report and Accounts 2010 Executive management team Nick Buckles Trevor Dighton Grahame Gibson Chief executive offi cer Chief fi financial offi cer Chief operating offi cer and Regional CEO Americas Nick has worked in the security industry for Trevor has worked in the security industry 26years, focusing throughout this time on the for25years.
After several years in both the Grahame has been involved in the security commercial and strategic aspects of all areas accountancy profession and commerce working industry for 28 years, having joined Group 4s UK ofsecurity services.
in the fi finance function and general management, operating company in 1983 as fi finance director.
he joined BET in 1986 as fi finance director of their After a variety of commercial roles throughout Since that time, Grahame has held a number Security and Communications Division.
the group, he was responsible for driving signifi cant ofoperational, management and board positions profi t improvements in many Securicor businesses Trevor joined Securicor in 1995 and, following in the UK, USA, Denmark, the Netherlands throughout the 1990s as a business unit managing anumber of years as fi finance director of the andAustria.
director and divisional chief executive of the security division, he was appointed to the board His broad experience of the security industry security division.
He was also instrumental in the of Securicor plc in June 2002 as group fi finance andmanagement of businesses across a diverse development of Securicors security sector focus, director.
He became chief fi financial offi cer of G4S range of cultures has been invaluable to the group becoming group chief executive in 2002, and in in July 2004. throughout its development.
Grahame joined bringing together Group 4 Falck and Securicor to Trevor is a Fellow of the Chartered Institute theboard of G4S plc in April 2005. create the new combined group.
chief executive of G4S in July 2005.
Nick is Grahame is a board member of the Ligue chairman of the Ligue Internationale des Socits Internationale des Societes fide Surveillance.
fide Surveillance, the international association ofleading security companies.
Debbie McGrath Graham Levinsohn David Taylor-Smith Group Communications director Group Strategy and Development Regional CEO UK and Africa director Debbie is Group Communications Director, heading David was appointed as Regional CEO UK the corporate communications team which focuses Graham has more than 17 years experience in andAfrica in July 2010, having previously been on the groups key audiences investors, media, the security industry, having joined Securicor Cash CEO, G4S UK and Ireland, and divisional government, employees and customers.
Debbie has Services in 1994 as general manager marketing.
managing director of G4S Justice Services.
a broad range of experience in marketing, corporate Since then, Graham has held a number of He joined the Group in 1998 as managing communications, brand development and commercial and line management positions in director of Hong Kong and a member of the implementation, and crisis communications.
Prior to both the cash and security lines of business.
AsiaPacifi c Board, following a successful earlier the merger between Group 4 Falck and Securicor, Graham was responsible for the creation of the career where he held senior roles with Jardine Debbie was employed in a number of senior UK Cash Centres outsourcing business in 2001 Matheson, ORBIS and Operation Raleigh.
marketing and communications roles within the asmanaging director, before moving on to Securicor group from 1993 to 2004. become divisional managing director for G4S Prior to this he was a British army offi cer and Cash Services UK, and then regional president served in Northern Ireland, Germany, England Before joining Securicor, Debbie had also held Nordics.
He became group strategy & and in Cyprus with the United Nations.
marketing positions with ICC Information Group development director in 2008 and moved and Honeywell Bull.
Debbie is also chairman of the David is a Fellow of the Royal Geographical ontothe Executive Committee in 2010.
CBI South East Regional Council the representative Society.
He has sat on the board of several body for all CBI member companies based in the charities, and currently sits on the board of South East of England and the Thames Valley and a WWF-UK.
In 2003 he was awarded the MBE member of the CBI Chairmens Committee which inrecognition of his charitable activities overseas.
takes the lead responsibility for setting the CBIs position on all policy matters.
G4S plc Annual Report and Accounts 2010 55 Sren Lundsberg-Nielsen Ken Niven Irene Cowden Group general counsel Divisional CEO Cash solutions Group HR director Sren began his career as a lawyer in Denmark Ken has 15 years experience in the security industry, Irene has spent her career in HR management, and since 1984 he has had a wide range of legal having joined Securicor in 1996 as operations specialising in employee relations, organisational experience as general counsel for international director of the UK cash services business where he development, talent management and groups in Denmark, Belgium and the US before was later promoted to managing director and was compensation issues.
She has been involved in joining Group 4 Falck in 2001 as general counsel.
instrumental in the development of new product major change projects including the cultural and Sren has been involved in a wide range of areas, including cash centre outsourcing and integration aspects of mergers and acquisitions as successful mergers and acquisitions during his establishing Securicors independent ATM network.
well as large scale organisational change involving career, including the acquisition of Wackenhut workforce restructuring, working in partnership Ken was appointed to his current role in July 2004 andthe merger of Group 4 Falck and Securicor.
and is responsible for the groups cash solutions Sren now has overall responsibility for all internal division, which includes all of the major cash Irene has worked in the security industry for and external legal services for G4S as well as the solutions business units, and for sharing cash 33years and has held director level positions groups insurance programme.
solutions best practice throughout the entire atbusiness unit, divisional and corporate level.
Sren is a member of the Danish Bar and Law organisation.
Ken joined the security industry Shewas appointed to the board of Securicor plc Society, a member of the advisory board of the following a successful career within the logistics in2002 as group HR director.
Danish UK Chamber of Commerce and author management industry where he held senior roles Irene is a member of the Chartered Institute ofthe book Executive Management Contracts, atExpress Foods, Exel Logistics and Coca-Cola.
Ken is president of ESTA, the European cash services association and is a member of the Chartered Institute of Logistics and Transport.
Willem van fide Ven Dan Ryan Regional CEO Europe Regional CEO Asia Middle East Willem has served nearly 20 years with G4S and Dan joined G4S in August 2010, from global its corporate predecessors in Holland.
He started logistics and transportation company Neptune out in the former Randstad group where he Orient Lines NOL where he held a number of became Regional Director.
Willem then served senior management positions including regional asHR director and managing director of the president for Greater China for NOLs APL and Netherlands security company Randon which APLL divisions, and regional president for the was subsequently acquired by Securicor.
In April Middle East for the APL division and regional 2003, Willem was appointed as Securicors president for Europe for the groups APL Logistics regional managing director Africa, becoming the division.
He was a member of the NOL Group regional president for G4S Africa Sub-Sahara Executive Team.
He also held various managing director positions In July 2010, Willem was appointed regional for NOL including Middle East, Hong Kong South CEO Europe.
China and Indonesia and a regional head for theMiddle East a during his 20-year career with the group.
Dan is also a Charter Member of the Middle East Logistics Supply Chain Management Forum, Hong Kong Liner Shipping Association and the American Chamber of Commerce Shanghai.
Shareholder information Financial stateme m nts Governance Business review Overview
