56 G4S plc Annual Report and Accounts 2010 Report of the directors For the year ended 31 December 2010 The directors have pleasure in presenting their Annual Report together with the audited fi financial statements of G4S plc and the consolidated fi financial statements of that company and its subsidiaries, associated undertakings and joint ventures the group for the year ended 31 December 2010.
G4S plc has its primary listing on the London Stock Exchange and a secondary listing on the Copenhagen Stock Exchange.
1 Principal activities of the group G4S plc is a parent company with subsidiaries, associated undertakings and joint ventures.
The principal activities of the group comprise the provision of secure solutions including manned security services, care and justice services and security systems and cash solutions including the management and transportation of cash and valuables as well as the undertaking of other outsourced business processes in sectors where security and safety risks are considered a strategic threat.
2 Group results The consolidated result for the year is shown in the consolidated income statement on page 69.
Details of the development and performance of the groups business during the year, its position at the year end, future developments, principal risks anduncertainties and prospects of the group and other information which fulfi ls the requirements of the Business Review are contained on pages 10 to 51 andare incorporated in this report by reference.
The Corporate Governance Statement set out on pages 59 to 61 is also incorporated in this report byreference.
The groups fi financial risk management objectives and policies in relation to its use of fi financial instruments, and its exposure to price, credit, liquidity and cash-fl ow risk, to the extent material, are set out in note 33 to the consolidated fi financial statements on pages 101 to 103.
3 Dividends The directors propose the following net dividend for the year: k Interim dividend of 3.17p DKK 0.2877 per share paid on 15 October 2010. k Final dividend of 4.73p DKK 0.4082 per share payable on 3 June 2011.
Shareholders on the Danish VP register will receive their dividends in Danish kroner.
Shareholders who hold their shares through CREST or in certifi cated form will receive their dividends in sterling unless they prefer to receive Danish kroner, in which case they should apply in writing to the Registrars by no later than 4 May 2011.
Shareholders on the VP Services register will be paid on 6 June, as 3 June is a public holiday in Denmark.
4 Signifi cant business acquisitions, disposals and developments In January 2010, 90% of International Multi Services Limited was acquired in Senegal.
In March 2010, G4S Security Services Ltd was disposed of in Serbia.
In May 2010, 25% of Search Organizacion fide Seguridad S. A. was acquired in Argentina taking G4Ss stake to 75%.
In June 2010, SSE Do Brasil Ltda, the parent company of Instalarme Solues Eletrnica Ltda was acquired in Brazil.
In July 2010, 49% of Falcon Travel was acquired in the UAE.
In July 2010, the business and assets of Western Investigations Pty Ltd were acquired in Australia.
In August 2010, 51% of Plantech Engenheiria E Sistemas S. A. was acquired in Brazil.
In September 2010, Skycom Pty Ltd and Impro Distribution and Support Kzn Pty were acquired in South Africa.
In December 2010, Guernsey Air Conditioning Limited was acquired in Guernsey.
In May 2010, 40% of the G4S business in Kazakhstan was disposed of.
In May 2010, 50% of Activos Compartidos S. A. was disposed of in Argentina.
In September 2010, Travel Logistics Limited was disposed of in the UK.
5 Capital The authorised and issued share capital of G4S plc at 31 December 2010 is set out on page 110 note 37 to the consolidated fi financial statements.
 shares in issue as at 14 March 2011.
Information concerning the companys shares held under option is set out on page 110 note 37 to the consolidated fi financial statements.
Resolutions granting the directors power, subject to certain conditions, to allot and make market purchases of the companys shares will be proposed at the companys Annual General Meeting.
The resolutions are set out in the Notice of Meeting on pages 125 to 127 and further explanation is provided on pages 128 and 129.
At 31 December 2010, the directors had authority in accordance with a resolution passed at the companys Annual General Meeting held on 28May 2010 tomake market purchases of up to 141,000,000 of the companys shares.
The company does not hold any treasury shares as such.
However, the 5,029,315 shares held within the G4S Employee Benefi t Trust the Trust and referredto on page 110 note 38 to the consolidated fi financial statement are accounted for as treasury shares.
The Trust has waived its right to receive dividends in respect of the companys shares which it held during the period under review.
G4S plc Annual Report and Accounts 2010 57 6 Research and development expenditure Research in connection with the development of new services and products and the improvement of those currently provided by the group is carried outcontinuously.
Research and development written off to the income statement during the year amounted to 5m 2009: 6m.
7 Payment of suppliers It is the companys and the groups policy to pay suppliers in accordance with the payment terms negotiated with them.
Thus, prompt payment is normally made to those suppliers meeting their obligations.
The company and the group do not follow any formal code or standard on payment practice.
At 31 December 2010 the trade creditors of the company represented 28 days 2009: 31 days of annual purchases.
At 31 December 2010 the consolidated trade creditors of the group represented 33 days 2009: 37 days of annual purchases.
8 Employees To ensure that the groups employees are fully engaged and motivated to meet customers expectations, the group invests in and involves them so that they feel engaged and motivated about being part of G4S.
The group endeavours to continuously improve levels of employee engagement, motivation, expertise and performance and through doing so achieve increased customer satisfaction and the continued growth of the business.
Businesses communicate with their employees through a variety of means such as magazines, meetings, intranets etc.
to ensure they are kept abreast of matters of concern to them, including the performance of the business.
Employees are consulted on a regular basis, through their representatives where appropriate, so that their views can be taken into account when decisions are made which are likely to affect their interests.
This focus on developing the groups people has continued during the year with the creation of talent pools at all levels of the organisation and the development of group-wide leadership programmes to support succession planning.
To ensure potential employees are attracted from all backgrounds andto make the best use of their capabilities and potential the group also continues to invest in developing a diverse and inclusive workplace.
This includes appointing, promoting and developing employees in accordance with their talents and aptitudes, regardless of any disability.
To encourage loyalty and retain employees skills, the group also aims to retain existing employees who become disabled wherever possible.
A self assessment tool has been launched to measure progress and drive future strategy in this area, and the plans developed as a result of the self assessments are now being implemented for 2011.
Another key strand of the groups people strategy is health and safety, and performance in this area is continually reviewed and challenged by the board, demonstrating the importance attached to this issue throughout G4S.
All businesses are assessed regularly against the group health and safety model and minimum standards, to ensure their strategy is focused in the appropriate areas and suffi cient progress is being achieved.
In 2010 the clearest benefi t of this rigorous approach to health and safety has been the continuing reduction in work-related fatalities.
The Ethical Employment Partnership entered into with UNI in 2008 has had a positive impact on the business over the last two years, with strong relationships bringing benefi ts for employees as well as the company.
The relationship at a global level between G4S and UNI has continued to develop positively over this time, and in many developing markets labour relations have also entered new, constructive phases, mirroring the many constructive relationships enjoyed in our developed markets.
Together, this progress in talent, diversity and inclusion, health and safety and social dialogue have helped increase employee engagement and motivation across G4S, evidenced by a signifi cant reduction in employee turnover during the year.
Further details of the groups approach in these areas can be found inthe groups separate CSR Report.
9 Political and charitable contributions The group remains committed to the support of charities, the community, job creation and training.
Charitable contributions by the company during the yearamounted to 375,000.
Charitable contributions made by the group in the UK, amounted to 63,000.
The purposes for which such contributions were made and the amount donated to each purpose were: child welfare: 20,000: health and medical: 22,000: local communities: 16,000: NGOs: 2,000: poverty relief: 1,000 andsports: 2,000.
In addition, G4S encourages businesses around the group to play their part in engaging with and helping to improve their local communities.
In 2010, G4S completed its fi first review of its regional and country managed community investment activity around the world.
The review took a clear snapshot of G4S community activity, identifying 110 core community programmes across the globe including amongst others pro bono contributions in goods and services andprojects with local partners providing schooling for underprivileged children.
Further details regarding community programmes can be found in the groups 2010 CSR report.
The company and its subsidiaries have made no contributions during the year to political parties carrying on activities, or to candidates seeking election, within the EU.
One of the companys subsidiaries in the US has however made contributions totalling $18,000 in aggregate to a number of candidates seeking election andorganisations carrying on activities in the US.
Shareholder information Financial Statements Governance Business review Overview 58 G4S plc Annual Report and Accounts 2010 Report of the directors continued 10 Substantial holdings The directors have been notifi ed of the following substantial shareholdings at 14 March 2011 in the ordinary capital of G4S plc: Harris Associates LP 85,135,700 6.04% Prudential plc group of companies 71,384,444 5.06% BlackRock, Inc 70,570,646 5.00% Legal & General Group Plc 56,054,546 3.97% 11 Auditor A resolution to re-appoint KPMG Audit Plc, chartered accountants, as auditor to the company and for their remuneration to be fi xed by the directors will besubmitted to the Annual General Meeting.
12 Directors The directors, biographical details of whom are contained on pages 52 and 53, held offi ce throughout the year, with the exception of Clare Spottiswoode who was appointed on 14 June 2010 and Winnie Fok who was appointed on 1 October 2010.
Thorleif Krarup was a director throughout the year and retired from the board on 31 January 2011.
In accordance with the code provisions on re-election of directors in the UK Corporate Governance Code, each of the continuing directors will offer themselves for re-election or, in the cases of Clare Spottiswoode and Winnie Fok, election.
The board believes that the directors standing for re-election possess experience and expertise relevant to the companys operations: that they continue to be effective: that they are committed to the success of the company: and that they should be re-elected at the Annual General Meeting.
Ms Spottiswoode and Ms Fok have been appointed to the board since the last Annual General Meeting and so they would, in any event, be required to retire in accordance with the companys articles of association.
Being eligible, they offer themselves for election.
The board believes that Ms Spottiswoodes wide experience of both the public and private sectors in many parts of the world and Ms Foks extensive business background and intimate knowledge oftheAsian markets will add signifi cant value to the board and therefore recommends that each of them is elected at the Annual General Meeting.
The contracts of service of the executive directors have no unexpired term since they are not for a fi xed term.
They are terminable at 12 months notice.
None of the non-executive directors has a contract of service.
The company has executed deeds of indemnity for the benefi t of each of the directors in respect of liabilities which may attach to them in their capacity asdirectors of the company.
These deeds are qualifying third party indemnity provisions as defi ned by section 234 of the Companies Act 2006 and have been in effect since 3 November 2006 for each of the directors other than Ms Spottiswoode and Ms Fok whose indemnities have been in effect since 14June 2010 and 1 October 2010 respectively.
Copies of the forms of indemnity are available on the companys website.
In addition, indemnities have been granted by the company in favour of certain of the directors of certain of the groups subsidiaries in Germany and the Netherlands.
The company has maintained a directors and offi cers liability insurance policy throughout the year under review.
Details of directors interests including their familys interests in the share capital of G4S plc and of the directors remuneration are set out on pages62to66.
The directors who held offi ce at the date of approval of this directors report confi rm that, so far as they are each aware, there is no relevant audit information of which the companys auditor is unaware and each director has taken all the steps that he or she ought to have taken as a director to make him or herself aware of any relevant audit information and to establish that the companys auditor is aware of that information.
None of the directors had a material interest in any contract signifi cant to the business of the group during the fi financial year.
By order of the board Peter David Secretary 14 March 2011 The Manor Manor Royal Crawley West Sussex RH10 9UN
