The GAME Group plc 16 Annual Report & Accounts 2009-2010 Market report The industry knew that the record breaking year of 2008 would be a tough act to follow.
The first half of 2008 was a record six months for software sales with a number of triple-A titles hitting the shelves.
The same period in 2009 did not have anything like the same quality of new releases.
The remaining months in 2009 could not make up for this shortfall as many key titles were delayed until 2010 and the renewed competitive pricing strategies from the main consoles did not make the expected impact.
Games software, first signs of market decline Nick Parker, Parker Consulting Games software, the most significant component of the total Ltd, Founder and Director games market in terms of sales, and the most consistent and Nick has 18 years in the video revealing measure of the day to day consumer desire for games industry.
For the last eight gaming, declined by 1 per cent by value on a worldwide years, Nick has been running Parker Consulting, a strategic basis to 120.3 billion.
business consultancy which specialises in offering sound The primary global software drivers in unit terms were the business practices and strategic Sony PS3 37 per cent, Xbox 360 10 per cent and the Wii advice through research, planning and forecasting 7.7 per cent.
The handheld platforms were down overall techniques, as well as assistance DS software at -4.7 per cent and PSP at a substantial with online strategies.
Nick is also a partner and founder of GameVision, the In Euro value terms, Nintendo software, including legacy industry standard in consumer platforms, accounted for 42 per cent of all boxed software intelligence in Europe.
60 per cent of this value came from the Wii with 15.4 billion derived from such titles as Wii Resort and New Super Mario Bros.
The DS format, in its sixth year, recorded 13.6 billion of games on the back of legacy old favourite titles plus the arrival of Professor Layton driven by the new DSi adoption.
Our perf Our perfor ormance mance The GAME Group plc 17 Annual Report & Accounts 2009-2010 Hardware lifetime sales Ms units The PS3 accounted for 19 per cent of the after the anniversary in conjunction with market, again in Euro value terms, up from tougher competition from a cheaper, slimmer 15 per cent in 2008 with two exclusive titles, version of the PS3 Microsofts console Killzone 2 and Uncharted 2 contributing recorded negative year-on-year sales in the considerably.
The market share of Xbox 360 final quarter as expected.
The PS3 price grew from 17 per cent to 18 per cent of market reduction, delayed by months due to its value with robust sales from Modern Warfare 2, expensive components and Sonys aim to Halo ODST and Forza 3. minimise losses, led to a positive year in unit terms in 2009, up 27 per cent.
Across the board, high value peripheral-based music games such as Guitar Hero and Rock After three years of the current console Band declined steeply from 2008 sales with generation, with all TV console platforms vying revenue down by over 40 per cent for the genre.
for market share, the PS3 found itself out on a A primary reason for this decline was the fall in pricing limb in late 2008 and during the first half new peripheral sales to consumers already of 2009.
It was left exposed on price by the happy with existing guitars and band kits.
macroeconomic fallout as Sony maintained its ambition to deliver profitability and by Hardware, TV-based consoles landscape Microsofts double price drop in 2008. more equitable For hardware, the September 2008 Xbox 360 When Sony finally dropped the price by 100 in price drop led to favourable comparables for August 2009 and introduced a slim version, the that platform in the first nine months of 2009 but sales impact was immediate.
Press forward 22.03 The GAME Group plc 18 Annual Report & Accounts 2009-2010 Market report continued given the platform much needed momentum in As to a direct impact on retail packaged sales, the market moving in to 2010 and uncovered there is concern over the future of dedicated the pent-up demand for the console specifically handheld games consoles how will smart from Europeans loyal to the PlayStation brand.
phones and handheld consoles co-exist in the market in the future?
What is sure is that smart Nintendo really surprised everybody.
Up to the phones are becomingly increasingly competent last month of 2009, Wii hardware sell-through games devices and the app store opportunity is was down significantly on 2008 prompting eating away at the mainstream edges of the suggestions that the platform was on the wane.
Smart phones, However, December 2009 performance was and indeed smart tablets, will only become record breaking in the USA and very strong in more competitive over time, so expect stronger Europe and reflected the strong fit that the competition and a diminishing opportunity for platform has with the Christmas gifting season.
the next generation of handheld games consoles when they eventually hit the market.
A digital distribution evolution is coming As games content and the games industry slowly makes the transition from a product and Nick Parker packaged based business to a more service Parker Consulting Ltd, Founder and Director oriented opportunity, new technology is being developed and introduced to deliver content efficiently and instantly to the end user.
Additionally, its likely that traditional packaged content will become less prevalent as publishers shift to a service-based business model.
Our perf Our perfor ormance mance The GAME Group plc 19 Annual Report & Accounts 2009-2010 From a market-leading retail brand to a market-driver in eCommerce and digital community the importance of GAMEs brand in the multi-channel environment.
Technology is now driving market development and consumers shopping habits across all sectors, whether it be through digital, online or mobile medias influencing a customers choice of where and how to purchase: or whether to recommend or not!
a product or service to friends and family through the social media networks.
This really counts in the gaming and entertainment sectors, where there is now a direct correlation between multichannel customers delivering greater value returns.
So maximising the growth of multi-channel consumers is a priority.
Jane Piper FRSA, On the opposite side technology is also now bringing in new Brand Strategy competition.
With supermarkets selling on price promotion in-store Consultancy and online, publishers are marketing new software direct on the Jane is an independent back of blockbuster games and developers are selling hardware specialist in brand value and developing reach through online gaming.
So this fast moving and a member of the environment is seeing new categories of customers attracted to UK team developing an gaming through new media, as well as existing GAME customers international standard ISO on brand shopping across one or more channels.
The strength and value behind GAME Groups brands is the She has published an sheer size and scale of their access to the market through a independent overview unique specialist focus, which has been a core driver of business Unravelling Brand growth.
As the market develops, leveraging the potential of the Value for Superbrands, brands specialist strengths will continue to be a dominant factor and advises companies on leveraging the value in successfully extending reach to the multi-channel customer.
of their brands to drive How best to do this depends on the effectiveness of the brand in business performance and future earnings.
connecting, motivating and exciting the customer through each segment of the different channels whether it be through the mobile downloads, web-enabled devices, supplier partners, retail outlets and online integration.
The rise of social media networks as an integrated part of brand building in multi-channel communities is phenomenal, and the most successful multi channel brands are engaging fully in them.
With the multi-channel customer delivering the business value growth going forward, the performance of the brand is integral in connecting with customers at all levels and through all channels.
Keeping and retaining customers needs to be at the heart of GAMEs relationship with its customers, as a powerful and therefore valuable brand is one that connects, engages and interacts with customers across any channel or platform to secure that relationship.
Jane Piper Brand Strategy Consultancy GAME.
