The GAME Group plc 50 Annual Report & Accounts 2009-2010 International management Experienced local management.
From left to right: Mark Axon, Tricia Brennan, Alex Croft, Adolf Kristjansson Mark Axon 46 Alex Croft 36 Group Planning and Business Development MD, Group Online and Digital Operations Director Alex oversees the Online Business for the Group Mark joined the Group in 2007, with 25 years incorporating the Ecommerce, Digital experience in global retail at Wal-Mart and Distribution and Multi-Channel offers.
Having overseen the managed the successful re-launch of the GAME integration of Gamestation into the Group, he branded websites in UK, France and Scandinavia has supported the Board to develop the future in 2007, generating significant increases in business strategy and will now focus on the plan customer traffic, sales and profitability.
In addition he continues to ensure continues to manage the ongoing eCommerce that best practice is shared among all the activities throughout the Group, and is also territories, and research future opportunities that charged with the development of the Group will accelerate the growth of the Group.
Alex has been a video games retailer for 14 years.
Tricia Brennan 43 Group Commercial Strategy Director Adolf Kristjansson 37 Tricia has been central to GAMEs evolution into a Regional MD, GAME Scandinavia and mass market retailer since she joined the Group as Czech Republic Commercial Director in 2005.
In 2007 she was Adolf joined GAME in 2005, and accelerated appointed Commercial and Supply Chain Director the Groups expansion in both Scandinavia for all the UK operations and, in March 2010, Tricia Sweden, Denmark, Norway and Czech was appointed Group Commercial Strategy Republic.
Adolf now has a wider role which Director.
Tricia leads a team working with suppliers includes the development of new emerging at a global level across the Group to deliver an markets both in terms of stores and other outstanding product proposition to customers in channels.
He has over 17 years experience of every territory.
Tricia has over 23 years experience retailing entertainment and electrical products.
Directors and Governance The GAME Group plc 51 Annual Report & Accounts 2009-2010 From left to right: Martyn Gibbs, Pablo Crespo, Philippe Wehmeyer, Rob Lukic Martyn Gibbs 39 Philippe Wehmeyer 41 MD, UK and Ireland MD, GAME France Martyn was instrumental in the rapid growth of Philippe has driven GAMEs growth in France Gamestation in the UK, and joined the Group since 2003, overseeing the rebrand of the following the acquisition in 2007.
Initially Managing original Scoregame stores and the acquisition Director for Gamestation, he shortly took over and rebrand of the former Maxi-Livres book responsibility for all customer-facing activity for stores in 2007.
He has over 20 years experience GAME and Gamestation in the UK as Customer in high profile retail.
In March 2010, he was appointed MD for the all UK and Ireland Rob Lukic 41 operations.
He has over 21 years retail MD, GAME Australia experience, including 15 in video games.
As the founder and Managing Director of The Games Wizards, Rob joined GAME in 2006 when Pablo Crespo 45 the business was acquired by the GAME Group.
Regional MD, Game Iberia As well as rebranding the existing 16 stores, Rob Pablo was Managing Director of the CentroMail led the expansion of the portfolio to over 115 store chain when it was acquired by The GAME stores.
He also relocated his team into a new Group in 2001.
Since then he has rebranded the head office and distribution centre.
Rob has been business and expanded it rapidly to 260 stores, a video games retailer for over 22 years.
becoming the leading video games retailer in the Spanish market.
Pablo also oversaw GAMEs entry into the Portuguese market in 2006, which now has 23 stores in all major cities.
He has recently taken on wider responsibilities covering GAME Spain, Portugal and France.
Pablo has over 25 years experience in the video games retail industry.
