The GAME Group plc 02 Annual Report & Accounts 2009-2010 Our specialist proposition Value Stores In a tough economy, customers The video games market is very competitive.
We will strengthen our pricing offers and preowned and trade-in deals in 2010 to amplify All of our outlets help customers to save money.
Gamestation will focus on We trade-in used games for a discount off new lower prices, while GAME stores will offer a wide products, or cash.
And we sell the preowned variety of bundle deals and offers.
We also work closely with suppliers to offer Online customers great deals and promotions on new games and consoles.
Our websites are competitive in the online market.
We will continue to increase the number and variety of exclusive promotions 6% preowned growth and limited edition products which we offer online, and drive our value messages.
Our preowned sales grew by 6 per cent in 2009, including at Christmas, as more and more Digital customers discover the benefits it offers.
Price competition in digital markets is still evolving.
GAME is at the forefront of its development, guiding customers to the extra digital content and entertainment which can be added to their boxed games.
Customers who are members of our Reward Card loyalty scheme receive points on everything they buy from GAME.
Were working with all format holders and publishers to find new ways to give customers better value on digital products.
21% of Group sales Preowned revenues increased to 374.5 million 2009: 353.4 million The GAME Group plc 03 Annual Report & Accounts 2009-2010 Product Service Loyalty Location Technology Business Distribution & range relationships Value GAME.
Press forward The GAME Group plc 04 Annual Report & Accounts 2009-2010 Our specialist proposition Product and range The GAME Group plc 05 Annual Report & Accounts 2009-2010 Value Service Loyalty Location Technology Business Distribution Product and relationships Product range & range Stores The range of pc and video Every major new release is accompanied by games is increasing all the time.
exclusive products for our customers, and limited edition versions of a game.
Online kiosks, when Customers expect the specialist retailers to offer connected to our eCommerce site, will allow us them all.
All of our outlets stock an unrivalled to increase the range of back catalogue range of consoles, games and accessories, products.
Our larger stores now carry a range of backed up by expert advice.
The range will Apple and mobile phone products, and we are increase again as Sony and Microsoft launch introducing more experiential areas which will new motion sensing peripherals for their help us to demonstrate and market the motion consoles.
sensing technology when it is launched.
Online In 2009 our range of exclusive products was wider than ever, including: Our websites give our customers so much more than just products.
Exclusive product news, 2 exclusive console models trailers, and advice about forthcoming games give our customers something extra.
Our online 46 software titles with range was expanded in 2009 to offer music, TVs, unique extra items, of which cameras and video game merchandise, and this will continue in 2010.
23 had exclusive downloadable digital content Digital Our pc download service has been operational for three years, and features over 1,000 products.
In 2010 it is being relaunched and extended, and a sister site will be introduced to offer mobile download games.
85% of consoles are bought with a software bundle GAME.
Press forward The GAME Group plc 06 Annual Report & Accounts 2009-2010 Our specialist proposition Service Stores Exceptional customer service We are investing in training through our Xcite is central to our offer, regardless and Smile campaigns, which combine service of channel.
Conversion measurement technology is being installed in all stores, Continued innovation in our market ensures following successful trials in 2009 which saw customers want to be taken through the entire conversion rates increase by over 3 per cent.
life-cycle of products, and need expert Customers receive specialist advice in our stores guidance about which games will give them our teams are passionate and dedicated the most enjoyment.
Globally we have more games experts.
than 10,000 employees offering consistently high levels of service in stores, online and through our Online call centres.
Our new global platform, developed by IBM and called websphere, is designed to bring As more customers shop across multiple our stores and eCommerce sites closer together, channels, they need a central contact point for giving customers a more joined up offer.
The GAME UK contact Customers can order online and collect in store, centre in Basingstoke has expanded with new and use our gift guides and product reviews to technology to meet their growing needs.
Contacts per year to GAME UK call centre phone and email Digital The digital market place is currently disparate 2008 720,000 and scattered.
GAME is the only retail brand 2009 800,000 which offers a joined up service across multiple 2010 1,074,000 digital channels, and were expanding fast to cover new arenas and products.
The GAME Downloader, a Digital Wallet, and multiple after-sales care services are being introduced to give customers a one stop shop for support and advice.
We are measuring customer conversion in 90 stores All stores will have the technology in 2010 The GAME Group plc 07 Annual Report & Accounts 2009-2010 Value Product Loyalty Location Technology Business Distribution & range relationships Service GAME.
Press forward The GAME Group plc 08 Annual Report & Accounts 2009-2010 Our specialist proposition Loyalty Rewarding loyal customers, and giving them something extra, is crucial to our strategy.
With over 14 million members, GAMEs Reward Card is one of the worlds largest communities of video gamers.
Launched in 1997, its a key differential for our customers, and were extending it in every channel.
Customers receive points worth 2.5 per cent discount on every purchase.
55% of transactions are made with a Reward Card in GAME UK 13% In 2009 saw a 13 per cent increase in Reward Card customers buying preowned The GAME Group plc 09 Annual Report & Accounts 2009-2010 Value Product Service Location Technology Business Distribution & range relationships Loyalty Loyalty Stores We are expanding the Reward Card scheme to make it more personal to members, and to give them more rewards and experiences.
A similar scheme will be launched for Gamestation, tailored to meet the specific needs of their customers.
Online Reward Card data helps us develop our offer, and give customers the same service online.
We are making the experience more personal to each customer, giving them everything they need including the ability to manage their account, and get a first look at new game content and news.
The launch of Gamesnation is expanding our online community offering a dedicated social network for mass market gamers, supported by GAME.
Digital In March 2010 we launched the GAME Moonbase in PlayStation Home.
Were the first video games retailer to have a branded virtual showroom in Sonys online portal, and Reward Card holders will have access to an area which offers free to play games, as well as exclusive news and advice.
Were developing a similar high profile presence for loyal customers in other digital arenas.
Press forward The GAME Group plc 10 Annual Report & Accounts 2009-2010 Our specialist proposition Location and Technology Location Stores Were committed to being With over 1,300 stores, our brands are located in everywhere our customers the major retail locations in our territories.
On the high street, We continually review the portfolio, and have announced the closure of some overlapping online, and in digital worlds.
The Reward Card helps us to transfer customers to their next closest store.
Our brands are an established feature on high streets and in shopping centres across Europe Online and Australia.
Customers recognise them and the specialist skills they represent.
Online we In the UK we have three functional websites, are also a trusted source for products and and overseas we have one in every territory.
As the digital world develops, Search engine optimisation and targeted we are developing new services offering the marketing campaigns give our brands a high same unique brand proposition.
Digital 14 concept stores We have developed a GAME application for We are trialling a new concept store format in smart phones which helps customers find their 14 locations in the UK.
We are introducing a brand presence in all digital channels, including New stores opened mobile phone game downloads and online portals such as PlayStation Home.
2008 344 2009 181 2010 38 The GAME Group plc 11 Annual Report & Accounts 2009-2010 Value Product Service Loyalty Business Distribution & range relationships Location Technology Technology Stores Customers rightly expect us Websphere will help us to extend the range in to be technical experts.
Interactive kiosks will allow customers to order back catalogue products and new Technology drives growth in our industry, and ranges such as TVs and cameras from our also facilitates growth in our business.
We have websites, for delivery to home or collection invested in state-of-the-art IT to give our store from store.
teams fast access to Reward Card and product data, helping them serve customers quicker.
Online In the next two years we will invest in a new websphere platform to connect our stores The benefits of having one infrastructure behind and websites across all territories.
all of our websites are enormous.
Customers will receive a better quality experience and more Vists to GAME Groups UK websites services, and we will have a single view of customer behaviour across all territories.
2008 53.3m 2009 89.5m Digital 2010 95.2m Seamless connectivity will help our store and excludes gamestation.
co. uk online teams to champion digital content to customers.
Ultimately, we are developing a service which connects all of our channels, including digital, to give customers one trusted source for all of their video games content.
Press forward The GAME Group plc 12 Annual Report & Accounts 2009-2010 Our specialist proposition Business relationships and Distribution Business relationships Stores Strong partnerships help us Our store teams champion all new releases, and give customers unique we transform our stores for all major launches.
products, deals, availability Call of Duty: Modern Warfare 2 was our biggest launch to date, and included exclusive limited and service.
edition hardware, software and accessories for our customers.
As Europes leading pc and video games retailer, weve built solid relationships with our Online supplier partners.
For two decades weve worked together to launch new products and We work with suppliers to provide our online to generate fantastic promotions and deals customers with a wide range of exclusive for customers.
More recently, weve introduced products as well as content and news.
exclusive extra content and products for The popularity of our preorder campaigns helps GAME and Gamestation customers with us to plan launches together long before a great results.
Digital 333 new titles We ask publishers to provide exclusive digital We work closely with suppliers to provide content for our customers when a new game is digital games.
333 new titles were added to released.
Whether extra cars, maps, weapons or our pc download service in 2009 10. characters, we work together to ensure that customers get something extra from GAME.
100,000 visitors Over the first four weeks, 100,000 customers visited the GAME Moonbase in Sonys PlayStation home portal.
The GAME Group plc 13 Annual Report & Accounts 2009-2010 Value Product Service Loyalty Location Technology & range Business Distribution relationships Distribution Stores Being first to market is critical We have purpose built distribution facilities in all to our success.
territories to ensure that products reach stores and customers at the right time.
Customers In all of our markets, significant volumes of new know that our stores are fully stocked and fully products are sold in the first week.
Immediate prepared for every new launch.
availability at launch, and timely replenishment, are crucial to our credibility.
We are investing to Online ensure that our distribution in all channels is second to none.
Our distribution centres dispatch products to customers homes as well as to stores.
This ensures excellent stock availability for customers, and strong efficiencies for the Group.
Digital We have offered customers a digital distribution service for pc games for the last three years.
As it grows, it helps us develop new services for the emerging digital worlds.
