Directors and Governance The GAME Group plc 59 Annual Report & Accounts 2009-2010 Report of the Directors for the year ended 31 January 2010 The Directors have pleasure in presenting their Terry Scicluna resigned 21 April 2010 Report on the affairs of the Group, together with Ben White appointed 2 July 2009 the audited financial statements, for the period Christopher Bell ended 31 January 2010.
Ishbel Macpherson Dana Dunne appointed 14 January 2010 Principal activities David Thomas resigned 2 July 2009 The Group is Europes leading specialist pc and Jean-Paul Giraud resigned 14 January 2010 video games retailer trading via retail outlets Dennis Woodside resigned 31 January 2010 and eCommerce sites.
The Parent Company David Mansfield was appointed on 16 April 2010.
The GAME Group plc is an investment holding company.
The Director who will retire by rotation is Ishbel Macpherson who, being eligible, offers herself for Business review re-election.
In addition, Peter Lewis, who has been As at 31 January 2010 the Group operated a Director for more than nine years, retires in in the UK and the Republic of Ireland and five accordance with provision A.
7.2 of the Combined international territories, with 677 stores throughout Code, and offers himself for re-election.
Ben White, the United Kingdom and the Republic of Ireland, Dana Dunne and David Mansfield were 199 in France, 288 inc franchise in Iberia, 68 in appointed to the Board since the last annual Scandinavia, 29 in the Czech Republic and 119 general meeting and will therefore retire, in inc franchise in Australia, as well as operating a accordance with the articles of association, and global online operation with sites including resolutions proposing their election will be put to game.
com and shareholders at the next annual general meeting.
Details of Directors service contracts and A more detailed review of the business for the interests in the share capital of the Company period ended 31 January 2010 and future are given in the Directors Remuneration Report developments is set out in the Chairmans on pages 64 to 71.
Biographies of the Directors Statement on pages 20 to 25, the Chief Executives are set out on page 53. Review on pages 26 to 29 and the Business Review on pages 32 to 42, which are incorporated into this Corporate governance Directors Report by reference.
The Companys compliance with corporate governance is disclosed in the Corporate Results and dividends Governance Statement on pages 54 to 58, and The consolidated profit after taxation was this is incorporated into the Directors Report by 60.5 million 2009: 83.6 million, on turnover of reference.
This profit represents basic earnings per share of 17.45p Conflicts of interest 2009: 24.18p.
From 1 October 2008, there has been a requirement that directors must avoid a situation The Directors recommend a final dividend of where they have, or can have, a direct or indirect 3.90p 2009: 3.71p per share.
This, when taken interest that conflicts, or possibly may conflict, with with the interim dividend of 1.88p 2009: 1.79p the companys interests.
Directors of public per share, gives a total dividend of 5.78p companies may authorise conflicts and potential 2009: 5.50p per share for the period ended conflicts, where appropriate, if a companys 31 January 2010. articles of association permit and shareholders have approved appropriate amendments.
At the Directors Companys Annual General Meeting in 2008, the The Directors of the Company during the year shareholders gave this approval.
were as follows: Procedures are in place for the disclosure by Peter Lewis directors of any such conflicts and also for the Lisa Morgan resigned 21 April 2010 consideration and authorisation of these GAME.
Press forward The GAME Group plc 60 Annual Report & Accounts 2009-2010 Report of the Directors continued for the year ended 31 January 2010 conflicts by the board.
These procedures allow Principal risks and uncertainties for the imposition of limits or conditions by the The principal risks and uncertainties facing the board when authorizing any conflict, if they Group are detailed on page 45. think this is appropriate.
These procedures were duly followed to approve appropriate conflicts Share capital following the enactment of the conflict Details of changes in share capital during the provisions in October 2008, and are now period ended 31 January 2010 are set out in included as a regular standing item for note 20 to the financial statements.
consideration by the board at its meetings.
As at 31 January 2010, the Company had an Charitable and political donations unexpired authority to repurchase shares up to The Group made charitable donations in excess a maximum of 34,632,365 shares.
No shares were of 160,000 to a number of charities including the purchased in the market for cancellation during Groups UK charity partner, Childrens Hospices the year.
The Group also donated a significant amount of computer games and software to charities Rights and obligations attaching to the and community groups across the UK.
The Group Ordinary Shares does not make donations to any political party This section summarises certain provisions in the including non-EU political parties or organisation Companys Articles of Association relating to or to independent election candidates.
the Ordinary Shares of the Company, and forms part of the Directors Report.
Creditor payment policy The Groups policy for the period ended Share capital 31 January 2010, for all suppliers, was to agree The Company has a single class of share which terms of payment when establishing the terms is divided into ordinary shares of 5p each.
of each business transaction and to abide by the agreed terms of payment.
The Group had Voting an average 32 days purchases 2009: 37 days In accordance with the Companys Articles of included in trade creditors at the year end.
Association, each share other than those held The Company had no trade creditors.
in treasury entitles the holder to one vote, at general meetings of the Company on votes Financial instruments taken on a poll.
On a show of hands at a The main risks arising from the Groups financial meeting, every member present not being instruments are interest rate risk, liquidity risk, present by proxy and entitled to vote has one foreign currency risk and credit risk.
The Board vote and every proxy present who has been reviews and agrees policies for managing each duly appointed by a member entitled to vote of these risks.
Further details on the Groups on the resolution has one vote.
No member is financial instruments can be found in the entitled in respect of a share held by him to be Statement of Accounting Policies and notes 16 present or to vote, either in person or by proxy, at and 17 to the financial statements.
a general meeting or at a separate meeting of the holders of class of shares or on a poll, or to Corporate Responsibility exercise other rights conferred by membership The Group recognises that to remain successful in relation to the meeting or poll, if a call or over the longer term the business must take an other amount due and payable in respect of open, honest and responsible approach the share is unpaid.
towards all of its key stakeholders employees, customers, investors and the wider community.
Transfers The full report is set out on pages 46 to 49.
The Board may refuse to register a transfer of shares in certain circumstances.
Directors and Governance The GAME Group plc 61 Annual Report & Accounts 2009-2010 Dividends payment has arrived or not.
The lien applies to Subject to the provisions of the Companies Act all dividends from time to time declared or other 2006, the Company may by ordinary resolution amounts payable in respect of such shares.
declare a dividend to be paid to the members according to their respective rights and interests, Sanctions but no dividend may exceed the amount Unless the Board decides otherwise, if a recommended by the Board.
The directors may shareholder is given a notice that he has failed to also declare and pay interim dividends if they provide information required in relation to any consider that the financial position of the Company shares pursuant to a notice under section 793 of justifies it.
Subject to shareholder approval, the the Companies Act 2006, that member will be Directors may pay dividends by issuing shares unable to vote those shares both in general credited as fully paid up in lieu of cash dividends.
meeting and at a meeting of shareholders of that No dividend carries a right to interest from the class.
If such shareholder holds more than 0.25 per Company unless specified by the rights attaching cent or more of the issued shares of a class to the share.
If dividends remain unclaimed for 12 excluding treasury shares and is in default of a years they are forfeited and revert to the Company.
section 793 notice, the Directors may also state in the notice that: i the payment of any dividend Variation of rights shall be withheld: and ii that there can be no The rights attached to shares can only be varied transfer of the shares held by such shareholder.
with the consent in writing of the holders of at least 75 per cent of the nominal amount of the Amendment of the Companys Articles of issued shares of that class excluding any share Association of that class held as treasury shares or with the Any amendments to the Companys Articles of sanction of a special resolution passed at a Association may be in accordance with the separate meeting of the holders of the issued provisions of the Companies Act 2006 by way shares of that class in accordance with the of special resolution.
provisions of the Companies Act 2006.
Appointment and removal of Directors Partly paid shares The Company may by ordinary resolution The Company has a first and paramount lien on appoint a director to the Board.
The Company all partly paid shares for an amount payable in may also by ordinary resolution remove a respect of the share, whether the due date for director from the Board.
Substantial shareholdings As at 31 March 2010, the Board had been notified of, or was otherwise aware of, the following holdings of 3 per cent or more of the Companys share capital.
Number of ordinary shares % holding Fidelity 29,444,722 8.49 Aberforth Partners LLP 22,246,650 6.42 BlackRock Advisors 18,437,156 5.32 Henderson Global Investors Ltd 13,709,354 3.95 Legal & General Investment Management Limited 13,643,129 3.94 Bank of New York Mellon Corporation 12,999,148 3.75 TIAA-CREF 11,674,745 3.37 AXA 11,505,916 3.32 HSBC 11,500,427 3.32 Franklin Templeton 11,066,994 3.19 GAME.
Press forward The GAME Group plc 62 Annual Report & Accounts 2009-2010 Report of the Directors continued for the year ended 31 January 2010 Liquidation IAS Regulation.
The Directors have chosen to On a voluntary winding up of the Company prepare financial statements for the Company the liquidator may, on obtaining any sanction in accordance with UK Generally Accepted required by law, divide among the members in Accounting Practice.
kind the whole or any part of the assets of the Company, whether or not the assets consist of The Directors are responsible for ensuring the property of one kind or of different kinds, and annual report and the financial statements are vest the whole or any part of the assets in made available on a website.
The financial trustees upon such trusts for the benefit of the statements are published on the Groups members as he shall determine.
uk in accordance with legislation in the United Annual General Meeting Kingdom governing the preparation and Full details of the Annual General Meeting of dissemination of financial statements, which The GAME Group plc to be held on 22 June may vary from legislation in other jurisdictions.
2010 at 10.00 a. m. at Unity House, Telford Road, The maintenance and integrity of the Groups Basingstoke, Hampshire RG21 6YJ, together with website is the responsibility of the Directors.
explanations of the resolutions to be proposed The Directors responsibility also extends to the at the AGM, are set out in the AGM notice ongoing integrity of the financial statements accompanying this Report.
Directors responsibility statement Group financial statements The Directors are responsible for keeping proper International Accounting Standard 1 requires accounting records that are sufficient to show that financial statements present fairly for each and explain the Companys transactions and financial year the Groups financial position, disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time financial performance and cash flows.
This the financial position of the Group, and enable requires the faithful representation of the effects them to ensure that the financial statements of transactions, other events and conditions in comply with the Companies Act 2006 and, as accordance with the definitions and regards the Group financial statements, Article 4 recognition criteria for assets, liabilities, income of the IAS Regulation.
They are also responsible and expenses set out in the International for safeguarding the assets of the Company, for Accounting Standards Boards Framework for taking reasonable steps for the prevention and the preparation and presentation of financial detection of fraud and other irregularities and statements.
In virtually all circumstances, a fair for the preparation of a Directors Report and presentation will be achieved by compliance Directors Remuneration Report which comply with all applicable IFRSs.
A fair presentation also with the requirements of the Companies Act requires the Directors to: 2006.
Under company law the directors must not consistently select and apply appropriate approve the financial statements unless they accounting policies: are satisfied that they give a true and fair view make judgements and accounting estimates of the state of affairs of the group and company that are reasonable and prudent: and of the profit or loss for the group for that period.
state whether they have been prepared in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the The Directors are responsible for preparing the European Union, subject to any material annual report and the financial statements in departures disclosed and explained in the accordance with the Companies Act 2006. financial statements: The Directors are also required to prepare present information, including accounting financial statements for the Group in policies, in a manner that provides relevant, accordance with International Financial reliable, comparable and understandable Reporting Standards as adopted by the information: and European Union IFRSs and Article 4 of the Directors and Governance The GAME Group plc 63 Annual Report & Accounts 2009-2010 provide additional disclosures when Treasury risk management compliance with the specific requirements Group treasury matters are governed by in IFRSs is insufficient to enable users to policies and procedures approved by the Board understand the impact of particular of Directors.
The Group monitors and reviews transactions, other events and conditions on treasury matters on a regular basis.
A written the entitys financial position and financial summary of major treasury activity is presented performance.
The Groups treasury policies are set out in the Statement of Parent Company financial statements Accounting Policies.
Company law requires the Directors to prepare financial statements for each financial year Disclosure of information to auditors which give a true and fair view of the state of So far as each Director at the date of approval affairs of the Company and of the profit or loss of this Report is aware, there is no relevant audit of the Company for that period.
In preparing information of which the Companys auditors these financial statements, the Directors are are unaware and the Directors have taken all required to: steps that they ought to have taken to make themselves aware of any relevant audit select suitable accounting policies and then information and to establish that the auditors apply them consistently: are aware of that information.
prepare the financial statements on the going concern basis unless it is inappropriate to Directors indemnification provisions presume that the Company will continue in The Directors have the benefit of qualifying business: third-party indemnity provisions for the purposes of sections 232 and 234 of the Companies Act make judgements and estimates that are 2006 pursuant to the Companys Articles of reasonable and prudent: and Association.
A copy of the Articles of Association state whether applicable accounting is available for inspection at the Companys standards have been followed, subject to any registered office.
material departures disclosed and explained in the financial statements.
Auditors A resolution to reappoint BDO LLP as auditors Directors responsibility statement pursuant will be proposed at the forthcoming Annual to DTR4 General Meeting.
The Directors confirm to the best of their knowledge: By order of the Board The Group financial statements have been prepared in accordance with International Vivienne Hemming ACIS Financial Reporting Standards as adopted by Company Secretary the European Union IFRSs and Article 4 of the IAS Regulation and give a true and fair view of Unity House the assets, liabilities, financial position and Telford Road profit and loss of the Group.
Basingstoke RG21 6YJ The Annual Report includes a fair review of 21 April 2010 the development and performance of the business and the financial position of the Group and the Parent Company, together with a description or the principal risks and uncertainties that they face.
