02 Genus plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2010 Overview I am pleased to report that Genus has weathered the global agricultural recession well and is positively positioned to take Chairmans advantage of the market recovery that is now evident.
The world economic recession, and general market volatility that Statement followed, led to a deep agricultural recession that has lasted for two years.
This has been a difficult period for Genus customers and, inevitably, has held back the rate of growth Genus would otherwise have been able to achieve.
Despite this, the Group delivered improved profits again this year, underpinned by its research and development success, multi-species strategy, international distribution network and financial strength.
The Group has also continued to invest in the research, production capacity and market development needed to realise the ambitious growth targets in its forward strategy.
This is a testimony to the robustness of Genus business model.
Most agricultural markets have now recovered and attention is turning once again to the long-term fundamental dynamics of the worlds food markets.
Global population growth and increased John Hawkins urbanisation will lead to higher demand for protein and increased Chairman pressure on scarce resources such as land, water and energy.
Genus is uniquely positioned to benefit from these trends with its continued focus on research and development, productivity enhancing products and strong international presence.
The Group delivered improved profits As a result, the Board remains confident of the Groups growth again this year, underpinned by its prospects.
research and development success, Results multi-species strategy, international On revenues up 2% to 285.3m, adjusted operating profit increased distribution network and financial strength.
Exchange rates have had a modest The Group has also continued to invest benefit: at constant exchange rates, adjusted operating profit was up 3%, with the growth in regional operating profits held back by in the research, production capacity and higher research and development costs as a result of bringing on market development needed to realise stream the new porcine nucleus herd facility in South Dakota.
the ambitious growth targets in its Despite higher interest costs, adjusted profit before tax was 3% forward strategy.
Adjusted earnings per share was 2% higher at 36.7 pence per share 2009: 36.1 pence per share.
Genus has continued to invest in its long-term future despite the recession.
Capital expenditure in the year of 9.1m remained relatively high as a result of the further expenditure necessary to complete the expansion of the Groups global product development and production facilities.
As this phase of high investment has drawn to a close, Genus has returned to being strongly cash generative.
Last years net debt was reduced by 8.0m to 80.0m, despite the higher than normal capital investment.
This has further strengthened the Groups financial position and provides Genus with considerable headroom within its banking facilities of approximately 150m.
Dividend The Board is recommending an increase in the final dividend of 10% to 12.1 pence per share.
This reflects the Boards continued confidence in the Groups long-term strategy for growth.
The dividend is covered three times by adjusted earnings.
Subject to shareholder approval at the Companys Annual General Meeting to be held on 11 November 2010, this dividend will be paid on 7 January 2011 to shareholders on the register at the close of business on 10 December 2010.
Backward Contents Forward Backward Contents Forward Genus plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2010 03 Employees Genus continued success is a reflection of the expertise and commitment of our global team.
On behalf of the Board, I would like to thank all our employees worldwide for their hard work and enthusiasm during the year.
The Group has a strong management team led by Chief Executive, Richard Wood.
During the year, Steve Amies, Chief Operating Officer for Global Research & Product Development, retired after 35 years of loyal service.
He has been succeeded by Ian Biggs, previously Chief Operating Officer for the Americas, who will be undertaking an expanded role.
Bill Christianson, previously General Manager of porcine operations in North America, has been promoted to replace Ian as Chief Operating Officer of the Americas region.
In recognition of the importance of developing markets to our growth, we have also recently strengthened the management of our Asia region with the appointment of a regional head of operations.
32.9m Succession Planning Adjusted profit before tax was 3% higher at 32.9m 2009: 32.0m I joined the Genus Board ten years ago.
In that time, Genus has achieved tremendous growth with profits up tenfold.
As I approach the end of my second three year term as Chairman, I have decided that the time is right for me to hand over leadership of the Board as Genus enters its next exciting phase of growth.
Following an external search, I am pleased to say that Bob Lawson, currently Chairman of Barratt Developments plc and shortly to retire as Chairman of Hays plc, has accepted the Boards invitation to succeed me as Chairman from the conclusion of this years Annual General Meeting.
Bob has excellent experience in international markets and in chairing major companies and I wish him and Genus every success in the future.
I look back with pride on what Genus has achieved over the last ten years and I am certain the business will go from strength to strength in the years ahead.
World Population It is now widely accepted that the worlds population is heading for 9 billion as a minimum.
Most of this growth will take place in the emerging regions of the world such as Asia and Latin America.
Within countries such as Brazil, India and China, there is huge change taking place, with 100s of millions of consumers moving from low to middle income status and in some cases, upper income status.
The implications for food producers and the companies who in turn supply them such as Genus are clear.
There will be many more consumers in the world to feed, many of these will be considerably wealthier and as a result will be able to afford and demand higher quality and added value food.
Backward Contents Forward Backward Contents Forward Financial Statements Corporate Governance Business Review Overview
