04 Genus plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2010 Overview At a Glance Our Business Drivers Organisation Structure Genus is a growth business well positioned to Genus operates sales and distribution on benefit from the global demand for improved a regional basis across its four major agricultural efficiency.
regions with research and development managed centrally on a global basis to ensure maximum effectiveness.
Global Population Growth Research & Product Development Genus is uniquely positioned to take advantage of the growing In the year to June 2010, Genus spent 23.2m on research and demand for food, particularly milk and meat, as world population product development.
Approximately 15% or 3.4m was spent on grows from todays 6.8 billion to a predicted 9.2 billion by 2050.
This research see light shading below with the remainder spent broadly is forcing farming to become more efficient to be able to meet equally on bovine and porcine product development.
Expenditure m Increasingly Affluent Developing Markets 2010 3.4 23.2 2009 3.5 20.4 The industrialisation of the developing countries is creating a middle 2008 2.5 16.0 class with increasingly Western dietary preferences favouring dairy, beef and pork consumption.
These trends are particularly evident in the BRIC economies Brazil, Russia, India and China, areas where Genus is investing heavily to take advantage of the growth Bovine Product Development opportunities.
Genus has animals in bovine studs in seven countries, the USA, Canada, Brazil, the UK, Italy, Australia and China.
Approximately 400 Strong International Presence animals enter the 5 year development programmes each year Genus sales and distribution network provides unrivalled yielding some 200 bulls from which approximately 13m doses of international coverage spanning 70 countries with its products sold semen are collected each year.
under the trademarks Genus and ABS for dairy and beef cattle and PIC for pigs.
It has strong leadership in both bovine and porcine with Expenditure m no.
1 or 2 positions in all of its major markets.
2010 10.6 2009 9.5 2008 8.7 Focused Research & Development Genus invests over 7% of sales in research and development.
Genus product development activities are focused on using natural Porcine Product Development selection techniques together with its leading technologies, such as Genus nine pure line breeds are continuously developed in its two genomic evaluations, to continuously improve its proprietary lines of nucleus herd facilities in the USA and Canada.
These pure lines breeding animals.
Research activities are aimed at technological are used to create elite boars and gilts for multiplication to meet breakthrough such as Genus sexed semen project.
Robust Business Model Expenditure m The geographic spread of Genus operations and its multi-species 2010 9.2 strategy diversifies and significantly reduces industry risks.
In 2009 7.4 2008 4.8 addition, in porcine, a significant proportion of sales are made under royalty arrangements where profits are closely linked to fees payable on the production of progeny: this produces a more stable operating performance.
23.2m 2010 R&D spend Backward Contents Forward Backward Contents Forward Genus plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2010 05 Operations by Geography Revenue 2010 Operating profit 2010 Europe 42% Europe 29% North America 36% North America 45% Latin America 14% Latin America 17% Far East 8% Far East 9% Europe % of revenues North America 42% % of revenues Genus operations in Europe span the 36% developed markets of Western Europe Our businesses in the USA and Canada and the fast growing agricultural are focused on larger customers and markets in Eastern Europe.
We also Genus strong product offering ensures have a world renowned agricultural the Company is well placed to improve consultancy.
market share and benefit from industry consolidation.
Europe North America Latin America % of revenues 14% Far East Through our porcine joint venture in Brazil and wholly owned operations % of revenues 8% elsewhere, we are able to benefit from the growth of the extensive agricultural Genus has operations in China, industries in Latin America and their the Philippines, India and Australia expanding exports into world markets.
and operates elsewhere in the region through distributors.
Population growth and increased urbanisation is creating Latin significant opportunities in the region.
America Far East countries 70 Genus is represented in 70 countries Backward Contents Forward Backward Contents Forward Financial Statements Corporate Governance Business Review Overview
