Genus plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2010 15 We shipped a further 21 bulls from the Australian stud to provide increased local capacity to meet anticipated future demand.
The new Chinese bull stud being built to a Genus design under our supervision has been completed and is expected to be operational later this year.
Our commercial relationship with Mengniu, the largest Chinese milk producer, has been extended in a new five year agreement.
We have opened an office in India, the worlds largest dairy market, and commenced semen sales in this important new market for Genus.
We are also well advanced in our discussions with a partner to open a stud in India, as a source of local production.
In Australia, low milk prices and severe drought conditions in the southern hemisphere dramatically reduced demand for semen in the first half of the year.
Market conditions improved towards the end of the year, but semen volume remained 5% lower than last year.
Cost The region had a successful year despite reductions mitigated the impact on profits.
the continuation of poor market conditions.
Regional sales grew by 3% to 145.0m Market conditions for pig producers throughout the region were depressed, with the pig market in China particularly badly hit and 2009: 140.6m and adjusted operating remaining depressed throughout the year.
Demand for breeding animals was low and customers expansion plans were delayed.
With no protection from royalty contracts, the reduced demand together with losses on by-product pigs caused by depressed prices resulted in a reduction in porcine profits.
In response to the weaker demand, we have rescheduled the nucleus farm expansion programme to align it with the current expectations for market recovery.
Construction has recently commenced on the two delayed farms.
These will be stocked and become operational in the current year.
A further new nucleus farm has been approved for construction in the current year.
Tesco Promar, the UK consultancy division of Genus, is retained by Tesco plc to independently assess the cost of production incurred by the many farmers that provide Tesco with liquid milk.
This advice allows Tesco to accurately establish a stable price it pays these farmers for their milk that is not unduly affected by fluctuations in global milk product commodity markets.
In providing this advice Promar provides a regular on-farm visit to the supplying farmers by a business secretary, resulting in an accurate, financially and technically reconciled set of farm business accounts.
These accounts benefit the farmers own efficiencies and provide Tesco with an aggregate tracker that covers the current cost of production, vital in these times of fluctuating global grain, protein and fertiliser input costs.
Backward Contents Forward Backward Contents Forward Financial Statements Corporate Governance Business Review Overview
