06 Genus plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2010 Business Review Results for the Year Actual Currency Constant Currency Chief Executives 2010 2009 Movement Movement m m % % Revenue 285.3 280.4 2 1 Review Adjusted operating profit 39.9 38.1 5 3 Adjusted profit before tax 32.9 32.0 3 Adjusted earnings per share p 36.7 36.1 2 Genus has overcome the impact of the global agricultural recession to report further good progress and improved profits.
To achieve continued profit growth we decided to cut costs only in those markets where recovery would be delayed and to complete our Richard Wood investment in expanding research and development R&D facilities.
Chief Executive We also closed our principal final salary pension scheme to future service accrual and focused on cash generation to reduce debt.
On revenue up 2% to 285.3m adjusted operating profit rose by 5% to 39.9m and adjusted profit before tax increased by 3% to We have made encouraging strategic 32.9m, despite 2.8m in additional R&D costs following the progress in all important markets during decision to complete the strategic product development capacity investment begun last year.
This will ensure that Genus is strongly the year.
Our decision to complete the placed as global markets recover.
investment in expanding product The results for the year reflect a tough first half, followed by a development and production facilities gradually improving second half.
Genus suffered in the first half year leaves Genus well placed to take from the continuing agricultural recession, with higher comparative advantage of increasing worldwide costs in research and development and increased interest costs.
Some markets began to recover in the second half of the year and demand as the already evident market this improved adjusted profit before tax.
In the second half, this rose recovery progresses.
by 15% when compared with the same period last year and 12% at constant exchange rates.
Group Performance Reported revenue grew by 2% to 285.3m.
Growth in developing markets, particularly in Latin America, offset a fall in North American sales.
Here, demand for porcine breeding animals was weak in the first half of the year and a very depressed dairy market led to lower sales of dairy semen throughout the year.
Against this background, operating profit was encouragingly robust and adjusted operating profit rose by 5% to 39.9m 2009: 38.1m.
Regional operating profits increased by 7% to 70.0m, with the Latin American and European businesses both performing particularly well.
Growth in developing markets, one of the Groups key objectives, continued with profits earned from these markets rising from 28% to 30% of regional operating profit this year.
Research and development operating costs rose by 5% to 23.2m excluding exchange rate movements expenditure is largely in the USA, this increase reflecting our investment in product development as the new porcine nucleus facility was brought on stream.
Finance costs rose by 1.1m to 9.3m due to higher pension interest costs and increased bank margins following the refinancing last year.
Backward Contents Forward Backward Contents Forward Genus plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2010 07 The net effect was a 3% rise in adjusted profit before tax to 32.9m 2009: 32.0m.
At constant exchange rates, adjusted operating profit rose 3% and adjusted profit before tax was unchanged.
Adjusted operating profit and adjusted profit before tax referred to above are the measures that the Board uses to monitor underlying business performance.
They exclude non-cash items relating to the net IAS 41 valuation movement in biological assets, amortisation of acquired intangibles and share-based payments and are stated before exceptional items and other gains or losses.
Including these items, the statutory results show an even stronger performance with operating profit up 42% to 47.0m and profit before tax up 56% to 40.8m.
This result includes an exceptional credit in the year of 2.8m, relating principally to the curtailment gain arising from the closure of a defined benefit pension scheme.
The Divisional and Financial Reviews on pages 12 to 23 explain these items and the Groups overall performance in more detail.
70.0m Markets The year began with the global agricultural markets still in deep Regional Operating Profit increased by 7% to 70.0m recession as a result of the general economic downturn, exacerbated by high feed costs.
Producers cut back purchases and price erosion occurred as a result of competitive activity and customers trading down.
The market bottomed early in the spring of 2010 and then showed improvement in a number of countries.
Pig prices rose sufficiently to restore customer profitability in all but the Chinese market.
The futures markets have generally been robust so that customer confidence in investing to upgrade porcine genetics has returned.
This has been especially evident in the USA.
Milk and beef prices have started to rise in most countries but farming profitability has not yet been restored in the US dairy sector.
Strategy Genus has continued to progress its growth strategy despite the agricultural recession.
Details of Genus progress are contained on pages 8 and 9 overleaf.
Summary and Outlook We have made encouraging strategic progress in all important markets during the year.
Our decision to complete the investment in Genus helps feed the World expanding product development and production facilities leaves Genus is uniquely placed to help feed the world.
We have the Genus well placed to take advantage of increasing worldwide technology, the people, the research facilities, and the demand as the already evident market recovery progresses.
We need to make agriculture more efficient.
We need to help farmers produce more meat and milk, and to help Now that the market recovery is taking hold, focus is beginning to them do it by utilising ever more scarce resources.
Genus is return to the long-term positive fundamentals for agricultural ideally placed to help farmers do that through our technology, markets.
Increasing global demand for food driven by global our method of working with our customers, and our desire to population growth and increased urbanisation is creating more create solutions that our customers need for their marketplace.
demand for protein, especially in developing markets.
This in turn creates the need for improved farmer productivity.
The high demand this places on finite land, water and energy resources is driving the move towards greater industrialisation of farming.
The resulting consolidation in the farming sector is creating large commercial enterprises that are Genus target customers.
The pace of change is most dramatic in developing markets and is being further stimulated by support initiatives from the Governments concerned.
Trading during the current financial year has remained in line with our expectations and ahead of the same period last year.
With markets in the majority of countries having at least started a recovery from the agricultural recession, we are confident that the Group will continue to achieve the long-term growth expected in our business strategy.
Backward Contents Forward Backward Contents Forward Financial Statements Corporate Governance Business Review Overview
