08 GKN STRATEGY We are committed to providing long term shareholder value in the form of steadily growing earnings and dividends through the delivery of sustained growth in sales, profitability and cash generation.
Our strategic objectives Market leadership Achieve the highest market share in our chosen end markets.
Develop superior technology in all our businesses.
Growth Achieve above market growth in our chosen end markets.
Leverage and extend our global footprint to increase market share.
Accelerate growth through strategic acquisitions.
Operational excellence Develop a world class lean manufacturing enterprise.
Be the employer of choice with a high performance culture, motivated people and outstanding leaders.
Achieve preferred status with our strategic customers and suppliers.
Sustainability Develop products and processes for the new low carbon world.
Achieve a world leading health and safety record.
Have a positive impact on the environment and the communities in which we operate.
KPIs Risk management Key capabilities We implement and monitor We have an extensive risk Superior technology, world class performance against strategy management framework designed lean manufacturing, leveraging through key performance to identify, assess and mitigate our global footprint, exceptional indicators KPIs, both financial significant business risks which customer service, outstanding and non-financial.
could impact delivery of our leadership and development for strategic plan.
all are Group-wide key capabilities Progress against these KPIs is that underpin the delivery of reported regularly to the Board Risk management processes our strategy.
In operate throughout the Group at addition, certain financial KPIs plant, divisional and corporate At their heart are our Values which are linked to executive levels and regular reports are made bind GKN together and guide our remuneration.
to the Board and its Committees.
relationships with all our stakeholders.
See pages 18 and 19 for more See pages 32 and 33 for more information.
See pages 34 to 37 for more information.
