49 The Remuneration Committee Activities The Committee met on eight occasions in 2M1M: members attendance Composition The Committee comprises the following independent non-executive at meetings is set out in the table on page 42.
The key matters that were considered by the Committee during the year were as follows: Directors: n awards under the Groups long term incentive arrangements for Name remuneration Committee position 2M1M and the outturn of awards made in 2MM7: richard parry-Jones Chairman from 6 May 2M1M n payments under the short term variable remuneration scheme for Shonaid Jemmett-page Member from 1 June 2M1M 2MM9 and proposals for 2M1M awards: John Sheldrick Member Michael Turner Member n salary review proposals for executive Directors and senior executives immediately below Board level: Sir peter Williams chaired the Committee until he retired from the Board n a review of Directors shareholding requirement guidelines: on 6 May 2M1M.
Sir Christopher Meyer and Helmut Mamsch were members of the Committee until they retired from the Board on 6 May 2M1M and n a review of external advisers and remuneration Committee procedures: 31 october 2M1M respectively.
n external advisers review of trends in remuneration practices, The secretary to the Committee is Judith Felton, Company Secretary.
benchmarking and governance: Role n a review of the Directors remuneration and severance policies The principal role of the remuneration Committee is to determine and together with a review of the remuneration policy in the context of make recommendations to the Board on the Groups policy for the risk: and remuneration of the executive Directors of GKN plc.
Within the n approval of the 2MM9 remuneration report.
framework of the agreed policy, which is reviewed annually by the Committee and the Board, the Committee has responsibility for: Executive Directors n determining the detailed terms of service of the executive Directors The Companys remuneration strategy is closely aligned with its and the Company Secretary, including basic salary, incentives and business strategy, summarised on page 8, and is delivered through benefits, and the terms upon which their service may be the policy set out below.
In particular, long term incentives measure terminated: performance against growth in earnings and total shareholder return relative to companies in the FTSe 35M Index: the short term variable n determining the fees of the Chairman: and remuneration scheme supports the operational performance of the n recommending to the Chief executive and monitoring the level and business by measuring against key business fundamentals of profit, structure of remuneration of the most senior executives immediately margin, operating cash flow and net debt, all of which underpin the Groups below Board level.
strategic objectives: in setting performance targets under both short and long term incentives, the Committee ensures that, whilst stretching, Written terms of reference that outline the Committees authority and the targets are both realistic and achievable without taking inappropriate responsibilities are available on our website at www.
business risks: and in determining salary levels, the Committee ensures Advice provided to the Committee that there is a strong link between pay and performance.
The Committee appointed Hewitt New Bridge Street HNBS in 2MM6 as Remuneration policy its independent consultants to provide advice on executive Directors GKNs remuneration policy for executive Directors is designed to attract, remuneration and incentive arrangements for senior executives below retain and motivate executives of the high calibre required to ensure Board level.
HNBS provides input to papers to be considered by the that the Group is managed successfully to the benefit of shareholders.
Committee and representatives attend Committee meetings by invitation.
To achieve this, a competitive package of incentives and rewards linked HNBS also provides the total shareholder return monitoring service in to performance is provided.
connection with the Groups long term incentive arrangements, a role it has performed for the Group since 2MM4.
HNBS did not provide any In setting remuneration levels, the Committee takes into consideration other services direct to the Group during the year.
aon Hewitt the parent the remuneration practices found in other multinational companies company of HNBS since october 2M1M provided advice to the Company based in the UK and also ensures that the remuneration arrangements in relation to a UK pension fide-risking project in 2M1M and provides ongoing for executive Directors are compatible with those for executives administration services relating to US employee healthcare benefits.
It also considers the most recent pay awards in the Group generally when reviewing the basic salaries of the The Committee receives input from the Chief executive when executive Directors.
considering the remuneration of other executive Directors and of the Company Secretary.
on the basis of the expected value of long term incentives and achievement of on target performance for the purposes of the short term variable remuneration scheme, the total annual remuneration excluding pension benefits of each executive Director under the Groups remuneration policy is weighted between performance-related and non performance-related elements, valued as at the time of award of long term incentives, at around 55% and 45% respectively.
The Committee believes that these proportions represent an appropriate balance between certainty of income and incentive-based remuneration linked to the achievement of GKNs operational and strategic objectives.
GKN plc annual report and accounts 2M1M
