45 Relations with shareholders Compliance statement The Board maintains a dialogue with shareholders directed towards This corporate governance statement, together with the audit ensuring a mutual understanding of objectives.
Committee report on pages 46 and 47 and the remuneration report on pages 48 to 58, provide a description of how the main principles of the Major shareholders 2MM8 Combined Code on Corporate Governance the Code have been Communication with major institutional shareholders is undertaken applied within GKN during 2M1M.
The Code is published by the Financial as part of GKNs investor relations programme, in which non-executive reporting Council and is available on its website at www.
Directors are encouraged to participate.
Throughout the financial year ended 31 December 2M1M, GKN was in The Chairman and Senior Independent Director, with support from the compliance with the relevant provisions set out in Section 1 of the Code Company Secretary, meet with institutional shareholders and investor with the exception of provision a.
3.2 which requires that at least half representatives to discuss matters relating to governance and strategy.
the Board, excluding the Chairman, should comprise independent nonThey are joined by the remuneration Committee Chairman where executive Directors.
For the period from 6 May to 31 May 2M1M and since discussion includes matters relating to executive remuneration.
any 1 November 2M1M the Board has comprised five executive Directors and issues raised are fed back to the Board by the Chairman.
The Senior four non-executive Directors excluding the Chairman.
Independent Director is also available to discuss issues with shareholders where concerns cannot be addressed through normal The importance of succession planning is recognised by the Board as is channels of communication.
the need to appoint non-executive Directors with the necessary skills and experience to complement the existing Board composition.
Whilst The Chief executive, Finance Director and Head of Investor relations the appointment of Shonaid Jemmett-page was confirmed prior to 6 May meet regularly with major shareholders to discuss strategy, financial 2M1M, her existing commitments meant that it was not possible for her and operating performance.
Feedback is sought by the Companys to take up the role as non-executive Director with GKN until 1 June 2M1M.
brokers after meetings and presentations to ensure that the Groups Helmut Mamsch decided to retire from the Board on 31 october 2M1M strategy and performance is being communicated effectively and to for personal reasons and a recruitment process to identify a new develop further an understanding of shareholder views.
This feedback non-executive Director to replace him was started immediately.
an is included in a twice-yearly report to the Board which also provides an announcement confirming the outcome of this process will be made update on investor relations activity, highlights changes in holdings in due course.
The Board is content that the independent judgement of substantial shareholders and reports on share price movements.
of the non-executive Directors has not been adversely impacted during In addition, external brokers reports on GKN are circulated to all the periods of non-compliance.
In late 2M1M the Board commissioned an investor perception survey, the results of which were considered by the Board in January 2M11.
a revised Code entitled the UK Corporate Governance Code was published by the Financial reporting Council in June 2M1M.
Whilst this Communications with shareholders does not apply to GKN until the 2M11 financial year a number of new Written responses are given to letters or email received from provisions have already been addressed during 2M1M.
The Board will shareholders and all shareholders receive, or can access electronically, report on compliance against the revised Code in its annual report for copies of the annual and half year reports.
The investor relations the year ending 31 December 2M11.
section of our website provides further detail about the Group, including share price information, webcasts and presentations of This statement complies with sub-sections 2.1, 2.2 1, 2.3 1, 2.5, 2.7 annual and half year results, other presentations made to the and 2.1M of rule 7 of the Disclosure rules and Transparency rules of the investment community, and copies of financial reports.
The information required to be disclosed by sub-section 2.6 of rule 7 is shown on pages 59 to 61.
Annual General Meeting Information regarding the 2M11 aGM is given on page 59.
Shareholders who attend the aGM are invited to ask questions during the meeting and to meet with Directors after the formal proceedings have ended.
Details of the level of proxy votes received are advised to shareholders at the meeting and are published on our website.
GKN plc annual report and accounts 2M1M
