CorporaTe GoVerNaNCe CoNTINUeD 44 a summary of those risks which could have a material impact on the The external facilitator also observed a Board meeting to view first hand the way in which it fulfils its responsibilities.
Group is given on pages 32 and 33.
The results of the evaluation exercise were presented at a separate The Group also has in place systems and procedures for exercising meeting of the Board in late January 2M11.
The output remains under control and managing risk in respect of financial reporting and the consideration by the Board: any agreed changes will be implemented as preparation of consolidated accounts.
These include: soon as practicable.
Board and Committee terms of reference will also n the formulation and deployment of Group accounting policies and be reviewed in light of the changes adopted.
procedures, supported by regular bulletins from the central and The individual performance of the Directors was also evaluated through divisional finance teams on the application of accounting standards: one-to-one interviews with the Chairman.
To assist this process, a number of assessment areas were identified in advance and used as a framework n Group and divisional policies governing the maintenance of for conducting the appraisal interviews.
Michael Turner, as Senior accounting records, transaction reporting and key financial control Independent Director, led the review by the non-executive Directors of procedures: the Chairmans performance, which took into account the views of the n a proprietary internal control monitoring system, GKN reporting and executive Directors.
Similarly, the views of the other Directors were Integrity procedures GrIp, to assess compliance with key financial taken into account by the Chairman in his review of the Chief executives controls on monthly, quarterly and annual cycles: performance.
No actions were considered necessary as a result of these evaluations and the Chairman confirms that each Director n monthly operational review meetings which include, as necessary, continues to make a valuable contribution to the Board and, where reviews of internal financial reporting issues and financial control relevant, its Committees and devotes sufficient time to the role.
monitoring: and n ongoing training and development of financial reporting personnel.
Accountability Financial and business reporting each year all Group businesses are required formally to review their When reporting externally the Board aims to present a balanced and business risks and to report on whether there has been any material understandable assessment of the Groups position and prospects.
breakdown in their internal controls.
This formal review is Such assessment is provided in the business review sections of this supplemented by an interim review conducted at the half year.
The responsibilities of the Directors in respect of the Companies also have to confirm annually whether they have complied preparation of the annual report are set out on page 62 and the with statutory and regulatory obligations as well as with the policies auditors report on page 63 includes a statement by pwC about their which support the GKN Code.
as set out on page 31, the Directors are of the The Groups systems and procedures are designed to identify, manage opinion that GKNs business is a going concern.
and, where practicable, reduce and mitigate the effects of the risk of Risk management and internal control failure to achieve business objectives.
They are not designed to The Board attaches considerable importance to, and acknowledges its eliminate such risk, recognising that any system can only provide responsibility for, the Groups systems of internal control and risk reasonable and not absolute assurance against material misstatement management and receives regular reports on such matters.
policy is to have systems in place which optimise the Groups ability to The review process manage risk in an effective and appropriate manner.
The audit Committee is responsible for reviewing the ongoing control The Board has delegated to the executive Committee responsibility for processes, and the actions undertaken by the Committee to discharge identifying, evaluating and monitoring the risks facing the Group and this responsibility are described in the audit Committees report on for deciding how these are to be managed.
In addition to formal reviews pages 46 and 47. of risk management by the executive Committee, members are expected The Board receives an annual report from the audit Committee to report to the Committee as necessary the occurrence of any material concerning the operation of the systems of internal control and risk control issues, serious accidents or events that have had a major management.
This report is considered by the Board in forming its own commercial impact, or any significant new risks which have been view on the effectiveness of the systems.
Such matters are reported to the next Board meeting and or audit Committee meeting as appropriate.
as part of its remit, the The Board has reviewed the effectiveness of the Groups systems of Governance and risk Sub-Committee develops strategy for and provides internal control and risk management during the period covered by this oversight and direction on all matters relating to risk management.
It confirms that the processes described above, which accord with the guidance on internal control appended to the Code the GKNs enterprise risk management programme facilitates a common, revised Turnbull Guidance, have been in place throughout that period Group-wide approach to the assessment of risks and the way in which and up to the date of approval of the annual report.
The Board also these are monitored, managed and controlled.
risk profiling is confirms that no significant failings or weaknesses were identified in undertaken at plant, divisional and corporate levels using a software relation to the review.
tool which provides a consistent set of risk definitions and a common approach to probability and impact.
a broad spectrum of risks is considered, including those relating to strategy, operational performance, financial including credit risk, risk financing and fraud, product engineering and technology, business reputation, human resources, health and safety, and the environment.
Consolidated risk maps are reviewed by divisional management, the executive Committee, the audit Committee and the Board.
