43 Effectiveness Training and development needs are discussed with each Director by the Chairman as part of the individual performance review process.
Board composition The Board currently comprises five executive and five non-executive The suitability of external courses is kept under review by the Company Secretary such that any needs identified either through the review Directors, including the Chairman.
Biographical details of all Directors are given on pages 38 and 39.
The Board considers that all of the non-executive process or on an ad hoc basis can be addressed.
In 2M1M, Directors attended external training courses on a number of matters including Directors, excluding the Chairman, are independent and is not aware of any relationship or circumstance likely to affect the judgement of any Director.
risk, board effectiveness, climate change and sustainability, and advanced financial leadership.
Two executive Directors also completed Changes to Board composition in 2M1M are set out below: the Groups Strategic Leadership Development programme.
n on 6 May Sir peter Williams and Sir Christopher Meyer retired from Information and support the Board as non-executive Directors after nine and six years The Chairman is responsible for ensuring that Directors receive accurate, service respectively.
The provision of information to the Board was reviewed during the year as part of the performance evaluation n Shonaid Jemmett-page was appointed a non-executive Director on 1 June for an initial term of three years.
She brings considerable exercise referred to below.
experience of asia and has a strong financial background.
To ensure that adequate time is available for Board discussion and to n on 31 october Helmut Mamsch retired from the Board as a nonenable informed decision making, briefing papers are prepared and executive Director after seven years service.
circulated to Directors one week prior to scheduled Board meetings.
all Directors have direct access to the advice and services of the Company n In December the Board renewed the terms of appointment for Secretary who is tasked with ensuring that the Board is fully briefed John Sheldrick for a further and final three year period.
on legislative, regulatory and corporate governance developments.
at the aGM on 5 May 2M11, and in accordance with the Companys In addition, Directors may, in the furtherance of their duties, take articles of association, shareholders will be asked to elect Shonaid independent professional advice at the Companys expense.
all other Directors will be seeking The Company Secretary also supports the Committee Chairmen by re-election in accordance with the provisions of the UK Corporate ensuring that agendas are appropriate and address all matters for Governance Code published in 2M1M.
This will be the final time the which the Committee has specific responsibility.
Chairman will be seeking re-election as his term of appointment will expire at the date of the Companys aGM in 2M12.
on joining the Board, a Director receives a comprehensive induction pack which includes background information about GKN and its Descriptions of the role of the Chairman, Chief executive, Senior Directors, and details of Board meeting procedures, Directors duties Independent Director and Company Secretary are available on our and responsibilities, procedures for dealing in GKN shares and a website.
The non-executive Directors provide constructive challenge number of other governance-related issues.
This is supplemented by a and bring independence to the Board and its decision making process.
briefing with the Company Secretary who is charged with facilitating the recommendations for appointments to the Board are made by the induction of new Directors both into the Group and as to their roles and Nominations Committee.
The Committee follows Board approved responsibilities as Directors.
The Director meets with the Chief executive procedures available on our website which provide a framework for and with relevant senior executives to be briefed on the general Group the different types of Board appointments on which the Committee may strategy and each individual business portfolio.
plant visits and external be expected to make recommendations.
appointments are made on training, particularly on matters relating to the role of a Director and the merit, and against objective criteria with due regard to diversity role and responsibilities of Board Committees, are arranged as appropriate.
including skills, experience and gender.
Non-executive appointees are as part of their induction Shonaid Jemmett-page and Michael Turner also required to demonstrate that they have sufficient time to devote to visited GKN operations in the UK, Germany and India during 2M1M.
Performance evaluation These procedures were used by the Nominations Committee in recognising the benefits that an external evaluation could bring, the recommending to the Board the appointment of Shonaid Jemmett-page Board appointed a third party to evaluate the performance of the Board as a non-executive Director.
The Committee engaged the services of an and its Committees towards the end of 2M1M.
The external facilitator has external search consultant in relation to her appointment.
no other connection with the Company.
Development The evaluation process involved expansive face to face interviews with Directors are continually updated on the Groups businesses, the markets each Director to gather feedback on the following areas believed to be in which they operate and changes to the competitive and regulatory critical to informing and assisting the Boards effectiveness: environment through briefings to the Board and meetings with senior n strategy and process: executives.
Board visits to Group business locations enable the Directors n Board composition and balance: to meet with local management and employees and to update and maintain their knowledge and familiarity with the Groups operations.
n succession planning: Non-executive Directors are also encouraged to visit Group operations n monitoring financial and non-financial performance: throughout their tenure to increase their exposure to the business.
n deep dive topics: n risk and risk management systems: n overall Board working meetings and agenda, papers and executive reporting : n key themes for discussion focus in 2M11: n Board development: and n Board Committee feedback.
GKN plc annual report and accounts 2M1M
