38 THE BOARD Roy Brown 64 Sir Kevin Smith, CBE 56 Marcus Bryson 56 Chairman Chief Executive Divisional Chief Executive N N E E Appointed a non-executive Director in Appointed Chief Executive in January 2003.
Appointed to the Board in June 2007.
1996 and became Chairman in May 2004.
Experience Experience Experience Former executive Director of Unilever plc Joined GKN in 1999 as Managing Director, Joined GKN with the acquisition of the and Unilever NV from 1992 to 2001 with Aerospace.
Prior to GKN he held various Westland Group in 1994 and has responsibility for the groups activities positions in BAE Systems plc over a 20 extensive experience of the aerospace in Europe, Africa and the Middle East.
year period, latterly as Group Managing industry.
Having joined Westland in He is a former non-executive director of Director New Business.
Former non- 1984, he held a number of finance and Brambles plc, Brambles Ltd Australia, executive director of Scottish and commercial roles within the business British United Provident Association Ltd Southern Energy plc.
Former Co-Chairman prior to its acquisition by GKN.
He was BUPA, the Franchise Board of Lloyds of of the Governments Manufacturing appointed Chief Executive GKN Aerospace London and HMV Group plc.
Fellow of the Royal Aeronautical Services Europe in 2000 and Chief Engineer, Fellow of the Institution of Society and Companion of the Chartered Executive Propulsion Systems and Mechanical Engineers and Fellow of the Management Institute.
Joined the Institution of Engineering and Technology.
Executive Committee as Chief Executive External Appointments Aerospace in January 2006.
External Appointments Member of the Governments Asia Task Non-executive director of Santander UK plc Force and a UK Business Ambassador.
External Appointments and Alliance & Leicester plc.
William Seeger 59 John Sheldrick 61 Nigel Stein 55 Finance Director Independent non-executive Director Divisional Chief Executive E A R N E Appointed to the Board in September 2007.
Appointed to the Board in December 2004.
Appointed to the Board in August 2001.
Experience Experience Experience Joined GKN in 2003 as Senior ViceFormer Group Finance Director of Joined GKN in 1994 and has held a range President and Chief Financial Officer of Johnson Matthey plc from 1995 to 2009. of commercial, general management and GKN Aerospace.
In June 2007 he became Prior to joining Johnson Matthey in 1990 finance roles, including Finance Director.
a member of the Executive Committee as he was Group Treasurer of The BOC Group Appointed Chief Executive Automotive President and Chief Executive Propulsion plc.
He is also a former non-executive in June 2007.
Prior to GKN, he gained Systems and Special Products.
Appointed director of API Group plc.
Fellow of the experience in the commercial vehicle and Finance Director in September 2007.
Prior Association of Corporate Treasurers and manufacturing sector and held senior to GKN, he held a number of senior Fellow of the Chartered Institute of financial positions with Laird Group plc finance positions at TRW Inc spanning Management Accountants.
Member of the over 20 years, latterly as Vice-President Institute of Chartered Accountants of External Appointments Financial Planning and Analysis.
Non-executive director of Fenner plc.
External Appointments Non-executive director of Wolseley plc and President of The Society of Motor Manufacturers and Traders Ltd.
Member of the Automotive Council.
