59 oTHer STaTUTorY INForMaTIoN Annual General Meeting Rights and obligations attaching to shares The annual General Meeting of the Company will be held at 2.
MM pm Holders of ordinary shares are entitled to receive dividends when on Thursday, 5 May 2M11 at the Cavendish Conference Centre, declared, to receive the Companys annual report, to attend and speak 22 Duchess Mews, London W1G 9DT.
The notice of meeting, which at general meetings of the Company, to appoint proxies and to exercise includes the special business to be transacted at the meeting, is voting rights.
included within the aGM circular.
The circular also contains an on a show of hands at a meeting of GKN, every member present holding explanation of all the resolutions to be considered at the aGM.
ordinary shares has one vote.
on a poll taken at a meeting, every member present and entitled to vote has one vote in respect of each Dividend ordinary share held by him.
In the case of joint shareholders only the The Directors recommend a final dividend of 3.5p per ordinary share vote of the senior joint holder who votes and any proxy duly authorised in respect of the year ended 31 December 2M1M, payable to shareholders by him may be counted.
Shares held in treasury carry no voting rights.
on the register at the close of business on 26 april 2M11.
This, together with the interim dividend of 1.5p paid in September 2M1M, brings the Full details of the rights and obligations attaching to the Companys total dividend for the year to 5.
shares are contained in the articles of association: these are available on our website at www.
Issued share capital at 31 December 2M1M, the issued share capital of the Company consisted Restrictions on the transfer of securities of 1,59M, 529,859 ordinary shares of 1Mp, of which 37,565,178 shares Whilst the Board has the power under the articles of association to 2.36% were held in treasury.
a total of 636,687 ordinary shares were refuse to register a transfer of shares, there are no restrictions on the issued during the year in connection with the exercise of options under the transfer of shares.
Companys share option schemes, of which 634,4M1 were treasury shares.
Under the Companys articles, the Directors have power to suspend To simplify the share capital structure and to enable an appropriate voting rights and the right to receive dividends in respect of shares in reserve to be created, the Company purchased and subsequently circumstances where the holder of those shares fails to comply with a cancelled 7M5,519,691 deferred shares of 4Mp each representing 64% notice issued under section 793 of the Companies act 2MM6.
of the Companys issued share capital for an aggregate consideration The Company is not aware of any agreements between shareholders of 1p.
It also cancelled the remaining 38,384,253 deferred shares which that may result in restrictions on the transfer of securities or voting had been held in treasury.
The ordinary shares are listed on the London Stock exchange.
In addition, GKN has a sponsored Level 1 american Depository receipt aDr programme for which the Bank of New York Mellon acts as Depositary.
The aDrs trade in the US over-the-counter market where each aDr represents one GKN ordinary share.
Substantial shareholders as at 28 February 2M11, the Company had been notified of the following holdings of voting rights in its shares under rule 5 of the Disclosure rules and Transparency rules of the Financial Services authority: Shareholder Nature of interest % of issued capital held Standard Life Investments Ltd Direct 7.62% Indirect 5.39% Total 13.
M1% Capital Group International Inc Indirect 6.98% ameriprise Financial Inc Direct M. 15% Indirect 4.98% Contracts for difference M. M2% Total 5.15% aXa S. a.
Indirect 5.12% Legal & General Group plc Direct 3.89% Ignis Investment Services Ltd Indirect 2.69% Contracts for difference M. 32% Total 3.
GKN plc annual report and accounts 2M1M oTHer STaTUTorY INForMaTIoN CoNTINUeD 6M Directors The Directors who served during the financial year were as follows: Name Position Service in the year ended 31 December 2010 roy Brown Chairman Served throughout the year Sir Kevin Smith Chief executive Served throughout the year Marcus Bryson Divisional Chief executive Served throughout the year Shonaid Jemmett-page Independent non-executive Director appointed 1 June 2M1M Helmut Mamsch Independent non-executive Director retired 31 october 2M1M Sir Christopher Meyer Independent non-executive Director retired 6 May 2M1M richard parry-Jones Independent non-executive Director Served throughout the year andrew reynolds Smith Divisional Chief executive Served throughout the year William Seeger Finance Director Served throughout the year John Sheldrick Independent non-executive Director Served throughout the year Nigel Stein Divisional Chief executive Served throughout the year Michael Turner Senior Independent Director Served throughout the year as non-executive Director and appointed Senior Independent Director on 6 May 2M1M Sir peter Williams Senior Independent Director retired 6 May 2M1M Membership of the Board and biographical details of the Directors in Directors indemnities office at the date of this report are shown on pages 38 and 39.
Further pursuant to the articles of association, the Company has executed a details relating to Board and Committee composition are disclosed in deed poll of indemnity for the benefit of the Directors of the Company the corporate governance statement on pages 4M to 45. and persons who were Directors of the Company in respect of costs of defending claims against them and third party liabilities.
These Following her appointment to the Board in June 2M1M and in accordance provisions remain in force.
The indemnity provision in the Companys with the Companys articles of association, Shonaid Jemmett-page will articles of association also extends to provide a limited indemnity in retire and offer herself for election at the 2M11 aGM.
all other Directors respect of liabilities incurred as a director, secretary or officer of an will retire and offer themselves for re-election in accordance with the associated company of the Company.
UK Corporate Governance Code published in June 2M1M.
a copy of the deed poll of indemnity is available for inspection at the The articles of association provide that a Director may be appointed Companys registered office during normal business hours and will be by an ordinary resolution of shareholders or by the existing Directors, available for inspection at the Companys aGM.
either to fill a vacancy or as an additional Director.
Further information on GKNs internal procedures for the appointment of Directors is given The Company has also arranged appropriate insurance cover for any in the corporate governance statement.
legal action taken against its Directors and officers.
The remuneration report, which includes details of service agreements Conflicts of interest and the Directors interests in GKN shares, is set out on pages 48 to 58.
Under the Companies act 2MM6, Directors have a statutory duty to Copies of the service contracts of the executive Directors and the letters avoid conflicts of interest with the Company.
as permitted by the act, of appointment of the non-executive Directors are available for the Companys articles of association enable Directors to authorise inspection at the Companys registered office during normal business actual and potential conflicts of interest.
hours and will be available for inspection at the Companys aGM.
Formal procedures for the notification and authorisation of such conflicts are in place.
These procedures enable non-conflicted Directors Directors powers to impose limits or conditions when giving or reviewing authorisation The Board of Directors may exercise all the powers of the Company and require the Board to review the register of Directors conflicts subject to the provisions of relevant legislation, the Companys articles annually and on an ad hoc basis when necessary.
any potential of association and any directions given by the Company in general conflicts of interest in relation to newly appointed Directors are meeting.
The powers of the Directors include those in relation to the considered by the Board prior to appointment.
issue and buy back of shares.
at the 2M1M aGM the Company was authorised to purchase up to Articles of association 155,232,799 of its ordinary shares.
No shares were purchased under this The Companys articles of association can only be amended by special authority in 2M1M.
a special resolution to renew the authority will be resolution of the shareholders.
at the 2M1M aGM shareholders approved proposed at the 2M11 aGM.
the adoption of new articles of association which reflected those provisions of the Companies act 2MM6 which came into effect on 1 october 2MM9 and the implementation of the Shareholders rights Directive in the UK.
61 Change of control Auditors & disclosure of information The Companys subsidiary, GKN Holdings plc, entered into separate resolutions to reappoint  LLp as auditors agreements in 2MM8 with the following banks each in relation to a of the Company and to authorise the Directors to determine their bilateral banking facility in an amount of 2M million: Barclays Bank plc: remuneration will be proposed at the 2M11 aGM.
Calyon: Commerzbank aktiengesellschaft: Citibank N. a. : Deutsche Bank each of the Directors who held office at the date of approval of this a. G. : HSBC Bank plc: ING Bank N. V. : The royal Bank of Scotland plc: and Directors report confirms that, so far as he she is aware, there is no Wachovia Bank National association.
GKN Holdings plc also entered relevant audit information of which the Companys auditors are into a 55 million bilateral banking facility with Bank of China Ltd and unaware.
each Director has taken all the steps that he she ought to a 5M million bilateral facility with Landesbank Baden-Wrttemberg in have taken as a Director in order to make himself herself aware of any 2MM8.
each agreement provides that, on a change of control of GKN plc, relevant audit information and to establish that the Companys auditors the respective bank can give notice to GKN Holdings plc to repay all are aware of that information.
outstanding amounts under the relevant facility.
This Directors report comprising the inside front cover and pages all of the Companys share schemes contain provisions relating to a 1 to 62 has been approved by the Board and is signed on its behalf by change of control.
outstanding options and awards normally vest and become exercisable on a change of control subject to the satisfaction of any performance conditions at that time.
The executive Directors service agreements provide for payment of a predetermined amount equivalent to one years salary and benefits on termination by the Company of a Directors service agreement on less than due notice within 12 months of a change of control of GKN plc.
Judith Felton Further information is given in the remuneration report on page 53.
Company Secretary Payments to suppliers 28 February 2M11 It is Group policy to abide by the payment terms agreed with suppliers, provided that the supplier has performed its obligations under the contract.
Given the nature and diversity of the Groups international as at 1 March 2M11, the Company had not been advised of any changes purchasing arrangements and contracts, it is not Group policy to follow or additions to the notifiable interests set out on page 59. any specific code or standard in relation to payment practice.
GKN plc, as a holding company, did not have any amounts owing to trade creditors at 31 December 2M1M.
Donations In 2M1M, charitable donations made by Group companies around the world totalled 537, MMM, of which 77, MMM was to UK registered charities.
In addition, the GKN Millennium Trust, a UK charitable trust established in 1995, donated a total of 137, MMM to the engineering Development Trust and Young enterprise in 2M1M.
The Trust also provided funding for the winning projects of the Groups 2MM9 evolve competition, designed to foster long term sustainable links in local educational establishments.
The GKN Foundation, an independent US charitable body established in 1951, supported more than 22M organisations in the US in 2M1M with contributions totalling almost US$7MM, MMM.
In accordance with the Groups policy, no political donations were made and no political expenditure was incurred during 2M1M.
The Groups US aerospace business has a political action Committee paC which is funded entirely by employees and their spouses.
No funds are provided to the paC by GKN and any administrative services provided to the paC by the US aerospace business are fully charged to and paid for by the paC, and the Company does not therefore consider these to be political donations.
employee contributions are entirely voluntary and no pressure is placed on employees to participate.
Under US law, an employee-funded paC must bear the name of the employing company.
GKN plc annual report and accounts 2M1M
