38 THE BOARD Roy Brown 64 Sir Kevin Smith, CBE 56 Marcus Bryson 56 Chairman Chief Executive Divisional Chief Executive N N E E Appointed a non-executive Director in Appointed Chief Executive in January 2003.
Appointed to the Board in June 2007.
1996 and became Chairman in May 2004.
Experience Experience Experience Former executive Director of Unilever plc Joined GKN in 1999 as Managing Director, Joined GKN with the acquisition of the and Unilever NV from 1992 to 2001 with Aerospace.
Prior to GKN he held various Westland Group in 1994 and has responsibility for the groups activities positions in BAE Systems plc over a 20 extensive experience of the aerospace in Europe, Africa and the Middle East.
year period, latterly as Group Managing industry.
Having joined Westland in He is a former non-executive director of Director New Business.
Former non- 1984, he held a number of finance and Brambles plc, Brambles Ltd Australia, executive director of Scottish and commercial roles within the business British United Provident Association Ltd Southern Energy plc.
Former Co-Chairman prior to its acquisition by GKN.
He was BUPA, the Franchise Board of Lloyds of of the Governments Manufacturing appointed Chief Executive GKN Aerospace London and HMV Group plc.
Fellow of the Royal Aeronautical Services Europe in 2000 and Chief Engineer, Fellow of the Institution of Society and Companion of the Chartered Executive Propulsion Systems and Mechanical Engineers and Fellow of the Management Institute.
Joined the Institution of Engineering and Technology.
Executive Committee as Chief Executive External Appointments Aerospace in January 2006.
External Appointments Member of the Governments Asia Task Non-executive director of Santander UK plc Force and a UK Business Ambassador.
External Appointments and Alliance & Leicester plc.
William Seeger 59 John Sheldrick 61 Nigel Stein 55 Finance Director Independent non-executive Director Divisional Chief Executive E A R N E Appointed to the Board in September 2007.
Appointed to the Board in December 2004.
Appointed to the Board in August 2001.
Experience Experience Experience Joined GKN in 2003 as Senior ViceFormer Group Finance Director of Joined GKN in 1994 and has held a range President and Chief Financial Officer of Johnson Matthey plc from 1995 to 2009. of commercial, general management and GKN Aerospace.
In June 2007 he became Prior to joining Johnson Matthey in 1990 finance roles, including Finance Director.
a member of the Executive Committee as he was Group Treasurer of The BOC Group Appointed Chief Executive Automotive President and Chief Executive Propulsion plc.
He is also a former non-executive in June 2007.
Prior to GKN, he gained Systems and Special Products.
Appointed director of API Group plc.
Fellow of the experience in the commercial vehicle and Finance Director in September 2007.
Prior Association of Corporate Treasurers and manufacturing sector and held senior to GKN, he held a number of senior Fellow of the Chartered Institute of financial positions with Laird Group plc finance positions at TRW Inc spanning Management Accountants.
Member of the over 20 years, latterly as Vice-President Institute of Chartered Accountants of External Appointments Financial Planning and Analysis.
Non-executive director of Fenner plc.
External Appointments Non-executive director of Wolseley plc and President of The Society of Motor Manufacturers and Traders Ltd.
Member of the Automotive Council.
39 Shonaid Jemmett-Page 50 Richard Parry-Jones, CBE 59 Andrew Reynolds Smith 44 Independent non-executive Director Independent non-executive Director Divisional Chief Executive A R N A R N E Appointed to the Board on 1 June 2010.
Appointed to the Board in March 2008.
Experience Experience Experience Currently Chief Operating Officer for Has extensive experience of the Joined GKN in 2002 as Managing Director CDC Group plc, the UK Governments automotive industry having previously Operations Europe for GKN Driveline.
She worked for the Ford Motor Company for Appointed Chief Executive GKN Sinter joined CDC in early 2009 from Unilever, 38 years, latterly as Group Vice-President Metals in 2004, joined the Executive where for eight years she was Senior Global Product Development and Group Committee in January 2006 and was Vice-President Finance and Information, Chief Technical Officer.
Fellow of the appointed Chief Executive Powder Home and Personal Care, originally in Royal Academy of Engineering, the Metallurgy, OffHighway and Industrial Asia and later for the group as a whole.
Institution of Mechanical Engineers and Services in June 2007, becoming Chief Her early career was spent at KPMG, the Royal Society of Statistical Science.
Executive Powder Metallurgy and Land latterly as a partner.
Former non-executive Systems in June 2010.
Prior to GKN, he External Appointments director of Havelock Europa plc.
held various management and functional Chairman of the Welsh Assembly positions at Ingersoll Rand, Siebe plc External Appointments Government Ministerial Advisory Group.
now Invensys plc and Delphi Chair of the Sustainability Committee of Visiting Professor within the Department Automotive Systems.
the Institute of Chartered Accountants in of Aeronautical and Automotive England & Wales ICAEW and an Engineering at Loughborough University.
External Appointments Association Member of BUPA.
Joint Chairman of the Automotive Council.
Chairman of the CBI Manufacturing Council.
Member of the Ministerial Advisory Group for Manufacturing and of the Governments Green Economy Council.
Michael Turner, CBE 62 Judith Felton Senior Independent Director Company Secretary A R N E Appointed to the Board in September Joined GKN in 1980 and became Deputy 2009 and became Senior Independent Company Secretary in 1995 before being Director in May 2010. appointed Company Secretary in 2009.
Fellow of the Institute of Chartered Experience Secretaries and Administrators.
Has extensive experience of the aerospace industry having worked for BAE Systems External Appointments plc for over 40 years, and where he was Non-executive director and Trustee of Chief Executive from 2002 to 2008.
President of the Aerospace & Defence Industries Association of Europe.
Fellow of the Royal Aeronautical Society.
External Appointments Non-executive chairman of Babcock International Group plc and non-executive director of Lazard Ltd.
Member of the A Member of Audit Committee Governments Apprenticeship R Member of Remuneration Committee Ambassadors Network.
N Member of Nominations Committee E Member of Executive Committee GKN plc Annual Report and Accounts 2010
