49 The Remuneration Committee Activities The Committee met on eight occasions in 2M1M: members attendance Composition The Committee comprises the following independent non-executive at meetings is set out in the table on page 42.
The key matters that were considered by the Committee during the year were as follows: Directors: n awards under the Groups long term incentive arrangements for Name remuneration Committee position 2M1M and the outturn of awards made in 2MM7: richard parry-Jones Chairman from 6 May 2M1M n payments under the short term variable remuneration scheme for Shonaid Jemmett-page Member from 1 June 2M1M 2MM9 and proposals for 2M1M awards: John Sheldrick Member Michael Turner Member n salary review proposals for executive Directors and senior executives immediately below Board level: Sir peter Williams chaired the Committee until he retired from the Board n a review of Directors shareholding requirement guidelines: on 6 May 2M1M.
Sir Christopher Meyer and Helmut Mamsch were members of the Committee until they retired from the Board on 6 May 2M1M and n a review of external advisers and remuneration Committee procedures: 31 october 2M1M respectively.
n external advisers review of trends in remuneration practices, The secretary to the Committee is Judith Felton, Company Secretary.
benchmarking and governance: Role n a review of the Directors remuneration and severance policies The principal role of the remuneration Committee is to determine and together with a review of the remuneration policy in the context of make recommendations to the Board on the Groups policy for the risk: and remuneration of the executive Directors of GKN plc.
Within the n approval of the 2MM9 remuneration report.
framework of the agreed policy, which is reviewed annually by the Committee and the Board, the Committee has responsibility for: Executive Directors n determining the detailed terms of service of the executive Directors The Companys remuneration strategy is closely aligned with its and the Company Secretary, including basic salary, incentives and business strategy, summarised on page 8, and is delivered through benefits, and the terms upon which their service may be the policy set out below.
In particular, long term incentives measure terminated: performance against growth in earnings and total shareholder return relative to companies in the FTSe 35M Index: the short term variable n determining the fees of the Chairman: and remuneration scheme supports the operational performance of the n recommending to the Chief executive and monitoring the level and business by measuring against key business fundamentals of profit, structure of remuneration of the most senior executives immediately margin, operating cash flow and net debt, all of which underpin the Groups below Board level.
strategic objectives: in setting performance targets under both short and long term incentives, the Committee ensures that, whilst stretching, Written terms of reference that outline the Committees authority and the targets are both realistic and achievable without taking inappropriate responsibilities are available on our website at www.
business risks: and in determining salary levels, the Committee ensures Advice provided to the Committee that there is a strong link between pay and performance.
The Committee appointed Hewitt New Bridge Street HNBS in 2MM6 as Remuneration policy its independent consultants to provide advice on executive Directors GKNs remuneration policy for executive Directors is designed to attract, remuneration and incentive arrangements for senior executives below retain and motivate executives of the high calibre required to ensure Board level.
HNBS provides input to papers to be considered by the that the Group is managed successfully to the benefit of shareholders.
Committee and representatives attend Committee meetings by invitation.
To achieve this, a competitive package of incentives and rewards linked HNBS also provides the total shareholder return monitoring service in to performance is provided.
connection with the Groups long term incentive arrangements, a role it has performed for the Group since 2MM4.
HNBS did not provide any In setting remuneration levels, the Committee takes into consideration other services direct to the Group during the year.
aon Hewitt the parent the remuneration practices found in other multinational companies company of HNBS since october 2M1M provided advice to the Company based in the UK and also ensures that the remuneration arrangements in relation to a UK pension fide-risking project in 2M1M and provides ongoing for executive Directors are compatible with those for executives administration services relating to US employee healthcare benefits.
It also considers the most recent pay awards in the Group generally when reviewing the basic salaries of the The Committee receives input from the Chief executive when executive Directors.
considering the remuneration of other executive Directors and of the Company Secretary.
on the basis of the expected value of long term incentives and achievement of on target performance for the purposes of the short term variable remuneration scheme, the total annual remuneration excluding pension benefits of each executive Director under the Groups remuneration policy is weighted between performance-related and non performance-related elements, valued as at the time of award of long term incentives, at around 55% and 45% respectively.
The Committee believes that these proportions represent an appropriate balance between certainty of income and incentive-based remuneration linked to the achievement of GKNs operational and strategic objectives.
GKN plc annual report and accounts 2M1M reMUNeraTIoN reporT CoNTINUeD 5M Summary of key elements of executive Directors remuneration element of remuneration purpose policy Basis of delivery Basic salary n Help recruit and retain.
n To maintain salaries at n reviewed annually by the Committee with n recognise skills, experience around median level of any increase usually effective from 1 July.
the relevant employment its review, the Committee considers external n reward individual markets.
benchmark data and takes into account performance.
individual performance, Group profitability, prevailing market conditions and recent pay awards in the Group generally.
n performance of Directors is reviewed to ensure that payment of salaries in accordance with the stated policy is entirely justified.
n Salary is supplemented with normal benefits available to senior managers including car allowance and healthcare arrangements.
Short term variable remuneration n Drive and reward the n annual awards based on n Structure of plan is reviewed annually.
achievement of short term a one year measurement n Stretching financial targets are set each year financial targets relevant to period.
reflecting business priorities which underpin GKNs long term strategic n Targets, whilst stretching, Group strategy and align with financial key objectives.
do not encourage performance indicators.
n Deferred proportion of award, inappropriate business n Maximum payment opportunity is 11M% of delivered in shares, provides risks to be taken.
n percentage of payment n payments are determined by the Committee deferred and awarded after year end, based on performance in shares.
n amount awarded above 65% 2M1M: 6M% of basic salary is paid in deferred shares to be held for two years.
Longer term incentives n Drive and reward the n annual awards over a n Structure of plans is considered annually as achievement of longer term three year measurement part of the award process.
objectives aligned closely period which deliver n Current plans target epS growth and relative to shareholders interests.
n retain key executives over n Targets, whilst stretching, n remuneration Committee must also be a three year measurement do not encourage satisfied that the underlying financial period.
inappropriate business performance of the Group justifies the risks to be taken.
n Combined maximum potential annual award under plans is 25M% of basic salary.
n a personal shareholding requirement must be satisfied before shares can vest see page 54. retirement benefits n Help recruit and retain.
n To provide market n Benefits are provided by means of an n ensure adequate income competitive arrangements.
allowance which can be delivered in cash in retirement.
or as payment to a defined contribution retirement plan.
In circumstances where there are historical contractual commitments, benefits in part are provided through membership of the GKN Group pension Scheme.
51 STVrS payments made in respect of above target performance to executive Basic salary Individual salaries of executive Directors are reviewed annually by the Directors and some 8M senior executives below Board level are compulsorily deferred and invested in GKN shares under the Groups Committee, taking into account individual performance, Group profitability, prevailing market conditions, recent pay awards in the Deferred Bonus plan.
Shares will normally be released after a two year deferral period during which time any dividends earned are accrued Group generally and external benchmark data on remuneration.
and an equivalent cash amount paid on release of the shares.
Details Following the latest review, effective 1 July 2M1M, the basic annual of the amounts invested in respect of the STVrS payments for the 2M1M salaries payable in respect of executive Directors as at 31 December financial year are set out in footnote a to the first table on page 55.
2M1M were: The remuneration Committee has discretion to alter targets to reflect Salary Increase changed circumstances such as material changes in accounting Director % standards or changes in the structure of the Group.
payments to Sir Kevin Smith 747,579 M. M% Directors are based upon a percentage of basic salary received during a the year and do not form part of pensionable earnings.
Marcus Bryson 42M, MMM 6.1% andrew reynolds Smith 42M, MMM 5.
M% Long term incentive arrangements William Seeger 41M, MMM 2.5% These currently comprise the GKN Long Term Incentive plan which targets Nigel Stein 5MM, MMM 2.6% earnings per Share epS growth and the GKN executive Share option Scheme which is based on Total Shareholder return TSr.
The Committee a In addition, a subsistence allowance of 21, MMM per annum to which Marcus believes that these arrangements, aligned to the Groups growth strategy Bryson was entitled following the relocation of GKNs operational headquarters was consolidated into his basic salary with effect from 1 July 2M1M and is reflected and reflecting performance relative to the external market, provide a in the annual salary shown above.
meaningful incentive package for the motivation and retention of executive Directors which is linked directly to shareholders interests.
Sir Kevin Smiths basic salary has remained unchanged since 2MM7: he The combined maximum potential annual award under the GKN Long chose not to take an increase in either 2MM8 or 2M1M and no increases Term Incentive plan and the GKN executive Share option Scheme is were awarded to Directors in 2MM9.
The salary increases for William 25M% of basic salary.
Seeger and Nigel Stein were in line with the 2M1M global budget set for the general management population of around 2.5%.
The salary increases Under both plans the number of shares that vest will depend on the for Marcus Bryson and andrew reynolds Smith reflected the increased Groups performance against the relevant targets during the three years contribution made to Group performance by each Directors portfolio.
commencing on 1 January in the year of award and on satisfaction of a The weighted average increase in executive Directors salaries in 2M1M personal shareholding requirement see page 54.
any shares become eligible for release or exercise the remuneration Committee must be satisfied that this is justified by the underlying The average basic salary of those nine executives in the most senior financial performance of the Group over the measurement period.
There executive grade below Board level whose remuneration is monitored by is no provision for the retesting of awards.
The maximum number of the remuneration Committee was 262,59M as at 31 December 2M1M all shares that could vest upon satisfaction of the relevant performance non-sterling amounts have been translated into sterling at the year end condition in respect of each executive Director is set out in the tables exchange rate for this purpose.
Benefits in kind Neither the GKN Long Term Incentive plan nor the GKN executive Share Benefits in kind comprise principally car and healthcare benefits.
option Scheme contains provisions for the automatic release of The level of benefits provided to executive Directors and other unvested awards on a change of control of GKN plc.
senior management is consistent with that provided by other major companies.
These benefits do not form part of pensionable earnings.
GKN Long Term Incentive Plan LTIP Details of the benefits in kind provided to executive Directors in 2M1M each executive Director may be awarded annually a right to receive GKN are set out in the first table on page 55. shares up to a maximum value of 15M% of basic salary.
The remuneration Committee decides the level of award in each year.
The value of shares Due to the complicated interaction between the UK and the US tax for this purpose is calculated by reference to the average of the daily regimes, tax and social security equalisation is applied to William closing prices of a GKN share during the preceding year.
additional taxes which arise in excess of the monthly contribution deducted from Mr Seegers salary are settled by Vesting levels under the rules of the LTIp are as follows: the Company in order to ensure that he is not disadvantaged by his a global tax position.
Compound annual EPS growth Vesting level Performance-related short term variable remuneration scheme STVRS 12% or more 1MM% For the 2M1M financial year, stretching targets related to a combination 6% 3M% of Group and, where appropriate, individual portfolio profit, margin and less than 6% M cash flow performance and Group net debt were applied.
achievement Between 6% and 12% Straight line basis of on target performance would result in payments of approximately a Normalised for tax, and excluding exceptional items, other net financing charges 6M% of an executive Directors salary and payments were capped at and volatile IFrS charges or credits see note 1M to the financial statements.
Details of the targets applied and payments made in respect of the 2M1M STVrS are set out in the second table on page 55.
Following vesting, awards are not released to the Director for at least The maximum payment opportunity for 2M11 has been increased to 11M% one further year other than in the specific circumstances set out in the of salary, representing a return to pre-recessionary levels.
Dividends are treated as having accrued from the beginning of the third year of the measurement period on any shares that vest and the equivalent cash amount paid to the Director on release of such shares.
GKN plc annual report and accounts 2M1M reMUNeraTIoN reporT CoNTINUeD 52 2009 awards: Vesting levels under the rules of the eSoS are as follows: n performance targets were set by the remuneration Committee to TSR ranking in comparator group Vesting level take account of the impact of the severe recessionary conditions on the Groups earnings: Upper quartile 1MM% a Median level 35% n these performance targets were aligned to the strategic plan at the Below median level M time of award and aimed to incentivise earnings recovery following Between median and upper quartile Straight line basis the recession and, in the Committees view, were no less challenging than those that would normally have applied: a reduced from 5M% in 2MM8.
n in setting the performance targets the Committee took account of The TSr data and ranking information is obtained from HNBS to ensure market expectations of the Groups earnings performance and that the comparative performance is independently verified.
performance in 2MM9 to date of grant: The table below sets out, in respect of each eSoS award made within n epS of 12.4p in 2M11 is required for minimum vesting 3M% and the last five years, the percentage which has vested and the percentage 15.5p for maximum vesting 1MM%.
of each outstanding award that would have vested had the 2010 awards: measurement period ended on 31 December 2M1M: n performance targets were set by the remuneration Committee to take account of unusually low base 2MM9 earnings due to ESOS recessionary conditions: Percentage vested on maturity n these performance targets were aligned to the strategic plan at the or indicative vesting percentage based on performance as at time of award and market expectations of GKNs performance: Year of award Performance condition 31 December 2010 n epS of 15.3p in 2M12 is required for minimum vesting 3M% and 2MM6 TSr M% ended on 31 December 2MM8 18.
2MM7 TSr M% ended on 31 December 2MM9 2011 awards: 2MM8 No award made N a n performance targets to be applied will be in accordance with the 2MM9 TSr 1MM% performance after 24 months table on page 51.
2M1M TSr 1MM% performance after 12 months The table below sets out, in respect of each LTIp award made within the Retirement benefits last five years, the percentage which has vested and the percentage of retirement benefits take the form of a supplementary allowance, expressed each outstanding award that would have vested had the measurement as a percentage of basic salary, which may be delivered by means of period ended on 31 December 2M1M: either a cash payment or as a payment to a defined contribution retirement plan.
In certain cases, based on historical contractual LTIP commitments, retirement benefits in part are delivered by membership Percentage vested on maturity of the executive section of the GKN Group pension Scheme, which is a or indicative vesting percentage defined benefit scheme.
The retirement provisions are made in order based on performance as at Year of award Performance condition 31 December 2010 to assist each Director towards securing overall retirement benefits comparable in value with those available under the pension scheme had 2MM6 TSr M% ended on 31 December 2MM8 it not been for the operation of the earnings cap introduced by the Finance 2MM7 TSr M% ended on 31 December 2MM9 act 1989 some members have specific individual earnings caps.
2MM8 No award made N a 2MM9 epS 1MM% performance after 24 months Details of the supplementary allowances paid to executive Directors in 2M1M epS 1MM% performance after 12 months the year are set out in footnote b to the first table on page 55.
GKNs defined benefit pension scheme provides executive Directors with a pension of up to two-thirds of basic annual salary up to their GKN Executive Share Option Scheme ESOS earnings cap, from 1 September 2MM7 calculated on a career average each executive Director may be awarded annually an option to acquire a basis, on retirement at age 6M after 2M or more years service and number of GKN shares.
The remuneration Committee decides the level proportionately less for shorter service or for retirement before pension of awards in each year.
annual award levels are not specifically capped age.
an employee contribution of 7.9% of salary 8.6% from 1 January under the eSoS, but when combined with awards under the LTIp which 2M11 up to their earnings cap is required under the scheme.
Details of are capped at 15M% of basic salary they cannot exceed 25M% of basic defined benefit provisions for executive Directors are set out in the first salary.
options granted under the eSoS are normally exercisable table on page 58. between the third and tenth anniversary of the date of grant.
The exercise price is fixed at the market price of a GKN share at the time Following changes in the taxation of pensions introduced by the UK of grant.
Government from april 2MM6, for those Directors previously affected by the limit on annual pensionable earnings, a notional limit has been performance is measured by comparing the TSr from GKN shares with the maintained beyond april 2MM6 so that, overall, the existing pension TSr from shares of companies in a comparator group comprising the and salary supplement arrangements are broadly unchanged for some constituents of the FTSe 35M Index at the start of a three year members a specific individual earnings cap has been introduced.
measurement period commencing on 1 January in the year of award.
The No compensation is offered for any additional tax suffered by the remuneration Committee believes the FTSe 35M Index to be appropriate individual in the event that the value of their pension exceeds the as it is a broadly based index which contains more manufacturing and Lifetime allowance.
engineering companies than the FTSe 1MM Index.
