32 RISKS AND UNCERTAINTIES GKN has an extensive risk management framework designed to identify and assess the likelihood and consequences of risk and to manage the actions necessary to mitigate their impact.
A detailed description of this framework is given on page 44.
Set out below are the principal risks and uncertainties which could have a material impact on the Group and the corresponding mitigating actions that are in place.
Additional risks not currently known or which are currently regarded as immaterial could also adversely affect future performance.
Market risks Risk Nature of risk and potential impact Mitigation Market cycles Changes in macro-economic conditions, consumer demand n Diverse business portfolio serving different markets and preferences.
GKNs financial performance could be n Effective management of the cost base impacted by volatility in automotive demand and changing n Efficient cash management including focus on working consumer preferences: rescheduling or cancellation of capital and investment spending orders for civil aircraft and changes in amount or timing n Ongoing review of market indicators of defence spending: volatility in agricultural, construction, mining and industrial markets.
Customers Significant customer concentration in automotive n GKN is not dependent on contractual or other and aerospace industries.
Some 67% of Group sales arrangements with any individual customer are from 25 major customers, although no customer n Active management of customer relations and credit represented more than 10% of Group sales at exposure 31 December 2010.
The insolvency of, damage to n Strong commercial and engineering focus at relations, or significant worsening of commercial terms customer level with a major customer could result in the loss of future n Effective programme management business opportunities, asset write-offs and restructuring actions.
Competition Highly competitive markets with customer decisions n Continual review of competition and market trends based typically on price, quality, technology and service.
n Investment in engineering and lean manufacturing Customer vertical integration including OEMs taking capabilities production in-house, the entry of new competitors or n Strong customer relationships consolidation of existing competitors could restrict GKNs n New product technology ability to grow its business.
Technology Inability to launch new products, new product n Regular assessment of market and technology trends applications or derivations of existing products to meet and drivers customers needs.
GKN may lose customers to n Divisional technology plans aligned to emerging and competitors offering new technologies in the event of future trends an inability to adapt to market developments.
Changes n Focused investment in research and development in legislative, regulatory or industry requirements, n Effective programme delivery competitive technologies or consumer preferences may render GKNs products obsolete or less attractive.
Geo-political Legal, regulatory, political and socio-economic n Ongoing review of market environment including conditions in countries of operation.
Given the global political, fiscal and regulatory developments footprint of the Group, its operations could be adversely n Group-wide governance framework supported by impacted by changes in the political, economic and a strong control environment regulatory environments in countries in which it does business.
