18 Regulation Regulation Pharmaceuticals Regulation Consumer Healthcare Region and country-specic laws and regulations are major The consumer healthcare industry is subject to national regulation comparable to that for prescription medicines for the testing, factors in determining whether a product may be successfully approval, manufacturing, labelling and marketing of products.
They define the information needed to High standards of technical appraisal frequently involve a lengthy evaluate the safety and efcacy of pharmaceutical products, as approval process before a new product may be launched.
well as governing their testing, approval, manufacturing, labelling and marketing.
There is an increasing level of co-operation and GSK Consumer Healthcare continues to gain centralised regulatory exchange of information among the major regulatory authorities approvals for over-the-counter products.
Since the 2009 historyencompassing development plans, data to support product making first for the OTC industry when the European Medicines registration, post-marketing safety information and inspections.
Agency granted centralised approval of the weight loss medicine Although the evaluation of benefit and risk continue to be alli which has now been granted approval in more than 50 paramount considerations for the approval of a new drug in countries: a line extension chewable product has also been granted the USA, there is enhanced focus by the FDA on the safety of centralised approval.
Additionally, GSK Consumer Healthcare has medicines from approval through the post-marketing phase of embraced the principle of centralised applications and has achieved the product.
In 2010 the FDA announced four strategic priorities GSKs first pan-Gulf Cooperation Council approvals for alli and for the next five years: advance regulatory science and innovation, Niquitin in 2010, permitting launch across all seven markets of the strengthen the safety and integrity of the global supply chain, Gulf region.
strengthen compliance and enforcement activities to support Value for money public health: and address the unmet public health needs of special populations.
We will be engaged in these key areas Payers around the world are concerned about the cost of of interest.
healthcare and the pricing of medicines.
The requirement to satisfy healthcare purchasers on value for money is becoming In Europe, new regulations aimed at strengthening the safety an additional hurdle for product acceptance over and above the monitoring of medicines have now been agreed by EU legislators regulatory tests of safety, efcacy and quality.
and will be implemented from 2011.
Discussions continue on draft legislation on improving citizens access to reliable information on Price controls medicines, and on strengthening EU laws to protect citizens from In many countries the prices of pharmaceutical products are the threats posed by fake medicines.
The European Medicines controlled by law.
Governments may also influence prices through Agency EMA and the Heads of National Medicines Agencies their control of national healthcare organisations, which may bear HMA both published five-year strategic plans during 2010: these a large part of the cost of supplying medicines to consumers.
were aimed mainly at strengthening the operation of the existing EU regulatory network.
The EU Commission published a report on Recent government healthcare reforms in countries such as France, the operation of the EMA in preparation for a potential legislative Spain and Germany may restrict pricing and reimbursement.
proposal for changes to the regulatory framework by 2014, and Currently in the USA, there are no government price controls over also continued with its review of the regulation of Clinical Trials in private sector purchases, but federal law requires pharmaceutical Europe this review is expected to conclude in 2012. manufacturers to pay prescribed rebates on certain drugs to The regulatory environment in Emerging Markets and Asia-Pacic be eligible for reimbursement under several state and federal continues to evolve, with a number of countries continuing to healthcare programmes.
In 2010, the US President and Congress develop their regulatory review systems.
We actively participate passed the Affordable Care Act ACA to reform the US healthcare in a number of specic regional and national regulatory system to drive down cost, improve quality and increase access initiatives, which provide opportunities for meaningful scientific to millions of Americans without health insurance.
These reforms and regulatory dialogue between industry, agencies and other have the potential to create positive changes in the US healthcare stakeholders.
We continue to include broader sets of patient system and expand access to our products.
However, the ACA populations from a number of these countries in medicine also increased prescribed rebates under government-run development programmes in order to increase global patient access programmes and changed the balance between private and to new innovative medicines, and optimise regulatory approvals.
Despite passage of the ACA, the pressure to control healthcare costs will continue into 2011 and beyond.
Issues such as crossborder trade, the acceleration of generics to market, comparative effectiveness research, and pharmaceutical pricing will continue to be part of the ongoing healthare debate in the USA.
Fortunately, we are positioned to be a constructive contributor to these debates since there has been increased recognition that chronic disease is the primary driver of healthcare spending and pharmaceutical products deliver important interventions that help hold down healthcare costs.
GSK Annual Report 2010 Business review P08P57
