60 Our Corporate Executive Team CET Julian Heslop John Clarke Chief Financial officer President, Consumer Healthcare John is responsible for the Julian became Chief Financial Consumer Healthcare business officer in April 2005.
As head which produces oral healthcare, of the finance function he is over-the-counter and nutritional responsible for activities such as healthcare products.
He joined financial reporting and control, Beecham in 1976 and was the tax and treasury, finance systems Andrew Witty Marc Dunoyer President of the Future Group and insurance.
He joined Glaxo Head of Rare Diseases Unit Chief Executive officer before his current appointment Wellcome as Financial Controller Andrew was appointed Chief and Chairman of GSK Japan in January 2006. in April 1998.
He will leave the Executive officer in May 2008.
Marc was appointed Chairman CET when he retires from GSK at He joined Glaxo UK in 1985.
GSK Japan in January 2010 the end of March 2011.
During his career with the and in February 2010 to lead company he has held the roles GSKs rare diseases business of Managing Director South from R&D to commercialisation.
Africa, Vice President and He joined the Group in 1999 General Manager Marketing and was previously President, in the USA and Senior Vice Pharmaceuticals Japan from President, Asia Pacic.
He January 2000 until May Deirdre Connelly was appointed President, 2008.
He was President, President, North America Pharmaceuticals Europe for Pharmaceuticals Asia Pacic Pharmaceuticals GlaxoSmithKline in January 2003.
Japan from May 2008 until Abbas Hussain Deirdre joined GSK in February July 2010.
President, Emerging Markets 2009 after working at Eli Lilly & Asia Pacic and Company for 24 years.
Abbas joined GSK in June 2008 She held a variety of positions from Eli Lilly and Company, including sales professional, where he spent 20 years General Manager of Puerto Rico, overseeing markets throughout Executive Director of Human Europe, Africa Middle East Resources and most recently and Australasia.
Simon Bicknell Senior Vice President, Eddie Gray Governance, Ethics President, and Assurance Pharmaceuticals Europe Simon was appointed to Eddie became responsible the role in January 2011. for the Groups operations He is responsible for risk in Europe in January 2008. management, compliance He joined Beecham in 1988 and internal auditing.
He and, prior to his current Bill Louv appointment, was Senior Vice was formerly SVP, Company Simon Dingemans Senior Vice President, President and General Manager, Secretary & Corporate Chief Financial officer Designate Core Business Services Pharmaceuticals UK.
Simon Simon was appointed Chief & Chief Information officer joined the Corporate Financial officer Designate on Bill was appointed Chief Secretariat in 1984.
He joined Information officer in January appointed Company Secretary GSK from Goldman Sachs where 2007.
In addition to this role he of GlaxoSmithKline plc in he was a Managing Director and was appointed to create and May 2000 and combined Partner.
He has over 25 years lead Core Business Services in this position with his role as of experience in investment April 2010.
He is responsible Corporate Compliance officer banking, including most recently for information technology from April 2006 until his as leader of Goldman Sachs across GSK.
Bill joined Glaxo current appointment.
European M&A business and in 1994 as Vice President, before that as head of UK Medical Data Sciences.
his current roles, Bill was Senior Vice President, R&D Information Technology.
GSK Annual Report 2010 Governance and remuneration P58P101 Business review P08sn057 Governance and remuneration P58P101 Financial statements P102P191 Shareholder information P192P212 61 Our Corporate Executive Team CET Moncef Slaoui Patrick Vallance Chairman, Research Senior Vice-President, Medicines & Development Discovery and Development Moncef leads the Groups drug Patrick was appointed Senior discovery and development Vice President, Medicines activities as well as its Oncology Discovery and Development in business.
He is responsible for months he will assume ensuring a ow of potential David Pulman Claire Thomas operational responsibility for new medicines through the R&D President, Global Senior Vice President, GSK biologicals.
He joined pipeline from early discovery Manufacturing and Supply Human Resources the Group in 1988 and was through to stage approval of David is responsible for the Claire leads the global Human a key player in building GSKs the medicine.
Patrick joined Global Manufacturing and Resources HR function.
Prior to that he Supply organisation and Previously, she oversaw HR in was appointed Senior Vice was a clinical academic and led Global Procurement.
He joined Pharmaceuticals International President, Worldwide Business the Division of Medicines at Glaxo in 1978.
He has broad and in Pharmaceuticals Europe.
Development until his current University College London.
experience of manufacturing Claire joined the company appointment in June 2006. operations having previously led in 1996 and was appointed the Primary Supply, European Director of Human Resources manufacturing, North American for UK Pharmaceuticals in 1997. manufacturing, Global Logistics Claire was honoured as an and Manufacturing Strategy Outstanding European Woman organisations.
Changes to the CET Duncan Learmouth, Senior Jean Stphenne Vice President, Global Chairman and President, Communications left the CET Biologicals in August 2010 for a new Jean has led GSKs global role as Senior Vice President, Developing Countries vaccines business since 1989. and Market Access.
Phil Previously he was Vice President Thomson was appointed of Human Vaccines Research Dan Troy David Redfern Senior Vice President, Global and Development and Senior Vice President Chief Strategy officer Communications in August Production.
He joined the and General Counsel David is responsible for 2010 and, although he is not company in 1974 as Head of Dan joined GSK as Senior Vice proactive exploration of new a member, is invited to attend Bacterial and Viral Vaccines President and General Counsel business opportunities, strategic CET meetings as required.
Jean was named in September 2008.
In Baron by King Albert II of the that he was a Partner at the Dan Phelan, Chief of Staff addition to his current role he Belgians in 2000 in recognition Washington law rm Sidley stepped down from the CET was appointed Chairman of of his leading contribution to Austin LLP and Chief Counsel in December 2010 to act as an the Board of ViiV Healthcare R&D and industry in Belgium.
From 20062007 advisor to the CEO in advance Ltd. with effect from 1st April he chaired the American of his eventual retirement 2011.
He began his career Bar Associations Section of from GSK.
with GSK in 1994 in Corporate Administrative Law, and was Development before being previously adjunct scholar at appointed Finance Director of the American Enterprise Europe Pharmaceuticals in 1999.
He was appointed Area Director for Central Europe in 2003 and Northern Europe in 2005.
GSK Annual Report 2010 62 Corporate governance Dear Shareholder On behalf of the Board, I am pleased to present the Corporate Governance Report for 2010. Review of 2010 Although our operating environment remains challenging, I believe that we made significant progress during 2010 in substantially re-engineering GSKs business through restructuring and a more rigorous approach to capital allocation.
The effect of these changes also became increasingly evident in 2010 through the delivery of diversied underlying sales growth, increasing pipeline potential and improved cash generation before legal settlements.
By becoming a more balanced, synergistic business with a broad and diverse pipeline generating increasing potential, the Board believes that we can generate increased value for shareholders and deliver even better outcomes to patients and consumers.
Corporate governance developments 2010 has seen a continuation of reviews and consultations aimed at examining and improving corporate governance arrangements, predominantly in the light of the recent global financial crisis.
GSK has been an active participant in debating the issues raised by these consultations where they have been relevant to the long term interests of our shareholders.
We have also taken the opportunity to review our board practices and governance procedures against the standards contained in the Financial Reporting Councils FRC updated UK Corporate Governance Code updated Code published in June 2010, formerly the Combined Code on Corporate Governance Combined Code.
Our review indicated that we are in a strong position to comply fully with its provisions and I will report formally on GSKs compliance with the updated Code next year.
Board role and effectiveness As Chairman, my role primarily is to provide leadership to the Board, necessary to promote the success of the company and create value for shareholders in the long term, while ensuring that sound effective corporate governance practices are embedded in the organisation and its decision-making processes.
There are a number of ingredients that make up an effectively functioning board.
GSKs approach is set out in greater detail in the following Report.
A notable example of this in practice has been the exercise by the Audit & Risk Committee of the oversight powers delegated to it by the Board.
The decision to resolve the inherent unpredictability and reduce overall litigation exposure has been a core focus for this Committee and the Board.
The Audit & Risk Committee holds regular dialogue with executive management, who provide updates on the progress being made to resolve outstanding legal matters.
The Board acknowledges that the scale of the legal provisioning required for 2010 has been significant, but continues to believe it is in the best long term interests of shareholders to resolve such matters.
As usual, we have conducted a rigorous evaluation to test the Board and its Committees effectiveness.
I am pleased to note the FRC endorsed in its updated Code the approach of externally facilitated board evaluations being undertaken at least every three years: an approach that GSK has previously adopted.
Details of the latest Board evaluation and the actions that have been identied and agreed upon to drive standards of Board governance and performance can be found on page 68 of the Report.
Other areas of board practice that I would also like to particularly focus on here are business awareness, succession planning and shareholder engagement, key areas where we have made good progress during 2010. Business awareness and succession planning Each year the Board seeks to further develop its knowledge and understanding of the business and to gain greater visibility of executive talent and management succession.
In 2010 the Board made several visits to some of the Groups sites and met with key talent and senior executives.
In March, the Board visited our Vaccines site in Wavre in Belgium to receive an update on the progress of our main vaccines business, which continues to grow in terms of its contribution to the Group.
This included specic briengs on three important vaccine development programmes: namely MAGE-A3, Synorix and Malaria.
The Board was also very pleased to meet and thank GSK staff at the site for the extraordinary efforts they had made to enable the Group to respond to the H1N1 pandemic in 2009.
In July, the Board visited GMS and R&D sites in Research Triangle Park and Zebulon in the United States.
These visits included briengs with several Discovery Performance Units, a tour of a pharmaceutical development pilot plant, together with workshops with senior executives.
The Board also held a reception with locally based executives and key talent.
GSK Annual Report 2010 Governance and remuneration P58P101 Business review P08sn057 Governance and remuneration P58P101 Financial statements P102P191 Shareholder information P192P212 63 Corporate governance GSK continues to target growth in Emerging Markets and has established an important new corporate hub for the Group in the Far East in Singapore.
During the summer, Abbas Hussain, President, Emerging Markets & Asia Pacic and a Corporate Executive Team CET member, relocated to Singapore to be more centrally located in this region.
In October, the Board held a joint strategy review meeting with CET members in Singapore and was pleased to visit a GMS site and tour one of GMS production facilities and a pilot plant.
The Board also had a workshop on the results of GSKs investment in green chemistry and continuous manufacture technology in Singapore, which will contribute to the Groups efforts to reduce costs and minimise our impact on the environment.
The Board was also pleased to have the opportunity to meet with local senior executives and key talent.
In addition to these planned visits, our Non-Executive Directors are encouraged to attend CET meetings and R&D related executive meetings.
This provides them with a good perspective of how management operates and gives a greater insight into key business issues.
It also provides a further opportunity for Board members to observe the skills, knowledge, integrity and behaviour of our senior management cadre and key executive talent, whilst enabling our employees to give direct feedback to Board members.
Shareholder engagement At GSK we value an open, constructive and effective interaction with our shareholders.
In particular, the CEO, CFO and I maintain an ongoing dialogue with institutional investors through a regular programme of meetings which cover a range of issues.
During 2010, Andrew Witty attended over 60 one-on-one meetings with investors, covering over 50 separate funds.
Julian Heslop attended nearly 40 one-on-one meetings with investors, covering over 35 separate funds.
In addition, both met with multiple additional investors via group meetings and at broker conferences.
I personally met a representative cross section of our shareholders during the course of the year and am available to meet with shareholders on request along with other Board colleagues.
Also, along with the Remuneration Committee Chairman, the Head of Human Resources and the Company Secretary, I attended meetings with institutional investors to specifically discuss remuneration policy and governance related matters, a process we conduct annually.
We believe this level and quality of engagement is key to ensuring that the Board and senior management understand our shareholders views and perspectives.
On this theme, we welcome the introduction by the FRC of the Stewardship Code for Institutional Investors, a code of good practice for major shareholders, which aims to further strengthen the quality of the engagement process between major shareholders and the companies that they invest in.
At the companys 2011 AGM all Board directors who are able to attend will be available, as usual, to meet with investors after the meeting to discuss issues on a face-to-face basis.
Combined Code compliance statement Throughout 2010, the company complied with the provisions and applied the Main Principles of Section 1 of the Combined Code, except that Dr Stephanie Burns, Larry Culp and Tom fide Swaan were unable to attend the companys 2010 AGM.
Dr Stephanie Burns and Larry Culp were prevented from attending due to travel disruption caused by the ash clouds from the volcano in Iceland and Tom fide Swaan was required to chair a shareholder meeting of another public company on the same day.
This resulted in a partial noncompliance with code provision D. 2.3.
Annual re-election of directors GSK, like a number of other organisations and interested parties, expressed the view during the consultation period on updating the Combined Code that the FRCs proposal to mandate annual re-election of directors could be damaging.
We feared that it could erode the principle of the unitary Board, was likely to increase short-termism and could make it even more difficult to recruit new Board members.
Nevertheless, this change has been included as a new provision in the updated Code and the Board has agreed that each Board member should stand for re-election at the 2011 AGM.
We will monitor the effect of this provision over time.
The Corporate Governance Report that follows sets out how GSK complied with the provisions and applied the principles of the Combined Code during the year.
Sir Christopher Gent Chairman GSK Annual Report 2010
