Business review P08P57 Governance and remuneration P58P101 Financial statements P102P191 Shareholder information P192P212 19 Manufacturing and supply GSKs manufacturing covers Pharmaceutical, Consumer Healthcare Vaccine manufacturing and Vaccines.
Vaccine manufacturing, which is managed separately from GMS, is an integral part of the Biologicals business, and is particularly Pharmaceutical Global Manufacturing and Supply GMS complex as it requires the use of innovative technologies and living More than 27,000 people work in GMS across our network of micro-organisms.
Comprehensive quality assurance and quality 77 sites in 32 countries.
GMS supports the commercial ambition control procedures are in place to ensure the vaccines quality and of GSK by delivering quality medicines and consumer products to safety.
Due to their biological nature, individual health authorities patients and customers around the world.
may subject vaccines to a second control to guarantee the highest The scale of manufacturing in GSK is huge, with the manufacture quality standards.
of over 4 billion packs per year in 28,000 different presentations GMS supports GSKs commercial ambition to deliver quality including tablets, creams ointments, inhalers, injections, liquids medicines and consumer healthcare products to patients and and steriles, which are then supplied to over 150 markets.
Over consumers around the world.
4.1 billion was spent by GMS on production in 2010.
GMS operates a procurement operation on behalf of the Group.
We spend over 2 billion annually with external suppliers, purchasing active ingredients, chemical intermediates, packaging components and part-nished and nished products.
During 2010, as our internal customers sought every opportunity to grow their businesses, we focused on the cost-competitive supply of quality product to meet their ambitions.
We worked diligently to leverage our network of sites and contractors to give us built-in exibility to sustain future growth and adapt to emerging commercial business models.
In an increasingly rigorous external regulatory environment, we have continued to leverage technology in support of process understanding, control, and capability.
Our Pharmaceutical Launch and Global Supply sites work closely with R&Ds development teams to ensure that the right technical competencies are in place to support rapid and successful new product introduction.
These sites serve as the focal point for developing and introducing new secondary manufacturing technologies.
The Primary supply sites in our Pharmaceutical Launch and Global Supply division supply high quality, competitively priced bulk actives and focus on improvements in primary technologies and processes.
The sites in our Antibiotics and Emerging Markets supply division focus on manufacturing products in the late stage of their life cycle, allowing GSK to compete more effectively in all its markets.
Consumer Healthcare manufacturing Most of Consumer Healthcare Manufacturing is also managed by GMS apart from our Coleford site which is managed directly by Nutritional healthcare.
Our Consumer Healthcare sites deliver high-quality, competitively priced products and support rapid new product introduction in a highly innovative and competitive business.
New technologies have become a fundamental platform for driving innovation, lowering costs and providing exibility in operations.
We are continuously improving and embedding new ways of working that are simplifying the business and achieving greater efficiencies.
It is our focus on customer service, including support for new product launches, our strong compliance culture, our commitment to health, safety and the environment, and our commitment to developing our people that have delivered strong results for GSK even as the external environment has become more demanding.
