10 Research and development Each DPU develops a business plan with specic deliverables and Research and development Pharmaceuticals investment covering multiple years.
The plans also include areas GSK R&D has built one of the strongest, broadest pipelines of of opportunity for collaborations with external organisations that potential new medicines in the industry.
We believe the pipeline could enhance a DPUs deliverables and return.
These can include has the potential to deliver value to patients and payers and collaborations with large and small companies and academia.
Our improve rates of financial return on our R&D investment.
internal R&D expertise gives us a strong basis in identifying and Appropriately progressing our pipeline products safely and forming these collaborations, which in drug discovery are typically efficiently to deliver innovative new medicines for patients is the in-licensing or option-based collaborations.
primary goal of our R&D function.
The Discovery Investment Board DIB reviews the business plans of The development of new products typically is a long, expensive each DPU.
The DIB is responsible for revising the plans, identifying and uncertain process, and it is not possible to predict which areas for improvement and monitoring DPU delivery against agreed compounds in development will succeed or fail.
The risks inherent targets and investment.
Membership of the DIB comprises senior in the R&D process are described more fully in the Risk factors R&D and commercial management and external individuals with section, under Risk that R&D will not deliver commercially relevant expertise including life science investment experience and successful new products.
It is chaired by the SVP of GSK allocates its R&D investment with reference to the potential Medicines Discovery and Development.
returns available from its target therapeutic markets and the No individual DPU has annual expenditure of more than 10% of technical and commercial risks associated with products in the total annual R&D expenditure.
Those factors are reviewed at each phase of the development process and are central in the decision to proceed to Delivering these medicines to patients the next stage.
Costs incurred at each stage are carefully managed A compound that advances into late-stage development typically to maximise the likely future return consistent with the Groups after Phase IIa will undergo much larger scale studies in humans overall objective of increasing its IRR from its R&D activities from to investigate its efcacy and safety further.
At the same time, we its current level, estimated in 2009 to be around 11%, to 14%.
work at optimising both the compounds physical properties and The returns generated are, however, primarily determined by the its formulation so that it can be produced and delivered efficiently eventual commercial impact of new products as they achieve and in sufficient quantities through the manufacturing process.
We regulatory approval and are launched.
then convert the results of these activities into a regulatory le for submission to regulatory agencies.
This projected rate of return includes products launched from 1st January 2007 and compounds in phases IIb and III of the Medicines Development Teams MDTs are small units of six to ten development process.
The calculation is based on actual sales people who have responsibility for a compound through the later from 2007 to 2009 and forecast sales for the relevant products stages of development to ling with the regulatory agencies.
There up to 2030, adjusted to reect expected failure rates, which are are around 30 assets in late-stage development, comprising more broadly in line with standard industry failure rates.
The cost base than 50 individual projects.
used in this calculation comprises an estimate of attributable GSK also actively seeks out opportunities to add products to its R&D costs and actual and projected milestone payments where late-stage portfolio through relationships with other companies.
Estimated profit margins, capital investment and For late-stage assets, these typically take the form of in-licensing working capital requirements are factored into the calculation, or co-promotion arrangements and are most likely to be aligned to based on our historical performance.
existing areas of therapy expertise or investment.
Details of the full product development pipeline, made up of both The Product Management Board PMB, assesses the technical, pharmaceutical and vaccine assets, are set out on pages 203 to 206 commercial and investment case for each project to progress in and on our website and the performance of marketed products is development.
The PMB is co-chaired by the Chairman, R&D and the discussed in detail under Financial review 2010 on pages 34 to 40.
President, North America Pharmaceuticals, and includes the heads Discovering potential medicines of each pharmaceutical region and global manufacturing.
Our early stage R&D drug discovery seeks to identify the biological Projects are reviewed by the PMB at certain key decision points: targets involved with the development of diseases, and then to Commit to Medicine Development, Commit to Phase III and Commit create small molecules or biopharmaceuticals that interact with to File and Launch.
Funding is generally allocated up to the next key these disease targets.
The wealth of scientific discoveries in recent decision point, typically between two and four years ahead.
The PMB years has made it essential that we are highly selective in where we also carries out an annual late-stage funding review, where investment invest our drug discovery resources: focusing resources on those in all projects is reviewed, adjusted if necessary and prioritised.
areas most likely to deliver significant medical advances and returns on investment.
No individual late-stage project has incurred annual expenditure of more than 10% of the total annual R&D expenditure.
We conducted a re-evaluation of the advances and discoveries in global biomedical science.
This led us to exit areas of research we Governance judged unlikely to provide sufficient scientific and therefore financial R&D decisions are overseen by a number of boards.
We have also tried to create an entrepreneurial environment of strategic issues and overall budget management across R&D is in drug discovery pursuing the best scientific opportunities whether owned by the R&D Executive team RADEX.
DIB and PMB control internal or external.
We created Discovery Performance Units DPUs, investment decisions in early and late stage R&D as described above.
which are groups of between 5-70 scientists, with each group The scientific Advisory Board SAB is chaired by the SVP Medicines focusing on one particular disease or pathway and responsible for Discovery and Development and includes a number of external driving discovery and development of potential new medicines scientific experts.
The SAB reviews and challenges the science through to early stage clinical trials up to the completion of Phase underlying development programmes and provides advice on lla.
There are now nearly 40 DPUs.
related issues to the PMB at the key investment points.
GSK Annual Report 2010 Business review P08P57 Business review P08P57 Governance and remuneration P58P101 Financial statements P102P191 Shareholder information P192P212 11 Research and development GSKs Chief Medical officer, as Chair of the Global Safety Board, is The Biologicals scientific Committee BSC defines the overall R&D ultimately accountable for oversight of all major decisions regarding and new product licensing strategy for our vaccines business.
The Global Safety Board is responsible internally It is chaired by the Biologicals President and includes heads of for approving pivotal studies and investigating any issues related our vaccines R&D, disease areas, clinical, epidemiology, business to patient safety arising during the development programme and development and other departments as members.
Information from GSK clinical trials is widely and easily assesses high potential vaccine in-licensing opportunities, decides available at the Clinical Study Register on GSKs website and at on exploratory projects and in-licensing opportunities and also www.
endorses target product proles before the start of early vaccine projects.
In addition the BSC aligns R&D, clinical and commercial Diseases of the developing world plans for early projects and is responsible for prioritising exploratory, Continued investment in research into diseases of the developing research and early vaccine projects.
world is essential if there is to be a long-term improvement in The Development Review Committee DRC oversees the late the health of people who live in these regions.
As part of our development vaccine portfolio including strategy, project prioritisation response to this challenge, we operate a drug discovery unit and resource allocation.
The DRC is chaired by the head of Global based at Tres Cantos Spain, which focuses on malaria and Vaccine Development and its membership includes the heads of tuberculosis.
We are adapting our business model to pursue an clinical research, global industrial operations, global commercial open innovation strategy for R&D for diseases of the developing centre of excellence, R&D, industrialisation and medical.
Elements of this new approach include: being more open with our intellectual property: being more open with our resources: After launch, post marketing studies are set up to assess and being more open with our data and compounds.
Additional vaccination programmes and to monitor vaccine safety.
R&D sites in the USA and the UK are focused on the development In 2010 two distinct R&D groups were formed for vaccines to of new medicines to treat HIV AIDS and drug resistant bacteria, provide specic focus for prophylactics and for our Antigen Specic while vaccine research is conducted in Rixensart Belgium.
A new Global Vaccine Through these R&D efforts, we are addressing the prevention and Development organisation was created pulling together our clinical treatment of all three of the World Health Organizations WHO and late development R&D organisations.
It has allowed us to give priority infectious diseases.
a clear focus to projects through Vaccine Development Leaders who have overall responsibility for the development of a particular project.
Vaccines R&D We are active in the elds of vaccine research, development and Animals and research production and have a portfolio of over 30 vaccines approved for For ethical, regulatory and scientific reasons, research using animals marketing.
We have over 1,600 scientists devoted to discovering remains a small but vital part of research and development of new innovative vaccines that contribute to the health and well-being medicines and vaccines.
We only use animals where there is no of people of all generations around the world.
The discovery and alternative and constantly strive to reduce the numbers used.
development of a new vaccine is a complex process requiring longWe are committed to maintaining high standards for the humane term investment and, with more than 20 vaccines in development, care and treatment of all laboratory animals and undertake internal we have one of the strongest vaccine pipelines in the industry.
and external review to assure these standards.
Traditionally vaccines have been used to ward off illness: our The vast majority of the experimental methods do not use animals.
vaccine division is working now to develop immunotherapeutics We are actively engaged in research to develop and validate more aimed at educating the patients immune system to identify and tests that either avoid the use of animals or reduce the numbers attack cancer cells in a highly specic manner.
When animals are used, all due measures are taken to Vaccine discovery involves many collaborations with academia and prevent or minimise pain and distress.
the biotech industry to identify new vaccine antigens which are We understand that use of animals for research purposes then expressed in yeast, bacteria or mammalian cells and puried commands a high level of public interest.
Our statement on to a very high level.
This is followed by formulation of the clinical The care and ethical use of animals in research, our views on lots of the vaccine.
This may involve mixing antigens with selected use of non-human primates and details of our voluntary decision GSK novel proprietary adjuvant systems, which are combinations of not to use great apes chimpanzees, together with further selected adjuvants designed to elicit the most appropriate immune information and reports, are available on our website.
The right combination of antigen and adjuvant system can help the body mobilise the most effective Research and development Consumer Healthcare immunological pathway, which is designed to provide maximum protection against specic diseases in targeted populations.
The continuous creation and development of innovative products keeps our brands relevant, vibrant and valuable.
Our portfolio Once formulated, the candidate vaccine is evaluated from a safety spans three major categories: OTC medicines, Oral healthcare and efcacy perspective through the different phases of preclinical and Nutritional healthcare.
For our major brands, dedicated R&D testing, then through the clinical trials involving healthy individuals.
teams, including regulatory, partner with and work alongside their These will range from safety analysis in a small group of volunteers commercial brand team colleagues in ofce-free hub environments in phase I, dose adjustment and proof of concept in phase II, to that foster collaboration and fast decision-making.
Hubs have large-scale safety and efcacy analysis in phase III.
The results quickly become a preferred way of working at our Innovation obtained during clinical trials and data regarding the development Centres in Weybridge, UK, and Parsippany, USA, and we have of a quality and large-scale production process and facilities are then expanded this model to China and India.
combined into a regulatory le which is submitted to the authorities in the countries where the vaccine will be made available.
We have a full and diverse product development pipeline.
Our key late stage projects include novel technologies, new combinations and superior formulations.
