Business review P08sn057 Governance and remuneration P58P101 Financial statements P102P191 Shareholder information P192P212 69 Corporate governance Dialogue with shareholders Share capital and control Details of the companys issued share capital and the number of Financial results are announced on a quarterly basis and the shares held in Treasury as at 31st December 2010 can be found full-year results are included in the companys Annual Report.
in Note 33 to the financial statements, Share capital and share The company produces an annual Summary which is sent to all premium account.
GSKs shares are listed on the London Stock shareholders to advise them of the availability of the Annual Report Exchange and are also quoted on the New York Stock Exchange and Notice of Meeting on www.
NYSE in the form of American Depositary shares ADS.
Each ADS The CEO and CFO give presentations on the half-year and fullrepresents two Ordinary Shares.
year results in face-to-face meetings with institutional investors, The holders of Ordinary Shares are entitled to receive dividends, analysts and the media which are also accessible via webcast and when declared and the companys Annual Report, attend and teleconference.
After the release of the first and third quarterly speak at general meetings of the company, appoint proxies and results, the company holds webcast teleconferences for institutional exercise voting rights.
investors, analysts and the media.
The quarterly results are also made available on the Investors section of the companys website.
There are no restrictions on transfer, or limitations on the holding of Ordinary Shares and no requirements to obtain prior approval The AGM takes place in London, and formal notication is sent for any transfers.
No Ordinary Shares carry any special rights with to shareholders at least one month in advance.
At the Meeting, a regard to control of the company and there are no restrictions on business presentation is made to shareholders and all Directors able voting rights.
Major shareholders have the same voting rights per to attend are available, formally during the AGM, and informally share as all other shareholders.
There are no known arrangements afterwards, for questions.
Committee Chairmen ordinarily attend under which financial rights are held by a person other than the the AGM to respond to shareholders questions.
The entire Board holder of the shares and no known agreements on restrictions on was in attendance at the companys AGM in May 2010, save for share transfers or on voting rights.
Dr Stephanie Burns and Larry Culp, who were prevented from attending due to travel disruption caused by the ash clouds from Shares acquired through GSK share plans rank equally with the the volcano in Iceland, and Tom fide Swaan who was required to other shares in issue and have no special rights.
The trustees of chair a shareholder meeting of another public company on the the companys Employee Share Ownership Plan ESOP trusts have same day.
All resolutions at the AGM are decided on a poll as waived their rights to dividends on shares held by the ESOP trusts.
required by the companys Articles of Association.
The results of Change of control and essential contracts the poll are announced to the London Stock Exchange and posted The company does not have contracts or other arrangements which on the Investors section of the companys website.
Details of the individually are essential to the businesses, nor is it party to any 2011 AGM are set out in the section Annual General Meeting significant agreements that would take effect, alter or terminate see page 71 and the Notice of AGM is published on the Investors upon a change of control following a takeover bid.
section of the companys website.
The company does not have agreements with any Director or To ensure that the Non-Executive Directors are aware of and officer that would provide compensation for loss of ofce or understand the views of major shareholders about the company, employment resulting from a takeover, except that provisions of the Board has in place a brieng process, which is managed by the companys share plans may cause options and awards granted the Chairman, focusing on sector-specic issues, as well as general under such plans to vest on a takeover.
Details of the termination shareholder preferences.
provisions in the companys framework contracts for Executive The Groups Investor Relations department, with ofces in London Directors are given on page 91. and Philadelphia, acts as a focal point for contact with investors Interests in voting rights throughout the year.
Other than as stated below, as far as the company is aware, there The CEO, CFO and Chairman maintain a dialogue with institutional are no persons with significant direct or indirect holdings in the shareholders on performance, plans and objectives through a company.
Information provided to the company pursuant to the programme of regular meetings.
Since his appointment as CEO in Financial Services Authoritys FSA Disclosure and Transparency May 2008, Andrew Witty has undertaken an extensive ongoing Rules DTRs is published on a Regulatory Information Service and series of meetings with GSKs institutional shareholders.
on the Investors section of the companys website.
The Chairman meets regularly with institutional investors to At 24th February 2011, the company had received notications in hear their views and discuss issues of mutual importance and accordance with the FSAs DTRs of the following notiable interests communicates the views of investors to the Board as a whole.
in the voting rights in the companys issued share capital: The SID is also available to shareholders.
of Percentage of issued The Chairman of the Remuneration Committee, the Chairman, shares capital % the Senior Vice President, Human Resources and the Company BlackRock, Inc. 291,516,314 5.62 Secretary meet annually with major shareholders to discuss Legal & General Group Plc 194,024,944 3.74 executive remuneration policy and governance matters.
Percentage of Ordinary Shares in issue, excluding Treasury shares.
All Non-Executive Directors, including new appointees, are available to meet with major shareholders if requested.
The companys website provides access to current financial and business information about the Group.
GSK Annual Report 2010 70 Corporate governance The Bank of New York Mellon is the Depositary for the companys Share buy-back programme ADS, which are listed on the NYSE.
Ordinary Shares representing A 12 billion programme of share repurchases commenced in July the companys American Depositary Receipt program, which are 2007.
Shares costing 6.2 billion were repurchased under this managed by the Depositary, are registered in the name of BNY programme.
No repurchases were made during 2009 or 2010.
Details of the number of Ordinary Shares held company announced publicly on 3rd February 2011 that it intends by the Depositary can be found on page 209. to commence a new long-term share buy-back programme and expects to buy-back 1-2 billion of shares in 2011.
In the period The company has not acquired or disposed of any interests in 4th February 2011 to 24th February 2011, 10.4 million shares its own shares during the period under review.
Details of shares were purchased at a cost of 123.4 million.
The programme covers purchased in prior years, those cancelled, and those held as purchases by the company of shares for cancellation or to be held Treasury shares are disclosed in Note 33 to the financial statements as Treasury shares, in accordance with the authority renewed by Share capital and share premium account.
shareholders at the AGM in May 2010, when the company was Directors and Ofcers authorised to purchase a maximum of just over 519 million shares.
Details of shares purchased, those cancelled, and those held as The interests of Directors and Ofcers and their connected Treasury shares are disclosed in Note 33 to the financial statements persons in the issued share capital of the company are given in the Share capital and share premium account.
The rules about the appointment and replacement of Directors are The exact amount and timing of future purchases, and whether contained in the companys Articles of Association.
The companys the shares will be held as Treasury shares or cancelled, will be Articles must be approved by shareholders in accordance with the determined by the company and is dependent on market conditions legislation in force from time to time.
Donations to political organisations and political expenditure The Articles provide that Directors may be appointed by an ordinary resolution of the members or by a resolution of the Directors, With effect from 1st January 2009, to ensure a consistent approach provided that, in the latter instance, a Director appointed in this to political contributions across the Group, GSK introduced a global way retires at the first AGM following his appointment.
policy to stop voluntarily all political contributions.
The Articles also provide that Directors should normally be subject 2010 2009 2008 Political donations to: to re-election at the AGM at intervals of three years or annually if EU political organisations they have held ofce for a continuous period of nine years or more.
However, the Board has agreed that all Directors will seek either Non-EU political organisations election or re-election in 2011 in accordance with the updated Code.
comprising: USA 319,000 The companys members may remove a Director by passing an Canada 28,000 ordinary resolution of which special notice has been given, or by passing a special resolution.
"A Director may automatically cease to 347,000 be a Director if: Notwithstanding the introduction of this policy, in accordance s HE SHE RESIGNS with the Federal Election Campaign Act, the company continues s HE SHE OFFERS TO RESIGN AND THE ""OARD ACCEPT THAT OFFER to support a Political Action Committee PAC that facilitates voluntary political donations by eligible GSK employees."
The PAC s ALL OTHER $IRECTORS BEING AT LEAST THREE IN NUMBER REQUIRE HIM is not controlled by GSK.
Decisions on the amount and recipients her to resign.
of contributions are made by participating employees exercising s HE SHE IS SUFFERING FROM PHYSICAL OR MENTAL ILL HEALTH their legal right to contribute to pool their resources and make s HE SHE HAS MISSED $IRECTORS MEETINGS FOR A CONTINUOUS PERIOD political contributions which are subject to strict limitations.
In 2010 of six months without permission and the Board resolves that a total of 531,613 540,551 in 2009 was donated to political he she shall cease to be a Director organisations by the GSK PAC.
s HE SHE BECOMES BANKRUPT OR COMPOUNDS WITH HIS HER CREDITORS At the AGM in May 2001, shareholders first authorised the generally company to make donations to EU political organisations and to s HE SHE CEASES TO BE A $IRECTOR BY VIRTUE OF THE !RTICLES OR THE incur EU political expenditure, under the provisions of the Political Companies Acts, or Parties, Elections and Referendums Act 2000, of up to 100,000 each year.
This authority has since been renewed annually.
The s HE SHE IS PROHIBITED FROM BEING A $IRECTOR BY LAW Companies Act 2006 requires companies to continue to obtain Articles of Association shareholder approval before they can make donations to EU The powers of the Directors are determined by UK legislation and political organisations or incur EU political expenditure.
the companys Articles of Association, available on the Governance However, the company does not make and does not intend section of GSKs website.
The Articles may be amended by a to make donations to political parties or independent election special resolution of the members.
The Directors may exercise all candidates, nor does it make any donations to EU political the companys powers provided that the Articles or applicable organisations or incur EU political expenditure.
legislation do not stipulate that any such powers must be exercised by the members.
The Directors have been authorised to issue and The denitions of political donations, political expenditure and allot Ordinary Shares under current Article 9.
The power under political organisations used in the legislation are very wide.
In Article 9 and the authority for the company to make purchases particular, the denition of EU political organisations may extend of its own shares are subject to shareholder authorities which are to bodies such as those concerned with policy review, law reform, sought on an annual basis at the AGM.
Any shares purchased by the representation of the business community and special interest the company may be cancelled or held as Treasury shares.
groups such as those concerned with the environment, which the company and its subsidiaries might wish to support.
GSK Annual Report 2010 Governance and remuneration P58P101
