58 Our Board Sir Christopher Gent Professor Sir Roy Anderson Larry Culp Aged 47 Simon Dingemans Aged 47 Aged 62 Aged 63 Appointed on 1st July 2003.
Executive Director and Chief Chairman.
Larry is President and Chief Financial officer Designate.
Sir Christopher is a NonSir Roy is Professor of Infectious Executive officer of Danaher Simon joined GSK from Executive Director of Ferrari SpA Disease Epidemiology in the Corporation.
Prior to joining Goldman Sachs where he and was the Chief Executive Faculty of Medicine, Imperial Danaher, he held positions was a Managing Director and officer of Vodafone Group plc, College, London.
He is a in Accenture, previously Partner.
He has over 25 years until his retirement in July 2003. member of the International Andersen Consulting.
of experience in investment He is a Non-Executive Director Advisory Board of Hakluyt & banking, including most recently of Lehman Brothers Holdings Co. Ltd. and he is a Trustee of as leader of Goldman Sachs Inc, a member of KPMGs the Natural History Museum, European M&A business and Chairmans Advisory Group, London.
He is a fellow of the before that as head of UK a Senior Adviser at Bain & Co. Royal Society and a Foreign Investment Banking.
and a member of the Advisory Associate Member of the Board of Reform.
Institute of Medicine at the US National Academy of Sciences and the French Academy of Sciences.
His former positions Sir Crispin Davis Aged 61 include Rector of Imperial Appointed on 1st July 2003.
College and Chief scientific Non-Executive Director.
Adviser at the Ministry of Sir Crispin is Chairman and Defence in the UK.
Director of StarBev Netherlands BV, a member of Citigroups Andrew Witty Aged 46 Julian Heslop Aged 57 Global Advisory Board and Appointed on 31st January 2008.
Appointed on 1st April 2005. serves on the Council of Oxford Chief Executive officer.
He was previously Andrew was named Chief Julian joined Glaxo Wellcome Chief Executive officer of Reed Executive officer Designate as Financial Controller in April Elsevier PLC, and prior to that for GSK in October 2007 and 1998.
In January 2001 he was appointment, Chief Executive was appointed Chief Executive appointed Senior Vice President, of Aegis Group plc, which officer CEO on 21st May Operations Controller.
Prior he joined from Guinness plc, 2008.
He joined the Group to joining the Group he held where he was a member of in 1985 and has held senior Dr Stephanie Burns senior finance roles at Grand the main Board and Group positions in Asia, Africa and Metropolitan.
Julian will retire Aged 56 Managing Director of the USA.
Immediately prior to as Chief Financial officer and Appointed on 12th February United Distillers.
In his earlier being appointed CEO, Andrew Executive Director on 31st 2007. career, he worked for Procter was President, Pharmaceuticals March 2011.
& Gamble, where he was Europe, a position he held Stephanie is Chairman and President of the North from January 2003.
He is a Chief Executive officer of Dow American Food Division.
Board Member of PhRMA and Corning Corporation and sits President of European Federation on the US Presidents Export of Pharmaceutical Industries and Council.
She is also the chair Associations.
He was appointed of the American Chemistry as Lead Non-Executive Board Council, is an officer of the Member for the Department Society of Chemical Industry, of Business, Innovation and America Section, and on Skills and as a Board Member the Board for the Society for of the INSEAD Business School Womens Health Research.
in January 2011 and is a Dr Burns holds a PhD in member of the Prime Ministers organic chemistry from Iowa Business Advisory Group.
is a Member of the Singapore Economic Development Boards International Advisory Council and an Adviser to the Governor of Guangzhou, China.
GSK Annual Report 2010 Governance and remuneration P58P101 Business review P08sn057 Governance and remuneration P58P101 Financial statements P102P191 Shareholder information P192P212 59 Our Board Sir Deryck Maughan Dr Daniel Podolsky Tom fide Swaan Aged 64 Aged 63 Aged 57 Appointed on 1st January 2006.
Tom is Chairman of the Sir Deryck is a Partner of Daniel is President of the Supervisory Board of Kohlberg Kravis Roberts & Co, University of Texas Southwestern VanLanschot Bankiers, a member a Non-Executive Director of Medical Center and holds the of the Board of Directors of Thomson Reuters and BlackRock Phillip OBryan Montgomery, Jr. Zurich Financial Services and Inc. as well as serving on the M. D. Distinguished Presidential a Non-Executive Director Board of Directors of Lincoln Chair in Academic Administration, of KPMGs Public Interest Center.
He was formerly and the Doris and Bryan Committee.
He is also Vice Chairman and Chief Executive Wildenthal Distinguished Chair in Chairman of the Supervisory officer of Citigroup International Medical Science.
He is a member Board and Chairman of the Audit and of Salomon Brothers Inc. of the Institute of Medicine of the Committee of Royal Ahold and a US National Academy of Sciences.
member of the Supervisory Board of Royal DSM.
He was previously a member of the Managing Board and Chief Financial officer of ABN AMRO.
James Murdoch Aged 38 Appointed on 20th May 2009.
James is Chairman and Chief Executive, Europe and Asia of Dr Moncef Slaoui Aged 51 Sir Robert Wilson News Corporation.
He is also Appointed on 17th May 2006.
Aged 67 Non-Executive Chairman of Chairman, Research & Appointed on 1st November BSkyB, a member of the Board Development.
2003. of News Corporation and Moncef joined GSK Biologicals Non-Executive Director Non-Executive Director of in 1988 where he engineered & Senior Independent Director.
He previously served the development of a Sir Robert is Non-Executive as Chief Executive officer of robust vaccines pipeline and Chairman of BG Group plc.
BSkyB from 2003 to 2007 and subsequently led Worldwide He was previously Executive was also Chairman and Chief Business Development for Chairman of Rio Tinto plc until Executive officer of Star TV pharmaceuticals before his his retirement in October 2003 from 2000 to 2003. appointment to lead R&D.
and Chairman of The Economist In June 2010 Moncef was Group between 2003 and 2009. given overall responsibility for GSKs Oncology Business and over the next twelve months responsibility for GSK Biologicals will also transition to him.
He is a member of the Board of the Agency for Science, Technology & Research A STAR and has a PhD in Molecular Biology and Immunology from Universit Libre fide Bruxelles.
