14 Products, competition and intellectual property Pharmaceutical products Intellectual property Our principal pharmaceutical products are currently directed to nine Intellectual property is a key business asset for our company, main therapeutic areas.
A description of the products is on pages and the effective legal protection of our intellectual property 15 to 16 and an analysis of sales by therapeutic area, is on page 35. via patents, trademarks, registered designs, copyrights and domain name registrations is critical in ensuring a reasonable Competition return on investment in R&D.
Our principal pharmaceutical competitors range from small to large Trademarks pharmaceutical companies often with substantial resources.
Some of these companies are: All of GSKs commercial products are protected by registered trademarks in major markets.
There may be local variations, s !BBOTT, ABORATORIES for example, in the USA the trademark Advair covers the same s !MGEN product sold in the EU as Seretide.
Trademark protection may generally be extended as long as the trademark is used by s !STRA:ENECA renewing it when necessary.
"GSKs trademarks are important for s ""RISTOLYERS 3QUIBB maintaining the brand identity of its products."
GSK enforces its s %LI, ILLY trademark rights to prevent infringements.
s OHNSON OHNSON Patents sERCK It is our policy to try to obtain patents on commercially important, s. OVARTIS protectable inventions discovered or developed through our R&D s 0lZER activities.
Patent protection for new active ingredients is available s 2OCHE OLDINGS in major markets and patents can also be obtained for new drug s 3ANOl !VENTIS formulations, manufacturing processes, medical uses and devices for administering products.
Although we may obtain patents for Pharmaceuticals may be subject to competition from other products our products, this does not prevent them from being challenged during the period of patent protection and, once off patent, from before they expire.
Further, the grant of a patent does not mean generic versions.
The manufacturers of generic products typically that the issued patent will necessarily be held valid and enforceable do not incur significant research and development or education by a court.
If a court determines that a patent we hold is invalid, and marketing development costs and consequently are able to non infringed or unenforceable, it will not protect the market offer their products at considerably lower prices than the branded from third party entry prior to patent expiry.
As a research and development based company we concerning such challenges is summarised in Note 44 to the will normally seek to achieve a sufciently high profit margin and financial statements, Legal proceedings.
sales volume during the period of patent protection to repay the original investment, which is generally substantial, and to generate The life of a patent in most countries is 20 years from the ling profits and fund research for the future.
However the long development time for pharmaceutical products generally occurs as patents in major markets expire.
products may result in a substantial amount of this patent life being Increasingly patent challenges are made prior to patent expiry, used up before launch.
In some markets including the USA and claiming that the innovator patent is not valid and or that it is Europe it is possible to have some of this lost time restored and this not infringed by the generic product.
Following the loss of patent leads to variations in the amount of patent life actually available for protection, generic products rapidly capture a large share of the each product we market.
Further, certain countries provide a period market, particularly in the USA.
of data or market exclusivity that prevents a third party company from relying on our clinical trial data to enter the market with its We believe that remaining competitive is dependent upon the copy for the period of exclusivity.
discovery and development of new products that deliver value to healthcare providers and improved outcomes for patients, together The patent expiry dates for our significant products are in the with effective marketing of existing products.
Dates provided are for expiry of patents in the USA and major European markets on the active ingredient, Within the pharmaceutical industry, the introduction of new unless otherwise indicated, and include extensions of patent products and processes by our competitors may affect pricing or term, including for paediatric use in the USA, where available.
result in changing patterns of product use.
There is no assurance The patents on vaccines relate to vaccine compositions.
that products will not become outmoded, notwithstanding patent or trademark protection.
In addition, increased government and other pressures for physicians and patients to use generic pharmaceuticals, rather than brand-name medicines, may increase competition for products.
GSK Annual Report 2010 Business review P08P57 Business review P08P57 Governance and remuneration P58P101 Financial statements P102P191 Shareholder information P192P212 15 Products, competition and intellectual property Pharmaceutical products Products Compounds Indication s Major Patent expiry dates competitor brands USA EU Respiratory Veramyst uticasone furoate rhinitis Nasacort 2021 2023 Flixotide Flovent uticasone propionate asthma COPD Qvar, Singulair expired expired compound compound 2011-2016 expired Diskus device Diskus device 2013-2025 2012-2017 HFA-device HFA-device formulation formulation 1 Seretide Advair salmeterol xinafoat asthma COPD Singulair, Symbicort, expired 2013 uticasone propionate Spiriva, Asmanex, Pulmicort, combination combination Foster 2011-2016 expired Diskus device Diskus device 2013-2025 2012-2017 HFA-device HFA-device formulation formulation Serevent salmeterol xinafoate asthma COPD Foradil, Spiriva expired expired compound compound 2011-2016 expired Diskus device Diskus device NA 2012-2019 HFA-device formulation Anti-virals Relenza zanamivir inuenza Tamiu 2013 2014 Valtrex valaciclovir genital herpes, coldsores, Famvir expired expired shingles Zefx Epivir-HBV lamivudine chronic hepatitis B Hepsera 2013 2012 use use Central nervous system Lamictal lamotrigine epilepsy, bipolar disorder Keppra, Dilantin expired expired Imigran Imitrex sumatriptan migraine Zomig, Maxalt, Relpax expired expired Requip ropinirole Parkinsons disease, Mirapex expiredexpired restless legs syndrome Requip XL ropinirole Parkinsons disease Mirapex 2012 2011 formulation use Seroxat Paxil paroxetine depression, various Effexor, Cymbalta, expired expired anxiety disorders Lexapro 1 Treximet sumatriptan and naproxen migraine Zomig, Maxalt, Relpax 2017 NA combination and use Wellbutrin SR bupropion depression Effexor, Cymbalta, expired expired Lexapro Cardiovascular and urogenital Arixtra fondaparinux deep vein thrombosis, Lovenox, Fragmin expired expired pulmonary embolism Innohep 1 Avodart dutasteride benign prostatic hyperplasia Proscar, Flomax, nasteride 2015 2017 Coreg CR carvedilol phosphate mild-to-severe heart failure, Toprol XL 2016 NA hypertension, left ventricular formulation dysfunction post MI Fraxiparine nadroparin deep vein thrombosis, Lovenox, Fragmin expired expired pulmonary embolism Innohep 1 Lovaza omega-3 acid ethyl esters very high triglycerides Tricor 2017 NA formulation See Outlook on page 7 for details of uncertainty on the timing of follow-on competition.
GSK Annual Report 2010 16 Products, competition and intellectual property Pharmaceutical products Products Compounds Indication s Major Patent expiry dates competitor brands USA EU Anti-bacterials Augmentin amoxicillin clavulanate common bacterial generic products expired expired potassium infections Oncology Arzerra ofatumumab refractory chronic MabThera Rituxan pending pending lymphocytic leukaemia Hycamtin topotecan ovarian cancer, small cell Doxil, Gemzar expired2011 lung cancer, cervical cancer Promacta eltrombopag idiopathic thrombocytopenic Nplate 2021 2021 Revolade purpura Tykerb Tyverb lapatanib advanced and metastatic Herceptin 2020 2023 breast cancer in HER2 positive patients Votrient pazopanib metastatic renal cell carcinoma Sutent, Nexavar, Anitor 2021 2021 Vaccines Boostrix diphtheria, tetanus, acellular booster vaccination Adacel 2017 2017 pertussis Infanrix Pediarix diphtheria, tetanus, pertussis, diphtheria, tetanus, pertussis, Pentacel, Pediacel, 2017 2014 polio, hepatitis B HepB, polio, hepatitis B HepB, Pentaxim, Pentavac inactivated antigens Cervarix HPV 16 & 18 virus like particles human papilloma virus Gardasil Silgard 2020 2020 VLPs, AS04 adjuvant MPL type 16 & 18 aluminium hydroxide Fluarix split inactivated inuenza virus seasonal inuenza Vaxigrip, Mutagrip, Fluzone, 2022 2022 subtypes A and type B antigens Inuvac, Aggripal, Fluad FluLaval split inactivated inuenza virus seasonal inuenza Vaxigrip, Mutagrip, Fluzone, none none subtypes A and type B antigens Inuvac, Aggripal, Fluad Pandemrix derived split inactivated A H1N1 v2009 inuenza Focetria, Celvapan, emeru 2014 2014 inuenza virus antigen, prophylaxis A503 adjuvant Prepandrix derived split inactivated inuenza prophylaxis Aunov 2014 2014 inuenza virus antigen, A503 adjuvant Synorix conjugated pneumococcal invasive pneumococcal Prevenar Prevnar NA 2021 polysaccharide disease HIV 1 Combivir lamivudine and zidovudine HIV AIDS Truvada, Atripla 2012 2013 combination combination Epivir lamivudine HIV AIDS Truvada, Atripla expired expired Epzicom Kivexa lamivudine and abacavir HIV AIDS Truvada, Atripla 2016 2016 combination combination Lexiva fosamprenavir HIV AIDS Prezista, Kaletra, Reyataz 2017 2019 Selzentry maraviroc HIV AIDS Isentress, Intelence, Prezista 2021 2021 Trizivir lamivudine, zidovudine HIV AIDS Truvada, Atripla 2016 2016 and abacavir combination combination 1 See Note 44 to the financial statements, Legal proceedings GSK Annual Report 2010 Business review P08P57 Business review P08P57 Governance and remuneration P58P101 Financial statements P102P191 Shareholder information P192P212 17 Products, competition and intellectual property Consumer Healthcare products Brand Products Application Markets Competition Oral healthcare Aquafresh toothpastes, toothbrushes, prevention of caries, gum global Colgate-Palmolives Colgate, mouthwashes disease and bad breath Procter & Gambles Crest Sensodyne toothpastes, toothbrushes prevention of dental global Colgate-Palmolive sensitivity sensitivity toothpastes Biotene mouthwash, gel treat dry mouth many markets none Polident denture adhesive, to improve comfort of global Fixodent Poligrip denture cleanser tted dentures and to Corega clean dentures OTC medicines Panadol tablets, capulets, infant drops paracetamol-based treatment global, except USA Nurofen of headache and joint pain, fever, cold symptoms NicoDerm, gum, patch, mini lozenge, treatment of nicotine global Novartis Nicotinell, NiQuitin CQ, original lozenge withdrawal as an aid to retailers own brands andNicabate.
quitting smoking AlsoNicorette USA only Nutritional healthcare Lucozade energy and sports drinks energy and hydration UK, Ireland, some various sports drinks other markets Horlicks malted, milk-based drinks nutrition UK, Ireland, India Ovaltine, Milo and foods Ribena blackcurrant juice-based vitamin C-delivering UK, Ireland, some Robinsons drink health drink other markets Consumer Healthcare competition GSK holds leading positions in all its key consumer product areas.
Worldwide it is the second largest in OTC medicines and the third largest in Oral healthcare.
In Nutritional healthcare it holds the leading position in the UK, Ireland and India.
The environment in which the Consumer Healthcare business operates has become ever more challenging: s CONSUMERS ARE DEMANDING BETTER QUALITY BETTER VALUE AND IMPROVED PERFORMANCE s RETAILERS HAVE CONSOLIDATED AND GLOBALISED WHICH HAS STRENGTHENED THEIR NEGOTIATION POWER s CYCLE TIMES FOR INNOVATION HAVE REDUCED The main competitors include the major international companies Colgate-Palmolive, Johnson & Johnson, Procter & Gamble, Unilever and Pzer.
In addition, there are many other smaller companies that compete with GSK in certain markets.
The major competitor products in OTC medicines are: s IN THE 53!
-ETAMUCIL LAXATIVE 0EPCID INDIGESTION AND PRIVATE LABEL SMOKING CONTROL PRODUCTS s IN THE 5, EMSIP COLD REMEDY.
UROFEN AND !NADIN ANALGESICS AND.
ICOTINELL SMOKING CONTROL TREATMENTS In Oral healthcare the major competitors are Colgate-Palmolives Colgate and Procter & Gambles Crest.
In Nutritional healthcare the major competitors to Horlicks are Ovaltine and Milo malted food and chocolate drinks.
Competitors to Ribena are primarily local fruit juice products, while Lucozade competes with other energy drinks.
