74 Corporate governance Committee reports Attendance at Board Committees report regularly to the Board on the performance full meetings Members Committee member since during 2010 of the activities they have been assigned.
Mr Tom fide Swaan 1st January 2006 6 6 Audit & Risk Committee Report Chairman from 1st September 2006 Professor Sir Roy 20th May 2009 6 6 Anderson Sir Deryck Maughan 21st January 2005 5 6 Dr Daniel Podolsky 1st January 2007 6 6 Sir Robert Wilson 12th December 2003 6 6 Dear Shareholder The structure of the Committees meetings was changed during 2009.
Meetings have been split into two parts.
Part one deals During 2010, the Committee has focused on a number of with the more fundamental aspects of internal financial control activities associated with and beyond its core financial internal and considers standing items, such as receiving reports from the control responsibilities.
external auditors and Audit & Assurance.
The entire Board is The implementation of the new Assurance model at the end invited to attend part two of the meetings which usually considers of 2009 involved the consolidation of each of the audit groups developments in the external risk environment, receives legal into a new Audit & Assurance function which has enabled updates, new business unit and corporate function reports and reporting to the Committee to be streamlined and helped to reports on the outcome of Strategic Review Evaluations and other ensure that business unit risks and internal audit activity can topical issues.
In addition to the six scheduled meetings, the Committee also met To reflect the Groups strategy to expand further into the on a quorate basis on five occasions.
Emerging Markets, an Eastern hemisphere audit hub has Other attendees at Committee meetings include: been established as a focus for audit activity in the Asia Pacific region.
s #% s #& In response to the new UK Bribery Act a dedicated AntiBribery and Compliance ABAC team has been established, s #HAIRMAN which is part of Audit & Assurance.
Further details of s 'ENERAL #OUNSEL GSKs ABAC programme can be found on the Reports and s EAD OF !UDIT !SSURANCE publications section of the companys website.
s #OMPANY 3ECRETARY At the end of 2010, work commenced to assist the Board s #HAIRMAN 2ESEARCH $EVELOPMENT further in reviewing, and the CET in understanding, the nature s #HIEFEDICAL FlCER and extent of the risks GSK is taking in order to achieve its strategic objectives.
This work will be ongoing as the FRCs s EAD OF 'OVERNANCE %THICS AND !SSURANCE review of the Turnbull Guidance continues.
I will report further s %XTERNAL !UDITORS as this work progresses.
The Committees main responsibilities include: I have continued to visit more of the Groups operations to s 2EVIEWING THE CORPORATE ACCOUNTING AND lNANCIAL REPORTING help make the Committee more accessible to employees and process senior management: to discuss the issues brought to the sONITORING THE INTEGRITY OF THE lNANCIAL STATEMENTS Committee by management: and meet more of the network of Compliance Officers, on whom the Group relies, to oversee s %VALUATING THE SYSTEM OF INTERNAL CONTROL AND IDENTIFYING AND and drive compliance within GSK.
managing risks, including in relation to the financial reporting process and the preparation of consolidated accounts The Committee also continues to examine how to further s VERSEEING ACTIVITIES OF EACH OF THE 'ROUP S COMPLIANCE AND AUDIT improve our approach to Audit & Assurance, as this is an functions and overseeing compliance with laws, regulations and ongoing initiative and further progress in this area will be ethical codes of practice.
The Committees oversight role requires it to address regularly the relationships between management and the internal and external auditors and understand and monitor the reporting relationships and tiers of accountability between them.
Tom fide Swaan Audit & Risk Committee Chairman GSK Annual Report 2010 Governance and remuneration P58P101 Business review P08sn057 Governance and remuneration P58P101 Financial statements P102P191 Shareholder information P192P212 75 Corporate governance The Committee receives regular reports from members of the scientific expertise CET and senior managers covering the key risk management and compliance activities of the Group, including those covering R&D, Professor Sir Roy s !
WORLD RENOWNED MEDICAL SCIENTIST WITH manufacturing, sales and marketing and corporate functions.
Anderson advanced knowledge of infectious disease Further details of the reporting framework to the Committee are epidemiology set out on pages 71 to 73 Internal control framework.
s 0ROFESSOR OF NFECTIOUS $ISEASE %PIDEMIOLOGY in the Faculty of Medicine, Imperial College, In December 2009 the Committees terms of reference were London amended to reect its role in overseeing the identication and management of risk under the new assurance-based audit s &ELLOW OF THE 2OYAL 3OCIETY framework referred to on page 73.
At the same time s &OREIGN !SSOCIATEEMBER OF THE NSTITUTE the name of the Audit Committee was changed to the Audit of Medicine at the US National Academy & Risk Committee.
of Sciences Qualications of Audit & Risk Committee members s &OREIGN !SSOCIATEEMBER OF THE &RENCH Committee members, with the exception of Professor Sir Roy Academy of Sciences Anderson and Dr Daniel Podolsky, bring considerable financial s &ORMER 2ECTOR OF MPERIAL #OLLEGE, ONDON and accounting experience to the Committees work.
Members s &ORMER #HIEF 3CIENTIlC !DVISER AT THEINISTRY have past employment experience in either finance or accounting of Defence in the UK roles or comparable experience in corporate activities.
Professor Sir Roy Anderson and Dr Daniel Podolskys backgrounds as world Dr Daniel Podolsky s A world renowned researcher with renowned medical scientists and researchers enable them to bring advanced knowledge of underlying scientific expertise to the Committees deliberations.
"mechanisms of disease and new therapies for gastrointestinal disorders Financial & accounting experience s 0RESIDENT OF THE 5NIVERSITY OF 4EXAS Mr Tom fide Swaan s #HIEF &INANCIAL FlCER OF !""."
"!-2 UNTIL Southwestern Medical Center and Professor 31st December 2005 of Internal Medicine s $ETERMINED BY THE ""OARD TO BE THE !UDIT sEMBER NSTITUTE OFEDICINE OF THE 53 Committee Financial Expert, as dened by the National Academy of Sciences Sarbanes Oxley Act of 2002 Sarbanes-Oxley s &ORMERALLINCKRODT 0ROFESSOR OFEDICINE s. ON %XECUTIVE $IRECTOR OF 0-' S 0UBLIC Harvard Medical School Interest Committee s &ORMER #HIEF !CADEMIC FlCER 0ARTNERS Healthcare Sir Deryck Maughans !"
0ARTNER OF OHLBERG RAVIS 2OBERTS #O KKR and Chairman of KKR Japan s &ORMER #HAIRMAN #% OF #ITIGROUP International and Vice Chairman of Citigroup Inc. s &ORMER #HAIRMAN AND #O #HIEF %XECUTIVE officer of Salomon Smith Barney s &ORMER #HAIRMAN AND #HIEF %XECUTIVE officer of Salomon Brothers Inc. Sir Robert Wilson s %CONOMIST AND FORMER.
"ON %XECUTIVE Chairman of The Economist Group s #HAIRMAN OF ""' 'ROUP PLC s 2ETIRED FROM 2IO 4INTO IN WHERE HE HELD Senior Management positions culminating in his appointment as Executive Chairman GSK Annual Report 2010 76 Corporate governance In 2010, the Committee worked to a structured programme of In evaluating the effectiveness of the audit process prior to making activities, with standing items that the Committee is required to a recommendation on the re-appointment of the external auditors, consider at each meeting, together with other matters focused to the Committee reviews the effectiveness of their performance coincide with key events of the annual financial reporting cycle: against criteria which it agrees, in conjunction with management, at the beginning of each years audit."
As part of this process, the Committee considers feedback on the prior years external audit External auditors reported on all critical accounting gathered through a survey facilitated by the auditors client service policies, significant judgements and review team, which is independent of the engagement team that practices used by the Group, alternative undertook the audit work.
The survey seeks feedback from a accounting treatments which had been number of sources, including certain members of the Board who discussed with management and their were involved in the audit process and the financial management resultant conclusion, material written team at corporate and business unit level.
communications with management and any restrictions on access to information Before agreeing the audit fee proposed by the external auditors the Committee considers cost comparisons to ensure that it is fair CFO reported on the financial performance of and appropriate for GSK.
There are no contractual obligations that the company and on technical financial restrict the Committees capacity to recommend a particular rm and accounting matters as external auditors to the Group.
 LLP General Counsel reported on material litigation have remained in place as auditors since the Groups inception in December 2000.
Their performance has been reviewed annually by Company Secretary reported on corporate governance and the Committee since that time.
& Corporate on the activities undertaken by the ROCC Compliance officer In making its assessment, the Committee considers papers which detail the relevant UK legislative, regulatory and professional Heads of audit and the majority of the Heads of these groups requirements relating to external auditors and evaluates assurance and the reported on their audit scope, annual reports from the external auditors on their compliance with the Groups compliance coverage, audit resources and on the requirements, on the safeguards that have been established and and audit groups results of audits conducted throughout on their own internal quality control procedures.
Consideration the year is also given by the Committee to the need to include the risk of Company Secretary, reported on matters that affected the the withdrawal of the external auditors from the market in its risk as Chairman of quality and timely disclosure of financial evaluation and planning.
The external auditors are required to the Disclosure and other material information to the rotate the audit engagement partner every five years.
The current Committee Board, to the public markets and to audit partner commenced his engagement on 1st January 2008 shareholders.
This enabled the Audit & and is not subject to rotation until after the audit of GSKs financial Risk Committee to review the clarity and statements for 2012 has been concluded.
completeness of the disclosures in the The Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 prohibits the engagement of the published annual financial statements, external auditors for the provision of certain services such as legal, interim reports, quarterly and preliminary actuarial, internal audit outsourcing, financial information systems results announcements and other formal design.
Where the external auditors are permitted to provide nonannouncements relating to financial audit services, the Committee ensures that auditor objectivity and performance prior to approval by independence are safeguarded by a policy requiring pre-approval by the Board.
the Committee for such services.
These services may include audit, audit-related, tax and other services.
Pre-approval is detailed as to The Committee, management, internal auditors and the full the particular service or categories of services, and is subject to a Board work together to ensure the quality of the companys specic budget.
corporate accounting and financial reporting.
The Committee serves as the primary link between the Board and the external and There are guidelines which set out the Groups policy on engaging internal auditors.
This facilitates the necessary independence from the external auditors to provide non-audit services, which include management and encourages the external and internal auditors to ascertaining that: the skills and experience of the external auditors communicate freely and regularly with the Committee.
In 2010, make them a suitable supplier of the non-audit services: adequate the Committee met both collectively and separately with the safeguards are in place so that the objectivity and independence of external auditors and the Head of Audit & Assurance, and the the Group audit are not threatened or compromised: and the fee Corporate Compliance officer without members of management levels relative to the annual audit fee are within the limits set by being present.
External auditors appointment and fees The external auditors and management report regularly to the The Committee has primary responsibility for making a Committee regarding the extent of services provided in accordance recommendation to shareholders on the appointment, rewith this pre-approval and the fees for the services performed.
The appointment and removal of the external auditors by annually Committee may also pre-approve additional services on a case-byassessing the qualications, expertise, resources and independence case basis.
Expenditure on audit and non-audit services is set out in of the external auditors and the effectiveness of the audit process.
Note 9 to the financial statements, Operating profit.
GSK Annual Report 2010 Governance and remuneration P58P101 Business review P08sn057 Governance and remuneration P58P101 Financial statements P102P191 Shareholder information P192P212 77 Corporate governance Code of Conduct The succession process for the CFO focused on the need both for GSK to operate with creativity and continued financial discipline The company also has a number of well-established policies, and also to identify a candidate who would be able to bring including a Code of Conduct, which is available on its website, and experience and capability to support our strategy to grow and a help-line facility for the reporting and investigation of unlawful diversify GSKs business through organic means and bolt-on conduct.
No waivers to the Code were made in 2010. acquisitions.
The successful candidate would also be responsible for Nominations Committee Report delivering further cost savings as part of our global restructuring programme and implementing additional measures to simplify our operational model.
After considering potential external and internal candidates, the Committee was pleased to recommend Simon Dingemans to the Board, as the companys CFO Designate.
Simon Dingemans was a Managing Director and Partner at Goldman Sachs European M&A business and previously head of UK Investment Banking.
During his 25 years in investment banking he built up relationships and offered strategic advice across Sir Christopher Gent multiple industry sectors, including pharmaceuticals and consumer Nominations Committee Chairman healthcare.
He had worked closely with GSK for many years and had helped establish ViiV Healthcare a new world-leading, specialist Attendance at HIV company.
full meetings Members Committee member since during 2010 The Board approved and announced the appointment of Simon Sir Christopher Gent 9th December 2004 3 3 Dingemans in September 2010 and he then joined GSK in Chairman from January 2011.
1st January 2005 The Committee also recommended the appointment of Dr Patrick Larry Culp 28th March 2008 2 3 Vallance to the CET and as SVP, Drug Discovery and Medicines Sir Crispin Davis 9th July 2009 3 3 Development with effect from 1st July 2010.
He joined GSK in May Sir Deryck Maughan 9th July 2009 2 3 2006 as Head of Drug Discovery.
He has since transformed GSKs discovery engine to focus on therapy areas that are underpinned Sir Robert Wilson 28th March 2008 3 3 by the most promising and mature science, and which offer fresh insights into diseases.
In his new role, he assumed responsibility for In addition to the three scheduled meetings, the Committee also Medicines Development and will be responsible for ensuring that met on a quorate basis on two occasions.
GSK maintains a ow of potential new medicines through the R&D pipeline from early discovery through to late stage development.
Other attendees at Committee meetings: s #% When recruiting Non-Executive Directors, the Committee considers s EAD OF UMAN 2ESOURCES the particular skills, knowledge, independence, diversity and experience that would benefit the Board most signicantly for s #OMPANY 3ECRETARY each appointment.
Broad selection criteria are used which focus on s WHERE RELEVANT APPROPRIATE EXTERNAL ADVISERS achieving a balance between the representation of European, UK, US and Emerging Markets, and having individuals with CEO level The Nominations Committees the Committee main responsibilities experience and skills developed in various sectors and specialities.
include proposing the appointment of Board and Committee members.
During 2010, particular focus continued to be placed upon recruiting a replacement for Dr Ronaldo Schmitz who retired from During 2010, the Committees main focus was on the succession the Board at the AGM in May 2009.
The Committee has placed process for the CFO and the search for new Non-Executive Directors an emphasis on candidates who are current or recently retired to refresh the Board.
CEOs, CFOs, Audit partners or who have other significant financial When appointing new Executive Directors or CET members, the expertise and preferably an individual who brings increased diversity Committee considers the skills, knowledge and experience required to the Boards composition and deliberations.
Professional search for the particular executive position.
The Committee will consider agencies have been engaged who specialise in the recruitment of potential external and internal candidates before recommending high calibre Non-Executive Directors.
Dossiers of potential Nonto the Board to approve the new appointment.
All new Directors Executive appointees have been considered by the Committee and offer themselves for election at the companys next AGM.
Their shortlisted for interview on merit and against objective criteria, after appointments are announced publicly.
Positive progress has been made on the recruitment of new Non-Executive Directors to refresh the Board.
GSK Annual Report 2010 78 Corporate governance Remuneration Report GSKs other CR Principles are discussed at least once every two years.
The Committee also reviews and approves the Corporate The Remuneration Report can be found on pages 81 to 101.
Corporate Responsibility Committee Report Work of the Committee during 2010 CR Principles Committees area of focus during 2010 Access to medicines Access to and pricing of medicines in middle income and least developed countries.
Standards of ethical conduct Embedding ethical values in the organisation.
Research and innovation Policy on use of animals in research and development.
Sir Christopher Gent Research integrity and Corporate Responsibility Committee Chairman transparency.
Attendance at Governance of research full meetings conducted by external suppliers Members Committee member since during 2010 and collaborators.
Sir Christopher Gent 9th December 2004 4 4 R&D on treatments for rare Chairman from conditions and for diseases of the 1st January 2005 developing world.
Dr Stephanie Burns 6th December 2007 3 4 The potential of stem cell science for regenerative medicines.
James Murdoch 20th May 2009 4 4 Employment practices Diversity and inclusion.
Dr Daniel Podolsky 1st July 2006 4 4 Leading and developing employees.
Other attendees at Committee meetings: Employee relations including s #% consultation arrangements.
s 'ENERAL #OUNSEL Realignment of the pay for s EAD OF 'OVERNANCE %THICS AND !SSURANCE performance strategy.
s EAD OF 'LOBAL #OMMUNICATIONS Management of health and s EAD OF #ORPORATE 2ESPONSIBILITY safety risks in manufacturing.
s #OMPANY 3ECRETARY Community investment Community partnerships and s NDEPENDENT %XTERNAL #ORPORATE 2ESPONSIBILITY !DVISER investment.
Independent External Corporate Responsibility Adviser Humanitarian donations.
To augment GSKs engagement with stakeholder opinion, in Caring for the environment Environmental sustainability March 2009, Ms Sophia Tickell was appointed as an independent strategy.
external adviser to the Corporate Responsibility Committee the Management of environment Committee.
Sophia Tickell is the co-founder and Director of risks in manufacturing.
Meteos, from which she directs the Pharma Futures Series, which Products and customers Disclosure of payments to aims to align better societal and shareholder value.
She also sits healthcare professionals.
on the Expert Review Committee of the Access to Medicines Foundation and is a member of the European Healthcare Corporate responsibility is integrated into the management of Innovation Leadership Network.
Throughout this Annual Report you will read of advances to ensure that GSK works as efficiently and effectively Sophia Tickell attends meetings of the Committee and provides as possible whilst ensuring that we always act responsibly.
independent advice and guidance on corporate and social responsibility matters to both the Chairman and CEO.
For those interested in more detail we publish a comprehensive Corporate Responsibility Report which is available on the Main responsibilities of the Committee companys website.
The main responsibilities of the Committee are set out on page 67.
The Committee has a rolling agenda and receives reports from members of the CET and senior managers to ensure that progress on meeting GSKs Corporate Responsibility Principles is reviewed.
The Committee annually reviews progress on the following five Corporate Responsibility CR Principles: s ACCESS TO MEDICINES s STANDARDS OF ETHICAL CONDUCT s RESEARCH AND INNOVATION s EMPLOYMENT PRACTICES AND s COMMUNITY INVESTMENT GSK Annual Report 2010 Governance and remuneration P58P101 Business review P08sn057 Governance and remuneration P58P101 Financial statements P102P191 Shareholder information P192P212 79 Corporate governance US law and regulation Section 302: Corporate responsibility for financial reports A number of provisions of US law and regulation apply to GSK Sarbanes-Oxley also introduced a requirement for the CEO and the because the companys shares are quoted on the NYSE in the form CFO to complete formal certications, conrming that: of ADS.
s THEY HAVE EACH REVIEWED THE !NNUAL 2EPORT AND &ORM & NYSE rules s BASED ON THEIR KNOWLEDGE IT CONTAINS NO MATERIAL MISSTATEMENTS In general, the NYSE rules permit the company to follow UK or omissions corporate governance practices instead of those applied in the USA, s BASED ON THEIR KNOWLEDGE THE lNANCIAL STATEMENTS AND OTHER provided that the company explains any significant variations.
This financial information fairly present, in all material respects, the explanation is contained in the companys Form 20-F ling, which financial condition, results of operations and cash ows as of the can be accessed from the Securities and Exchange Commissions dates, and for the periods, presented in the Annual Report and SEC EDGAR database or via the companys website.
NYSE rules Form 20-F that came into effect in 2005 require the company to le annual and interim written afrmations concerning the Audit & Risk s THEY ARE RESPONSIBLE FOR ESTABLISHING AND MAINTAINING DISCLOSURE Committee and the companys statement on significant differences controls and procedures that ensure that material information is in corporate governance.
made known to them, and have evaluated the effectiveness of these controls and procedures as at the year-end, the results of Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 such evaluation being contained in the Annual Report and Following a number of corporate and accounting scandals in the Form 20-F USA, Congress passed the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002.
SarbanesOxley is a wide ranging piece of legislation concerned largely with s THEY ARE RESPONSIBLE FOR ESTABLISHING AND MAINTAINING INTERNAL financial reporting and corporate governance.
control over financial reporting that provides reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and As recommended by the SEC, GSK has established a Disclosure the preparation of financial statements for external purposes in Committee.
The Committee reports to the CEO, the CFO and to accordance with generally accepted accounting principles the Audit & Risk Committee.
It is chaired by the Company Secretary and the members consist of senior managers from finance, legal, s THEY HAVE DISCLOSED IN THE !NNUAL 2EPORT AND &ORM & ANY compliance, corporate communications and investor relations.
changes in internal controls over financial reporting during the period covered by the Annual Report and Form 20-F that have External legal counsel, the external auditors and internal experts materially affected, or are reasonably likely to affect materially, are invited to attend its meetings periodically.
It has responsibility the companys internal control over financial reporting for considering the materiality of information and, on a timely basis, determining the disclosure of that information.
It has s THEY HAVE DISCLOSED BASED ON THEIR MOST RECENT EVALUATION OF responsibility for the timely ling of reports with the SEC and the internal control over financial reporting, to the external auditors formal review of the Annual Report and Form 20-F.
In 2010, the and the Audit & Risk Committee, all significant deficiencies Committee met 6 times.
and material weaknesses in the design or operation of internal controls over financial reporting which are reasonably likely Sarbanes-Oxley requires that the Annual Report contains a to affect adversely the companys ability to record, process, statement as to whether a member of the companys Audit & Risk summarise and report financial information, and any fraud Committee is an Audit Committee Financial Expert as dened by regardless of materiality involving persons that have a significant Sarbanes-Oxley.
For a summary regarding the Boards judgement role in the companys internal control over financial reporting.
on this matter, refer to page 75.
Additional disclosure requirements arise under section 302 and section 404 of Sarbanes-Oxley in The Group has carried out an evaluation under the supervision respect of disclosure controls and procedures and internal control and with the participation of the Groups management, including over financial reporting.
the CEO and CFO, of the effectiveness of the design and operation of the Groups disclosure controls and procedures as at 31st December 2010.
There are inherent limitations to the effectiveness of any system of disclosure controls and procedures, including the possibility of human error and the circumvention or overriding of the controls and procedures.
Accordingly, even effective disclosure controls and procedures can only provide reasonable assurance of achieving their control objectives.
The CEO and CFO expect to complete these certications and report their conclusions on the effectiveness of disclosure controls and procedures on 4th March 2011, following which the certicates will be led with the SEC as part of the Groups Form 20-F. GSK Annual Report 2010 80 Corporate governance Section 404: Managements annual report on internal control over financial reporting In accordance with the requirements of section 404 of SarbanesOxley, the following report is provided by management in respect of the Companys internal control over financial reporting as dened in Rules 13a-15 f and 15d-15 f under the US Securities Exchange Act of 1934 : sANAGEMENT IS RESPONSIBLE FOR ESTABLISHING AND MAINTAINING adequate internal control over financial reporting for the Group.
Internal control over financial reporting is designed to provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of financial statements for external purposes in accordance with IFRS sANAGEMENT CONDUCTED AN EVALUATION OF THE EFFECTIVENESS of internal control over financial reporting based on the framework in Internal Control Integrated Framework issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organisations of the Treadway Commission s 4HERE HAVE BEEN NO CHANGES IN THE 'ROUP S INTERNAL CONTROL OVER financial reporting during 2010 that have materially affected, or are reasonably likely to affect materially, the Groups internal control over financial reporting sANAGEMENT HAS ASSESSED THE EFFECTIVENESS OF INTERNAL CONTROL over financial reporting, as at 31st December 2010 and its conclusion will be led as part of the Groups Form 20-F s 0RICEWATERHOUSE#OOPERS, , 0 WHICH HAS AUDITED THE CONSOLIDATED financial statements of the Group for the year ended 31st December 2010, has also assessed the effectiveness of the Groups internal control over financial reporting under Auditing Standard No.
5 of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board United States.
Their audit report will be led with the Groups Form 20-F GSK Annual Report 2010 Governance and remuneration P58P101 Business review P08P57 Governance and remuneration P58P101 Financial statements P102P191 Shareholder information P192P212 81 Remuneration Report Sir Crispin Davis Remuneration Committee Chairman Dear Shareholder On behalf of the Board, I am pleased to present our Remuneration Report for 2010, for which we will be seeking your approval at our AGM in May.
Over the last few years, the Remuneration Committee the Committee has implemented a number of changes, including more tailored benchmarking versus the market, and simplifying and aligning remuneration across the Corporate Executive Team.
Throughout we have consulted with shareholders and have been encouraged by the level of support.
As previewed last year, in 2010 our priority was to align more closely Executive remuneration with GSKs strategic priorities, and to enhance our governance practices.
This report describes how we are progressing against these objectives.
Strategic alignment of long-term incentives The Board has carried out a thorough review of GSKs key strategic priorities, which are described on page 7 of the Annual Report.
The Board rmly believes achievement against these priorities will deliver strong long-term financial performance and shareholder value creation on a sustainable basis.
Accordingly in 2010 we have moved to align long-term performance incentives more closely with the Groups key strategic priorities.
This will help ensure senior management are fully focused on the right priorities, with incentives to deliver against them.
"The long-term incentive awards we made in February 2011 were therefore based on four equally weighted performance measures which directly link to the Groups key strategic priorities and the overarching goal to deliver value to shareholders: Key Strategic Priorities Long-Term Incentive Performance Measure s 'ROW A DIVERSIlED GLOBAL BUSINESS s ""USINESS DIVERSIlCATION PERFORMANCE s $ELIVER MORE PRODUCTS OF VALUE s 2 $ NEW PRODUCT PERFORMANCE s 3IMPLIFY THE OPERATING MODEL s !DJUSTED FREE CASH mOW s $ELIVER VALUE TO SHAREHOLDERS s 2ELATIVE total shareholder return TSR The targets set out by the Committee are challenging and will require significant stretch performance."
The targets for adjusted fREE CASH mOW and relative TSR are set out on page 88.
However, given the very close linkage of the performance measures for business diversication and 2 $ new product performance to our strategy, these targets are commercially very sensitive and will not be published at date of grant.
We will, though, update you regularly on the progress achieved during the performance period.
The targets and outcomes for the awards will be disclosed in full at the end of the performance period.
"7E BELIEVE THE COMBINATION OF THESE FOUR MEASURES APPLIED TO OUR 0ERFORMANCE 3HARE 0LAN AND $EFERRED !NNUAL ""ONUS 0LAN WILL ENSURE THAT we have a balanced framework of targets which focus on each of our strategic objectives."
"4HIS YEAR WAS THE lRST YEAR THAT ALL %XECUTIVES WERE ELIGIBLE TO PARTICIPATE IN OUR $EFERRED !NNUAL ""ONUS 0LAN WHICH WAS INTRODUCED IN to encourage long-term shareholding and to drive shareholder returns."
I am very pleased to report that take-up has been very positive.
Governance Following on from the progress we reported in last years Remuneration Report, we are now pleased to report that all our continuing Executive $IRECTORS CONTRACTS HAVE SEVERANCE TERMS OF ONE YEAR S BASE SALARY ONLY 3IMILARLY TO !NDREW 7ITTY $RONCEF 3LAOUI #HAIRMAN 2 $ HAS voluntarily agreed to remove the contractual entitlement to bonus from his severance terms.
The severance terms in the contract for Simon $INGEMANS OUR NEW #& ARE ALSO BASED ON ONE YEAR S BASE SALARY N ORDER TO EFFECTIVELY MANAGE RISK WE WILL CONTINUE TO OPERATE THE @CLAWBACK MECHANISM INTRODUCED IN FOR ANNUAL BONUSES AND LONG TERM incentive awards should problems arise in the years after an award has been made.
We have adapted UK pension arrangements in the light of new pension tax legislation to continue to meet our long-standing commitments.
However, the company will not offset any additional individual tax costs.
%ACH YEAR WE REVIEW THE MARKET COMPETITIVENESS OF %XECUTIVE $IRECTORS BASE SALARIES AND PACKAGES TAKING INTO ACCOUNT THE PREVAILING ECONOMIC conditions and the positioning and relativities of pay across the broader GSK workforce.
"As a result of that review, to ensure appropriate market COMPETITIVENESS IN THE CONTEXT OF $RONCEF 3LAOUI S ENHANCED ROLE INCLUDING THE TRANSITION OF RESPONSIBILITY FOR ""IOLOGICALS HE WILL RECEIVE AN INCREASE TO HIS BASE SALARY !NDREW 7ITTY AND 3IMON $INGEMANS WILL NOT RECEIVE ANY INCREASE IN BASE SALARY We believe that the changes we have made in recent years support the long-term success of the business and as such are in the best interests of shareholders."
Sir Crispin Davis Remuneration Committee Chairman 1st March 2011 GSK Annual Report 2010 82 Remuneration Report In addition, Allen Powley Senior Vice President, Corporate The Remuneration Committee Compensation and Judy Lynch Senior Vice President, Benets Role of the Committee were also invited to some meetings as required.
The role of the Committee is to set the companys remuneration POLICY FOR %XECUTIVE $IRECTORS AND #ORPORATE %XECUTIVE 4EAM #%4 With the exception of Victoria Whyte Company Secretary and members together the Executives, so that GSK is able to recruit, Secretary to the Committee, no employees of the company are retain and motivate its Executives.
The policy is regularly reviewed involved in the conduct of Committee meetings.
to ensure that it is consistent with the companys scale and scope 4HE #OMMITTEE HAS ACCESS TO EXTERNAL ADVICE AS REQUIRED $ELOITTE of operations, supports the business strategy and growth plans LLP has been appointed by the Committee to provide it with and helps drive the creation of shareholder value.
INDEPENDENT ADVICE ON EXECUTIVE REMUNERATION $URING THE YEAR $ELOITTE, , 0 PROVIDED INDEPENDENT COMMENTARY ON MATTERS UNDER In setting remuneration policy and levels for the most senior consideration by the Committee, and provided updates on best executives, the Committee gives consideration to remuneration policy and levels for the wider employee population of the Group, practice, legislative requirements and market practice.
as well as ensuring that remuneration is consistent with industry $ELOITTE, , 0 ALSO PROVIDED OTHER CONSULTING TAX AND ASSURANCE and broader market norms.
services to GSK during the year, but did not provide advice on Terms of reference executive remuneration matters other than for the Committee.
The Committees full terms of reference are available on the Towers Watson and Pay Governance provided additional market companys website.
The terms of reference, which are reviewed data to the Committee.
annually, were revised in January 2011 in the light of best practice Commitment to shareholders and corporate governance developments.
The Committee engages in regular dialogue with shareholders and Governance holds annual meetings with GSKs largest investors to discuss and The Board considers all of the members of the Committee to be take feedback on its remuneration policy, governance matters and INDEPENDENT.
ON %XECUTIVE $IRECTORS IN ACCORDANCE WITH THE any key developments during the year.
In particular, the Committee Combined Code, with the exception of Sir Christopher Gent, discusses any significant changes to the policy or the measures Chairman of the company, who was independent on appointment.
The Committee met six times during 2010, with each member The annual meetings were held in November 2010, at which attending as follows: 3IR #RISPIN $AVIS #OMMITTEE #HAIRMAN SHARED PROGRESS ON Attendance remuneration matters in the last 12 months and proposals for 2011 at full meetings as outlined on page 84.
Sir Christopher Gent, Chairman, updated Committee member during attendees on Corporate Governance developments.
Members since 2010 3IR #RISPIN $AVIS 1st July 2003 6 6 #HAIRMAN FROM THAY Sir Robert Wilson 1st January 2004 3 3 to 25th March 2010 Larry Culp 1st January 2004 4 6 Sir Christopher Gent 1st January 2007 6 6 James Murdoch ST CTOBER 6 6 Tom fide Swaan THAY 6 6 Larry Culp was unable to attend two meetings for personal reasons.
He reviewed the papers and provided his views to the Committee Chairman in advance of these meetings.
4OM fide 3WAAN IS ALSO THE #HAIRMAN OF THE !UDIT 2ISK #OMMITTEE In addition to the six scheduled meetings, the Committee also met on a quorate basis on three occasions, principally to approve the formal grant and vesting of long-term incentive LTI awards in accordance with GSKs remuneration policy.
Andrew Witty CEO and Claire Thomas Senior Vice President, Human Resources were invited to attend part of some meetings of the Committee as required.
No Executives or Committee attendees are involved in any decision or are present at any discussion as to their own remuneration.
GSK Annual Report 2010 Governance and remuneration P58P101 Business review P08P57 Governance and remuneration P58P101 Financial statements P102P191 Shareholder information P192P212 83 Remuneration Report A diary of the Committees key activities and matters addressed during 2010 is set out below: Month Executives Remuneration Annual bonus Long-term incentive plans Governance and other matters January Approve CET 2010 Set CEO 2010 bonus Annual Committee remuneration, including objectives evaluation results salaries of CEO, CFO and #HAIRMAN 2 $ Review bonus plan Review remuneration report arrangements for #HAIRMAN 2 $ Review 2010 remuneration budget Review voting policy guidelines on remuneration February Review and approve 3ET 030 CASH mOW TARGET Approve remuneration %XECUTIVE $IRECTORS report and#%4 BONUSES Approve 2007 PSP and Share Option Plan vesting Grant 2010 LTI awards to %XECUTIVE $IRECTORS #%4 AND below Approve deferred annual bonus award elections March Scope review of strategic Review voting policy alignment of LTI performance guidelines on remuneration measures July Agree CFO retirement and Review progress Review of strategic alignment Review of general market appointment packages against 2010 bonus of LTI performance measures developments including objectives pensions Grant interim 2010 LTI awards October Agree CET 2011 salary Review CET 2010 Review of strategic alignment Annual Committee review process bonus process of LTI performance measures assessment November Annual meetings with Annual meetings with investors investors $ECEMBER Consider feedback from Consider new LTI performance Review tax change annual meetings with targets framework implications for pension investors on remuneration arrangements policy Review remuneration benchmarking and competitiveness below CET level GSK Annual Report 2010
