DIRECTORS REPORT:BUSINESS REVIEW STRATEGIC REVIEW Our long term strategy is to deliver high quality passenger transport services in dense urban markets, primarily through bus and rail.
STRATEGIC PRIORITIES We have made significant progress with our strategy over the financial TO RUN OUR COMPANIES INA SAFE, year.
We disposed of the majority of our loss making aviation services 1 SOCIALLYAND ENVIRONMENTALLY division in January 2010 enabling us to focus on growing our core bus RESPONSIBLE MANNER and rail operations.
As a public transport operator, corporate responsibility We remain committed to the UK market.
We are recognised as having is integral to the way we run our business.
Ensuring the significant expertise in UK bus and rail which is welcomed by our safety of our passengers and employees is an absolute shareholders and will remain our primary focus.
However, following a priority for the Group.
We are also committed to reducing review of potential growth opportunities outside the UK, we decided the environmental impacts of our operations and strongly to enter the North American yellow school bus market.
In November believe that a sustainable public transport network is 2009, we announced we had established a small joint venture with an essential to the future of the UK.
This represents a low risk means of market entry and we will continue to maintain a cautious approach to TO PROVIDE HIGH QUALITY developing this business.
2 LOCALLY FOCUSED PASSENGER Operating responsibly is a vital part of the Groups strategy.
Providing TRANSPORT SERVICES safe, punctual and customer focused services is an integral part of our We believe providing a reliable and convenient service day-to-day operations.
In addition, we are committed to improving the encourages passenger growth and offers an attractive energy efficiency of our operations.
This reduces our impact on the alternative to the private car.
Our unique devolved structure environment and generates significant cost savings.
ensures a strong local focus to provide our passengers with high quality bus and rail services.
Our simple, but effective strategy has successfully continued to deliver shareholder value through the economic cycle.
Our bus operations provide strong and stable cashflows and, although the rail industry has been through a challenging period, we believe that fundamentally it is a good business and look forward to working with the new TO PRIORITISE OUR OPERATIONS IN HIGH 3 DENSITY URBAN MARKETS INTHE UK Government on the potential improvements to the franchise model.
We focus our operations in high density commuter The devolved nature of Go-Ahead differentiates us from the other markets, predominantly in the South East of the UK, large public transport groups.
We continue to believe that a flat, where there is strong demand for public transport.
decentralised structure is the most effective way to run our Group.
The UK will remain our primary focus however we We empower our local managers to deliver services in their own will consider investment in overseas operations if markets.
This local focus ensures close links to the community, helping we believe it will add shareholder value.
us to provide high quality services tailored to local circumstances, whilst being part of a large Group provides financial efficiencies and sharing of knowledge and best practice.
The flat structure of the Group means the Executive Directors stay close to the operating and financial performance of each company.
TO RUN OUR BUSINESSWITH STRONG 4 FINANCIAL DISCIPLINETO DELIVER SHAREHOLDERVALUE Our aim is to deliver shareholder value through a See our strategy in action on pages 14 17 combination of earnings growth, strong cash generation and balance sheet management, supplemented by value adding acquisitions and disposals.
1 RIDDOR - the Reporting of Injuries, Diseases and Dangerous Occurrences Regulations.
See page 18 for more information.
2 SPADs Signals Passed at Danger.
com Strategy 2010 PROGRESS KPIS 2011 PRIORITIES RISKS 1 Maintained strong safety performance: RIDDOR accidents per Further improve safety, working towards Major accident or incident including 1 employee RIDDOR accidents reduced by 100 employees target to improve KPIs by 20% by 2015 terrorism or act of God or pandemic - 2 16%, bus accidents down 6% and SPADs potential for serious injury, service disruption Bus accidents per Make further progress on our reduced by 10% and lost earnings million miles commitment to reduce carbon Progress in fuel economy, including a 14% emissions by 20% by 2015 per 2 SPADs per million miles improvement in rail electricity efficiency passenger journey Carbon emissions per Site energy reduced by 9% Reduce site energy by a further 8% passenger journey Carbon emissions per passenger journey Maintain momentum amongst bus reduced by 5% and train drivers to further improve energy efficiency Committed to a five year carbon reduction strategyDriving energy further Reduce water consumption by 10% Maintained high levels of punctuality at Rail punctuality Maintain high levels of punctuality Major accident or incident including around 90% across our bus and rail services terrorism or act of God or pandemic London bus excess Further improve customer satisfaction Excess waiting time in London bus remained waiting time Economic downturn has a negative impact Roll out smartcards across more low despite roadworks on the Groups businesses and demand Deregulated bus companies for services Highest rail customer satisfaction scores punctuality Increase rail online sales by 20% achieved in Spring National Passenger Political and regulatory changes and Customer satisfaction Survey availability of public funding Pioneering industry marketing campaign Loss of business to competitors launched at Southern London bus contracts not renewed Successful trials of Go-Aheads smartcard Breach of franchise agreements the key Invested over 35m in UK bus acquisitions Value adding acquisitions Assess UK bolt-on bus acquisition Economic downturn has a negative impact opportunities on the Groups businesses and demand for Bus and rail passenger journeys increased by Passenger journeys services 8.7% and 3.2% respectively Successfully operate our first yellow school bus contract Political and regulatory changes and Successful transition to new Southern availability of public funding franchise Work closely with Government on review of future of rail franchising Loss of business to competitors Established small yellow school bus joint venture in North America London bus contracts not renewed Prequalified for the London commuter Breach of franchise agreements based Greater Anglia franchise before the Financing risk loss of liquidity, credit risk on bid process was cancelled by the new cash investments, interest rate risk Government Strong cash management Operating profit growth Continue to manage cash closely to Economic downturn has a negative impact convert EBITDA into operating cash on the Groups businesses and demand for Net debt further reduced Cashflow to EBITDA services Prioritise maintaining the amount of Maintained dividend at 81.0p per share Capital investment to dividend per share Major accident or incident including 1 depreciation Issued 200m 7 year sterling bond 2 terrorism or act of God or pandemic Maintain adjusted net debt to EBITDA Dividend cover Initiated investment grade ratings from between 1.5x and 2.5x through the Inappropriate strategy or investment Standard & Poors BBBand Moodys Adjusted net debt to economic cycle Political and regulatory changes and Baa3 EBITDA availability of public funding Financing risk loss of liquidity, credit risk on cash investments, interest rate risk See pages 18-21 for further See pages 22-25 for further details on risks, including details on our KPIs.
The Go-Ahead Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2010 13 Financial Statements Directors Report: Corporate Governance Directors Report: Business Review
