DIRECTORS REPORT:BUSINESS REVIEW STRATEGY INACTION:A GOOD PLACETO BE 12 Delivering on strategic priorities 2, 3 and 4 34 FOCUSED ON BUS Our strategy is to deliver high quality transport services, primarily through bus and rail.
We have now disposed of the majority of our loss making aviation services division, enabling us to focus on growing our core bus and rail operations.
STRENGTHENED OUR POSITION IN KEY URBAN AREAS THROUGH INVESTMENT OF OVER 35 MILLION IN UK BUS ACQUISITIONS Plymouth Citybus was our largest acquisition.
Acquired from Plymouth City Council in December 2009 for 19.0m, the company is the market leading bus operator in the City of Plymouth and surrounding areas.
Our devolved structure, which empowers local management teams, and our focus on local identity were favourable factors for the council when considering potential buyers.
Other bus transactions in the financial year included: EastThames Buses bought fromTransport for London Acquisition of Arrivas Horsham operations Konectbus, Norwich based company acquired from private operator Arrivas Hexham operations acquired.
Go-Aheads Ashington depot sold to Arriva.
Growth opportunities We currently operate around 5% of the deregulated market and aim to grow this part of our business.
ENTERED THE NORTH AMERICAN YELLOW SCHOOL BUS MARKET We are pleased to have entered a joint venture arrangement with Cook Illinois, a well-established, high quality operator in Illinois.
The joint venture has won its first contract and successfully started to operate 120 buses in St Louis, Missouri, in August 2010.
The contact is for three years with two one year extension options.
Our share of the joint venture investment is expected to be around $6 million.
Growth opportunities We are taking a cautious approach to developing our North American yellow school bus business but believe the market presents good long term growth prospects.
com Strategy AND RAIL We have made good strategic progress over the financial year.
We have acquisitively grown our bus division and continue to focus on strong commuter rail links into London.
LAUNCHED THE UKS FIRST HIGH SPEED SUCCESSFUL STARTTO NEW DOMESTIC RAIL SERVICE SOUTHERN FRANCHISE In December 2009, our Southeastern rail franchise We began operating the new Southern franchise in launched the UKs first high speed domestic rail service September 2009 after successfully retaining the business between central London and Kent.
The trains run at speeds following a rigorous bidding competition.
The franchise of up to 140 mph, significantly reducing journey times into operates frequent services from central London to South the capital.
Operationally the service has been a huge London and the South Coast.
The transition to the new success and was recently rated the UKs most customer franchise at the end of last year went extremely well, and the focused rail service.
We see the successful delivery of this experienced and highly capable management team is making project as a significant achievement for the Group.
The timing of this franchise means that current macro-economic forecasts remain similar to those used in The service has opened up new markets among people 1 the bid in early 2009.
The franchise runs until June 2017. previously commuting by car to London and the Docklands, and will play a key role in the 2012 London Olympics with Stratford International only seven minutes away from St Pancras International.
Ashford to London 1 hour 24 minutes reduced to 37 minutes.
2 For 4 extra a day Growth opportunities In March 2010, we submitted an initial entry bid for the London commuter based Greater Anglia franchise through Go-Ahead rather than the Govia joint venture.
Feedback from the Department forTransport indicates we would have been included on the bidder shortlist.
However, the competition was cancelled by the new Government while they review the franchise model.
We look forward to seeing how the review process changes the new tender, expected at the end of 2010.
1 Assuming a two year extension at the DfTs discretion is granted.
2 Based on a weekly high speed service ticket compared with the mainline service.
The Go-Ahead Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2010 15 Financial Statements Directors Report: Corporate Governance Directors Report: Business Review DIRECTORS REPORT:BUSINESS REVIEW STRATEGY INACTION CONTINUED:A GOOD PLACETO BE 12 Delivering on strategic priorities 1, 2, and 4 34 QUALITYAND INNOVATION Our bus and rail operations continue to perform with high levels of punctuality and customer satisfaction.
In response to changing consumer behaviour, we have made innovative progress with online retailing, improving the passenger experience and generating revenues.
CUSTOMER SATISFACTION Our three train operating companies each achieved their best ever customer satisfaction scores in the Spring 2010 National Passenger Survey.
Highlights include the Gatwick Express part of Southern achieving 93% and the new high speed service part of Southeastern scoring 95%.
PIONEERING MARKETING CAMPAIGN In November 2009 Southern launched a pioneering marketing campaign, with the comical character LocoToledo heading up the promotion.
Since its introduction, online sales have grown from around 1.5m to nearly 15m, with over a third of sales coming from new customers.
The LocoToledo campaign won theTravel Information and Marketing Award at the 2010 NationalTransport Awards.
SMARTCARDS The success ofTransport for Londons Oyster smartcard demonstrates that passengers find using the card a convenient and efficient way to travel.
More than 80% of all journeys made onTransport for London services use the Oyster card.
At Go-Ahead we have begun to roll out our own smartcard the key across our bus and rail companies enabling us to provide a higher quality of service to our passengers.
Growth opportunities Progress with online retailing and smartcards improves the customer experience and enables us to better understand our passengers buying and travelling patterns.
This means we are able to develop effective and targeted marketing and new products tailored to customers needs, generating new revenue streams.
com Rail Our Markets Bus Q&A Strategy Finance Other Services CSR Strategy 12 Delivering on strategic priorities 1 and 4 34 DRIVING ENERGY FURTHER Climate change is one of the biggest challenges facing the world today.
Reducing our environmental impact is an integral part of the Groups strategy.
It helps to ensure we are a responsible operator as well as realising significant cost savings.
20% 19% 18% REDUCING OUR CARBON FOOTPRINT We have led the way in introducing innovative solutions aimed at reducing our CO2 reduction target: 17% 1 carbon footprint and were the first public transport group to receive the 20% by 2015 ppj CarbonTrust Standard in recognition of our work.
16% Over the past couple of years we have invested around 8 million in energy 15% projects which have successfully delivered fuel efficiency on our trains and 20% 14% buses and reduced site energy consumption.
19% To date, we estimate these projects have resulted in carbon emission 13% 18% reductions of over 80,000 tonnes and a cost saving payback period of less 12% 17% than one year.
16% 11% TARGET:REDUCE CARBON EMISSIONS 15% BY 20% BY 2015 p pe er r p pa as ss se en ng ge er r jjo ou ur rn ne ey y p pp pjj 10% 14% We are committed to doing more and our five year target marks 13% 9% our determination to continually seek ways of making our traction 12% electricity, diesel fuel and site energy go that bit further.
Our aim 8% 11% also includes encouraging more people to use public transport by providing high quality, convenient and value for money 10% 7% Progress so far: 9% transport solutions.
9% 6% 8% Growth opportunities 7% 5% Demonstrating that we are a responsible operator 6% is important to our stakeholders and our 4% 5% environmental credentials increasingly play an 3% important role in helping us win contracts and grow 4% the business.
Public transport is the most carbon 3% 2% efficient mode of mass transit and will therefore 2% play a vital role in reducing carbon emissions.
1% 1% 0% 0% For more information visit Driving energy further our vision for a sustainable future.
Available on our website from October 2010.
1 Our target uses the 2008 financial year as our benchmark.
The Go-Ahead Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2010 1 17 7 Financial Statements Directors Report: Corporate Governance Directors Report: Business Review
