DIRECTORS REPORT:BUSINESS REVIEW MARKET OVERVIEW The economic downturn has presented some challenging market conditions for the industry and the impact of public spending cuts remains unclear.
However, the fundamentals of public transport remain strong.
Growth in the sector is essential to the economic and sustainable future of the UK.
To date, little additional detail around the proposed cuts has been Impact of economic downturn published.
More information and further spending reductions are Two important drivers of transport businesses are economic expected in the Comprehensive Spending Review in October growth GDP and employment.
It is believed that many of the savings will come from large 2010, UK GDP declined by 1.7% and employment rose marginally 1 scale infrastructure projects which would not directly affect day-toby 0.36%.
Whilst the economic climate made UK market day public transport services.
However, there are some risks conditions difficult, in particular causing a reduction in discretionary to public transport operators, with the bus industry potentially travel, urban bus operations proved to be relatively resilient and the exposed to cuts.
The table opposite shows the main risks, impact on commuter rail franchises was less than some had consequences and certain mitigating factors.
This may be in part due to further improvements in service quality and value for money compared with other modes of Broadly speaking, rail operators are protected from cuts in transport.
In addition, there has been a focus on cost reduction transport spending because franchise contracts, which typically across the industry to limit the adverse impact of the economic last for around eight years, are legally binding.
Sector activity Rail franchise reform In April 2010 Deutsche Bahn announced that a recommended cash The recession has highlighted issues with the existing rail franchise offer had been agreed to purchase Arriva.
In November 2009, the East Coast inter-city franchise was completed in August 2010 and this means there are now four listed handed back to the Government.
At present almost all franchises UK public transport groups in the UK: Go-Ahead, FirstGroup, which are eligible for revenue support are receiving it.
This situation National Express and Stagecoach.
The UK public transport market is is not beneficial to the Government or the industry and as a result the most liberalised in Europe but the Continental European market in July 2010 the new Government published a consultation is in the process of becoming more deregulated.
"A number of document entitled ""Shaping the future of rail franchising."
Whilst this European players operate in the UK public transport market, is still at the consultation stage we see the potential changes including SNCF, Ned Railways, Transdev and Deutsche Bahn.
outlined in the document as a positive step for the rail industry and look forward to working with the new Government.
Long term growth We remain cautious on the near term outlook for the UK Department forTransport public spending cuts economy as the new Government begins to tackle the UKs budget In June 2010 the Government announced its initial cuts to transport deficit.
However, despite the near term uncertainty, we believe in spending.
It stated that 683m will be cut from the Department for the fundamental strengths of public transport and long term Transports 22bn budget for the 2010 11 financial year as part of growth in the sector.
An efficient public transport system the programme of cuts to tackle the national budget deficit.
strengthens the economy, creates jobs, reduces traffic congestion and air pollution, and helps tackle social exclusion.
This is recognised by the Government and other major political parties, with a clear acceptance that the private sector is best placed to deliver and grow these services.
THE GOVERNMENT BELIEVESTHAT A MODERNTRANSPORT INFRASTRUCTURE IS ESSENTIAL FOR A DYNAMIC AND ENTREPRENEURIAL ECONOMY.
New Government, May 2010 Detailed information on our bus and rail markets is provided in the operating reviews: Bus: pages 30-37 Rail: pages 38-44 8 www.
com Market overview Potential impacts of Government transport spending cuts Description Approximate total Relevance to Go-Ahead Potential consequences Government funding mitigation 2 per annum Bus service 500 million Go-Ahead receives approximately In London any changes to BSOG are operators grant BSOG 48m through BSOG, with just likely to be passed on toTfL on Typically bus operators over half in London.
Outside London, receive a fuel duty rebate operators would need to look at ways Equivalent to around 8% of 43 pence per litre.
to recover the extra costs, potentially of bus revenue.
through network reduction and fare increases.
See page 34 for more information on the composition of Go-Aheads fuel costs.
Bus concessionary fares 1.2 billion Concessionary passengers represent The concessionary fares scheme has Currently anyone aged 60 around 30% of Go-Aheads proved very popular and it is believed it or over is eligible to travel deregulated bus passengers and would be difficult for the Government for free on any off peak around 20% of deregulated bus to withdraw it completely.
However, if local bus service in England.
revenue, equivalent to approximately the fund reduced and eligibility changed, 60 million.
operators would need to look at ways Local authorities receive a to recover the extra costs, potentially fund from the Government Overall, our average reimbursement through network reduction and fare which they use to rates are around 50-60%.
reimburse bus operators In London we are not exposed a percentage of the full fare.
to the scheme as we do not collect passenger revenue.
Tendered bus services 1.2 billion Go-Ahead operates around 21% Bus is the most frequently used mode Transport for London TfL of the London bus market.
of transport in London and is vital to Includes subsidy tenders bus routes in the the capital.
TfLs business plan 2009 10- toTfL of c. 600m Less than 10% of Go-Aheads capital.
Outside London, bus 2017 18 outlines ways to reduce deregulated operations are routes which are not the bus subsidy whilst maintaining tendered.
We focus on high commercially viable, such as the network.
density commuter areas where non-frequent rural services, we operate commercially Outside London, some rural routes are tendered by local run services.
could be withdrawn but it is unlikely authorities.
to have a material effect on Go-Ahead.
3 Department forTransport spending, 2008 09 Breakdown of initial Government cuts to transport spend, 4 2010 11 4% Highways Agency 3% 10% Railways m 38% London grant Local transport 309 Other grant Department for Transport direct expenditure 112 BSOG Transport for London 108 20% Other Network Rail 100 Road and rail projects 54 25% Total savings 683 1 Office for National Statistics, July 2010.
2 Public Transport Statistics Bulletin GB: 2009 Edition Supplement, November 2009.
4 Local Transport Today, May 2010, Morgan Stanley research, June 2010.
The Go-Ahead Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2010 9 Financial Statements Directors Report: Corporate Governance Directors Report: Business Review
