BOARD OF DIRECTORS the Remuneration Committee and member 1 Sir Patrick Brown 3 Nick Swift 1 of the Audit and Nomination Committees, Non-Executive Chairman Group Finance Director St Modwen Properties plc, and Marine Term of office: Sir Patrick Brown joined the Term of office: Nick Swift was appointed to Farms ASA Deputy Chairman.
Board in January 1999 as Non-Executive the Board as Group Finance Director in July Previous experience: Katherine Innes Ker Director, becoming Non-Executive Chairman 2007.
Following his appointment, he was was a Non-Executive Director of Taylor in October 2002.
Last re-elected by elected by shareholders at the 2007 AGM Woodrow plc, TheTelevision Corporation shareholders at the 2009 AGM, he will again and will stand for annual re-election at the plc, Fibernet plc, Williams Lea plc, The stand for annual re-election at the AGM in AGM in October 2010.
Ordnance Survey, Shed Media plc and October 2010.
Committee membership: Attends Audit Gyrus Group plc.
Katherine has also spent Independent: On appointment Committee by invitation a decade working in the City.
Committee membership: Chairman of the External appointments: None 2 Nomination Committee and member of the Previous experience: Prior to Go-Ahead, 6 Rupert Pennant-Rea Remuneration Committee.
Regularly attends Nick Swift worked as Group Finance Audit Committee by invitation.
Manager at Hanson plc where he was Senior Independent External appointments: Senior Independent responsible for investor relations and had also Non-Executive Director Director at Northumbrian Water Group plc been Head ofTax andTreasury and Group Term of office: Rupert Pennant-Rea joined Chairman of the Audit Committee and Financial Controller.
He joined Hanson plc in the Board in October 2002 and was member of the Nomination and 2000 following its acquisition of Pioneer appointed Senior Independent Director in Remuneration Committees : Non-Executive International where he held a number of October 2008 and Chairman of the Director of Northumbrian Water Ltd, senior corporate and operational finance Remuneration Committee in October 2009.
Northumbrian Water Share SchemeTrustees roles including European Finance Director.
He was last re-elected by shareholders at Ltd and Camelot Group Ltd: Chairman of the He has prior experience of the transport the 2009 AGM and will stand for annual 3 Advisory Committee of Alexander Proudfoot industry having been Group Financial re-election at the AGM in October 2010.
Reporting Manager at Air New Zealand Independent: Yes Previous experience: Sir Patrick Brown which he joined fromTouche Ross.
He is a Committee membership: Chairman of the spent ten years in industry and management chartered accountant.
Remuneration Committee and member of consultancy before joining the Civil Service, the Audit and Nomination Committees.
initially involved in privatisation in the 4Andrew Allner External appointments: Non-Executive Department of Transport during the 1980s.
Chairman of Henderson Group plc Non-Executive Director He then moved to the Department of the Chairman of the Nomination Committee, Environment, before returning to the Term of office: Andrew Allner joined the The Economist Group, PGI Group Ltd, Department of Transport as Permanent Board in October 2008.
Following his Acuity GrowthVCT plc, Non-Executive Secretary from 1991 to 1997. appointment, he was elected by shareholders 4 Director ofTimes Newspapers Holdings Ltd, at the 2009 AGM and will stand for annual Defaqto Group Ltd, Specialist Waste re-election at the AGM in October 2010.
2 Keith Ludeman Recycling Ltd, Gold Fields Ltd and First Independent: Yes Quantum Minerals Ltd. Group Chief Executive Committee membership: Chairman of the Previous experience: Rupert Pennant-Rea Term of office: Keith Ludeman joined the Audit Committee.
Member of the was Deputy Governor of the Bank of Board in September 2004 and was appointed Remuneration and Nomination Committees.
England from 1993 to 1995, prior to which as Group Chief Executive in July 2006.
He External appointments: Non-Executive he was Editor ofThe Economist.
He has was last re-elected by shareholders at the Chairman at Marshalls plc Chairman of the held a variety of non-executive directorships 2007 AGM and will stand for annual reNomination Committee : Non-Executive over the last 15 years.
election at the AGM in October 2010.
Director at CSR plc Chairman of the Audit Committee membership: Member of the Committee and member of the Nomination 5 Nomination Committee.
Attends Audit and and Remuneration Committees : Non- 7 Carolyn Sephton Remuneration Committee by invitation.
Executive Director at Northgate plc Group Company Secretary External appointments: Non-Executive Chairman of the Audit Committee and Term of office: Carolyn Sephton was Director of the Association of Train member of the Nomination and appointed to the Board as Group Company Operating Companies Ltd. Remuneration Committees.
Previous experience: Keith Ludeman became Previous experience:Andrew Allner is a Committee membership: Secretary to the a main Board advisor in 1998, after joining chartered accountant and a former partner at Audit, Remuneration and Nomination Go-Ahead in 1996 when the Group acquired .
Prior to this he held senior Finance Director of RHM plc between 2004 External appointments: None management positions in several bus and 2007, and Chief Executive of Enodis plc Previous experience: Carolyn Sephton companies, mainly at Managing Director level, prior to this.
He was also a Non-Executive 6 spent 12 years working for Northern in Greater Manchester, Lancashire and Director of Moss Bros Group plc and Electric, predominantly in the field of London.
He has also worked overseas and Chairman of their Audit Committee until 2005. pensions, before joining Go-Ahead in 2001. as a transport consultant.
He was appointed Carolyn is a chartered secretary.
Prior to her Chief Executive of the Groups London bus 5 Katherine Innes Ker appointment as Group Company Secretary division in 1997 and then moved over to in 2006, she was Assistant Company Non-Executive Director head the rail division in 1999.
A postgraduate Secretary for the Group with responsibility transport planner, he is a fellow of the Term of office: Katherine Innes Ker joined the for non-rail pensions and a wide range of Institute of Logistics andTransport, a fellow Board in July 2010.
She will be standing for company secretariat functions including of the Institute of Railway Operators and a election for the first time following her share schemes, legislative compliance, fellow of the Royal Society of Arts.
He has appointment at the AGM in October 2010. corporate governance and codes of conduct 7 been awarded an honorary degree by the Independent:Yes specific to the Group's business activities.
University of Salford for his achievements in Committee membership: Member of the Audit, transport services.
External appointments: Non-Executive Director ofTaylor Wimpey plc Chairman of the Corporate Responsibility Committee and member of the Remuneration and Nomination Committees, Tribal Group plc Senior Independent Director, Chairman of 52 www.
