DIRECTORS REPORT:CORPORATE GOVERNANCE OTHER STATUTORY INFORMATION The Directors present their report and audited financial statements the Directors must retire by rotation at each Annual General for the year ended 3 July 2010.
The Directors are committed to measures that promote good governance, and accordingly have chosen to early adopt the Principal activities new UK Corporate Governance Code provision whereby all The principal activity of the Group throughout the year has been Directors should be re-elected on an annual basis.
Consequently, the provision of passenger transport services.
the proposed new Articles of Association will require all of the Directors to retire from office at every Annual General Meeting Results and dividends and, if eligible, offer themselves for re-election.
The results for the year are set out in the consolidated income The Directors beneficial or family interests in the share capital of statement on page 79.
The Directors propose that a final dividend the Company at 3 July 2010, with comparative figures for the 2009 of 30.0p be paid, making a total of 81.0p for the year 2009: 81.0p.
There were no changes in these The proposed final dividend, if approved, will be payable on Friday interests up to 1 September 2010.
19 November 2010 to shareholders on the register at the close of business on Friday 5 November 2010.
Details of the Executive Directors interests in awards granted to them as participants in the LongTerm Incentive Plan can be found A review of the business of the Group during the year and its in the Directors Remuneration Report on page 71. prospects for the future, together with a description of the principal risks and uncertainties facing the Group, can be found in the No Director was interested in any contract or arrangement which Directors Report: Business Review from pages 1 to 51. was significant in relation to the Groups business.
Directors and their interests Indemnification of Directors The names of the persons who at any time during the financial year In accordance with the Companys Articles of Association and to were Directors of the company are: Sir Patrick Brown, Rupert the extent permitted by law, the Directors are granted an Pennant-Rea, Andrew Allner, Keith Ludeman, and Nick Swift.
indemnity from the Company in respect of liabilities incurred as a Katherine Innes Ker joined the Board with effect from 9 July 2010. result of their office.
In respect of those matters for which the Directors may not be indemnified, the Company maintained a Directors are appointed by ordinary resolution at a general Directors and Officers liability insurance policy throughout the meeting of holders of ordinary shares.
The Directors have the financial year.
This policy has been renewed for the next financial power to appoint a Director but any person so appointed will hold year.
Neither the Companys indemnity nor the insurance provides office only until the next Annual General Meeting and will then be cover in the event that a Director is proven to have acted eligible for appointment by ordinary resolution at that meeting.
Under the Companys current Articles of Association, one third of Directors interests in shares 2010 2009 No.
1 Sir Patrick Brown 10,149 10,149 Rupert Pennant-Rea 2,000 2,000 Andrew Allner 2 Keith Ludeman 34,829 26,012 3 Nick Swift 12,586 9,088 1 On 4 March 2010, Sir Patrick Brown transferred 10,149 shares to Lady Brown.
2 On 17 March 2010, Mr K Ludeman transferred 31,331 shares to Mrs D Ludeman.
The remaining 3,498 shares are deferred shares held under the Deferred Share Plan.
3 On 12 March 2010, Mr N Swift transferred 9,088 shares to Mrs J Swift.
The Go-Ahead Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2010 73 Financial Statements Directors Report: Corporate Governance Directors Report: Business Review DIRECTORS REPORT: CORPORATE GOVERNANCE OTHER STATUTORY INFORMATION C CO ON NT TIIN NU UE ED D General Meeting, were not utilised in the financial year or up to the Shareholder and control structure date of this report.
These authorities will expire at the upcoming As at 3 July 2010, the Companys issued share capital comprised a Annual General Meeting of the Company and approval for new single class of shares referred to as ordinary shares.
At this date authorities will be sought.
In the last three years no shares have there were 46,908,978 ordinary shares in issue, of which 3,902,230 been issued on a non-pre-emptive basis, other than those issued were held in treasury.
This included 13,699 new shares issued under all-employee share schemes which are not included for the during the course of the year following the exercise of share purposes of this authority.
options granted under the Companys all-employee share scheme.
The Company did not purchase any of its own shares during the The authority for the Company to make market purchases of its year, and no shares were purchased between 3 July 2010 and the own ordinary shares, as passed by special resolution at the 2009 date of this report.
Annual General Meeting, was still in effect at the end of the financial year and will expire at the upcoming Annual General Meeting of There are no restrictions on the transfer of ordinary shares in the the Company, where approval for a new authority will be sought.
Company other than: Under the existing authority the maximum aggregate number of Certain restrictions which may from time to time be imposed by shares that can be purchased is 4,299,799.
The authority also limits laws and regulations for example, insider trading laws : and the maximum number of shares held in treasury to 10% of the issued share capital of the Company and states minimum and Restrictions pursuant to the Listing Rules of the Financial Services maximum prices payable for shares purchased under the authority.
Authority whereby certain employees of the Company require During the financial year this authority was not utilised.
the approval of the Company to deal in the Companys securities.
The business of the Company is managed by the Directors, who All shareholders have the same voting rights for each share, may exercise all powers of the Company which are not required to regardless of the total number of shares held.
On a show of hands be exercised by the Company in general meeting, subject to the at a general meeting of the Company, every holder of shares Companys Articles of Association, relevant statutory law and any present in person or by proxy and entitled to vote shall have one direction given by the Company in general meeting by special vote except in the circumstances where a proxy has been resolution.
appointed by more than one member in which case he or she will have one vote for and one vote against if he or she has been The Companys Articles of Association may only be amended by a instructed by one or more members to vote for the resolution and special resolution at a general meeting of shareholders.
At the by one or more members to vote against.
On a poll, every upcoming Annual General Meeting, a resolution will be put to member present in person or by proxy and entitled to vote has shareholders proposing amendments to the current Articles of one vote for every ordinary share held.
The Notice of Meeting Association in accordance with the provisions of the new specifies deadlines for exercising voting rights either in person or by Companies Act 2006.
Further details are set out in the Notice of proxy in relation to resolutions to be passed at the 2010 Annual Annual General Meeting.
All proxy votes are counted and the numbers for, The 23rd Annual General Meeting of the Company will be held at against or withheld in relation to each resolution are announced at the Hilton Newcastle Gateshead, Bottle Bank, Gateshead, NE8 2AR the Annual General Meeting and published on the Companys onThursday 28 October 2010 at 11.00 hours.
Details of the website www.
business to be considered can be found in the Notice of Meeting The Company is not aware of any agreements between which will be available on the Companys website www.
goshareholders that may result in restrictions on the transfer of ahead.
com from 27 September 2010. securities or on voting rights.
There are no agreements between the Company and its Directors The authorities for the Company to allot relevant securities up to or employees providing for compensation for loss of office or an aggregate nominal amount of 1,433,266 and for the employment whether through resignation, purported redundancy disapplication of pre-emption rights on the allotment of equity or otherwise that occurs because of a takeover bid.
The Company securities for cash up to an aggregate nominal amount of is party to a number of banking agreements which are terminable 214,989, as passed by special resolutions at the 2009 Annual upon the provision of fourteen days notice upon a change of control of the Company.
com Each of the Groups rail franchise agreements is subject to change Under the rules of the Companys Share Incentive Plan, employees of control criteria that would mean, on a change of control, there of the Group are entitled to acquire shares in the Company.
In would be deemed to be an event of default that could potentially order to preserve certain tax benefits these shares are held in a terminate the rail franchise.
This is, however, subject to the trust by EES Corporate Trustees Limited for participating discretion of the Secretary of State.
The Groups recent sterling employees.
Whilst these shares are held in trust, the voting rights bond issue is subject to a change of control clause that contains attached to them will not be exercised by the Trustee or the certain specified conditions which could lead to a compulsory employees for whom they are held.
As at the date of this report, prepayment of the bond.
0.6% of the issued share capital of the Company was held by EES Corporate Trustees Limited.
In the event of an offer being made to Substantial shareholdings acquire these shares the employees are entitled to direct EES As at 1 September 2010, the Company had been notified of the Corporate Trustees Limited to accept an offer in respect of the interests in its shares representing 3% or more of the issued shares held on their behalf.
ordinary share capital, as shown below.
During the financial year, 13,699 ordinary shares were allotted to These holdings include, where applicable, the aggregate of employees and former employees of the Company under the rules investment management clients interests within the respective asset of the Companys Sharesave Scheme a savings related share option management companies and may have changed without triggering a scheme.
These shares held an aggregate nominal value of 1,370 further notification.
and the Company received a total consideration of 200,948 for them.
In accordance with best practice guidelines, options granted Share schemes under this scheme do not exceed 10% of the issued ordinary share EES Trustees International Limited, as Trustee of The Go-Ahead capital during a rolling ten year period.
Vesting of awards under the Group Employee Trust, holds 0.1% of the issued share capital of the Long Term Incentive Plan for the Executive Directors is satisfied by Company in trust for the benefit of the Executive Directors of the market purchases of shares, and therefore there is no further Group and their dependants under the Long Term Incentive Plan.
dilution of the issued share capital.
The voting rights in relation to these shares are exercised by the Trustee and dividends are waived while the shares are held by the Employees Trustee.
The Groups responsibility is to provide a positive work environment conducive to the recruitment and retention of staff and one which meets its business objectives by motivating and Substantial shareholdings 2010 2010 Indirect Direct No.
% Ameriprise Financial, Inc. and its group Indirect 3,743,465 8.70 Direct 20,500 0.05 Newton Investment Management Ltd Direct 3,352,486 7.80 D Ballinger Direct 2,525,580 5.87 UBS Wealth Management Indirect 2,269,225 5.28 Artemis Investment Management Ltd Direct 2,086,486 4.85 J Moyes Direct 2,054,061 4.78 Legal & General Group plc Direct 1,448,712 3.37 JP Morgan Chase & Co Indirect 1,438,491 3.34 The Go-Ahead Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2010 75 Financial Statements Directors Report: Corporate Governance Directors Report: Business Review DIRECTORS REPORT: CORPORATE GOVERNANCE OTHER STATUTORY INFORMATION C CO ON NT TIIN NU UE ED D encouraging the Groups employees to be responsive to the needs manner, can be found on pages 46 to 51 and also in the Groups of its customers, maintaining, and, wherever possible, improving Environmental and Social Report which is published separately and operational performance.
can be found on the Companys website www.
The Group is committed to providing equality of opportunity to all Charitable donations employees and treats all employees fairly regardless of gender, Charitable donations, sponsorship and community support over the ethnic origin, age, religion, belief, race and, where practical, physical year amounted to 268,000 2009: 257,000. disability.
Appropriate training, career development and promotion opportunities are provided for all employees.
The Group gives full Political donations and expenditure and fair consideration to applications for employment by disabled It is the Groups policy not to make political donations and persons, having regard to their particular aptitudes and abilities.
It is accordingly no such payments were made in the year 2009: nil.
the Groups policy to provide continuing employment, and arrange Additionally, the Company did not incur any political expenditure as appropriate training, for existing employees who become disabled defined in the Companies Act 2006 2009: nil.
during their employment, and to provide training, career development and promotion as appropriate to all disabled Land and buildings employees.
In the opinion of the Directors, there is no material difference Our companies maintain relationships with recognised trade unions between the market value of the Groups interest in land and and have established a network of local employee representatives buildings and its net book value.
who are consulted on key business decisions likely to affect their interests.
Three of our companies have Stakeholder Boards which Suppliers bring together employees, individual passengers and representative Each Group operating company individually agrees terms and bodies to share views.
The Group produces a range of internal conditions for its business transactions with suppliers.
Payment is newsletters, information circulars and intranet sites that keep then made on these terms, subject to the terms and conditions employees abreast of developments at their specific employing being met by the suppliers and the timely submission of satisfactory company and across the Group as a whole.
The Group has awards invoices.
For the year ended 3 July 2010, the trade creditor days for to recognise and reward outstanding contributions made by our The Go-Ahead Group plc as a Company not as a Group were 11 employees.
days 2009: 7, based on the ratio of trade creditors at the end of the year to the amounts invoiced during the year by trade Employees are encouraged to participate directly in the success of creditors.
the business through the Groups HMRC approved Share Incentive Plan SIP which is open to all employees with six months service Post balance sheet events and gives the opportunity to buy shares in the Company in a taxThere are no post balance sheet events.
The Group is committed to developing a culture of openness Going concern across all its businesses and ensuring the highest standards of The Directors have acknowledged the guidance on going concern probity and accountability.
The Group engages with its employees, and financial reporting published by the Financial Reporting Council who are encouraged to discuss matters of interest to them and in October 2009.
The Groups business activities, together with the subjects affecting day-to-day operations with operating company factors likely to affect its future development, performance and management.
The Board also actively encourages employees with position are set out in the Directors Report: Business Review on serious concerns regarding the interests of others or the Group to pages 1 to 51.
The financial position of the Group, its cash flows, come forward.
The Group and its operating companies have liquidity position and borrowing facilities are described in the policies in place to ensure processes exist whereby employees can Financial Review on pages 26 to 29.
In addition, note 23 to the raise serious concerns constructively without fear of victimisation, financial statements includes the Groups objectives, policies and subsequent discrimination or disadvantage.
processes for managing its capital: its financial risk management objectives: details of its financial instruments and hedging activities: Further details of the Groups responsibilities as an employer, and its exposures to credit risk and liquidity risk.
including operating in a socially and environmentally responsible 76 www.
com Cash generation from the Groups bus and rail operations was The Directors are responsible for keeping proper accounting excellent and the balance sheet remains strong.
Core financing is records that are sufficient to show and explain the Groups provided by a 200m sterling bond issue securing financing to transactions and disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the September 2017 and bank facilities funding of 280m to financial position of the Group, enabling them to ensure that the November 2012, of which 177m was undrawn and available at financial statements comply with the Companies Act 2006 and the year end.
The Directors believe that the Group is well placed to Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
They are also responsible for manage its business risks successfully, despite the current uncertain safeguarding the assets of the Company and hence for taking economic outlook.
reasonable steps for the prevention and detection of fraud and other irregularities.
After making enquiries, the Directors have a reasonable expectation that the Company and the Group have adequate Responsibility Statements resources to continue in operational existence for the foreseeable The Directors who were members of the Board at the time of future.
Accordingly, they continue to adopt the going concern basis approving the Directors Report are listed on page 52.
The in preparing the Annual Report and Accounts.
Directors confirm that to the best of their knowledge: Directors responsibilities in relation to the financial a The financial statements, prepared in accordance with IFRS as statements adopted by the European Union, give a true and fair view of the The Directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Report and assets, liabilities, financial position and profit of the Company and the Group financial statements in accordance with applicable UK the undertakings included in the consolidation taken as a whole: law and those International Financial Reporting Standards as and adopted by the European Union.
b The Directors' Report: Business Review includes a fair review of Under company law, the Directors must not approve the Group the development and performance of the business and the financial statements unless they are satisfied that they present fairly position of the Company and the undertakings included in the the financial position, the financial performance, and cashflows of consolidation taken as a whole, together with a description of the Group for that period.
In preparing those financial statements, the principal risks and uncertainties that they face.
the Directors are required to: Directors statement as to disclosure of information to Select suitable accounting policies in accordance with IAS 8 auditors Accounting Policies, Change in Accounting Estimates and Errors Having made enquiries of fellow Directors and of the Companys and then apply them consistently: auditors, each of the Directors confirms that: Present information, including accounting policies, in a manner To the best of each Directors knowledge and belief, there is no that provides relevant, reliable, comparable and understandable information that is, information needed by the Companys information: auditors in connection with preparing their report of which the Provide additional disclosures when compliance with the specific Companys auditors are unaware: and requirements in International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS Each Director has taken all the steps a Director might reasonably is insufficient to enable users to understand the impact of be expected to have taken to be aware of relevant audit particular transactions, other events and conditions on the information and to establish that the Companys auditors are Groups financial position and financial performance: aware of that information.
State that the Group has complied with IFRS, subject to any By Order of the Board material departures disclosed and explained in the financial statements: and Make judgements and accounting estimates that are reasonable and prudent.
C Sephton, Company Secretary 1 September 2010 The Go-Ahead Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2010 77 Financial Statements Directors Report: Corporate Governance Directors Report: Business Review
