SENIOR MANAGEMENT Alex Carter Chris Burchell Managing Director, Go South Coast Managing Director, Southern Alex has been Managing Director since 2003.
He Chris has been Managing Director of Southern controls eight businesses within Go South Coast since April 2006, having previously been Operations embracing bus, coach and engineering.
Alex joined Director at the company.
He has also worked at the bus industry in 1981 in its nationalised form and ThamesTrains, the Foreign & Commonwealth has held a number of senior roles post-privatisation.
Office and Railtrack, accumulating over 14 years of railway experience.
Alan Eatwell Mike Hodson Managing Director, Metrobus Managing Director, London Midland Alan has been Managing Director since 2001 and Mike was appointed Managing Director in July 2009. was previously the Groups Engineering Director.
Previously, he was Operations and Safety Director Alan has over 40 years experience in the bus of Southeastern and was instrumental to the industry and successfully participated in the successful introduction of the High Speed preview management buy-out of Brighton & Hove.
Mike was Managing Director ofThames Trains from 2003 to 2004 and has over 30 years experience in rail.
Roger French Charles Horton Managing Director, Brighton & Hove Managing Director, Southeastern Roger has been Managing Director of Brighton Charles has been Managing Director since April & Hove since the company was purchased by 2006, after three years in the same role at Southern.
He joined Brighton & Hove in He has gained extensive management experience 1982 and as general manager he was part of the in a career spanning 24 years on National Rail and Companys management buy-out.
an OBE in 2005 for his services to public transport.
Peter Huntley Martin Dean Managing Director, Go North East Managing Director, Bus Development Peter has been Managing Director since 2006.
He leads and acts He has brought a wide range of innovations and as a focus for all bus development and acquisition developments to the north east business.
Peter activity in the Group.
Previously, Martin held senior has over 35 years experience in the bus industry management roles in rail and bus with FirstGroup including periods working with local and national and National Express.
He began his career with Government on policy development.
Philip Kirk Tom Smith Managing Director, Oxford Bus Company Managing Director, Rail Development Philip has been Managing Director since 2001, Tom has been Managing Director since 2001. having joined the company in 1995 shortly after He leads the rail division's business development it was acquired by Go-Ahead He has 30 years and franchise bidding activity.
Tom was appointed experience of managerial and technical positions Chairman of Association ofTrain Operating in bus companies.
Previously, Tom was Managing Director of the company that financed and built the M6 toll motorway.
He spent 11 years in the diplomatic service after graduating from Oxford.
JohnTrayner PatrickVerwer Managing Director, Go-Ahead London Managing Director, Aviation Services John has been Managing Director since 2006.
Patrick joined as Managing Director in December He joined the Group in 2002 as Operations 2007.
Previously, he spent more than 10 years with Director of London Central London General having Netherlands Railways in various executive roles.
previously held senior positions at Arriva London.
Patrick came to the UK in 2002 to head up the He has been in the transport industry for 35 years.
Serco NedRailways Merseyrail concession in Liverpool.
He started his working career as a senior police officer in Rotterdam.
AndrewWickham Managing Director, Plymouth Citybus Andrew was appointed Managing Director in December 2009 when Go-Ahead acquired the company.
Andrew has over twenty years management experience in the bus industry.
He was previously Operations Director for Go South Coast.
The Go-Ahead Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2010 53 Financial Statements Directors Report: Corporate Governance Directors Report: Business Review
