Greene King plc Annual Report 2010 28 BOARD OF DIRECTORS Tim Bridge, Dl Rooney Anand ian Bull Chairman Chief executive Finance director Tim Bridge, age 61, is chairman of Greene King.
Rooney Anand, age 46, has been chief executive Ian Bull, age 49, joined Greene King as finance He joined Greene King in 1970 and was appointed of Greene King since 2005.
He was initially appointed director and was appointed to the board in 2006. to the board in 1977.
He has held a variety of to the board in 2001, when he joined the group He joined from BT Retail, having been CFO, and positions within the group, becoming managing as managing director of Brewing Company.
He then subsequently CEO of BT Retail Enterprises.
director in 1990 and chief executive in 1994.
In was previously at Sara Lee, the international He was previously VP Finance with Disney, covering 2005 he stepped down as chief executive to take consumer goods business, where he was president Europe, Middle East and Africa, having initially over the role of chairman.
He is a non-executive and managing director of its UK bakery division joined as finance director for its UK home director of William Ransom & Son plc.
and prior to that at United Biscuits.
norman murray ian Durant Non-executive director Non-executive director Norman Murray, senior independent non-executive Ian Durant, independent non-executive director, director, age 62, was appointed to the board in age 51, was appointed to the board in 2007.
He is chairman of Cairn Energy PLC and He is chairman of Capital & Counties the senior independent non-executive director Properties PLC and former finance director of Robert Wiseman Dairies PLC.
He has also of Capital Shopping Centres Group PLC, been President of the Institute of Chartered formerly Liberty International PLC.
John Brady Jane Scriven Non-executive director Non-executive director John Brady, independent non-executive director, Jane Scriven, independent non-executive director, age 58, was appointed to the board in 2005, age 50, was appointed to the board in 2005. having been a director of McKinsey and Company She is chairman of Origin8 Deli-Cafs Ltd and until 2004 and having led their European retail a former director of Geest plc, having been and marketing practices.
He is also a non-executive responsible for their continental European director of Invest Northern Ireland and of Aegis plc.
operations, and previously worked as a solicitor with Norton Rose.
