Greene King plc Annual Report 2010 04 wHAt wE DO Greene Kings main businesses are the managed pubs Local Pubs and the managed food pubs, restaurants and hotels Destination Division of our Retail division, our tenanted and leased division, Pub Partners and the brewing and distribution of our world famous ales in our Brewing Company division.
Our Scottish business, Belhaven, operates the same three profit streams as the rest of our UK operations.
In total we operate over 2,400 pubs and restaurants, two breweries Bury St Edmunds and Dunbar and a number of regional depots.
Our head office is in Bury St Edmunds, Suffolk and we have regional offices in Scotland.
ReTAil PuB PARTneRS Our Retail business includes our managed pubs, restaurants This business operates all of our tenanted and leased pubs and hotels within England and Wales.
At year-end, we had within England and Wales.
There were 1,341 pubs within Pub 783 outlets.
The instantly recognisable brands formats of Partners at the year end, split 20% leased and 80% tenancy.
Pub Hungry Horse, Hardys House, Old English Inns and Loch Fyne Partners business model is based upon ensuring optimum profit Restaurants all sit within our Retail division.
These, together achievement for both licensee and Greene King.
Maintaining with the 436 pubs in our Local Pubs division, put us firmly licensee viability and success is our main aim and, to help achieve in local communities across the country.
that, we provide an innovative range of support, award winning training programmes and a fair and open partnership relationship.
Hungry Horse Every Hungry Horse pub is a friendly local that Tenancies Our tenanted model is based on a more hands-on goes out to impress everyone with its quality family food offer, approach to working with our licensees.
Pub Partners tenancy sense of fun and affordable prices.
agreements are for three years, with a shared repair liability between the tenant and Greene King.
These tenancy agreements Number of pubs offer free of tie for wines, spirits and minerals and other flexible options.
They are an excellent fit for first-time licensees and those who dont wish to take on the extra responsibility of a lease.
147 Tenancy Hardys House A Hardys House is the best choice for quality pub food, friendly atmosphere and personal touch in its locality truly providing something for everyone.
80% Number of pubs Leases Our leased model offers longer, assignable lease agreements with full repairing and insuring liability sitting with the lessee.
Lease agreements are generally for a minimum 38 of 10 years with options to increase in five-year periods to a maximum of 25 years, assignable after three years.
These lease Old English Inns Interesting and characterful hotels with agreements attract the more entrepreneurial licensees who great quality food and drink, where staff are passionate require more freedom to run the business as they would like.
about providing friendly hospitality, whatever your occasion.
Number of hotels Leased 118 20% Loch Fyne Restaurants Loch Fyne Restaurants, the home of superb seafood and shellfish, has 44 restaurants in the UK, Foundation Agreements Our Foundation Agreements are all renowned for their unique buildings and warm ambience.
for those that are new to the business and want to dip their What sets Loch Fyne apart is its approach to environmental toes into the pub industry with limited capital input.
These issues combined with its attention to detail and focus on quality.
agreements allow licensees to run a tenancy for one year It now has sustainability ambassadors in each restaurant able and are fully tied.
to pass on the latest environmental thinking to customers and colleagues alike.
Number of restaurants Number of outlets 44 1,341 Read more on our Retail division Read more on our Pub Partners division p 0809 p 1011 Overview Greene King plc Annual Report 2010 05 Operating profit before goodwill and exceptionals m Read more about our business at: 231.8 218.1 216.2 ww7.
co. uk 211.3 200 Percentage contribution to revenue 190.9 greeneking greeneking0910 Retail 60% 150 Pub Partners 15% Belhaven 15% Brewing Company 10% 100 50 06 07 08 09 10 BReWinG ComPAny BelhAven -18.7% change 2010: 43.4p 2009: 53.4p Brewing Company, which brews, distributes, markets Belhaven, our Scottish division, mirrors the Greene King 09 and sells our wide range of award-winning crafted ales has, model with managed and tenanted pubs operating as well for many years, been Britains leading cask brewer, investing as a brewing business.
Its pubs division now comprises over 10 more in cask beer than any other brewer.
We now sport 300 tenanted, leased and managed pubs, from Stranraer in 1 three of the countrys top 10 ale brands, Greene King IPA, the South to Wick in the North, and its brewing business is Abbot Ale and Old Speckled Hen, as well as a great range conducted from Dunbar.
Belhaven continues to be operated of best-quality permanent and seasonal ales, making us quite separately from the other Greene King businesses.
 to help licensees drive sales and take advantage of the current renaissance of cask ale.
We also lead the booming off-trade premium ale market with our thriving take home business.
Our quality range of ale brands includes Old Speckled Hen, Abbot Ale, Abbot Reserve, Greene King IPA, St Edmunds and the oak-aged Old Crafty Hen.
Managed pubs Belhaven operates 105 managed pubs, the vast majority of which are not overtly branded.
Food has become an greene King iPA Award-winning Greene King IPA retains its top increasingly important part of the operation, with sales growing spot as the best-selling cask beer in Britain, contributing to the by 40% in 2009 10 and now representing 28% of total managed growing interest in real ale.
Its new Cask Revolution dispense means pub turnover.
Its food-led, destination, family restaurants, Eating that serve is no longer hidden below the bar and that customers Inns, have all shown substantial year on year sales growth.
have a choice of beer styles.
This, together with the high profile activity as the Official Beer of England Rugby and the sponsorship of Wasps, Harlequins and Sale Sharks, is driving sales up and down the country and attracting new drinkers to the category.
Tenanted and leased pubs Belhaven operates 229 tenanted and leased pubs 48 tenanted and 181 leased, across most of Scotland.
The team prides itself on being the best landlord in Scotland and has introduced a package of measures designed no.
1 to increase tenants cash flow and profitability.
2 cask ale in Britain 3 Old Speckled Hen Britains leading premium ale, Old Speckled Hen, has had another year of record growth.
Its impressive Brewing Belhaven Belhaven Best consolidated its position as performance in the on and off trade, driven by the taste and quality Scotlands leading ale by increasing ale volume market share to of the beer and the reputation of the brand, has been well-supported 26% in 2009.
Belhaven Best, the official beer of the Scottish by the success of the advertising campaign on TV channel Dave.
Golf Union, has benefited from tightly targeted TV advertising endorsing it as Scotlands Best.
Other Belhaven brands include 80 -, Twisted Thistle and St. Andrews Ale.
1 4 premium ale in Take Home Leading ale in Scottish Abbot Ale Universally recognised for its outstanding quality, on-trade with award-winning Abbot Ale is the top selling premium cask ale in London and one of the top two in Britain.
Brewed longer to a unique recipe that uses the finest barley from local farmers, 26% this legendary ale bursts with flavour and retains its place as a share favourite with the nations discerning beer drinkers.
2 1 Belhaven pubs premium cask ale in Britain 1 3 Publican Brands Report May 10.
Nielsen On Trade Survey MAT to 2 AC Nielsen On Trade Survey MAT November 2009 and Nielsen Scantrack AC Nielsen.
4 AC Nielsen Scantrack data MAT to 15 May 2010.
Read more on our Brewing Company division Read more on our Belhaven division p 14 p 1213
