Annual Report & Accounts 2010 The Board has a policy on the circumstance which is likely to affect whether the Board had operated separation of the roles of the or to interfere with the exercise of in accordance with the Companys Chairman and the Chief Executive.
The results are The Chairman sets the agenda for fed back to the Chairman and the The Companys Articles of Board meetings and ensures that Senior Independent Director and Association require that all directors the Board is supplied, in a timely then to the Board for discussion.
must retire and seek re-election at manner, with information in a form These discussions are used the first AGM following appointment.
and of a quality appropriate to to identify actions to improve Thereafter, any non-executive enable it to discharge its duties.
effectiveness, to identify individual director who has served on the The Board considers that it and collective training needs and to Board for more than nine years must effectively leads and controls set objectives for the Board for the seek re-election annually.
All directors take next year.
the remaining directors, being those decisions objectively and in the who have been in office longest interests of the Company.
Board Committees since last re-election, and any other The non-executive directors director who has not been elected The Board delegates some scrutinise the performance of or re-elected at either of the two of its activities to the following management in meeting agreed preceding AGMs, must seek recommittees, each of which has goals and objectives and monitor election at each AGM.
written terms of reference, which the reporting of performance.
are available on the Companys All directors are able to receive All directors receive induction website.
The Company Secretary training on joining the Board and training and to take independent acts as secretary to each of these professional advice at the expense regularly update and refresh committees.
They also have their knowledge through reading, direct access to the Company The Audit Committee currently attendance on relevant courses and consists of four independent nonor activities outside the Company.
Secretary, who is responsible for advising the Board, through executive directors Bob Bennett As part of the process of maintaining the Chairman, on all governance - Chairman, Julie Baddeley, Roger an awareness of the Companys matters.
The activities and assessing the ability Committees main functions which The Chairman meets with the nonof the management team, members it discharged during the year are of the senior management team are executive directors at least annually to endeavour i to ensure that the without the executive directors invited to attend Board meetings accounting and financial policies present.
The Senior Independent and or to present papers to the of the Company are proper and Director meets the non-executive Board.
This process also affords effective: ii to assist the Board in senior managers the opportunity to directors annually without the fulfilling its oversight responsibilities Chairman present to appraise the bring matters to the attention of the by monitoring the integrity of the Chairmans performance.
accounts and information published performance of the Board, its The Board is satisfied that a process by the Company: iii to review Committees and of all directors is is in place for orderly succession to the internal financial controls evaluated annually by a formal and the Board and to positions of senior and the Groups approach to rigorous process.
For the review management, so as to maintain an risk management: iv to monitor relating to 2010, each director appropriate balance of skills and compliance with the Listing Rules completed a written questionnaire experience within the Company and and the recommendations of the and participated in a one to on the Board.
Combined Code: and v to maintain one interview with the Company an appropriate relationship with the After carefully reviewing the Secretary.
In addition to covering guidance in the Combined Code, the effectiveness of the Board, its all of the non-executive directors committees and each individual are considered by the Board to director, the process also included be independent in character and a review of the performance of the judgement and to be free from any Board against the objectives it set business or other relationship or for itself at the start of the year and 23
