Progress against our 2010 targets We will run our fi first ever Making a difference Our targets for 2011: national fundraising initiative for to our communities.
We will extend the Greggs Breakfast Club scheme In 2010 we ran our fi first We will grow the number of to 180 supported clubs Breakfast Clubs to at least 150, Foundation Week, with our providing a free, nutritious people and customers raising We will donate at least 1 per cent breakfast to more than 7,000 66,000!
of profi ts to the grant-making pupils each school day.
We will and Breakfast Club programmes For the fi fifth year we will engage develop partnerships with other of the Greggs Foundation our staff and customers in organisations to enable further a major national fundraising We will hold our second national growth of the breakfast club campaign to support the BBC fund-raising week for the Greggs scheme.
Foundation, aiming to raise over In 2010 we achieved a total of 70,000 2010 was a record year of 151 Greggs Breakfast Clubs.
fund-raising by Greggs, For the sixth year running we will Our new partnership model smashing our 2009 total by engage our staff and customers brings other businesses on raising an incredible 904,850 in a major national fund-raising board and has already secured for BBC Children in Need.
campaign to support the BBC an additional ten Breakfast This takes our fi five year total Children in Need appeal Clubs, enabling us to set a for BBC Children in Need to an target of 180 Breakfast Clubs by We will support Greggsamazing 2.5 million.
the end of 2011. sponsored fun runs and a second We will pilot initiatives to use Great Bakery Bike Ride We will sponsor Expochef Healthy our skills as a major employer to help more of our people to Food events in 60 Breakfast Club to help break the cycle of schools in order to promote fund-raise through exerciseunemployment for marginalised better understanding of healthy related activities groups in communities.
diets amongst pupils and their We will divert an increased In 2010 we piloted two initiatives.
proportion of our unsold food Firstly, we developed a training 56 Expochef events took place to local charities skills course for women in 2010, with the remaining four offenders in Low Newton Prison, We will continue to roll out completed in January 2011. in partnership with fi five other initiatives to help break the Over 3,500 primary school businesses in the North East: cycle of unemployment for children benefi ted from the secondly Greggs were one of marginalised groups in our Expochef programme.
the founding companies working communities, utilising our skills as We will donate at least 1 per with the Cyreniens and other a major employer cent of profi ts to the grantbusinesses on a work placement making and Breakfast Club programme for homeless people.
Both initiatives are being programmes of the Greggs Foundation.
The Greggs Foundation is integral to the Company and we are very pleased to report continued commitment to our Over 3,500 primary school children Foundation with 1.2 per cent of benefi tted from the Expochef pre-tax profi ts donated to it in programme 2010.
14 Annual Report & Accounts 2010 We will enhance our A great place to work.
Our targets for 2011: management skills and development by delivering a In the 2010 Employee Opinion We will continue to share 10 per coaching skills programme Survey EOS our target is that cent of our profi ts with our people and a high performing teams 75 per cent of our employees In our 2011 EOS survey we aim to programme in 2010. participate in the survey achieve an engagement score of and we improve on our 2008 In the fi first quarter of 2010 we ran 73 per cent or more engagement score of 72 a Coaching Skills programme per cent.
We will improve communication for senior managers, which for our people, to achieve From 2010 we committed to will continue to run in 2011. the following targets: conducting an annual survey, We also ran a series of High seeking employees feedback Performing Team training - More than two thirds of on key areas of communication, sessions across the Company, our people feel they have teamwork and training & providing our people with skills the opportunity to contribute development.
In 2010, 72 and techniques for effective their views on issues that per cent of our employees teamworking.
affect them completed the survey, a little We will review and improve our - More than two thirds of our short of the 75 per cent target.
apprentice scheme and aim to supply teams feel that We maintained our engagement have 30 bakery apprenticeships their line manager supervisor score of 72 per cent with overall in place by the end of 2010. shares important satisfaction amongst our people knowledge and information remaining high, evidenced by We are delighted to report that with them our low labour turnover rates and in 2010, seven apprentices long service of employees.
graduated from the current We will create over 700 new retail training programme.
During jobs through our new shop Through opening 50-60 new 2010 we completed the review opening programme shops in 2010 we will create of our apprentice scheme.
We will reduce our accidents The review highlighted that the by 5 per cent from our Accident In opening a net additional 68 requirement for apprenticeships Incident Rate of 2010 shops around the UK, we have would be 10-15 and therefore created more than 650 new retail We will recruit and develop 10 - we have revised our target and jobs for local people.
15 new Bakery Apprentices are now ready to launch the We will move from a regional to new apprentice scheme in 2011.
We will encourage our 650 a national profi t share scheme to graded managers to commit ensure every person working at one working day to volunteer their Greggs shares in the Companys skills and expertise to support success.
a local community or In 2010, a record 5.8 million environmental project was shared amongst eligible employees, with 16,800 people benefi ting.
15 Progress against our 2010 targets continued We will reduce the salt, fat and Quality, fresh bakery saturated fat content for each of food our customers our products, working towards the Food Standards Agencys can trust.
We will remove ALL artifi cial fl avours from the products we We have met the FSAs salt make by the middle of 2010. reduction targets for 2012 ahead of target for our national We have made signifi cant bread lines.
Work has been progress against this target and ongoing throughout the year to the majority of Greggs food progressively reduce the salt, fat does not now contain artifi cial fl avours.
Work will continue in and saturated fat content of our 2011 to remove artifi cial fl avours other products.
This continues from the last remaining products to be done without adversely without changing the taste of our affecting the taste or quality much loved products, which is a of our products, a signifi cant key consideration for customers.
Nutritional information will be Our targets for 2011: available to all our customers in all our shops for our national We will provide nutritional bread & rolls and confectionery information in our shops for our ranges, so that our entire full national product range national product range is completed by the end of 2010.
We will continue to reduce salt content, working towards the In each Greggs shop, FSA DoH 2012 targets, without customers have access to compromising the great taste leafl ets detailing the nutritional and quality of our food values for our national ranges of sandwiches, savouries and We will continue to reduce fat drinks, which represent over content without compromising 75 per cent of purchases.
the great taste and quality of However, in 2010 we were not our food able to complete the work to We will continue to remove the make the same information available in our shops for bread last artifi cial fl avours from the and confectionery products.
products we make ourselves Customers can telephone We will agree and issue an our customer contact team to ethical sourcing policy request nutritional information on any of our products, but We will promote a better we want to make this available understanding of balanced diets to them in our shops and will continue to work on this in 2011.
16 Annual Report & Accounts 2010 We will aim to divert an Reducing our Our targets for 2011: additional 10 per cent of waste impact on the world from landfi ll, building on the We will achieve a 5 per cent 18 per cent diversion achieved around us.
reduction in our 2010 carbon in 2009 and the 20 per cent footprint measured in tonnes of We will aim to achieve a 25 per diversion achieved in 2008.
CO2e per shop, as part of our cent reduction of our carbon target of 25 per cent reduction We are pleased to report that we footprint by 2015 measured in per shop by the end of 2015 exceeded this target, diverting tonnes of CO2e per shop.
an additional 36 per cent of We will divert a further 10 per We made some progress in waste from landfi ll in 2010. cent of waste from landfi ll 2010 towards the 2015 target, We will aim to reduce our bakery We will achieve a 3 per cent reducing our overall carbon waste by 10 per cent on a per reduction in total energy usage footprint by 5 per cent as per the shop basis.
in our shops and bakeries above measure.
We recognise measured in tonnes of CO2e there is still much more to do.
We werent able to meet this per shop target in 2010, however for 2011 We will aim to achieve a 2.5 we have plans to implement We will achieve a 2.5 per cent per cent reduction in carbon bakery and shop waste reduction over the next three generated by our distribution monitoring processes into all our years in carbon generated by our activity.
bakeries, and this target will be distribution activity measured in We werent able to make as carried forward.
tonnes of CO2e per km per shop much progress as we would We will continue to work with We will reduce our bakery waste have liked, achieving a 1 per Keep Britain Tidy to encourage by 5 per cent on a per shop cent reduction.
We remain responsible disposal of litter.
basis committed to reducing carbon emissions from our distribution Our strong relationship with We will trial an electric car activities and have carried this Keep Britain Tidy continues and for six months to get a better commitment forward.
during the year we organised a understanding of how this could number of Big Tidy Up events help reduce our future carbon We will aim to achieve a 5 per throughout the country: we footprint cent reduction in energy usage became founding participants in per shop against our 2009 We will explore involvement with the Love Where You Live litter consumption.
the Rivers Trust to investigate awareness programme: and our ways in which we can support We achieved a small reduction Chief Executive was a keynote improvements to the environment in energy usage per shop of 1 speaker at the Keep Britain Tidy per cent.
Our challenge was to Annual Conference 2010.
We make sure we could accurately will continue to work closely with monitor shop energy usage Keep Britain Tidy in the year across all of our 1,487 shops, so ahead.
in 2010 we focused on installing smart meters, which are now in virtually all of our shops.
In 2011, we will focus our attention on further reducing the amount of energy used across the business, measured on a per shop basis.
