Corporate Governance continued by the shareholders.
Under the through resignation, purported CA 2006 and the Companys redundancy or otherwise that Articles of Association, a director occurs because of a takeover can be removed from office by the bid.
Details of the directors shareholders in a general meeting.
service agreements and terms of appointment are set out in the The Companys Articles of Directors Remuneration Report Association set out the powers of on pages 72 to 83.
The business of the provisions in the employee share Company is to be managed by plans operated by the Company the directors who may exercise all may allow options to be exercised the powers of the Company and early on a takeover.
do on behalf of the Company all such acts as may be exercised and done by the Company Payments to suppliers and are not by any relevant Good relationships with our statutes or by the Companys suppliers are an important factor Articles of Association required in the success of the Group.
to be exercised or done by the Payments to suppliers are made Company in general meeting, in accordance with the Groups subject to the provisions of normal terms and conditions of any relevant statutes and the business except where varied terms Companys Articles of Association and conditions are agreed with and to such regulations as may individual suppliers, in which case be prescribed by the Company by these prevail.
Where disputes arise, special resolution.
attempts are made to resolve them Under the CA 2006 and promptly and amicably to ensure the Companys Articles of delays in payment are kept to a minimum.
Association, the directors powers include the power to allot and The average creditor payment buyback shares in the Company.
period for the Company and the At each Annual General Meeting, Group at 1 January 2011 was 41 resolutions are proposed granting days 2009: 41 days.
and setting out the limits on these powers.
Significant relationships The Company is not party to any The Group does not have any significant agreements which contractual or other relationships take effect, alter or terminate with any single party which are upon a change of control of the essential to the business of the Company, following a takeover Group and, therefore, no such bid.
There are no agreements between the Company and its directors or employees providing for compensation for loss of office or employment whether 30
