Annual Report & Accounts 2010 Our Achievements in 2010 We shared 10 per cent of our 900 miles in ten days on a route Our people continued to organise profi ts, a record 5.8 million, with covering all ten Greggs regional and take part in Big Tidy Up our people through our national bakeries and distribution sites: Events across England, Scotland profi t share scheme, enabling and Wales, in conjunction with - we held our fi first ever Foundation them to share in the success of Keep Britain Tidy, clearing litter Week, raising over 66,000 for the company they work so from local areas.
the Greggs Foundation and hard for.
resulting in donations to 50 We now have 161 Breakfast Thank you to our charities chosen by our staff and Clubs, giving over 7,000 children customers.
Foundation Week Breakfast Club partners a nutritious breakfast, free, will now become an annual every day.
event in the Greggs calendar: and We grew the number of Greggs Breakfast Clubs from 125 to 151.
- following the earthquake In addition, by partnering with disaster in Haiti our staff and other organisations Beachcroft customers raised 186,000 for LLP, the CBI, Middlesbrough the offi cial campaign, followed Council and RBS we have by a further 92,000 for the been able to open another ten Pakistan fl oods appeal.
We would like We launched two major to thank our co-sponsors for their initiatives in conjunction with fantastic support of the Breakfast other businesess, to help break Club initiative.
the cycle of unemployment for In 2010 we partnered with marginalised groups - a work Expochef to deliver healthier placement programme for eating awareness sessions in homeless people and a training primary schools.
We sponsored course for women offenders Recognition: 56 such events in our Breakfast in prison, aiming to give them The Greggs Breakfast Club Club schools.
skills to help them fi nd future scheme was awarded Gold status employment.
by the Food and Drink Federation We helped raise and donate We removed artifi cial fl avours from Community Awards, in the Health over 2.7 million: the majority of products we make & Wellbeing category.
ourselves without impacting taste, - for the fi fifth year running, Greggs Greggs Breakfast Clubs which is a key concern for our supported the BBC Children customers.
featured as one of fi five exemplar in Need campaign.
Thanks to companies at the Business in the the hard work and generosity We diverted an additional 36 per Community Annual Leadership of our people and customers, cent of our waste from landfi ll, Summit in 2010.
The event was we substantially increased our signifi cantly exceeding our target hosted by HRH The Prince of total raised to 904,850 in 2010, of 10 per cent, meaning that in Wales and was attended by making Greggs the second 2010, 49 per cent of our total Prime Minister David Cameron largest corporate contributor to waste was diverted from landfi ll.
and over 200 business leaders BBC Children in Need: We reduced our Carbon Footprint from around the UK.
- our Great Bakery Bike Ride tonnes of CO2e by 5 per cent on raised 90,000.
A team from a per shop basis.
Greggs CEO Kennedy McMeikan Greggs, led by Finance Director was appointed as HRH The Richard Hutton, cycled over Prince of Wales Ambassador for the North East, in recognition of his leadership and commitment Greggs Breakfast Clubs give primary school children in deprived areas to local communities.
a nutritious free breakfast every day.
Greggs provide the equipment, bread and money to purchase cereal, milk, etc, and the clubs are 13 operated by the school and parent volunteers.
