Annual Report & Accounts 2010 The Internal Audit team has authority Internal Audit Fixed assets to access all areas of the business, During the year the Board provided In the opinion of the directors, the senior management, and the additional resource to improve market value of all of the Groups Chairman of the Audit Committee as the effectiveness of the Internal properties is not significantly is seen fit.
The function continues different from their historical net The Board confirms that it has to review the performance of the book amount.
reviewed the effectiveness of the Supply Chain and regional Retail system of internal control covering functions across a range of financial Directors and their interests all material controls, including and non-financial requirements, The names of the directors in office financial, operational, compliance reporting findings to senior during the year, together with their and risk management systems management and direct to the relevant interests in the share capital during the year under review and up Audit Committee.
The Internal Audit of the Company at 2 January 2010 to the date of approval of the annual Manager reports to the Company and 1 January 2011 or at date of report and accounts.
Secretary & General Counsel, to appointment if later are set out in improve functional independence, note 24 to the accounts.
Details of Accountability, Audit and and has a standing invitation directors share options are set out Going Concern to attend all Audit Committee in the Directors Remuneration report meetings, not only that part relating The Board acknowledges its on pages 72 to 83. to the presentation of relevant audit responsibility to present a balanced In accordance with the Companys reports.
and understandable assessment Articles of Association, Derek of the Companys position and Netherton, Kennedy McMeikan, prospects.
This is fulfilled by Raymond Reynolds, and Iain the statements contained in Ferguson will retire from the Board the Chairmans statement and at the AGM.
Julie Baddeley, who Chief Executives report, which is Chair of the Remuneration supplement the statutory accounts Committee, was appointed as a themselves.
A statement of directors director in March 2005, and as at responsibilities in respect of the the date of the AGM will have been preparation of accounts is given on a director for in excess of six years.
A statement of auditors In accordance with the requirements responsibilities is given in the report of clause B.
2.3 of the UK Corporate of the auditor on page 33.
Governance Code, the Nominations After making enquiries, the directors Committee duly and rigorously have a reasonable expectation that considered the independence of the Group has adequate resources Julie Baddeley and resolved that to continue in operational existence Julie was independent and should for the foreseeable future.
For this be invited to stand for re-election reason, they continue to adopt the as a director.
Accordingly, with all going concern basis in preparing the directors standing down, being accounts see basis of preparation eligible, they each offer themselves on page 41. for re-election.
