Annual Report & Accounts 2010 notice requiring him to provide a directors may only refuse to Additional information written statement stating he is the register transfers in accordance Following the implementation of beneficial owner of shares.
with the Uncertificated Securities the European Directive on Takeover Regulations 2001 as amended A notice convening a general Bids by certain provisions of the from time to time.
meeting can contain a statement Companies Act 2006 CA 2006, that a shareholder is not entitled Under the Companys Code the Company is required to disclose to attend and vote at a general on dealings in securities in the certain additional information in the meeting unless his name is Company, persons discharging Directors Report.
This information entered on the register of managerial responsibilities and is set out below.
members of the Company at a some other senior executives The Company has one class of specific time not more than 48 may in certain circumstances be share in issue being ordinary hours before the meeting and if restricted as to when they can shares of 2p each.
As at a shareholders name is not so transfer shares in the Company.
15 March 2011, there were entered he is not entitled to attend There are no agreements 101,155,901 such ordinary shares and vote.
between shareholders known to in issue.
There are no shares Under the Companys Articles the Company which may result in the Company that grant the of Association the directors in restrictions on the transfer of holder special rights with regard may, in their absolute discretion, shares or on voting rights.
to control of the Company.
refuse to register the transfer Details of the significant holders At general meetings of the of a share in certified form in of the Companys shares are set Company, on a show of hands, certain circumstances where the out on page 28. every shareholder present in Company has a lien on the share person or by proxy has one vote Where, under an employee share provided that the directors do only and, in the case of a poll, plan operated by the Company, not exercise their discretion so every shareholder present in as to prevent dealings in partly participants are the beneficial person or by proxy has one vote owners of shares but not the paid shares from taking place for every share in the capital of registered owner, the voting rights on an open and proper basis, the Company held by him.
are normally exercised by the where a shareholder has failed to reply to a duly served notice registered owner at the direction The Companys Articles of the participant.
of Association set out the under section 793 1 CA 2006 circumstances in which shares or if a transfer of a share is in The Companys Articles of favour of more than four persons may become disenfranchised.
Association may only be jointly.
In addition, the directors No shareholder is entitled, unless amended by special resolution the directors otherwise determine, may decline to recognise any at a general meeting of the in respect of any share held by instrument of transfer unless it shareholders.
is in respect of only one class him to be present or vote at a The Companys Articles of of share and is deposited at the general meeting either personally Association set out how directors or by proxy or to exercise any address at which the register are appointed and replaced.
other right in relation to meetings of members of the Company is Directors can be appointed by the held or at such other place as of the Company in respect of that Board or by the shareholders in a the directors may determine share in certain circumstances general meeting.
At each Annual if any call or other sum is accompanied by the relevant General Meeting, any director payable and remains unpaid, if share certificate s and such other appointed by the Board since the evidence as the directors may the shareholder is in default in last Annual General Meeting plus reasonably require to show the complying with a duly served a proportion of the other directors notice under section 793 1 CA right of the transferor to make must retire from office but each is 2006 or if the shareholder has the transfer.
In respect of shares eligible for re-election held in uncertificated form the failed to reply to a duly served 29
