Halfords Group plc Online version 57 Annual Report & Accounts for period ended 2 April 2010 halfords.
com businessreview Policies for managing financial risks are governed by Liquidity risk Board approved policies and procedures, which are The Group ensures that it has sufficient cash or loan reviewed on an annual basis.
facilities to meet all its commitments when required.
The Group ensures that there is sufficient cash or The Groups debt management policy is to provide an working capital facilities to meet the cash requirements appropriate level of funding to finance the Business of the Group for the current Business Plan.
The Plan over the medium term at a competitive cost minimum liquidity level is currently set at 30.0m.
while ensuring flexibility to meet the changing needs of the Group.
The Group has a syndicated five-year Forecast liquidity is reviewed each month by the term facility totalling 300m that provides the Group Treasurer to determine whether there are sufficient with committed bank facilities until July 2011. credit facilities to meet forecast requirements.
The key risks that the Group faces from a treasury Covenants are monitored on a regular basis to ensure perspective are as follows: there are no significant breaches, which would lead to an Event of Default.
Calculations are submitted at Financial risk least bi-annually to the syndication agent.
Reporting The Business Plan and cash flow forecasts are on covenant compliance forms part of the Treasury subject to key assumptions such as interest rates and Report.
There have been no breaches of covenants the significance of these risks is dependent upon the during the reported periods.
level of EBITDA and the strength of the balance sheet.
Capital risk management Interest rate risk The Groups objectives when managing capital are to The Groups policy is to manage the interest cost of safeguard the Groups ability to continue as a going the Group within the constraints of the Business Plan concern in order to provide returns for shareholders and its financial covenants.
The Groups borrowings and benefits for other stakeholders and to maintain an are currently subject to floating rate and the Group will optimal capital structure to reduce the cost of capital.
continue to monitor movements in the swap market.
In order to maintain or adjust the capital structure, Foreign currency risk the Group may adjust the amount of dividends paid The Group has a significant transaction exposure to shareholders, return capital to shareholders, issue through direct sourced purchases of its supplies new shares or sell assets to reduce debt.
from the Far East with most of the trade being in US The Group manages capital by operating within debt dollars.
The Group does not hedge either economic ratios.
These ratios are lease adjusted net debt to exposure or the translation exposure arising from the EBITDAR and fixed charge cover.
Lease adjusted net profits, assets and liabilities of non-sterling businesses debt is calculated as net debt and leases capitalised whilst they remain immaterial.
at eight times, as a multiple of EBITDA plus operating During the 52 weeks to 2 April 2010, the foreign lease charges.
Fixed charge cover is calculated as exchange management policy was to hedge via being EBITDA plus operating lease charges as a forward contract purchase between 75% and 80% of multiple of interest and operating lease charges.
As the material foreign exchange transaction exposures a result of the current economic conditions and the on a rolling 12-month basis.
Hedging is performed attitude towards debt, the Group has decided to through the use of foreign currency bank accounts, reduce the level of net debt and therefore operates spot rates and forward foreign exchange contracts.
favourably to these target metrics.
Credit risk Nick Wharton The Groups policy is to minimise the risk that foreign Finance Director exchange and interest rate derivative counterparties, 10 June 2010 the holders of surplus cash and the providers of debt will be unable to fulfil their obligations and also, in the case of lenders, unwilling to extend the loan facilities when they expire.
In executing this policy, the Group ensures that such counterparties, who all sit within the syndicated Group, that are used for credit transactions and ancillary business held at least an A credit rating at the time of syndication July 2006.
The Treasurer is responsible for determining credit worthiness of each counterparty, based on the overall financial strength of the counterparty.
The counterparty credit risk is reviewed in the Treasury report, which is forwarded to the Treasury Committee and the Treasurer reviews credit exposure on a daily basis.
17399 14 06 2010 Proof 7 Financials Responsibilities Business Review About Halfords Introduction
