Halfords Group plc Online version 39 Annual Report & Accounts for period ended 2 April 2010 halfords.
ft. of new DC CO 2 1.6% reduction in 2009 10 increase of 34% pick rate expected A programme of improvements and investment in distribution centre structure with modern management systems will deliver significant returns from 2010.
Servicing 462 stores in the UK & ROI carries a significant cost, Environmental impact both financial and environmental.
Our responsibility to our We have outlined our impact on the environment on page 84 and shareholders and the broader community will see significant shown how the steps we have taken will make our distribution improvements as investments in technology, rationalisation of network more carbon efficient.
We have sought to optimise both distribution centres, inventory management and logistics begin to the operation of the delivery fleet and the warehouse operations.
These include shorter, more efficient journeys and warehouse zoned lighting which reduces lighting to 10% output when not 2010 needed, but is able to be re-illuminated immediately by motion During 2010 the Group will migrate from its current three sensor controls thereby minimising cost.
distribution centres DC to two national distribution centres.
One DC, Redditch, will service all bike volumes whilst the new Coventry DC will service all other demand.
Through improved location and investments in mechanisation, annualised savings of c. 4m are anticipated.
Order collation The efficiency of our colleagues in the distribution centres will be improved through intelligent management systems, one feature is the pick by voice feature which allows the movement of our colleagues picking orders to be optimised as they are given live instructions via headset by computer.
This will enable not only increased pick rates by better planned walks but also the ability to pick for multiple stores concurrently.
Computer driven voice instructions to colleagues in Coventry will allow us to move from picking for a single store to four stores concurrently Logistics Controller 17399 14 06 2010 Proof 7 Financials Responsibilities Business Review About Halfords Introduction 40 224 Business Review halfords.
