50 Business Review Halfords has a clearly articulated acquisition strategy for assets that can provide additional avenues for significant growth.
Enhancing our online offer and further extending our Nationwide complements Halfords Retail closely multi-channel presence is a clear investment priority.
and builds on our growing car parts and wefit In line with market trends, we continue to increase the service business.
The acquisition creates the amount of advertising dedicated to this medium and largest specialised UK operator focused on the car this year have added 40,000 customer ratings and maintenance, servicing and car repair market.
Car reviews to the site together with an Ask and Answer aftercare is a large and highly attractive sector with a facility to allow customers to tap into the expertise value of 9bn.
Capacity is shrinking as the number of and experience of other users.
independent garages declines leading to increasing demand from motorists for a reliable, quality We have also extended significantly the range of independent operator.
products we offer in areas like bike parts, car seats and camping.
In all we carry 2,000 more lines on halfords.
There is significant scope to grow the new Group and com than we do in store.
Much of the extra inventory we intend to double Nationwides operating profits is managed in partnership reducing stock costs and in the third year of ownership.
Operational scale will obsolescence risk.
This approach provides the model significantly increase by opening 200 further centres for significant range extension going forward.
in key towns over the next seven years.
Further growth opportunities exist from cross-marketing the Acquisition Groups complementary customer base, increased In addition to the significant organic growth fleet penetration and there will also be cost and opportunity provided by the core UK and ROI purchasing synergies.
retail operation, Halfords has a clearly articulated Nationwides business will continue to be driven by acquisition strategy for assets that can provide their successful management team who have joined additional avenues for significant growth.
Our criteria the Halfords Group.
The first new centres have been are for quality, domestic businesses in adjacent launched under the Halfords Autocentre branding and markets where the Halfords brand would resonate the whole estate will be rebranded during the current strongly or where we can apply our core capabilities.
year, after a trial to be conducted across May and June.
Nationwide Autocentres During this period Halfords made its first significant acquisition, Nationwide Autocentres.
Nationwide is a market leading, growing business operating from 224 centres nationally and provides motorists with a full range of auto servicing, MOTs and repairs for both the consumer and fleet markets.
Nationwide is the only national operator that offers dealership quality service at more affordable prices.
