Halfords Group plc Online version 63 Annual Report & Accounts for period ended 2 April 2010 halfords.
com responsibilities Donations A whistle-blowing policy and procedure is in place and has been notified to all retail colleagues.
The policy enables them to report any During the year the Group contributed 82,800 2009: 26,000 to concerns on matters affecting the Group or their employment, without charities in the UK, including donations to BEN, a charity supporting fear of recrimination, and reduces the risk of things going wrong or of individuals and families linked to the motor industry and associated malpractice taking place and remaining unreported.
Group takes a zero-tolerance approach to matters of discrimination, In May 2009 Halfords commenced a two-year partnership with harassment and bullying in all aspects of its business operations, Macmillan Cancer Support.
In the 52-week period to 2 April 2010 the whether they relate to sex, race, national origin, disability, age, religion Company raised over 56,000 for the charity with stores selling carrier or sexual orientation, and policies and procedures are also in place for bags and sweets, holding events and individual employees undertaking reporting and dealing with these matters.
fund-raising events ranging from running marathons to holding charity Owning shares in the Company is an important way of strengthening auctions.
colleagues involvement in the development of the Groups business The Groups policy is not to make any donations for political purposes.
and bringing together their and shareholders interests.
The Group However, the Companies Act 2006 defines the term donations very therefore encourages the Groups colleagues to participate in its widely and, as a result, certain expenses legitimately incurred as part Sharesave Scheme.
of the process of talking to Government at all levels and making the Directors Groups position known, are now reportable.
Although during the year no such expenditure or political donations were made, resolutions were The following persons were Directors during the 52 weeks to 2 April passed at the 2009 Annual General Meeting AGM that provided for 2010 and at the date of this Report: limited authority for such expenditure, such authority remaining valid Dennis Millard appointed 28 May 2009 until the earlier of 29 October 2010 or the conclusion of the AGM to be David Wild held in 2010, and as such the Company will be asking for this limited Nick Wharton authority to be renewed at the AGM to be held on 27 July 2010.
Paul McClenaghan Colleagues Nigel Wilson Keith Harris The Board seeks to instil high standards of customer care and service Bill Ronald in the Group and the commitment of every colleague to this business requirement is considered to be critical.
The Group has established In accordance with the Companys Articles of Association, Nigel a framework of communication for colleagues concerning business Wilson, Senior Independent Director, Bill Ronald and Keith Harris are performance and Company benefits.
Group-wide training reinforces the retiring by rotation at the forthcoming AGM and, being eligible, will offer Groups commitment to colleague involvement and development.
themselves for re-election at that meeting.
The Group is committed to the principle of equal opportunity in Directors interests employment and to ensuring that no applicant or colleague receives The Directors interests in shares and options over shares in the less favourable treatment on the grounds of gender, marital status, Company are shown in the Directors Remuneration Report on pages race, ethnic origin, religion, disability, sexuality, age, or is disadvantaged 71 to 80. by conditions or requirements which cannot be shown to be justified.
The Group applies employment policies which are fair and equitable In response to the requirements of the Companies Act 2006 introduced and which seek to promote entry into and progression within the in October 2008, each Director has notified the Company of any Group.
Appointments are determined solely by application of job situation in which he or she has, or can have a direct or indirect criteria, personal ability and competency.
interest that conflicts, or possibly may conflict, with the interests of the Company a situational conflict.
These interests were considered and The Group gives full and fair consideration to applications for approved by the Board in accordance with the Companys Articles of employment made by disabled persons, having regard to their Association and each Director was informed of the authorisation and particular aptitudes and abilities, wherever suitable opportunities exist, the terms on which it was given.
and training and career development support are provided, where appropriate.
Should a colleague become disabled when working for the Group, efforts are made to continue their employment and retraining is provided, if necessary.
17399 14 06 2010 Proof 7 Financials Responsibilities Business Review About Halfords Introduction
