Halfords Group plc Online version 51 Annual Report & Accounts for period ended 2 April 2010 halfords.
com businessreview Pictured: Loading bays, new Coventry DC.
We continue to augment such incremental margin, through a continued focus on margin enhancement, operating cost control and capital discipline.
Summary and outlook We expect the consumer environment to remain challenging, but we have demonstrated that our Halfords retains clear leadership in its core retail business can make good progress in these conditions markets of cycling and car maintenance, where it and improve operating returns.
However, our strong is delivering good like-for-like sale increases and market positions, ongoing actions to reduce costs growing market share.
We continue to augment such and strong cash flow characteristics provide a solid incremental margin, through a continued focus on platform for future sustainable earnings growth margin enhancement, operating cost control and through our core strategic growth initiatives and capital discipline.
Together, these factors mean we acquisitions that meet our stringent criteria.
have continued to perform strongly, increasing profit before tax and non-recurring items by 26.7%.
Through this focus on creating value for our customers and active management of the business, Our performance through this period of recession the Board believes the Group is well positioned to emphasises the resilient quality and adaptability of deliver earnings growth.
In the year ahead this is the business.
We believe Halfords unique, marketanticipated to be in line with market expectations, leading position provides strong potential for us to with sustainable growth across the medium term consolidate further the fragmented markets in which anticipated to average approximately 15%.
The acquisition of Nationwide Autocentres gives David Wild us a market leading entry point into a large and Chief Executive Officer unconsolidated market and opens another exciting 10 June 2010 avenue of growth for Halfords.
17399 14 06 2010 Proof 7 Financials Responsibilities Business Review About Halfords Introduction
