44 Business Review... our exclusive ranges and unique set-up and demo proposition provide a clear point of competitive differentiation.
Car Enhancement As referred to above, technology innovation provides a flow of important and high value products for This category covers staple products, such as car the car aftermarket and Halfords leadership in this cleaning and car accessories and larger ticket items market means we can secure distribution from major like car audio and portable satellite navigation devices.
manufacturers to capitalise on the next wave of Halfords is the market leader in in-car technology, development.
Many see the introduction of digital DAB where our exclusive ranges and unique set-up and radio as being the next big opportunity and we are demo proposition provide a clear point of competitive confident that Halfords will be well placed to serve this differentiation.
We firmly believe that the ongoing market and lead to further sales and margin growth.
innovation of new technologies for use in the car will Leisure provide a constant source of new sales opportunities but equally recognise the natural and relatively short The leisure category continued to grow strongly and lifecycle of those products.
Our revenue performance now accounts for almost 40% of total revenue, with reflects this trend with strong progress from newer both Cycling and Travel solutions delivering strong products such as hands-free devices, portable media like-for-like sales growth during the year.
and in-car DVDs more than offset by declining satellite Cycling navigation and CD Audio sales.
Cycling is growing in popularity, powered by demand The market for satellite navigation devices is for a healthier lifestyle, environmental concerns and mature and although manufacturers continue to economic pressures.
Our customers want to cycle innovate, consumers have reduced spending on during their leisure time, as part of everyday life and, such discretionary purchases, significantly reducing supported by a government scheme providing tax sales volumes.
Reduced revenues have been partly relief on bike purchases, by cycling to work.
compensated through a focus on significantly Halfords success in the Cycling category, that increasing sales of higher margin satellite navigation delivered 15% like-for-like growth in the year, is accessories.
Overall attachment grew across the year underpinned by its market leading own brands, by 50%, with strong promotional activity around Sendai, including Apollo and Carrera, with Apollo remaining as Halfords own brand accessories, further strengthening the biggest selling bike brand in the UK, strong before margin as own brand grew to represent over 40% of and after sales service proposition and direct sourcing accessory sales.
capability from the Far East.
