62 Directors Report The directors present their report and the audited financial statements of Halfords Group plc the Company together with its subsidiary undertakings the Group for the 52 weeks to 2 April 2010.
Principal activities Profits and dividends Halfords Group plc is a public limited company incorporated in England, The Groups results for the year are set out in the Consolidated Income registered number 04457314, with its registered office at Icknield Street Statement on page 90.
Drive, Washford West, Redditch, Worcestershire, B98 0DE.
The profit before tax on ordinary activities was 109.7m 2009 77.5m The principal activities of the Group are the retailing of automotive, and the profit after tax amounted to 77.0m 2009: 55.8m.
leisure and cycling products, which it does from 469 retail stores 2009: The Directors propose that a final dividend of 14.0p per ordinary share 466 and car servicing and repair performed from 224 autocentres.
The be paid on 6 August 2010 to shareholders whose names are on the principal activity of the Company is that of a holding company.
register of members at the close of business on 2 July 2010.
This Business review payment, together with the interim dividend of 6.00p per ordinary share paid on 25 January 2010, makes a total for the year of 20.0p pence The Chairmans statement on page 5, the Business Review on per ordinary share.
The total final dividend payable to shareholders for pages 42 to 51 and the Finance Directors report on pages 52 to the year is estimated to be 29.3m.
Lloyds TSB Offshore Trust Limited, 57 provide a review of the business and progress against its key trustee of the Halfords Employee Share Trust, has waived its entitlement performance indicators during the year and descriptions of possible to dividends.
future developments and the principal risks and uncertainties facing the Group, and form part of this Directors Report.
Environmental Performance monitoring considerations are reviewed within the Corporate Social Responsibility The delivery of the Groups strategic objectives is monitored by the Report on pages 81 to 85 and also form part of this Directors Report.
Board through Key Performance Indicators KPIs and the periodic Corporate governance review of various aspects of the Group operations.
The Board considers the following KPIs as appropriate measures for the delivery of the The Corporate Governance report on pages 66 to 70 forms part of this Groups strategy.
Financial and operational Definition Revenue and like-for-like sales Growth in revenue measures delivery against our store growth objectives and through like-for-like revenue, the strength of our market positions and customer offer.
Operating profit Continued growth of operating profits enables the Group to invest in its future and provide a return for shareholders.
Targets are set relative to expected market performance.
Number of store and centre openings The Group is committed to bringing its products and servicing offering to as many consumers as possible through the development of its property portfolio.
This also contributes to revenue growth.
wefit werepair jobs Halfords unique service fitting proposition is key to maintaining our differentiation from more mainstream operators.
Fitting and repair jobs completed represents a good measure of awareness and execution of this core proposition.
