12 The Halfords Brand Trading as Halfords since 1902 1st choice in core markets Data from ABA Brand Tracking Dec 2009 Over 5,000 own brand SKUs Over the past 108 years we have developed one of the most recognised UK retail brands.
We go the extra mile Using our own brand customised as Halfords Value, Halfords and Halfords Advanced has proved successful in lifting average Our brand and its values serve the Company both internally and transaction values.
With 108 years of heritage our brand began as being associated with bikes.
Through development our offer is now Building the brand requires a combination of promotion, accepted and synonymous as a broader trusted retailer.
Recent customer service and product quality.
The scale and scope research has identified the following characteristics: of our store operations has also contributed to our category successes where the blend of trust, competence, accessibility Halfords is seen as unique given its combination of products and range has taken us to the No.
1 sales positions in many of sold there is nowhere else like Halfords.
For many markets, e. g. car parts, car accessories, kids and Extending the brand family bikes, Halfords is clearly the number one choice.
In-store our branded services like wefit have garnered more Most will recognise that Halfords offers car and bike bits.
rapid acceptance through the strength of our brand and the When fully probed then a connection with personal transport, competence to package an idea effectively and rapidly.
or journeys emerges and with camping the connection with outdoor leisure or great trips.
Autocentres Our brand values lend themselves to extension into adjacent Products and services markets where there is a demand for reliability and trust.
Car Brand perception research has enabled us to position our brand servicing therefore is a natural fit and should allow us to build to products from every category, and across our good, better, upon another market-leading offer.
Retail marketing is a tough environment, our service offer gives us a competitive advantage in almost all product categories Head of Marketing 17399 14 06 2010 Proof 7
