10 Our Markets 462 retail stores UK and ROI growing female and family audience 9bn car maintenance market The UK & ROI are our core markets.
Halfords continues to grow market share in attractive markets and, through its unique service proposition, differentiate itself from its competition.
United Kingdom UK and Republic of Ireland Our most comprehensive product presentation is now our UK and ROI Summary ROI websites which currently display 12,000 product lines and received 30 million visitors in the year to March 2010.
Our web The UK has been the core market since the inception of the traffic is growing at an annual rate of almost 40% and our industry Company in 1892 and the successful UK model has been largely leading Reserve and Collect offer successfully drives 80% of online replicated in the ROI since 2006 with a similar mix of products customers to stores.
This enhances the customer relationship and and services promoted through stores and a website.
allows us to improve sales of related products and accessories Reportable segments attachment rates.
In addition, the web attracts new customers, The Halfords Group operates through two reportable segments with a higher ratio of female buyers than is seen in stores.
or strategic business units Retail and Car Servicing.
The Car Of the product categories, Car Maintenance is market-led Servicing segment covers the operations of the Nationwide where the consumer generally makes a purchase based upon Autocentres business acquired in February 2010. a need to meet legislative, manufacturer guidelines or safety Retail concerns.
The market has relatively robust demand.
Car The Halfords retail business is split across Car Maintenance, Enhancement is more product led and thus susceptible to Car Enhancement and Leisure categories and includes inchanges in discretionary income and to a degree fashion and store services like wefit.
Leisure covers a wide range, of which cycling is the largest proportion but also includes travel We retail from 462 stores in the UK and ROI, of which 403 are solutions, child safety and camping products where we drive Superstores, 26 are mid-sized Compact stores and 33 are business through both awareness and promotional activities.
the smaller high street Metro stores.
Our formats of choice are the larger Superstore and Compact store which carry Car servicing approximately 10,000 and 6,000 lines respectively.
Ninety Our Autocentres operation is the largest independent car percent of the UK population are within a 20 minute drive of one service agent in the country, comprising 224 garages.
maintenance market is worth approximately 9bn annually, of which Nationwide has approximately 1% market share.
The market is fragmented: at one end the more expensive 17399 14 06 2010 Proof 7
