30 Autocentres Pictured: Unit 1, Saxondale Park, London Road, Derby.
Pictured: Unit 7, Wyvern Way, Wyvern Retail Park, Derby.
17399 14 06 2010 Proof 7 Halfords Group plc Online version 31 Annual Report & Accounts for period ended 2 April 2010 halfords.
com abouthalfords Largest independent garage network in UK 224 Autocentres 667,000 appointments in FY10 With only 1% market share of an estimated 9bn industry, our brand and financial strength will allow us to expand rapidly, meeting consumer needs for a trusted garage providing great service and value, located within easy reach.
Market Our offer As our cars become more technologically complex, the owners Halfords Autocentres are the perfect balance.
We are always ability to service and maintain them at more than a superficial level more competitive than the franchised dealers.
We have the brand diminishes.
Whilst modern cars have become more reliable and and reputation to put customers at ease, and the diagnostic service intervals extended, the cost of those services has increased.
computer technology to maintain most cars and without affecting warranties.
All packaged up with our high standards of customer Nobody would choose to service their car were there no service.
warranty, reliability and resale consequences.
In short, it is needs driven.
This provides service agents with a market estimated to This balance of franchise quality service and competitive price is be worth 9bn annually and customers select them based upon attractive to both retail customers and fleet operators alike and a range of convenience factors.
These include level of disruption, we deal very effectively with a number of very large fleets.
Sustainability The service market consists of three broad segments.
At one With a growing and ageing car parc and cars lasting longer than extreme are the franchised dealers: slick, credible and trusted ever, the need for car service is assured in the medium to long but very costly and prepared to operate only at their own term.
We are experienced at consolidating the requirements in pace.
At the other extreme are the small private garages and fragmented markets and with a long heritage of dealing with retail mechanics, a generally less polished experience and frequently customers, we are uniquely aligned to take advantage.
without the security of a large organisations resources, but the costs are lower.
In common with the Halfords retail offer Autocentres have been successful in providing a service which is Duncan Wilkes good value with excellent customer service Autocentres Chief Executive 17399 14 06 2010 Proof 7 Financials Responsibilities Business Review About Halfords Introduction
