Halfords Group plc Online version 61 Annual Report & Accounts for period ended 2 April 2010 halfords.
com responsibilities Non-Executive Directors dENNIS MILLARd NIGEL WILSON Chairman Non-Executive Director Dennis joined the Board and was appointed Nigel joined the Board as a non-executive Director in Chairman on 27 May 2009.
Mr Millard is currently May 2004 and was appointed Senior Independent non-executive Chairman of Smiths News plc and Director on 1 April 2006.
He is currently Chief non-executive Senior Independent Director and Financial Officer at Legal & General plc, having Chairman of the Audit Committees of Debenhams previously been Deputy Chief Executive and Chief plc, Premier Farnell plc and Xchanging plc.
He was Financial Officer of United Business Media.
Other previously Finance Director of Cookson Group plc previous appointments include Group Finance from 1996 to 2005 and a non-executive Director of Director and subsequent Managing Director of Exel plc from 2003 to 2005.
Viridian Group plc, Group Finance Director at Waste Management International, Head of Corporate Finance and Group Commercial Director at Dixons Group PLC and a consultant at McKinsey & Co.
He is also, currently, a non-executive Director at Capita Group plc where he is the Senior Independent Director.
BILL RONALd KEITH HARRIS Non-Executive Director Non-Executive Director Bill joined the Board as a non-executive Director Keith joined the Board as a non-executive Director in May 2004.
He is currently also a non-executive in May 2004.
He has been Executive Chairman of Director on the Boards of Dialight plc, Alfesca and Seymour Pierce Limited since its acquisition from Bezier Group.
Previously he was Chief Executive of Investment Management Holdings plc.
Prior to this Uniq plc for three years, prior to which Bill spent 23 Keith was Chairman of the Football League and Chief years in a variety of roles within the Mars Corporation.
Executive of HSBC Investment Bank plc.
Keith is His final positions there were Managing Director of currently on the Boards of Cooper Gay Holdings the UK confectionery operation and Vice-President of Limited and Sellar Investments Limited.
17399 14 06 2010 Proof 7 Financials Responsibilities Business Review About Halfords Introduction
