Halfords Group plc Online version 37 Annual Report & Accounts for period ended 2 April 2010 halfords.
com abouthalfords Systems 1.7m Reserve & Collect transactions to date Order & Collect launched January 2010 Over 400,000 items available to order in store The technology to drive an increasingly complex multi-channel offer and improve operating efficiencies across the business remains a key area of focus and investment.
Over the past five years Halfords has invested in a core suite Multi-channel support of systems, that provide the backbone of our business.
Such Multi-channel support has been a key area of development.
investments have replaced our point of sale, warehousing, multiImproving an infrastructure which can now show our product channel and head office systems.
availability per store to web users has supported the increased demand for Reserve and Collect.
It also creates a seamless Recognising our risk appetite in the area, we dont look to lead, experience where a customer orders non-stock items for but to mirror the best in class infrastructure already established in collection at the local store.
Our logistics and in-store processes the marketplace.
are designed to be easily managed and allow colleagues in-store Our key focus at this time is on a further enhancing of our into add value through accessories or services.
store point of sale experience and further integrating our multichannel proposition.
Point of sale experience For point of sale we have two categories of purchase.
First, that which you can take from the shelf and pay at the till.
Second, that which needs to be cross-referenced to ensure the part is correctly selected.
The latter is supported by our market leading product look-up databases supplemented by customer product references and this continues to improve the customer experience.
The importance of joined up systems has never been greater: our ability to deliver customer access to store inventory information has proved invaluable 17399 14 06 2010 Proof 7 Financials Responsibilities Business Review About Halfords Introduction
