1 Sat Nav retailer Data from GFK Panel Market Car Audio No.
1 retailer Data from GFK Panel Market Sat Nav Accessories sales attachment increased by 50% FY10 As the leading retailer in car enhancement, from car audio to car mats and from alloy wheels to car cleaning, our market position is defensively maintained by sheer scale, scope, multi-channel availability and the knowledge of our colleagues.
Market Offer As a product led market, car enhancement contains the highest Product led categories like car enhancement inherently get proportion of items affected by levels of discretionary spend.
more space in most of our advertising media.
In stores we have With the range stretching from cleaning products to technology comprehensive range displays and fully trained colleagues to solutions, our promotional activity, inventory and services need to ensure customers get the product they need.
Online provides be dynamic and contemporary.
an ideal opportunity to present both our detailed product information and to drive sales through our Reserve and Collect Product maturity is the norm in technology markets as features and Order and Collect page 32. appear and products merge functionality.
Conversely these new features and technologies also create new ranges and the Value contribution market has many innovations launching over the next few years The sustainability of the car enhancement category adds such as DAB digital radio.
value to our broader product portfolio, driving footfall from our promotional activity on high profile technology, combined with Sustainability the strong margin contribution of accessories and car cleaning.
Technological innovation creates constant streams of sales The scale and breadth of the ranges ensures we are the natural opportunities and lifestyle challenges.
The evolution of products destination for the motorist.
and features in core markets like CD Audio and Sat Nav provide upgrade sales well before products mature in a traditional sense.
Alignment with strategy This is countered, however, by increased competition in some Car Enhancement products are well aligned with our core ranges where online price comparison can become the norm.
maintenance products and the Halfords brand is a recognised participant in the category contributing to our No.
1 market We have developed a series of responses to these market position in several product areas.
challenges, learning fast and adapting ranges and services.
17399 14 06 2010 Proof 7 Halfords Group plc Online version 21 Annual Report & Accounts for period ended 2 April 2010 halfords.
com abouthalfords 3.5m Car Air Fresheners sold FY10 Car Accessories Store of First Choice ABA Brand Tracking Car cleaning No.
1 position Data from GFK Panel Market Key Product Groups Key Brands Technology: Sat Nav and accessories Car Accessories In-car DVD players l seat covers & mats, Audio includes l air fresheners, l CD audio speakers l wheel trims, accessories system Tom Tom, Garmin, Sony, JVC, Kenwood, Sendai, Ripspeed l internal and external building, accessories Car Accessories and Performance Styling: l portable media devices Performance styling FM transmitters, and l exterior styling, l Bluetooth hands free range l gear knobs, l alloy wheels, l graphics and lighting Car polish Type S, Airwick, Magic Tree, Hello Kitty, Car shampoo Prism lighting, Me to You Pressure washers Alloy wheel cleaners We are experts at set-up and demo, and focus on clear explanation of products and benefits to ensure the customer walks away with the product that best suits their needs Category Manager 17399 14 06 2010 Proof 7 Financials Responsibilities Business Review About Halfords Introduction
