Halfords Group plc Online version 23 Annual Report & Accounts for period ended 2 April 2010 halfords.
com abouthalfords Leisure: Travel Solutions No.
1 in roof bars Data from Mont Blanc 3.5m units sold across the Travel Solutions category 51,000 tent packs sold FY10 Underlying trends have made the leisure market increasingly attractive.
We continue to develop our offer towards being the front of mind destination for those on the move.
Market Sustainability In travel solutions we participate in product ranges to facilitate Underlying consumer trends towards leisure, safety and journeys, camping, child travel solutions and more recently economy make our Travel Solutions ranges a category with mobility products.
Our brand association continues to grow from core products like roof boxes and cycle carriers, to General travel products include ranges from safety vests to camping and mobility.
These products facilitate convenience and safety whilst on the move.
Our roofboxes, for example, have Offer seen improvements in design to reduce drag and thus fuel Travel Solutions is also promoted through our multichannel consumption whilst retaining a strong visual appeal, attracting offer.
From both our stores and websites, customers can consumers on an increased aesthetic and environmental basis.
obtain a breadth of information and accessory options: with the benefit of having many of the products, assembled, fitted and Camping has been supported by an increased trend to holiday demonstrated by our professionally trained staff.
closer to home which is economically attractive.
As our range develops our retail offer is designed to increase attachment rates.
In addition, the seasonal nature of holiday solutions adds balance to our product portfolio.
Child Travel products invoke a parental response which resonates with our ability to not only specify the correct solution but also to use our accredited free fitting service for peace of mind.
Parents get that confidence when child safety products are specified by professionals then fitted and demonstrated to ensure correct use Product Manager 17399 14 06 2010 Proof 7 Financials Responsibilities Business Review About Halfords Introduction 24 In-store Services 11.7m revenue from instore services 2.35m wefit werepair jobs.
An increase of 38.3% 212,000 Bike Care Plans sold, up 71.5% on FY09 The fastest growing area of our business has been in-store services.
Cost-effective, fast and professional service meets consumer needs and allows us to recommend related products and accessories.
Services Year on year we have seen growth in the wefit offer.
The offer allows a close contact We have built a compelling service offer to create competitive relationship with the customer to be fostered.
advantage across a wide range of product categories.
It improves safety for the consumer by having parts In each case the level of support and service provision required professionally fitted, it builds loyalty to the brand and it allows our by the customer varies by customer competence, confidence colleagues to enhance the customer experience by and desire to get involved and by the product complexity recommending related products as issues are discovered in the and safety needs.
We continue to develop a compelling and fitting process.
For example, demonstration and fitting of our comprehensive range of support services which make us child safety products provides peace of mind to parents and the the natural destination and create a sustainable competitive more complex audio systems frequently require professional advantage.
fitting: so in both cases, our offer adds value to the customer.
On the following pages we outline many of these service The build and innovations.
Our experience in growing the wefit service offer has assembly of products secured not only increased transaction values but has attracted is another key new consumer groups to Halfords.
differentiator, especially where safety and complexity is concerned.
Cycles and trailers are examples of product groups Our services have grown in response to social and technological where the assembly and testing service enhances the customer trends, and have in part been designed to complement our experience.
Our services offer is both a strategic defence and a growth driver.
Strategic defence Competition from online players, supermarkets, independent product suppliers and car dealers is countered to a significant degree by our service offer.
The combination of our geographic reach and product range is complemented by a cost-effective and convenient range of services which check, demo, fit and service many of our products.
17399 14 06 2010 Proof 7 Halfords Group plc Online version 25 Annual Report & Accounts for period ended 2 April 2010 halfords.
com abouthalfords 1.3m 3Bs fittings 2,430 RoSPA trained car seat fitters Child travel 72,000 child seats fitted wecheck is a service most Cycles has seen the most commonly provided free of charge significant implementation of which allows all customers to our maintenance offer.
When ensure the part required is not only in need of replacement, but purchasing a cycle or at the free six week check stage, also to ensure the correct part is supplied.
It forms a wider role in customers can purchase a plan to have the labour element of expanding the audience we see visiting our stores.
The increased regular maintenance covered.
Policies are issued lasting audience from a wider family group are reassured in the between one and three years.
The customer gets peace of mind knowledge that our colleagues help them every step of the way: and a higher level of safety in the product usage, our stores get whether checking screen wash or oil level, we help keep them on increased footfall, product sales for the consumable items used the move.
and a higher level of customer loyalty.
It is also a service not offered by online and supermarket competitors so has growth Our werepair offer is perhaps the and defensive potential most under-utilised area of service, but one which has potential to grow significantly as customers become more aware of what can be delivered by our store colleagues.
From cycle repairs and maintenance to the car scratch and dent service many of our colleagues have been trained to deliver to high standards of quality and safety.
Being increasingly time pressured, the do it for me group of consumers are increasingly attracted to Andy Torrance Director Store Ops Halfords with our wide service offer and Logistics 17399 14 06 2010 Proof 7 Financials Responsibilities Business Review About Halfords Introduction
