Halfords Group plc Online version 11 Annual Report & Accounts for period ended 2 April 2010 halfords.
com abouthalfords franchised dealers and at the other small independent garages.
Fleet customers, which are a growing proportion of revenue, Being market-led and needs driven, our activity is split between tend to operate cars under three years old and recognise the broadscale awareness campaigns and more proactive customer cost saving benefits of a non-franchised, high quality, national relationship management.
The majority of the business is from direct retail clients where most of the cars are over three years old.
Advanced client relationship systems manage the retention of this type of business and our brand is expected to add further value to an already successful service offer.
Range Identification Process Consumer Trends Our contributions towards, and feedback from, product segment audits coupled with an array of economic data allow trends to be identified for further investigation.
Analysis of Behaviours Many of our product and service strategies are impacted by consumer behaviour.
For example, the increasing complexity of cars has driven consumers to become less involved in complex car service.
This has highlighted opportunities for our wefit service and our Autocentres acquisition.
Growth Potential We operate in large markets and we analyse the potential for future expansion, whether through organic growth of the market or our growth in market share.
Sustainability The sustainability of product categories has a significant impact on shareholder value: consequently, we are developing deep insight and working practices.
Increasingly our expertise in managing fast moving technological change e. g. SatNav life cycle has value generation benefits when managed well.
Product Selection and Service Design Once an opportunity has been identified our category managers develop contingent specification and key characteristics for the products and services.
These can then be sourced with the extensive knowledge of our UK and Far East-based teams.
17399 14 06 2010 Proof 7 Financials Responsibilities Business Review About Halfords Introduction
