Halfords Group plc Online version 67 Annual Report & Accounts for period ended 2 April 2010 halfords.
com responsibilities Operation of the Board Where a Director has a concern over any unresolved business he is entitled to require the Company Secretary to minute that concern.
The Board has a formal schedule of matters reserved for the Board, Should that Director later resign over this issue, the Chairman will bring which it has reviewed during the year and considered fit for purpose.
it to the attention of the Board.
The Boards primary role is to determine the long-term direction and strategy of the Group, create value for shareholders, monitor the The Group is supportive of executive Directors who wish to take on achievement of business objectives, monitor risk and ensure that good non-executive directorship with a company outside the Group, as corporate governance is practised and that the Group meets its other exposure to such duties can broaden experience and knowledge, responsibilities to its shareholders, customers, employees and other which will be to the benefit of the Group.
retain any fees they receive.
Nick Wharton, the Companys Finance Director, was appointed as a non-executive director to the Board of The Board is also responsible for ensuring that appropriate processes Dunelm Group plc, on 14 August 2009, where he also chairs the are in place in respect of succession planning for appointments to the Audit Committee.
Board and to key senior management positions and to establish and monitor the Groups policies and performance in the area of corporate Evaluation of the Board and its committees social responsibility.
The Board has established a formal process for the annual evaluation Meetings of the performance of the Board, its principal committees and individual Directors.
Questionnaires are drawn up, which provide the framework The Board had nine scheduled meetings this year and others as for the evaluation process.
Each member of the Board or appropriate required.
During 2009 three additional Board meetings were held committee is invited to comment on the performance of the individual, to consider the acquisition of Nationwide Autocentres.
Whilst the the Board, or the appropriate Committee and submits replies to the Board has specific responsibility for those matters reserved for its questionnaires, which are then collated.
consideration, in certain areas, specific responsibility is delegated to committees of the Board within defined terms of reference.
Within this evaluation process, the Senior Independent Director discusses with the Chairman feedback on his annual performance, During the year the Board committees, Audit, Nomination and whilst the Chairman discusses the non-executive Directors Remuneration, scheduled two, three and five meetings respectively.
performance evaluation with the individual non-executive Directors.
Individual Director attendance is shown below.
Following a review of these responses by the Board or by the Group appropriate Committee, appropriate action is taken to ensure that the Board Audit Nomination Remuneration 1 performance of the Board as a whole, its principal committees and Dennis Millard 12 1 2 6 individual Directors is such that each can perform at the optimum level David Wild 12 2 3 4 for the benefit of the Company.
Nick Wharton 12 2 Paul McClenaghan 11 Nigel Wilson 11 2 2 6 1 Keith Harris 10 1 2 6 Bill Ronald 11 1 3 5 Indicates attendance by invitation.
1 Dennis Millard and Keith Harris attended all the Audit and Nomination Committee meetings they were entitled to attend.
To enable the Board to function effectively and assist Directors to discharge their responsibilities, full and timely access is given to all relevant information.
In the case of Board meetings, this consists of a comprehensive set of papers, including regular business progress reports and discussion documents regarding specific matters.
In addition, individual Directors meet with senior management and are encouraged to make periodic site visits.
Senior managers are regularly invited to Board meetings and make business presentations.
The Chairman, supported by the Company Secretary, maintains a rolling twelve-month agenda for Board meetings to ensure all relevant matters are planned in to the cycle of meetings and considered at the appropriate time.
17399 14 06 2010 Proof 7 Financials Responsibilities Business Review About Halfords Introduction
