36 Colleagues c. 10,800 colleagues c. 4,000 of our retail staff hold accredited fitting qualifications Colleague turnover rates have fallen by 21% in the last four years delivering development programmes for all colleagues is a valuable competence in retail, we optimise talent in all elements of the value chain to deliver our strategic aims and objectives.
To compete in retail the pace is fast, the targets tough and the to continually develop their skills and capability.
In the last year, need to evolve is constant.
Behind the scenes of the retail stores we have invested in learning and development, to enable line are a core of people monitoring, analysing, communicating, managers to constantly improve the performance of the people testing, moving, sourcing, negotiating, motivating... the list in their teams.
This has included: goes on.
What is common is a passion to deliver in a relentless The Halfords Competency Framework a clear articulation competitive environment month in and month out.
of what we need to drive forward our brand and deliver the This focus and commitment is guided by our clear strategies and very best performance.
most importantly our skills in execution.
Our ability to recruit, train Colleague Training A suite of interactive training materials and manage thousands of our colleagues is a competence in itself.
to develop expertise across the complete customer offer and Communication provide our store management teams with a more flexible, talented resource.
Communication is vital and we have implemented many revised systems both technological and conventional to ensure the goals Active Selling Training Training all colleagues in how and objectives of the Group are understood and co-operatively to deliver complete solutions to our customers.
Driving delivered throughout the Company.
additional sales and margin through accessory attachment, fitting services and care plans.
Training Key to maintaining our relentless drive for delivering a Accredited Fitting Training A range of technical fitting genuine service differential to our customers is ensuring that qualifications, developed with industry bodies such as all colleagues, whether on the shop floor, in the distribution RoSPA, Cytec & IMI, to provide the very best levels of service centres, or in the head office, have the opportunities and tools that is safe, industry leading and of high quality.
Through training weve seen an increase in Customers being approached by 8%, together with Customers being Jane Saint offered accessories up by 10% Director Human Resources 17399 14 06 2010 Proof 7
