Halfords Group plc Online version 53 Annual Report & Accounts for period ended 2 April 2010 halfords.
com businessreview The Group remains focused on controlling day-to-day Non-recurring items costs while delivering a number of strategic initiatives As noted in the Business Review the decision was that will reduce costs more materially.
The cost taken and announced in March to close the Groups saving programmes announced in April 2009 have seven-store pilot within Central Europe.
Although been successful in driving operating cost efficiency international expansion remains on the Groups with headcount initiatives in both head office and strategic agenda, the Board have stated that in the store operations delivering the scheduled 4m short to medium term management and financial annualised savings.
resource will focus on the UK and Republic of Ireland markets through retail offer expansion, both through Specifically, in store, despite having increased new stores and online, developing and delivering the service related revenues that carry a higher cost opportunity in garage servicing and identifying quality, to serve, store labour costs as a percentage of domestic businesses with either brand or capability revenue reduced by 60 bps during 2010, totalling adjacencies for further value creating acquisitions.
10.5% of revenue over the period.
During the fourth quarter, store operations have undergone a further The associated exit costs total 7.4m, of which review of working practices, labour scheduling, store 4.1m are non-cash costs.
The principal areas hierarchy and reward structures that will deliver cost of expenditure relate to asset write-off 4.7m, improvements, totalling 2m, in 2011, while providing vacant property and property exit costs 2.4m and store colleagues with greater responsibility and redundancy costs 0.4m.
The Central European operation, included within the The Groups year-long project to reconfigure its 2010 Group Revenue Statement, generated revenues existing warehousing and distribution infrastructure of 5.9m and a loss before taxation of 2.5m, after remains on plan, with the new DC in Coventry operating expenses of 4.7m.
Consequently, the scheduled to commence operations in June 2010. closure will generate annualised net savings of This significant project, which is being managed in c. 2.8m, with the phased exit during the first quarter of a manner which minimises disruption to the core the new financial year resulting in an anticipated saving retail operation, is progressing in line with planned of c. 2.0m impacting the Groups 2011 results.
milestones and is on track to deliver annualised Portfolio management savings of 4.0m from the second half of 2011.
The Group continues to actively manage its store Net finance costs before non-recurring finance costs portfolio to maximise value creation through generating for the period were 2.6m 2009: 9.6m.
Finance cash, making profits and reducing ongoing rental costs on bank borrowings were 6.7m lower than the charges.
However, the property market has proved prior year reflecting a prevailing lower level of average challenging in 2010, limiting opportunities to both open net debt and significantly lower LIBOR that followed new stores and to downsize stores where landlords will the Base Rate reductions last year.
The costs of provide incentives to return excess space.
forward exchange contracts are 1.1m lower than last With regard to new stores, the economic recession year reflecting the shortening of forward purchases has reduced fresh development, while overall market of US dollars, less volatile currency movements and capacity has increased as a result of business failures, narrower interest rate differentials.
but not on the quality parks or locations that Halfords Profit before tax and non-recurring items for the 52 is targeting for future expansion.
weeks to 2 April 2010 was 117.1m 2009: 94.4m Portfolio transactions still represent a sustainable On the more comparative period for the 52 weeks opportunity for the Group, with in excess of 200 to 27 March 2009, 2010 performance represents an superstores located on A1 parks where demand increase in profit before tax and non-recurring items remains relatively high.
However until the economic of 26.7%.
Profit before tax and non-recurring items as recovery is more in evidence landlords are less a percentage of revenue has increased by 250 bps to likely to undertake speculative development in 14.1% from 11.6%.
favour of back-to-back deals which, by their nature, Profit before tax for the 52 weeks to 2 April 2010 after introduce delay in the contract exchange process.
Accordingly, landlord surrender payments from the two transactions completed during the year totalled 1.1m 2009: 2.7m and management expect a similar level of surrender payments in the forthcoming financial year.
17399 14 06 2010 Proof 7 Financials Responsibilities Business Review About Halfords Introduction
