Halfords Group plc Online version 45 Annual Report & Accounts for period ended 2 April 2010 halfords.
com businessreview Pictured: Halfords success in the Cycling category has delivered 15% like-for-like growth in the year.
Halfords had its best ever Christmas for cycle sales, building and selling almost 250,000 bikes in this key trading period.
Halfords cycle service proposition continues to be Halfords had its best ever Christmas for cycle sales, well received by customers, with more than 95% of building and selling almost 250,000 bikes in this key the bikes we sell being built in-house.
All new bikes trading period.
Halfords continued to grow its share of purchased come with the offer of a free six-week the childrens cycle market through an improved range check-up and we aim to develop an ongoing service of licensed character bikes including Ben 10, Power and repair relationship through the sales of a Bike Rangers and Hello Kitty.
Importantly, these cycles Care Plan, providing customers with the certainty of were complemented by full ranges of similarly branded labour-free repairs.
Sales of these plans increased by accessories so children could personalise their bikes, over 50% during the year and have contributed to a thereby increasing overall transaction values.
doubling of our service sales revenue.
Travel Solutions Despite selling one in three bikes in the UK, this ratio Halfords has established a reputation as the destination has not been achieved in the areas of premium and store for travel solutions.
Products such as roof boxes childrens cycles.
These two categories have been the and bars, cycle carriers and child seats help make our subject of management focus over the last two years customers journeys easier, while our camping range and have generated significant uplifts in cycle sales.
means they can enjoy their leisure time more actively.
This fragmented market continues to expand through The Boardman range, designed by Olympic the popularity of domestic holidays, where 5 million Champion Chris Boardman, leads our premium bike families undertook a holiday in Britain in 2009, and offer through an exclusivity agreement in the UK.
The Boardman range has been widely acclaimed for its leading designs, construction and price Within the core travel equipment area, changes to competitiveness, and is further endorsed through use the price and range architecture for roof bars and by World champion riders including Olympian Nicole roof boxes encouraged sales growth and improved Cooke and by Alistair Brownlee, the reigning World profitability.
Sales have grown significantly since the launch two and a half years ago, to 21,000 units over the past year, a level that we believe to be in line with some of the more established premium brands distributed via independents.
17399 14 06 2010 Proof 7 Financials Responsibilities Business Review About Halfords Introduction
