Halfords Group plc Online version 43 Annual Report & Accounts for period ended 2 April 2010 halfords.
com businessreview Pictured: Our wefit service proposition continues to gain traction with the customers.
Car Maintenance Our Tradecard offer continues to be taken up by customers operating in the auto aftermarket trade.
Halfords is the UKs number one parts retailer These customers are incremental and high spending, and a destination store for needs-driven transactions growing by a further 10% during 2010 to total where customers are looking to purchase replacement 100,000. products such as car bulbs, windscreen wiper blades and batteries 3Bs.
Our strategy of introducing The wefit service proposition continues to gain traction greater value, choice and service to our ranges with the consumer.
Growing customer awareness has contributed to another successful year for this of Halfords fitting of the 3Bs and high levels of incategory, that represents approximately 30% of total store stock availability help to drive revenue, this was revenue, with 8% growth in like-for-like sales and particularly evident when the UK experienced the increased market share.
sustained period of severe weather during December and January.
This period also saw winter-related Our scale provides a unique ability to develop products such as anti-freeze, fide-icer and scrapers sell and source high quality, own brand alternatives in record volumes.
Our level of in-store preparation and to branded ranges, and to bring the latest new supply chain excellence helped us to meet customer car technology quickly to the after sales market.
needs fulfilling the heightened demand.
Innovations include brighter bulbs that use Xenon gas technology and QR quick response brake lights that enhance safety.
In addition to the existing Halfords three and four year warranty batteries, a top of the range Bosch car battery that generates up to 50% more starting power with a 5-year guarantee, has increased sales and margin through a 25% value premium to a standard battery.
17399 14 06 2010 Proof 7 Financials Responsibilities Business Review About Halfords Introduction
