Halfords Group plc Online version 55 Annual Report & Accounts for period ended 2 April 2010 halfords.
com businessreview As part of this capital structure, management are Competition 1,2, 3 currently reviewing, with the Groups brokers, the The retail industry is highly competitive and dynamic.
optimal capital structure for the enlarged Group that The Group competes with a wide variety of retailers of will provide the necessary flexible funding to deliver its varying sizes and faces competition from UK retailers, strategic agenda.
Management envisage that renewed both in stores and online, as well as international debt facilities will be agreed and in place in the second operators.
Failure to compete with competitors on half of the financial year ended 1 April 2011. areas including price, product range, quality and service could have an adverse effect on the Groups Dividend financial results.
In line with the Groups progressive dividend policy, the Board is recommending a final dividend of 14.00 pence We aim to have a broad appeal in price, range and per share 2009: 10.90 pence, which, in addition to store format in a way that allows us to compete in the interim dividend of 6.00 pence per share 2009: different markets and to use service as a point of 5.00 pence, generates a total dividend of 20.00 pence differentiation in each market segment.
an established training infrastructure to ensure that our colleagues receive ongoing product and service Subject to shareholder approval at the Annual training.
We track performance against a broad General Meeting the final dividend will be paid on range of measures that customers tell us are critical 6 August 2010 to shareholders on the register at the to their shopping experience, and monitor customer close of business on 2 July 2010. perceptions of ourselves to ensure we can respond quickly if required.
Principal risks and uncertainties The Corporate Governance report on pages 66 to 70 The Company adopts a granular approach to describes the systems and internal control processes its wide-ranging cost control activities to ensure through which the Directors identify, assess, manage that significant opportunities for operational cost and mitigate risks.
The Board recognises that management are complimented by a culture of cost the nature and scope of risks can change and so awareness.
regularly reviews the risks faced by the Group as well Reputational risk 1,3 as the systems and processes to mitigate them.
The Halfords name is a key asset of the business and The Boards primary assessment of risk is against as the largest operator in its markets, expectations the Groups strategic corporate objectives that are of the Group are high.
Failure to protect the Groups summarised below.
reputation and brand could lead to a loss of trust 1 Extending range & service advantage.
This could result in a decline in the customer base and affect the ability to recruit and 2 Ongoing focus on cost control.
3 Leveraging the Halfords brand in multi-channel.
The Group has a Quality Assurance team and legal 4 Investing in the store portfolio.
and regulatory control processes, both in-house and externally, to advise and take action on existing and With reference to the strategic objectives, the Board emerging risk management issues.
We continually considers that the principal commercial and financial monitor loyalty to the Halfords brand through risks to achieving its objectives are those identified independent surveys and seek, through activities below.
such as Charity of the Year, to contribute to society more widely.
Our various Codes of Practice regulate a Commercial our behaviour in our dealings with all stakeholders Economic and market conditions 1,4 including customers, suppliers and colleagues and The economy is a major influence on consumer the Corporate Social Responsibility report details spending.
Trends in employment, inflation, taxation, the Groups attitudes toward such areas as the consumer debt levels and interest rates impact environment and ethical trading.
consumer expenditure in discretionary areas.
Ultimately the protection of the Halfords brand and The Group constantly seeks to enhance its position position in its core markets will be sustained by a as store of first choice in each of the markets that it high service based customer proposition, unique serves.
Halfords continues to invest in both its existing and extensive product offerings and a multi-channel estate to ensure that it remains contemporary and approach to sales.
in constant product innovation to meet customer needs.
In addition, the Groups market leading wefit proposition provides a range of services at a lower cost to our customers than that provided by competitors.
Whilst many of the products that Halfords sell are non-discretionary in their nature and predicting future trends is difficult, Halfords reflects the latest independently sourced estimates in its internal plans.
17399 14 06 2010 Proof 7 Financials Responsibilities Business Review About Halfords Introduction
