32 Online 30m visitors in FY10 Online sales up 35% in FY10 Upto 12,000 products available online Our broadest product offer is provided online, supported by detailed product specification, video enhancements and customer testimonials.
Uniquely Halfords drives 80% of web customers to our stores.
Our multi-channel strategy has followed the broader move Product range of many consumers to research and purchase goods online.
The online offer also contributes to the store offer with our free We benchmark our online performance with British Retail Order & Collect service.
By allowing customers to select from Consortium figures for online performance and have consistently many thousands of products available on the website, way outperformed average sales growth rates.
beyond what even the superstores can stock, we leverage all of our store formats.
We can then rapidly supply the local store Market using our distribution network.
The online market inevitably sets us against many competitors whose key strategy is low cost, high volume and who have very Getting customers into store is our preferred option, allowing little overhead to support.
We have a number of differentiating us to improve attachment rates through upgrades and characteristics which enable our online channel to not only accessorisation.
In addition, we provide our build and fit services compete but to establish competitive advantage.
to ensure safe and appropriate product usage.
In cases where customers want delivery to home or work, we can also provide a Depending on the level of support required and the set-up needs prompt and efficient service.
of the product, our other service offers like fitting, demo and assembly can prove persuasive reasons for buying from Halfords.
New technology and social media In many other cases the consequence of using our Reserve and To further leverage and convert browsers into customers we Collect service from one of 462 stores is also beneficial.
On top have a range of programmes to enhance the experience.
From of both of these service features is our brand value, customers peer reviews, which has proved very compelling, to video on like the trust and reliability which comes from using a well-known product pages.
Our presence on Twitter and Facebook also company for online transactions.
seeks to keep the more social media savvy customers informed, engaged and listened to.
224 17399 14 06 2010 Proof 7 Halfords Group plc Online version 33 Annual Report & Accounts for period ended 2 April 2010 halfords.
com abouthalfords 80% of web customers visit store Text and Reserve service launched in 2009 c. 33,000 product reviews online Urban Escape product video on halfords.
com Customer Review example Halfords YouTube Channel Halfords Twitter Account Were seeing solid increase in conversion through customer reviews, we now have close to 33,000 reviews.
Often users sort listings by average customer rating Head of Multi-Channel 17399 14 06 2010 Proof 7 Financials Responsibilities Business Review About Halfords Introduction
