18 Car Maintenance Blades stocked for 96% of UK car parc Bulbs stocked for 98% of UK car parc UK sales No.
1 for engine oil Data from GFK Panel Market As the leading UK retailer of car maintenance products we have seen value growth from both our 3Bs bulbs, blades and batteries offer and our good, better, best range strategy.
Market Offer Much of the car maintenance business is market-led which is Using our retailing competencies, our large ranges follow a good, in response to needs driven purchasing.
Given the nature of better, best positioning strategy and in particular our 3Bs bulbs, consumer behaviour, we need to meet this demand with easy blades and batteries offer has seen an uplift in transaction value.
access, comprehensive ranges and a hassle-free experience.
Clearly labelled benefits allow customers to select upgraded Needs driven purchasing has a positive impact given its limited product performance, and attachment rates for services are exposure to changes in disposable income and cyclical trends.
The competition in car maintenance is fragmented with no Alignment with strategy nationally equivalent service provider.
Geographically the Car maintenance is a core element to our product retail offer supermarkets have a national network of outlets but have limited and not only contributes in margin terms but also drives footfall product scope.
Competing smaller car parts suppliers lack and thus our ability to promote other ranges.
The Halfords brand our brand strength and national accessibility, providing us with also has a heritage in car maintenance and allows us to leverage significant competitive advantage.
margin from the trust that we go the extra mile.
Sustainability The evolution of vehicle maintenance and complexity of repair in modern vehicles has meant the reduced long-term demand for heavy parts where consumers are driven to use service agents.
These trends have also allowed us to build a service backed product range to meet the demand for the more consumable items.
This allows our customers to save cost and experience improved convenience.
17399 14 06 2010 Proof 7 Halfords Group plc Online version 19 Annual Report & Accounts for period ended 2 April 2010 halfords.
1 Sales position for wiper blades Industry sources Own brand is 82% of 3Bs sales Bulbs, Blades and Batteries New Flat Blade Technology sets now in store Key Product Groups Key Brands Halfords Value, Core & Advanced, Bosch, Castrol, Mobil, Blades Winter Redex, WD40, Haynes, Loctite, Davids, Hammerite, NGK, Champion, Ferodo, Stanley, Bulbs Tools Batteries Metal storage Oils Lifting Spark plugs Panel sprays, rust repair Haynes manuals Selling millions of wiper blades every year, the wefit offer was a logical extension and is particularly attractive to the customer that would otherwise have Category Manager gone to a main dealer 17399 14 06 2010 Proof 7 Financials Responsibilities Business Review About Halfords Introduction
