Halfords Group plc Online version 13 Annual Report & Accounts for period ended 2 April 2010 halfords.
com abouthalfords Branding and Marketing No.
1 UK Bike Brand Apollo Data from GFK NOP Consumer Research Own label products 40% of revenue FY10 Exclusive distribution of Boardman Brand in UK Competence in brand management and marketing is a key factor in retailing.
We have successfully developed brands and campaigns which appeal to strategically targeted market segments.
Our marketing competence not only tells us what we can do with Value in branding the brand but, as importantly, what we should not.
Managing In summary, we have built a competence and consumer brand values means keeping a watchful eye on where brand behaviour model which can be used across many types of retail extension becomes a stretch too far.
This has the potential to categories.
A powerful value add both in existing business and dilute the clarity of brand values and to limit sales in the target future growth opportunities.
OWN BRANdS Our sub-brands As an example, in the cycles category, using our good, better, best strategy we have Apollo good, Carrera better and Boardman best.
For the largest mainstream sector, where families enjoy cycling as part of family leisure, we created Apollo, which has developed as our good cycle brand.
For the more discerning, we have created Carrera, which, both in styling and components, raises standards.
At the top end, where it is likely ExCLUSIvE dISTRIBUTION BRANdS the consumer will have researched the buying decision, we have the exclusive UK distribution licence for Boardman branded bikes.
Boardman, by association with Olympic performance and exemplary components, allows us to raise transaction value further, indeed up to ten times that of a good branded bike.
SOME OF OUR PARTNER BRANdS This use of brands to attract a broader audience and drive value is evidenced in the fact that Apollo is now the best selling UK bike brand.
17399 14 06 2010 Proof 7 Financials Responsibilities Business Review About Halfords Introduction
