Nomination Committee Report Members Geoff Unwin Chairman Andrew Williams Richard Stone Stephen Pettit Jane Aikman The Nomination Committee is appointed by the Board from the non-executive Directors of the Group and the Chief Executive.
The Nomination Committees terms of reference include all matters indicated by the Combined Code.
The terms of reference are considered annually by the Nomination Committee and are then referred to the Board for approval.
Responsibilities regularly reviewing the structure, size and composition including the skills, knowledge and experience required of the Board compared to its current position and making recommendations to the Board with regard to any changes: giving full consideration to succession planning for directors and other senior executives in the course of its work, taking into account the challenges and opportunities facing the Company, and what skills and expertise are therefore needed on the Board in the future: and being responsible for identifying and nominating, for the approval of the Board, candidates to fill Board vacancies as and when they arise.
The full terms of reference, which remain unchanged from the previous year, can be found on the Companys website or can be obtained from the Company Secretary.
Governance The Nomination Committee was in place throughout the financial year.
It is chaired by the Chairman of the Company who was deemed to be independent upon appointment to the Board.
Three of the five members of the Committee are independent non-executive Directors in accordance with provision A.
During the year attendance by Committee members at meetings was as follows: Name Attendance Geoff Unwin Chairman 5 of 5 Andrew Williams 5 of 5 Richard Stone 5 of 5 Stephen Pettit 5 of 5 Jane Aikman 4 of 5 Activities The Committee is responsible for nominating appropriate executive and non-executive candidates for appointment to the Board.
During the past year, the Committee has been occupied with succession planning discussions.
When the necessity to appoint a Director is identified, a candidate profile is developed indicating the ideal skills, knowledge and experience required taking into account the Boards existing composition.
External search consultancies are retained when recruiting non-executive Directors and are used to evaluate internal and external candidates for succession planning.
The Committee meets at least annually and more frequently during times that a search is being conducted.
As noted on page 50 the process of appointments to the Board is paramount in ensuring the Companys performance is maintained and continually improved upon.
The Committee is committed to identifying the right candidates to take Halma forward.
On behalf of the Nomination Committee Geoff Unwin Chairman 22 June 2010 Halma p. l. c. 54 Annual Report & Accounts 2010 Directors Report Governance
