directors report governance: CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT Biographies, skills and contributions is appropriately challenged.
They also ensure that financial The effectiveness of the Board and its committees is determined controls and systems of risk management are both rigorous by the qualities and experience of the individual directors.
and appropriate for the needs of the business.
The non-executive directors bring an independent view to The following profiles demonstrate the range of experience, the Boards discussions and the development of the Companys independent judgement and contribution each director brings strategy.
Their range of skills and experience ensures that the to the Board.
performance of management in achieving the business goals Board experience Balance of non-executive and executive directors Financial management Chairman Governance Executive directors 4 3 1 risk management Independent Human resources non-executive directors 1 International 3 Investor relations Marketing 2 4 Strategic 1 5 8 Individual directors may fall into one or more categories 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 44 Hays plc annual report & financial statements 2010 directors report Business revieW directors report governance remuneration report governance financial statements b a, b, c 1.
Paul Harrison Chairman, 65 Independent Non-Executive Director, 46 Appointed Chairman of the Board and of the Nomination Committee Appointed non-executive director on 8 May 2007 and is Chairman of on 1 July 2001.
Bob joined the Company as a non-executive director the Audit Committee.
He was a Senior on 1 July 1998 and became Deputy Chairman on 11 November 1999.
Manager in Price Waterhouse, now  LLP, and was Educated at Cambridge University, Bob is a qualified engineer with an responsible for the provision of audit and advisory services to large private MBA.
His career has spanned several United Kingdom and continental and publicly-listed companies.
He joined The Sage Group plc as Group groups, including three years as Managing Director of Vitec Group plc Financial Controller in 1997 and became its Group Finance Director in and 10 years as Chief Executive of Electrocomponents plc.
As a rounded and pragmatic finance director, Paul brings 2008, Bob joined the board of Barratt Developments PLC and became much value and thought to the Audit Committee and the Groups risk their non-executive Chairman on 1 July 2008.
He is also Chairman of the management and control systems.
Federation of Groundwork Trusts, a group of charities helping people and b, c 7.
Richard Smelt organisations make changes in order to create better neighbourhoods, Independent Non-Executive Director, 53 to build skills and job prospects, and to live and work in a greener way.
Appointed non-executive director on 15 November 2007.
Alistair Cox graduated in Psychology from Leeds University, is a Fellow of the Chief Executive, 49 Chartered Institute of Personnel and Development and has an MBA Appointed to the Board on 1 September 2007 and became Chief from the London Business School.
With over 20 years experience in Executive on 15 November 2007.
Alistair is a Chartered Engineer and has HR management, he was Group Human Resources Director of Carphone an MBA from the Stanford Business School in California.
His career began Warehouse Group plc until he joined Northern Rock plc as Group Human at British Aerospace before moving to Schlumberger in 1982.
Following Resources Director, which he left earlier this year.
Richard has been which he worked for McKinsey & Company before joining Blue Circle influential in helping the Company enhance the key skills within its Industries latterly called Lafarge Group in 1994, where he was Group global workforce and has supported management in creating an Strategy Director, leading to his appointment as Regional Director for industry-leading development process for all levels of employees.
He then became Chief Executive at Xansa plc before joining Hays.
Paul Stoneham Alistair joined the board of 3i Group plc as a non-executive director Independent Non-Executive Director, 48 on 1 October 2009.
Appointed non-executive director on 24 November 2004.
Paul Venables degree in Sociology from the University of Western Ontario and an MBA Group Finance Director, 48 from Harvard University.
He was previously Managing Director of Boots Appointed Group Finance Director on 2 May 2006.
Paul is a Chartered Healthcare International and a member of the Boots PLC Executive Accountant.
He previously worked for Exel plc for 13 years prior to the Committee, before moving to Colgate-Palmolive Co, where he was acquisition of Exel plc by Deutsche Post in December 2005.
At Exel he President of Global Business Development and was responsible for held a number of senior finance and operational roles, including Deputy leading the Oral Care, Personal Care and Home Care global categories.
Group Finance Director, a member of the executive board of Exel plc He is currently Chief Executive Officer of ghd Group Holdings Ltd, and Chairman of their Acquisitions and Projects Review Board.
He joined a professional hair care company.
Paul is a key contributor to the Hays from DHL Logistics, a division of Deutsche Post World Net.
As the only non-British member Paul joined the board of Wincanton plc as a non-executive director of the Board and having worked and lived in five countries, he also on 2 September 2009. brings an international perspective to the Boards discussions.
Alison Yapp Independent Non-Executive Director, 57 Company Secretary and General Legal Counsel, 44 Appointed non-executive director on 30 April 2002, she is Chairman of Appointed Company Secretary and General Legal Counsel on the Remuneration Committee and Senior Independent Director.
Alison qualified as a solicitor in 1990.
She began her graduated in law from Cambridge University.
She went on to a career career in private practice at Turner Kenneth Brown, advising corporate in merchant banking at Kleinwort Benson where she became a group and commercial clients before moving in-house.
She has in excess of director and was also Head of Institutional Asset Management.
In 1999, 15 years experience in industry within a number of international groups she co-founded British Linen Advisors a specialist corporate finance in the engineering, industrial and support services sectors.
She was advisor and remained as a director until 2002.
She is Chairman of the previously Company Secretary and Group Legal Advisor of Charter plc, Alliance Trust plc, Chairman and Trustee of Grosvenor Estates and a director an international engineering company, and prior to that held senior legal of Grosvenor Group Limited.
Lesley provides strategic insight for the and secretarial positions in Johnson Matthey plc and Cookson Matthey Companys business and adds clarity on the views of investors in relation to Ceramics plc.
the Companys performance and commercial and remuneration strategies.
William Eccleshare Independent Non-Executive Director, 54 Appointed non-executive director on 24 November 2004.
William graduated with a Masters degree in History from Cambridge University.
He was previously Chairman and CEO of Young & Rubicam EMEA and Wunderman EMEA, held senior executive roles at McKinsey & Company, All the non-executive directors are considered by the Board to be where he was also a Partner, and was Chairman and Chief Executive of independent as detailed in the 2008 Code.
The letters of appointment BBDO Europe, where he was responsible for all BBDO advertising, direct for non-executive directors are available for review at the Companys marketing, digital and public relations agencies in 44 countries.
He is Registered Office and prior to each annual general meeting.
A proforma President and Chief Executive of Clear Channel International, the worlds letter of appointment is available on the Companys website, haysplc.
largest outdoor advertising media owner.
William played a major role in the development of the new Hays brand identity and continues to a Audit Committee bring clarity on the Companys marketing approach, especially across b Nomination Committee the Groups international markets.
c Remuneration Committee Hays plc annual report & financial statements 2010 45 directors report governance: CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT STEWARDSHIP Our governance framework Other Shareholders stakeholders External Auditor Nomination Committee Audit Internal BOARD Committee Audit Remuneration Committee Management Chief Company Group Board Executive Secretary Compliance GROUP POLICIES: Group Policies and Procedures Code of Conduct and Ethics Policy Financial Reporting Manual The main functions of our governance framework are listed below, along with an overview of their responsibilities.
Nomination Committee Internal Audit Reviews the composition of the Board to ensure it remains appropriate Facilitates the identification of risks and carries out reviews and testing for the needs of the business and plans for the progressive refreshing of of the controls that are in place to mitigate the risks.
Further details of the Board.
Leads the process for the identification and selection of new the work of Internal Audit are provided in the Audit Committee Report directors and makes recommendations to the Board in respect of such on pages 40 and 41. appointments.
Makes recommendations to the Board on committee membership and the annual rotation of directors.
Remuneration Committee Management Board Determines and agrees with the Board the policy for the remuneration Chaired by the Chief Executive, this body is responsible for overseeing of the Chairman, Executive Directors, Company Secretary and selected operations in the Groups regions and the Group functional areas.
senior managers of the Group.
Further details on the Groups remuneration policy are provided in the Remuneration Report on pages 57 and 58.
Audit Committee Group Functions Ensures that the Company applies consistent financial reporting and These specific administrative functions are controlled centrally internal control procedures and maintains an appropriate relationship at Group level and report to the Board via various members of with the Companys Auditor.
Further details on the activities of the the Management Board.
For example, Finance, Investor Relations, Audit Committee are provided in the Audit Committee Report on Insurance, Tax and Treasury report through the Group Finance pages 40 and 41.
Director, and Compliance and Environmental, Health and Safety report through the Company Secretary.
Procedures are clearly defined to ensure that the activities of these functions reduce the risk profile of the organisation.
Company Secretary Group Policies Ensures good information flows for the Board and its committees and The Board is responsible for ensuring that adequate policies and between senior management and non-executive directors.
Facilitates procedures are in place.
These are reviewed and amended as required the induction of new directors and assists with professional development to ensure that they remain in line with legislation and regulations as required.
Ensures Board procedures are complied with and that and are sufficiently robust to ensure appropriate internal controls applicable rules and regulations are followed.
The Company Secretary are maintained, whilst also providing a suitable framework for is available to all directors to provide advice and assistance, and is the businesses and Group functions within which to operate.
responsible for providing governance advice to the Board.
46 Hays plc annual report & financial statements 2010 directors report Business revieW directors report governance remuneration report governance financial statements How the Board operates Terms of reference The Chairman, in conjunction with the Company Secretary, plans The Board has agreed written terms of reference for each the agenda for each meeting, which is issued with supporting committee, which are available on the Companys website, papers during the week preceding the meeting.
com, and are also available upon request from the contain monthly management accounts, briefing papers Company Secretary at the Registered Office.
During the year, on commercial and operational matters and major capital the Audit Committee and Remuneration Committee reviewed projects, reports on relations with investors and updates on their terms of reference to ensure that they remained in line with the implementation of key strategic plans.
best practice guidance and the Companys policies and practices.
Following the reviews, no changes were made to the terms of The programme for visits to operations in the UK and overseas reference for the Audit Committee and the terms of reference for is agreed with the Chairman and scheduled by the Company the Remuneration Committee were amended to take into account Secretary.
This provides the Board with the opportunity to the ABI guidance issued in 2009 relating to the need to consider broaden its understanding of the business and key markets the risk-related aspects of remuneration policy and practice and year-on-year and to gain invaluable insights through direct the need to determine the salary and incentive arrangements of contact with business managers and the operations.
executive directors taking into account remuneration policy and A procedure exists for directors to take independent professional practice across the Group.
advice if necessary at the Companys expense.
All directors also Succession have access to the advice and services of the Company Secretary.
The Nomination Committee periodically reviews the composition of the Board to ensure that it continues to meet the ongoing Matters reserved for the Board needs of the Company and is progressively refreshed over time.
Approving financial results and other financial, corporate and governance matters: On 15 July 2010, we announced that Bob Lawson will retire from Approving material contracts: the Board following the Annual General Meeting to be held on 10 November 2010.
Alan Thomson will be joining the Board as Approving Group strategy: a non-executive director on 1 October 2010 and will succeed Approving appointments to the Board: Bob as Chairman following the Annual General Meeting.
At the Annual General Meeting, shareholders will be asked to re-appoint Recommending dividends and deciding dividend policy: Alan Thomson as a director.
Reviewing material litigation: Lesley Knox, as Senior Independent Director, led the Nomination Committee in the process for appointing the new Chairman.
The Approving major capital projects, acquisitions and disposals: Zygos Partnership, an external search consultancy, was engaged Reviewing annually the effectiveness of internal control and the to lead the search.
Lesley Knox briefed Zygos as to the personal nature and extent of significant risks identified by management attributes needed in the new Chairman with regard to the and associated mitigation strategies: and business and its future direction.
The Board sought an individual with strong international experience, credibility with the Approving the annual budget.
investment community and sound interpersonal skills and people Board committees judgement, who would ensure the Board continued to work Our non-executive directors play an important governance role effectively and who would lead the Group through the next phase in the work they carry out on our committees.
The Chairman and of its international growth and development strategy.
Style and members of each committee are detailed below.
The Board has cultural fit with Hays were also important considerations.
satisfied itself that at least one member of the Audit Committee has recent and relevant financial experience.
The committees Zygos produced a shortlist of candidates.
All members of the can seek professional advice at the Companys expense.
Nomination Committee and the executive directors met with the candidates selected from the shortlist.
Audit Committee Alan Thomson was considered to be the ideal candidate given Paul Harrison, Chairman Lesley Knox his background and experience and met the Boards criteria.
William Eccleshare Paul Stoneham He is currently Chairman of Bodycote plc, the international provider of thermal processing services, the Senior Independent Nomination Committee Director and Audit Committee Chairman of Johnson Matthey plc, Bob Lawson, Chairman Lesley Knox a speciality chemicals company and a world leader in advanced William Eccleshare Richard Smelt materials technology, and a non-executive director of Alstom SA, Paul Harrison Paul Stoneham the French power generation, rail transportation and electrical Remuneration Committee transmission equipment manufacturer.
Alan is also President of Lesley Knox, Chairman Richard Smelt the Institute of Chartered Accountants of Scotland.
William Eccleshare Paul Stoneham The Board is delighted that Alan will be joining the Company.
Paul Harrison Hays plc annual report & financial statements 2010 47 directors report governance: CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT Operational management structure senior management and the Board.
The manuals are updated on Responsibility for the management and operations of the an ongoing basis to reflect changes in procedures as and when business is delegated to the Chief Executive who operates they occur.
The Groups Code of Conduct & Ethics Policy outlines through the Management Board.
The Management Board is the way in which employees are expected to conduct themselves chaired by the Chief Executive and consists of the Group Finance when carrying out their business activities.
Director, Regional Managing Directors, the Group HR Director, the The Group operates a comprehensive budgeting and financial Group Marketing Director, the Group IT Director and the Company reporting process.
Annual budgets are reviewed and approved at Secretary and General Legal Counsel.
Clear levels of authority business and Group levels.
This process includes the identification exist for the Management Board in their day-to-day activities.
and quantification of significant risks relating to markets and operations.
Monthly performance is reported against budget Each of the Companys Regional Managing Directors operates and prior year.
The monthly management accounts analyse and through their regional operating boards.
Each regional board explain variances against budget and report on key indicators, is led by the regional managing director and consists of key with detailed explanations for variances and movements in management from the regions operations and business forecasts provided to the Board.
functions, including Finance, HR and Marketing.
As far as possible, each business is given autonomy, whilst being The Groups Internal Audit department also focus on facilitating required to operate within the internal control environment the identification of risks and undertake reviews and testing established through the Group Policies and Procedures Manual.
of the controls in place for their mitigation.
The departments resources are augmented with independent, expert external Managing risks and internal control resource where necessary, to review risk and monitor compliance The Board is responsible for the Groups risk management with the Groups policies and procedures.
Regular reviews of process, its system of internal control and for maintaining and the most important controls are undertaken to ensure that key reviewing their effectiveness.
The Board annually reviews the control objectives are achieved.
Reports on the effectiveness nature and extent of significant risks identified by management of operational and financial controls are regularly presented to and the status of mitigation plans.
This exercise involves the management and to the Audit Committee, and recommendations presentation of risk findings to enable the Board to review and are agreed upon and implemented.
oversee the status of the key risks to the business.
The Board in The Groups systems and controls are designed to manage risks, turn reflects on the level of risk appetite acceptable to the Group, safeguard the Groups assets and to ensure the reliability of in order to achieve the Companys strategic objectives.
In June information used both within the business and for publication.
2010, the Board reviewed the nature and extent of the significant Systems are designed to manage rather than eliminate the risks in the Group and determined that the risks and their relative risk of failure to achieve business objectives and can provide priority were appropriate and that the risk review process enabled only reasonable and not absolute assurance against material risks to be prioritised.
The Board also considered the key regional misstatement or loss.
risks that had been identified by management.
Day-to-day management of risk is overseen by the Management The Principal Risks disclosed opposite represent the significant Board, which operates a risk-management process involving areas which the Board considers could most likely impact the assessment of key Group risks twice a year.
The operating regions Groups financial performance and position.
also conduct assessments of strategic and operational risks within Internal control statement each region.
Each risk is assessed in terms of its likelihood to Responsibility for reviewing the effectiveness of the Groups occur and the potential financial and reputational impact if it does system of internal control has been delegated to the Audit so.
Appropriate mitigation plans and strategies are put in place Committee.
The Audit Committee has reviewed the effectiveness for those risks that are controllable.
Progress on the management of the Groups system of internal control for the year ended of risks is reported to the Management Board.
During the year 30 June 2010, covering all material controls, including financial, under review, the Management Board reviewed the progress operational and compliance controls and risk management of high priority risks, and also considered any new or emerging systems and has concluded that it is in compliance with the risks that were identified.
revised Turnbull guidance Internal Control: Revised Guidance for Directors on the Combined Code October 2005 published Risks are further controlled through delegated authorities and by the Financial Reporting Council.
This internal control statement other written policies and procedures, which are approved has been reviewed and approved by the Audit Committee.
by the Board and overseen by Group functional departments.
Further details on the Groups internal control system are The Group Policies and Procedures and Financial Reporting reported in the Audit Committee Report on page 41.
Manuals, which encompass all of the Groups operations, are designed to ensure that a minimum level of corporate, accounting, financial and operating controls are in place and allow matters to be appropriately and promptly escalated to 48 Hays plc annual report & financial statements 2010
