directors report Business revieW directors report governance remuneration report governance financial statements directors report governance: OTHER STATUTORY INFORMATION Directors certificate for the share to which it relates and such other The following were directors during the year and held office evidence as the Board may reasonably require to show the throughout the year: right of the transferor to make the transfer: Bob Lawson, Chairman Paul Harrison the Board may refuse to register a transfer of shares in favour Alistair Cox, Chief Executive Lesley Knox of more than four persons jointly: Paul Venables, Group Finance Director Richard Smelt where a shareholder has declined to provide certain William Eccleshare Paul Stoneham information requested by the Company in accordance with the Independent non-executive director.
Companies Act, the Board can in certain circumstances apply to the court for an order directing that the shares in question Biographical details for all directors are shown on page 45. be subject to restrictions.
If an order is so made, any transfer Structure of share capital of or any agreement to transfer the shares will be void and Under the Companies Act 2006, companies are no longer no voting rights will be exercisable in respect of them: required to have an authorised share capital and a resolution restrictions may be imposed on certain Group employees who was passed by shareholders at last years Annual General Meeting are required to seek approval from the Company before dealing to take advantage of this deregulating measure.
Therefore, in shares in accordance with the requirements of the Listing the Company no longer has an authorised share capital.
Rules of the United Kingdom Listing Authority: and As at 30 June 2010, the Companys issued share capital of 14,640,965.66 comprised 1,464,096,566 Ordinary shares awards of shares under the Companys incentive arrangements, of 1p each.
No shares were allotted during the year.
the Performance Share Plan and the Deferred Annual Bonus Plan, are subject to restrictions on the transfer of shares prior to vesting.
During the year from 1 July 2009 to 30 June 2010, the Company did not purchase any Ordinary shares of the Company.
The Company is unaware of any arrangements between its shareholders that may result in restrictions on the transfer of Chapter 6 of Part 18 of the Companies Act allows companies shares and or voting rights.
to hold shares acquired by way of market purchase in treasury, rather than having to cancel them.
The directors may use the Exercise of rights of shares in employee share schemes authority to purchase shares and hold them in treasury and Certain share awards under Company incentive arrangements subsequently sell or transfer them out of treasury as permitted are held in trust on behalf of the beneficiaries.
Except where in accordance with the Act rather than cancel them, subject to acting under instruction as a bare nominee, the Trustee of institutional guidelines applicable at the time.
At 30 June 2010, the Hays plc Employee Share Trust does not seek to exercise 80,227,930 Ordinary shares of 1p each were held in treasury.
the voting rights on these shares.
No voting rights are exercised During the year to 30 June 2010, 1,649,325 shares held in treasury in relation to shares unallocated to individual beneficiaries.
were transferred to satisfy awards of shares under the Companys Restrictions on voting deadlines employee share schemes and a further 147,327 shares were The notice of any general meeting shall specify the deadline for transferred to the Hays plc Employee Share Trust to satisfy exercising voting rights and appointing a proxy or proxies to vote future option exercises under the Hays UK Sharesave Scheme.
It is the Companys policy at present to take No dividends have been paid on shares whilst held in treasury all resolutions at a general meeting on a poll and the results of and no voting rights attach to the treasury shares.
the poll are published on the Companys website, haysplc.
com, Rights and obligations of Ordinary shares shortly after the meeting.
On a show of hands at a general meeting every holder of Ordinary Significant direct and indirect shareholdings shares present in person or by proxy and entitled to vote shall As at 1 September 2010, the Company had been notified of the have one vote.
On a poll, every member present in person or following voting rights attaching to Hays plc shares in accordance by proxy, shall have one vote for every Ordinary share held.
with the Disclosure and Transparency Rules of the United In accordance with the provisions of the Articles of Association, Kingdom Listing Authority: holders of Ordinary shares are entitled to a dividend where declared or paid out of profits available for such purposes.
Nature of % of total holding voting rights On a return of capital on a winding up, holders of Ordinary shares are entitled to participate in such a return.
Morgan Stanley Investment Management Limited Indirect 9.93% Restrictions on transfers of securities Chainpoint Limited Direct 5.81% The restrictions on the transfer of shares in the Company are Capital Research and Management Co Indirect 5.13% as follows: Templeton Global Advisors Limited Indirect 5.00% the Board may, in its absolute discretion, refuse to register the Baillie Gifford & Co Indirect Below 5% transfer of a certificated share which is not fully paid, provided Majedie Asset Management Limited Indirect 4.98% that the refusal does not prevent dealing in shares in the Legal & General Group Plc Direct 3.99% Company from taking place on an open and proper basis: Barclays Global Investors Indirect 3.96% the Board may also refuse to register the transfer of a certificated share unless the instrument of transfer is lodged, An update to significant shareholdings will be provided in the duly stamped if stampable, at the Registered Office or at Notice of the 2010 Annual General Meeting.
another place appointed by the Board accompanied by the Hays plc annual report & financial statements 2010 53 directors report governance: OTHER STATUTORY INFORMATION Powers of directors As part of creating a stimulating place to work, there are a The directors are responsible for the management of the number of ways we ensure our employees are involved in business and may exercise all powers of the Company subject the business and issues relating to its performance, including to legislation, any directions given by special resolution and the senior management briefings, employee briefing groups, Companys constitution.
email messaging and our global group intranet.
To encourage employees to have a stake in the business, there are also At the Annual General Meeting of the Company held on a number of share schemes.
11 November 2009, shareholders authorised the directors, until the conclusion of the Annual General Meeting to be held As a responsible employer of thousands of people, the Group on 10 November 2010, to purchase up to 138,210,080 Ordinary is committed to equal opportunities and its policy ensures that shares of 1p each in the Company and to allot new shares everyone has the opportunity to contribute to the business up to an aggregate nominal amount of 4,607,002, being regardless of age, gender, ethnicity, sexuality, physical approximately one third of the Companys issued share capital.
appearance, religion, education and beliefs.
The authority to allot shares was not used.
Renewal of both The Group has a structured approach towards internal authorities will be proposed to shareholders at the forthcoming recruitment and promotion with decisions based on an Annual General Meeting.
individuals ability to perform the role.
This means that full The Board intends to continue to return surplus cash to consideration is given to disabled applicants where they have shareholders where circumstances allow and it is not required to the right skills and abilities for the role.
Should an employee finance the organic expansion of the business, acquisitions and become disabled whilst working for the Group, every effort is dividend payments, via the on-market purchase of its own shares.
made to accommodate them or to find a suitable alternative role Shares will only be purchased if to do so would result in an and to assist with any retraining.
The Groups commitment to increase in earnings per share and it is in the best interests training and development includes consideration of any special of shareholders generally.
No share purchases are anticipated training needs of disabled employees.
More information on the Groups engagement with employees is The Board will be seeking the approval of the shareholders to set out in the Corporate Responsibility Report on pages 35 and 36. renew this authority at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting Payments to creditors as detailed in the separate Circular to Shareholders.
It is the Groups policy to make payments to suppliers in Appointment and replacement of directors accordance with agreed terms provided that the supplier has The Company may by ordinary resolution appoint any individual performed in accordance with the relevant terms and conditions.
The Board may appoint any individual willing to Creditor days for the Group for the year ended 30 June 2010 act as a director either to fill a vacancy or act as an additional were an average of 32 2009: 31.
The Company creditor days director.
The appointee can only hold office until the next annual at 30 June 2010 were 32 2009: 31. general meeting whereupon he she will be put forward for Charitable and political donations re-appointment.
Group charitable donations made during the year totalled The Articles of Association prescribe that there shall be no less 183,000 2009: 197,000.
No payments were made to political than five and no more than 15 directors.
The charitable donations were made to the following reduce below five, then the Board shall, as soon as practicable, good causes: appoint an individual to fill the vacancy.
The Company may 000 by ordinary resolution vary the minimum number of directors.
Childrens charities 102 At each annual general meeting, not less than one third of the Cancer research and care 46 directors must retire by rotation and any director who has been Disaster relief 30 in office for three years or more since his her last appointment Community care projects 5 or re-appointment must retire by rotation.
A retiring director is Total 183 eligible for re-appointment.
Articles of Association Auditor The Companys Articles of Association may only be amended by Deloitte LLP have indicated that they are willing to continue in a special resolution passed by shareholders at a general meeting office.
Their re-appointment, at a remuneration to be agreed by of the Company.
the directors, will be proposed at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting.
Directors indemnities and insurance The Company continues to maintain directors and officers Change of control significant agreements liability insurance.
In accordance with the Companys Articles of As at 30 June 2010, the Company had entered into one significant Association, it is the Companys policy for each director and the agreement containing provisions that allow a counterparty to Company Secretary and General Legal Counsel to be indemnified alter and amend the terms of the agreement following a change by deeds of indemnity.
of control of the Company.
This was an unsecured revolving credit facility with a number of banks for 460 million entered Employees into on 8 February 2006.
In the event of a change of control The Group is committed to developing its employees and of the Company, the lenders are entitled to renegotiate certain investing in training tailored to meet the needs of the business, terms.
As at 30 June 2010, 315 million of this facility had not including both structured training and on-the-job training and been drawn down.
This agreement was renewed on 1 July 2010 briefings.
A leadership development programme for our top with a reduced facility of 300 million.
global leaders is underway as part of our continued commitment to developing talent in our business.
There are no provisions contained within the service contracts of executive directors that will trigger in the event of a change of control.
54 Hays plc annual report & financial statements 2010 directors report Business revieW directors report governance remuneration report governance financial statements There are a number of commercial contracts that would alter present information, including accounting policies, in a in the event of a change in control but none is considered to be manner that provides relevant, reliable, comparable and material in terms of the potential impact on the Group in this event.
understandable information: provide additional disclosures when compliance with the Certain of the Companys share award plans contain provisions specific requirements in IFRSs are insufficient to enable users to that permit awards or options to vest or become exercisable on understand the impact of particular transactions, other events a change of control in accordance with the rules of the plans.
and conditions on the entitys financial position and financial Conflicts of interest performance: and In line with the Companies Act 2006, the Articles of Association allow the Board to authorise actual and potential conflicts of make an assessment of the Companys ability to continue as interest and duties that may arise and to impose such limits and a going concern.
conditions as it thinks fit.
Conflicts of interest and duties can only The directors are responsible for keeping adequate accounting be authorised by those directors who do not have an interest in records that are sufficient to show and explain the Companys the matter being considered, and in making such decision, the transactions and disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time directors must act in a way they consider, in good faith, will most the financial position of the Company and enable them to ensure likely promote the success of the Company.
The Company has that the financial statements comply with the Companies Act established a procedure whereby actual and potential conflicts of 2006.
They are also responsible for safeguarding the assets interest and duties are advised to the Company Secretary and are of the Company and hence for taking reasonable steps for reviewed annually.
Appropriate authorisations are sought for any the prevention and detection of fraud and other irregularities.
ad-hoc notifications of any new conflicts of interest or duties, or any changes to existing conflicts of interest or duties.
The Board The directors are responsible for the maintenance and integrity of has undertaken a review of these procedures and considers them the corporate and financial information included on the Companys to have operated effectively during the year.
Legislation in the United Kingdom governing the preparation and dissemination of financial statements may differ Going concern from legislation in other jurisdictions.
The financial statements have been prepared on the going Responsibility statement concern basis as the directors are satisfied that the Group has The Board confirms to the best of its knowledge that: adequate resources to continue in operational existence for the foreseeable future.
Further details can be found in note 2 to the the financial statements, prepared in accordance with the consolidated financial statements on page 73. relevant financial reporting framework, give a true and fair Directors responsibilities view of the assets, liabilities, financial position and profit or The directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Report loss of the Company and the undertakings included in the and the financial statements in accordance with applicable law consolidation taken as a whole: and and regulations.
the management report, which is incorporated into the Directors Report, includes a fair review of the development Company law requires the directors to prepare financial and performance of the business and the position of the statements for each financial year.
Under that law the directors Company and the undertakings included in the consolidation are required to prepare the Group financial statements in taken as a whole, together with a description of the principal accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards risks and uncertainties that they face.
IFRSs as adopted by the European Union and Article 4 of the IAS Regulation and have elected to prepare the parent Company Disclosure of information to the Auditor financial statements in accordance with United Kingdom Generally As required by section 418 of the Companies Act 2006, each of Accepted Accounting Practice United Kingdom Accounting the directors as at 1 September 2010 confirms that: Standards and applicable law.
Under company law the directors a so far as the director is aware, there is no relevant audit must not approve the financial statements unless they are satisfied information of which the Companys Auditor is unaware: and that they give a true and fair view of the state of affairs of the Company and of the profit or loss of the Company for that period.
b the director has taken all the steps that he she ought to have In preparing the parent Company financial statements, the taken as a director in order to make himself herself aware directors are required to: of any relevant audit information and to establish that the Companys Auditor is aware of that information.
select suitable accounting policies and then apply them Words and phrases used in this confirmation should be interpreted consistently: in accordance with section 418 of the Companies Act 2006. make judgements and accounting estimates that are reasonable and prudent: This Directors Report comprising pages 2 to 55 has been approved by the Board and signed on its behalf by: state whether applicable UK Accounting Standards have been followed, subject to any material departures disclosed and explained in the financial statements: and prepare the financial statements on the going concern basis Alison Yapp unless it is inappropriate to presume that the Company will Company Secretary continue in business.
1 September 2010 In preparing the Group financial statements, International Registered Office 250 Euston Road, London NW1 2AF Accounting Standard 1 requires that directors: Company Registered in England and Wales No.
2150950 properly select and apply accounting policies: Hays plc annual report & financial statements 2010 55
