Corporate Social Responsibility 2010 Global Reporting Initiative The G3 Guidelines are heritage oil plc 23 the most widely used and recognised sustainability reporting framework.
These are cross-sector and appropriate for use by companies globally.
Report application level c c b b a a Report on: Report on all criteria listed Same as requirement for G3 profile 1.1 for Level C plus: Level B. disclosures 2.12.10 1.2 3.13.8, 3.103.12 3.9, 3.13 4.14.4, 4.144.15 4.54.13, 4.164.17 Not required.
Management approach Management approach G3 management disclosures for each disclosures for each approach disclosures indicator category.
Report on a minimum Report on a minimum Report on each core G3 G3 performance 1 of 10 performance of 20 performance and sector supplement indicators and sector indicators, including at indicators, at least one indicator with due regard supplement performance least one from each of: from each of: economic, to the materiality principle economic, social and environmental, human by either: a reporting indicators environmental.
rights, labour, society, on the indicator: or b product responsibility.
explaining the reason for its omission.
1 Sector supplement in final version.
This section of our report provides the entirety The above table is the GRI Application Level Table which we have used for self-assessment of the CSR related information that Heritage collects.
We provide this in the interest of of our CSR reporting.
The GRIs sector supplement for the oil and gas industry is transparency and for comparative purposes, and its collection helps us identify areas in scheduled to be released in 2011 and we will consider incorporating this into future reports.
which we can improve our performance.
Data and comments presented here should Heritage uses the G3 Guidelines and those be considered in the context of our Companys operations.
produced by IPIECA to help develop our own reporting.
They are taken into account when preparing the content of our CSR reports, We have self-declared our reporting as although we focus on the CSR related impacts Application Level C. We believe this is and opportunities we believe are most material, an appropriate level for this stage in the rather than attempting to cover every section of development of our business and CSR the G3 Guidelines in equal detail.
reporting, given our size and nature of operations.
We aim to enhance our reporting year-on-year but have chosen not to set a target date for reaching the next application level as this would not fit with the nature of our business model.
Standard disclosures Report externally assured Report externally assured Report externally assured Corporate Social Responsibility 2010 Global Reporting Initiative continued heritage oil plc 24 area indicator deScription of indicator commentary data page Economic EC1 Direct economic value generated and Total direct economic value generated and performance distributed, including revenues, operating distributed not measured.
indicators costs, employee compensation, donations and other community investments, retained earnings, and payments to capital providers and governments.
EC2 Financial implications and other risks See Environment and Sustainability section.
11 and opportunities for the organisations activities due to climate change.
EC3 Coverage of the organisations defined N A. benefit plan obligations.
EC4 Significant financial assistance received No assistance received.
Non-core EC5 Range of ratios of standard entry level Heritage pays competitive entry level wages indicator wage compared to local minimum wage at and provides training and other benefits significant locations of operation.
aimed at attracting a high quality workforce.
EC6 Policy, practices and proportion of spending Policy is to use local suppliers whenever 15 on locally-based suppliers at significant possible.
EC7 Procedures for local hiring and proportion Policy is to employ locals whenever possible.
1, 15 of senior management hired from the local Kurdistan: 75% employees are hired from community at locations of significant local community.
are hired from local community.
EC8 Development and impact of infrastructure See Community and Human Rights section.
17 investments and services provided primarily for public benefit through commercial, in-kind or pro bono engagement.
Non-core EC9 Understanding and describing significant Activities during 2010 were of limited indicator indirect economic impacts, including the economic impact.
Environmental EN1 Materials used by weight or volume.
Not applicable to our operations.
performance indicators EN2 Percentage of materials used that are Not applicable to our operations.
EN3 Direct energy consumption by primary Kurdistan: primary energy source diesel energy source.
Russia: primary energy source diesel powered generators.
EN4 Indirect energy consumption by primary Not measured.
Non-core EN5 Energy saved due to conservation and Not measured.
Corporate Social Responsibility 2010 heritage oil plc 25 area indicator deScription of indicator commentary data page Non-core EN6 Initiatives to provide energy efficient Energy efficient testing programme indicator or renewable energy-based products in Kurdistan.
and services, and reductions in energy requirements as a result of these initiatives.
Non-core EN7 Initiatives to reduce indirect energy Russia: maintaining lowest possible indicator consumption and reductions achieved.
Energy consumption reductions not known.
3 EN8 Total water withdrawal by source.
Russia: 350 m potable water used at site.
Non-core EN9 Water sources significantly affected by Water usage not material.
Non-core EN10 Percentage and total volume of water Water usage not material.
EN11 Location and size of land owned, leased, Not currently active in any such areas 11 managed in, or adjacent to, protected areas following the sale of the Ugandan Assets and areas of high biodiversity value outside see Environment and Sustainability section protected areas.
and asset overview map on page 3 of the Annual Review.
EN12 Description of significant impacts of activities, No significant impacts.
11 products and services on biodiversity in protected areas and areas of high biodiversity value outside protected areas.
Non-core EN13 Habitats protected or restored.
indicator Non-core EN14 Strategies, current actions and future plans EIAs, taking into account biodiversity, to be 11 indicator for managing impacts on biodiversity.
performed on all future assets.
No current operations in areas of high biodiversity.
Non-core EN15 Number of International Union for Not measured.
indicator Conservation of Nature IUCN Red List species and national conservation list species with habitats in areas affected by operations, by level of extinction risk.
EN16 Total direct and indirect greenhouse gas Kurdistan: not measured.
Very minimal 11 emissions by weight.
flaring occurred during well testing.
Russia: 3 2,626 km of associated gas flared annually, within government limits.
EN17 Other relevant indirect greenhouse gas Not measured.
Non-core EN18 Initiatives to reduce greenhouse gas None.
indicator emissions and reductions achieved.
EN19 Emissions of ozone-depleting substances Not measured.
EN20 NOx, SOx and other significant air Not measured.
emissions by type and weight.
Corporate Social Responsibility 2010 Global Reporting Initiative continued heritage oil plc 26 area indicator deScription of indicator commentary data page EN21 Total water discharge by quality and Not measured.
EN22 Total weight of waste by type and Kurdistan: waste collection is in place, any disposal method.
drilling cuttings are removed to specially dedicated areas.
Russia: Class 1 125 mercury lamps extra hazardous waste, Class 3 370 kilogrammes low hazard waste, Class 4 6 tonnes low hazard 3 waste, Classes 4 and 5 69 m utility fluid low hazard waste.
All trucked for disposal in compliance with Russian Federal Laws.
EN23 Total number and volume of significant spills.
11 Non-core EN24 Weight of transported, imported, exported No hazardous waste transported, imported, indicator or treated waste deemed hazardous under exported or treated.
the terms of the Basel Convention Annex I, II, III and VIII, and percentage of transported waste shipped internationally.
Non-core EN25 Identity, size, protected status and No water bodies affected.
indicator biodiversity value of water bodies and related habitats significantly affected by the reporting organisations discharges of water and runoff.
EN26 Initiatives to mitigate environmental Operations are run as efficiently as possible 11 impacts of products and services, and extent to minimise environmental impacts of of impact mitigation.
EIAs carried out before all major work programmes.
EN27 Percentage of products sold and their Not applicable to our operations.
packaging materials that are reclaimed by category.
EN28 Monetary value of significant fines and No fines, warnings or sanctions.
total number of non-monetary sanctions for noncompliance with environmental laws and regulations.
Non-core EN29 Significant environmental impacts of Not applicable to our operations.
indicator transporting products and other goods and materials used for the organisations operations and transporting members of the workforce.
Non-core EN30 Total environmental protection Not measured.
indicator expenditures and investments by type.
Corporate Social Responsibility 2010 heritage oil plc 27 area indicator deScription of indicator commentary data page Labour practices LA1 Total workforce by employment type, Kurdistan: 20 employees.
and decent work employment contract and region.
performance indicators LA2 Total number and rate of employee turnover 3% staff turnover for the Company.
by age group, gender and region.
Non-core LA3 Benefits provided to full-time employees Standard benefit packages.
indicator that are not provided to temporary or parttime employees, by major operations.
LA4 Percentage of employees covered by None.
LA5 Minimum notice period s regarding Seven days.
Heritage does not have any significant operational changes, including collective bargaining agreements.
whether it is specified in collective agreements.
Non-core LA6 Percentage of total workforce represented Not measured.
indicator in formal joint management-worker health and safety committees that help monitor and advise on occupational health and safety programmes.
LA7 Rates of injury, occupational diseases, lost No injuries across all operations.
13 days and absenteeism, and number of workrelated fatalities by region.
LA8 Education, training, counselling, prevention Health and safety training covers serious 13 and risk-control programmes in place to disease prevention and control where assist workforce members, their families, appropriate.
Occupational and operational or community members regarding health and safety training given to serious diseases.
Non-core LA9 Health and safety topics covered in formal No agreements with trade unions.
indicator agreements with trade unions.
LA10 Average hours of training per year per Reviewed in Employees section.
Non-core LA11 Programmes for skills management and Reviewed in Employees section.
15 indicator lifelong learning that support the continued employability of employees and assist them in managing career endings.
Non-core LA12 Percentage of employees receiving regular Not measured.
indicator performance and career development reviews.
Corporate Social Responsibility 2010 Global Reporting Initiative continued heritage oil plc 28 area indicator deScription of indicator commentary data page LA13 Composition of governance bodies and See Corporate Governance Report for breakdown of employees per category composition of governance bodies.
according to gender, age group, minority group membership and other indicators of diversity.
LA14 Ratio of basic salary of men to women by Not measured.
Human rights HR1 Percentage and total number of significant Not measured.
performance investment agreements that include human indicators rights clauses or that have undergone human rights screening.
HR2 Percentage of significant suppliers and All suppliers must agree to abide by contractors that have undergone screening Heritages policy on human rights.
on human rights and actions taken.
Non-core HR3 Total hours of employee training on policies Not measured.
indicator and procedures concerning aspects of human rights that are relevant to operations, including the percentage of employees trained.
HR4 Total number of incidents of discrimination No incidents.
HR5 Operations identified in which the right No operations identified as having to exercise freedom of association and significant risk in this area.
Freedom of collective bargaining may be at significant association and collective bargaining are risk and actions taken to support these guaranteed to all workers.
HR6 Operations identified as having significant No operations identified as having 67 risk for incidents of child labour and significant risk.
CSR Policy Framework measures taken to contribute to the prohibits the use of child labour.
HR7 Operations identified as having significant No operations identified as having 67 risk for incidents of forced or compulsory significant risk.
CSR Policy Framework labour and measures to contribute to the prohibits the use of forced or compulsory elimination of forced or compulsory labour.
Non-core HR8 Percentage of security personnel trained in All suppliers must agree to abide by indicator the organisations policies or procedures Heritages policy on human rights.
concerning aspects of human rights that are No actions taken.
Non-core HR9 Total number of incidents of violations No violations.
indicator involving rights of indigenous people and actions taken.
Corporate Social Responsibility 2010 heritage oil plc 29 area indicator deScription of indicator commentary data page Society SO1 Nature, scope and effectiveness of any See Community and Human Rights section.
17 performance programmes and practices that assess indicators and manage the impacts of operations on communities, including entering, operating and exiting.
SO2 Percentage and total number of 100% of business units analysed.
business units analysed for risks related to corruption.
SO3 Percentage of employees trained in the 100% of relevant employees trained.
organisations anti-corruption policies and procedures.
SO4 Actions taken in response to incidents No incidents.
SO5 Public policy positions and participation in No positions or participation.
public policy development and lobbying.
Non-core SO6 Total value of financial and in-kind No contributions made.
indicator contributions to political parties, politicians and related institutions by country.
Non-core SO7 Total number of legal actions for antiNo legal actions.
indicator competitive behaviour, anti-trust, and monopoly practices and their outcomes.
SO8 Monetary value of significant fines and total No fines or sanctions.
number of non-monetary sanctions for noncompliance with laws and regulations.
Product According to GRI the Product Heritage owns a small oil producing asset in responsibility Responsibility Indicator set addresses the Russia and the Company is primarily an oil performance effects of products and services management and gas exploration company.
As we deal in indicators on customers and users.
raw material commodities and currently in small volumes, we do not believe that these indicators are applicable to our business.
Corporate Social Responsibility 2010 Global Reporting Initiative continued heritage oil plc 30 area indicator deScription of indicator commentary data page Standard 1.1 Statement from the most senior decisionSee CSR Committee Chairmans 23 disclosures maker of the organisation e. g. CEO, Statement, CSR Report.
chair or equivalent senior position about the relevance of sustainability to the organisation and its strategy.
1.2 Description of key impacts, risks and See Annual Review, Principal Risks.
2.2 Primary brands, products and or services.
2.3 Operational structure of the organisation, See page 14 of the Financial 14 including main divisions, operating Statements Report.
companies, subsidiaries and joint ventures.
See inside back cover of report.
IBC 2.5 Number of countries where the organisation See page 3 of the Annual Review.
3 operates and names of countries with either major operations or that are specifically relevant to the sustainability issues covered in the report.
2.6 Nature of ownership and legal form.
Jersey incorporated with Premium Listing on the London Stock Exchange.
2.7 Markets served including geographic N A. breakdown, sectors served, and types of customers beneficiaries.
2.8 Scale of the reporting organisation.
See page 3 of the Annual Review.
3 2.9 Significant changes during the reporting Sold the Ugandan Assets in a deal 3135 period regarding size, structure or completed in 2010.
See pages 3135 ownership see G3 Guidelines for details.
2.10 Awards received in the reporting period.
3.1 Reporting period e. g. fiscal calendar year 1 January 201031 December 2010. for information provided.
3.2 Date of most recent previous report if any.
3.3 Reporting cycle annual, biennial, etc..
3.4 Contact point for questions regarding the See inside back cover of this report.
IBC report or its contents.
3.5 Process for defining report content.
4 Corporate Social Responsibility 2010 heritage oil plc 31 area indicator deScription of indicator commentary data page 3.6 Boundary of the report e. g. countries, This report covers the entirety of Heritages 3 divisions, subsidiaries, leased facilities, joint operations.
See page 3 of the Annual Review ventures or suppliers.
as well for further information.
3.7 State any specific limitations on the scope or No specific limitations.
3.8 Basis for reporting on joint ventures, N A. subsidiaries, leased facilities, outsourced operations and other entities that can significantly affect comparability from period to period and or between organisations.
3.9 Data measurement techniques and the bases See About this Report.
4 of calculations, including assumptions and techniques underlying estimations applied to the compilation of the indicators and other information in the report.
3.10 Explanation of the effect of any No restatements.
restatements of information provided in earlier reports and the reasons for such restatement e. g. mergers acquisitions, change of base years periods, nature of business or measurement methods.
3.11 Significant changes from previous None.
reporting periods in the scope, boundary or measurement methods applied in the report.
3.12 Table identifying the location of the See GRI index.
23 standard disclosures in the report.
3.13 Policy and current practice with regard External assurance has not been sought 4 to seeking external assurance for the see About this Report.
If not included in the assurance report accompanying the sustainability report, explain the scope and basis of any external assurance provided.
Also explain the relationship between the reporting organisation and the assurance provider s. 4.1 Governance structure of the organisation, See page 11 of the Corporate Governance including committees under the highest Report.
governance body responsible for specific tasks, such as setting strategy or organisational oversight.
4.2 Indicate whether the Chair of the highest See page 10 of the Corporate Governance governance body is also an executive Report Chairman is an independent officer and, if so, their function within the Non-Executive Director.
organisations management and the reasons for this arrangement.
Corporate Social Responsibility 2010 Global Reporting Initiative continued heritage oil plc 32 area indicator deScription of indicator commentary data page 4.3 For organisations that have a unitary board See page 10 of the Corporate Governance structure, state the number of members Report.
of the highest governance body that are independent and or non-executive members.
4.4 Mechanisms for shareholders and employees See page 12 of the Corporate Governance to provide recommendations or direction to Report.
4.5 Linkage between compensation for See Corporate Governance Report, members of the highest governance in particular the Remuneration Report, body, senior managers, and executives pages 1827. including departure arrangements, and the organisations performance including social and environmental performance.
4.6 Processes in place for the highest See CSR Policy Framework and page 10 of 67 governance body to ensure conflicts of the Corporate Governance Report.
4.7 Process for determining the qualifications See pages 1014 of the Corporate and expertise of the members of the Governance Report.
highest governance body for guiding the organisations strategy on economic, environmental and social topics.
4.8 Internally developed statements of mission See CSR Policy Framework.
67 or values, codes of conduct, and principles relevant to economic, environmental, and social performance and the status of their implementation.
4.9 Procedures of the highest governance See pages 1017 of the Corporate body for overseeing the organisations Governance Report, in particular the CSR identification and management of economic, Committee on page 17. environmental, and social performance, including relevant risks and opportunities, and adherence or compliance with internationally agreed standards, codes of conduct and principles.
Corporate Social Responsibility 2010 heritage oil plc 33 area indicator deScription of indicator commentary data page 4.10 Processes for evaluating the highest See pages 1314 of the Corporate governance bodys own performance, Governance Report.
particularly with respect to economic, environmental, and social performance.
4.11 Explanation of whether and how the See Financial Review and Risks in the precautionary approach or principle is Annual Review on pages 3139. addressed by the organisation.
environmental and social charters, principles or other initiatives to which the organisation subscribes or endorses.
4.13 Memberships in associations such as Jersey Financial Services.
industry associations and or national international advocacy organisations.
4.14 List of stakeholder groups engaged by the Not reported.
4.15 Basis for identification and selection of See CSR Policy Framework.
67 stakeholders with whom to engage.
4.16 Approaches to stakeholder engagement, See CSR Report.
17 including frequency of engagement by type and by stakeholder group.
4.17 Key topics and concerns that have been See CSR Report.
17 raised through stakeholder engagement, and how the organisation has responded to those key topics and concerns, including through its reporting.
