e xplore pioneer Annual Review 2010 Strategic Overview and Business Model Heritage heritage oil plc 07 aims to generate growth in shareholder value by focusing on both high-impact international plays with the potential to discover significant hydrocarbon reserves and through the acquisition of value creating opportunities.
our strengths At the heart of our strategic vision is Investment our diverse portfolio.
The Companys First Mover Acquisitions competitive strengths include: Demonstrated success of first mover advantage in territories such as Uganda and Kurdistan Proven track record of Financial Risk monetising assets Flexibility Ability to expand a portfolio of international plays Management expertise with a team Diverse Portfolio containing experience of corporate finance, legal and industry specific skills Reputation CSR Technical expertise with senior members of the team each with in excess of 30 years industry experience The Group has developed a highly effective network of influential Partnerships industry, political and institutional Governance JVs relationships the business model Governance Portfolio management The Company seeks to achieve and The Group seeks high-impact exploration maintain the highest standards in all plays to deliver shareholder growth.
At the areas of governance.
same time, the Group manages a portfolio of assets at different stages of the value chain and Regional knowledge and contacts prioritises work programmes to achieve the Relationships with national and regional maximum return.
governments are a key focus within the business.
These relationships provide the Experience within the team enables the Company with the ability to assess risk and Company to capitalise on opportunities and provides a competitive edge versus its peers.
build upon the existing portfolio through the Board of Directors acquisition of value creating opportunities.
Corporate Social Responsibility CSR The Group considers that an effective CSR Capital discipline strategy, supported by robust policies, systems The Group seeks to balance the exploration and exemplary performance, is a key element and operational demands of the portfolio of our long-term success.
This can include the monetisation of assets or accessing capital markets.
