Corporate Governance 2010 heritage oil plc 06 board of directors 01 02 03 04 05 06 Audit Committee 07 Remuneration Committee Nomination Committee Reserves Committee Corporate Social Responsibility Committee Corporate Governance 2010 heritage oil plc 07 01.
Michael J. hibberd 04. gregory turnbull Q. c. 06. general sir Michael Wilkes Chairman and Non-Executive Director Non-Executive Director Non-Executive Director and Mr. Hibberd has extensive international Mr. Turnbull is the Regional Managing Senior Independent Director energy project planning and capital markets Partner of the Calgary office of the law firm General Sir Michael Wilkes KCB, CBE, experience.
Mr. Hibberd has been president of McCarthy Ttrault LLP.
Mr. Turnbull has retired from the British Army in 1995 as and chief executive officer of MJH Services extensive knowledge of corporate governance Adjutant General and Middle East Adviser to Inc. a corporate finance advisory company, issues and has acted for many boards of the British Government.
As Adjutant General, since 1995, prior to which he spent 12 years directors and special committees in that regard.
Sir Michael was the most senior administrative with ScotiaMcLeod in corporate finance and Mr. Turnbull started his career with the law officer within the Army and a member of the held the position of director and senior vicefirm of MacKimmie Matthews in 1979.
During his distinguished career, president, corporate finance.
He is chairman 1987 to 2001, he was a partner with Gowlings he has seen active service across the world of Canacol Energy Ltd. and Greenfields LLP formerly Code Hunter LLP.
In 2001 and while also commanding at every level from Petroleum Corporation and is co-chairman 2002, he was a partner with the law firm of Platoon to Field Army including commanding of Sunshine Oilsands Ltd.
He also currently Donahue LLP.
Mr. Turnbull has been a partner 22 Special Air Service Regiment and serving serves on the boards of directors of Montana with the law firm of McCarthy Ttrault LLP as the Director of Special Forces.
Sir Michael Exploration Corp. and Pan Orient Energy.
since July 2002 and was appointed Queenss is a non-executive director of the AIM listed Mr. Hibberd joined Heritage in March 2006.
He is a non-executive companies Stanley Gibbons Group and Blue director of Crescent Point Energy Corp. Hawk Star Capital plc.
In addition, he holds nonExploration Ltd. Hyperion Exploration Corp. executive positions on a number of private 02. anthony buckinghaM Online Energy Inc. Porto Energy Corp. companies including Britam Defence.
Chief Executive Officer Seaview Energy Inc. Sonde Resources Corp, He joined Heritage in 2008.
Mr. Buckingham is the founder of Heritage.
and Storm Resources Ltd. Mr. Turnbull is also Mr. Buckingham commenced his involvement a director of Sunshine Oilsands Ltd. a private in the oil industry as a North Sea diver and oil and gas exploration company.
He joined 07. saliM Macki subsequently became a concession negotiator Heritage in 1997.
Non-Executive Director acting for several companies including Ranger Mr. Macki was a Member of the State Council, and Premier Oil plc.
John g. f. Mcleod Former Ambassador, Government of Sultanate security adviser to various governments.
Non-Executive Director of Oman and has been a director of Oman Oil Mr. McLeod is a Professional Engineer a wholly owned government company since with 40 years of varied resources extraction 1996.
Mr. Macki holds a masters degree in 03. paul atherton experience.
He is the president of McLeod petrochemical engineering and has spent most Chief Financial Officer Petroleum Consulting Limited, the president, of his working life in the oil industry, where he Mr. Atherton is a qualified accountant, chief executive officer and a director of is highly regarded internationally.
He holds, having qualified with Deloitte & Touche, Paris Energy Inc. and California Oil and or has previously held, many senior executive and holds a degree in geology from Imperial Gas Corporation.
He holds the position positions in various private and state-owned College London.
He has a corporate finance of chief operating officer and director of entities in Oman and internationally.
background with specific experience in the Tuscany Energy Ltd.
He has held positions He joined Heritage in 2008. international mining and resource sectors.
and has served on various boards including He joined Heritage in 2000 and subsequently Constellation Oil & Gas Ltd. and CanArgo joined the Board of Directors in 2005.
Energy Inc. as president and chief executive officer of Arakis Energy Company, as vp, operations of Pengrowth Gas Company, chief executive officer and director of Rally Energy Corp. and Canoro Resources.
Currently, Mr. McLeod serves as a director of Diaz Resources Ltd. Ranger Energy Ltd. and Kallisto Energy Corp.
He is a Past-President of the Association of Professional Engineers, Geologists and Geophysicists of Alberta.
