Corporate Social Responsibility 2010 2010 Highlights heritage oil plc 01 $945,991 spent on CSR related initiatives Operational Our main operations continue to employ and train a large number of local people Over 1 million man hours were worked with zero Lost Time Incidents LTIs Community projects were implemented through health and social programme investments in Tanzania, Russia, Kurdistan, Uganda and Pakistan Zero LTIs, security issues and environmental issues across all operations Zero whistle-blowing cases or breaches in business conduct principles Conducted a proactive dissemination exercise to obtain feedback on our CSR approach Engaged a third party to enhance our policies, stakeholder engagement and reporting of CSR issues Reviewed changes to the 2008 Combined Code the Combined Code and embarked on early compliance with changes Set up Board level CSR Committee environment and sustainability health and safety Achievements Environmental incidents, fines or sanctions, LTIs, all operations all operations 0 0 employees community and human rights Number of local people employed, % Health and social programme investments, $000 % % % % 100 100 100 97 % 91 % 75 $946 Kurdistan Tanzania Russia Mali Malta Pakistan business conduct corporate governance Breaches in business conduct policies formed Board level CSR Committee: reviewed changes in the UK Corporate Governance Code 2010 the 2010 Code : began preparations for the UK Bribery Act legislation: reviewed and amended Board Charter: and reviewed whistle-blowing policy 0 All dollars are US dollars unless otherwise stated.
Corporate Social Responsibility 2010 The CSR Committee Chairmans Statement heritage oil plc 02 Heritage aims to create outstanding value for shareholders and to create lasting legacies for our local communities.
Our commitment to CSR underlies our We have continued with a variety of longerbusiness strategy and we continually strive term sustainable initiatives across our to operate to the highest international social, operations in 2010 which included: environmental and safety standards.
It is of paramount importance to Heritage that we in Kurdistan we focused on community maintain a positive influence in the areas in initiatives supporting the local education which we operate and that our employees system, assisting development of and contractors feel able to achieve their full local infrastructure and funded much potential in a safe environment.
needed healthcare for a pupil within our licence area: In April 2010, we established our Board in Tanzania our activities focused on level CSR Committee comprising myself, as supporting local health services with Chairman of the Committee, our Chairman, a donation of $7,500 to the Baobab Michael Hibberd, and our Chief Executive Maternity Hospital in Dar es Salaam Officer CEO, Tony Buckingham.
The to contribute to the construction, Committee is tasked with developing, management and service delivery implementing and overseeing our CSR of the hospital: strategy systems and performance, in line in Pakistan, which experienced with our overall business aims and objectives.
unprecedented floods, Heritage paul atherton The Terms of Reference for this Committee immediately committed $72,000 to a can be found on our website disaster relief fund and immediate relief to chairman, www.
those most affected in our Zamzama North cSr committee licence area: and The energy sector was shaken in 2010 by in Russia we have continued to invest in the unfortunate situation in the Gulf of annual health and social programmes in Mexico where a low frequency event had a the vicinity of our licence area.
Our track record for health and safety remains strong and we We completed the sale of our interests in continually review our systems to ensure Blocks 1 and 3A the Ugandan Assets in operations are undertaken to the highest July 2010 and since that time we continued standards.
The vision and aims of the with our programmes in the region with the Company are implemented through our completion of the water gravity system in employees and our contractors and as such Hoima, providing over 6,000 villagers across they are a key element of our operations.
five villages with clean water.
In addition we We operated for over one million man hours continued funding of the Carl Nedft school across the business with no LTIs indicating which we established in the Buhuka region.
that our recruitment and training schemes are working well, attracting the right people and Our CSR Policy Framework is set out on giving them the skills needed to operate at the pages 6 to 7 and these set out the standards highest level.
We continue to develop a culture by which we operate within our business of operational excellence and improvement model to generate long-term value.
Our policy across all of our activities.
I am pleased to framework covers six key areas of impact and report that we had no environmental spills or opportunity.
We are committed to integrating incidents nor incurred any fines or warnings these across our business operations.
In 2010 relating to our environmental management we set ourselves targets across these areas during 2010. and I am pleased to report we achieved all set targets.
Our targets for this year are set out on pages 8 to 9 of this CSR Report.
Corporate Social Responsibility 2010 Our track record for health and safety remains heritage oil plc 03 strong and we are continually reviewing our systems to ensure operations are undertaken to the highest standards.
2011 will continue to provide opportunities This year we have strived to improve Training spend in 2010 and challenges which we will continue transparency through increasing our to address.
disclosure levels in the Global Reporting Initiative GRI tables which appear at The UK Bribery Act will become law at the the back of this report and additionally by beginning of July 2011.
We are currently addressing questions regarding our operations $212,500 obtaining legal advice concerning how in questions and answers that appear the legislation will impact on Heritage.
We continue to preparation for this I have been charged with welcome feedback from, and dialogue with, the responsibility of overseeing how this interested parties concerning all aspects of will impact on our activities.
Contact details are noted at the the government has recently been published back of this report and can also be found on with the overriding principle that companies our website www.
should adopt a risk-based approach to the application of the UK Bribery Act.
I would like to thank our Directors, employees and contractors for the continued excellent We will be reviewing the guidance published performance of our Company in all aspects in March 2011 by the UK Ministry of Justice of our CSR policy and for their continued to conduct a review of our systems and commitment and dedication to respecting our policies and enhancing these if required.
vision and legacy in the many areas in which We will also consider the conduct of we operate.
specific processes that are indicated with the guidance.
paul atherton chairman, This is our third CSR Report and has been prepared based on our operating principles cSr committee and with the help of stakeholder feedback.
In this report you will find an overview of key areas of risk and opportunity, specific to the CSR aspects of our activities: environment and sustainability: health and safety: employees: community and human rights: business conduct: and corporate governance.
Corporate Social Responsibility 2010 About this Report In this report we disclose heritage oil plc 04 our policies, document systems that we have established and we assess our performance applying key performance indicators that are pertinent to our industry and sector.
We have also detailed our future aims, targets Heritages policy position on the issue: and objectives.
its impact on shareholder value in the short, medium and long-term: This report relates to the period 1 January the level of stakeholder interest in the 2010 to 31 December 2010 and should be read matter assessed by dialogue with in conjunction with the entire Heritage Oil contractors, employees, suppliers, Annual Report and Accounts for 2010, shareholders, research organisations, Nonin particular the Corporate Governance Governmental Organisations NGOs, Report, and the Company website governments and advisers : and www.
the degree of interest in the issue emanating from public arenas that is Our principal activities during 2010 were reflected through reporting in the media.
We were largely operationally inactive in Uganda during the The CSR Committee will continue to review 2010 period following the announcement of the scope of this information and we intend the sale of our entire interests at the end of to refine our reporting process over time 2009 which completed in July 2010.
As such, taking into account the issues noted above and a majority of the information in this CSR changes in our business activities.
Report relates to our operations in Kurdistan and Russia.
external assurance Information within this report has not been Materiality and externally verified as we do not believe this coMpleteness would be of material benefit at this time.
We have applied the GRI G3 Guidelines Every effort has been made to ensure that the G3 Guidelines and those produced information contained in this report is by the International Petroleum Industry accurate.
The CSR Committee continues to Environmental Conservation Association review this matter and to assess whether any IPIECA to shape our reporting.
The GRI change is required.
table on pages 24 to 33 contains information that is set out in the G3 Guidelines.
We also determine materiality by assessing the significance and relevance of the information by considering: csr in action It encompasses our management of CSR underpins every part of our relationships with shareholders, stakeholders, business from the first stages of employees, contractors and communities planning and being awarded a licence in areas where we work, together with our impact on society and the environment.
through to exploration, development and production from a field.
We undertake CSR related initiatives across our asset portfolio where we are actively working.
Throughout the Annual Review are examples of our CSR in action.
Corporate Social Responsibility 2010 Our CSR Framework We recognise specific heritage oil plc 05 responsibilities in each of six core areas of risk and opportunity identified, specific to the CSR aspects of our activities.
We consider adherence to CSR values to be a key factor in securing our long-term success.
our vision our areas of iMpact and opportunity We aim to be a responsible and transparent business in all the areas en v iro nMen t a nd he a lt h a nd in which we operate.
01 02 sustainability safety We aim to create lasting legacies for our local communities whilst also coMMunity and 03 eMployees 04 creating value for shareholders.
huMan rights We strive to operate to the highest international social, environmental busine ss corporate 05 06 and safety standards.
conduct governance our approach Devise and Measure Communicate Apply Set policies maintain and monitor and report to stakeholder systems performance stakeholders feedback in Uganda and Kurdistan, to our activities in new territories.
Q&A Do the Companys shareholders participate We receive many questions concerning our in the development of the Companys activities and the impact they have on the six CSR approach?
Throughout Heritages investor communications and this report we have highlighted a few with reporting includes information that reflects our responses.
our approach to CSR where it is material to short, medium and long-term shareholder Will the forthcoming UK Bribery Act present value.
Naturally our investors discuss this the Company with significant issues?
with us where it is of interest to them and The Company is taking legal advice to comment on the material we have produced.
ensure that it fully understands its position We apply this information to enhance our concerning the UK Bribery Act.
We believe CSR approach and develop our disclosure that our management systems in this area within our reporting and other investor are robust.
We will be reviewing them communications over time.
to ensure that they conform to the spirit and requirements of the legislation prior How do I supply feedback to the Companys to it becoming UK law at the beginning CSR approach?
We always welcome feedback from our stakeholders concerning our approach to this Do you have plans for new CSR initiatives aspect of our activities.
by using the contact details at the end of this The Company is embarking on a number of report or the contact information on our new activities for 2011.
We shall be looking website www.
to apply the CSR related community project experience we have developed, particularly Corporate Social Responsibility 2010 CSR Policy Framework Our policy framework is heritage oil plc 06 integrated in our business model and sets out our essential core values which we believe make us a good corporate citizen.
This framework defines how we operate across all levels of the business and sets a high standard to measure ourselves.
Our approach to: Our approach to: Our approach to: e n v i r o n M e n ta l a n d eMployee Matters coMMunity and huMan sustainability Matters rights Matters environMental eMployees coMMunities We aim to make a positive contribution to Our ability to create sustainable shareholder We always strive to ensure that our the protection of the environment in which value is linked to our ability to recruit, relationships with neighbours and local we operate and to minimise any adverse motivate and retain a high calibre of staff.
communities are conducted sensitively and effects of our operations.
Wherever possible Heritage strives to ensure that relationships with mutual respect.
These relationships we will prevent, or otherwise minimise, between our employees are cohesive, safe and recognise that active and enduring mitigate and remediate, harmful effects of effective.
Our Group and all our employees partnerships are a central and fundamental our operations on the environment.
We will respect different cultures, traditions and element of our business.
We aim to promote promote, encourage and prioritise reuse and employment practices across our business the sharing of economic benefit created by recycling methods throughout all of our areas.
We share common goals, in particular our activities through the conduct of our operations.
We strive, particularly through the elimination of workplace injuries, and community relationships.
our use of innovative technologies, to meet are committed to good corporate values and the challenges presented to our Company by responsible behaviour.
We strive to recognise universal decl ar ation of climate change.
achievement and to create opportunities for huMan rights individuals at all levels of our businesses.
We support human rights, consistent with the sustainable business In dealing with our employees we act stipulations contained within the Universal We strive to contribute positively to global in compliance with national regulatory Declaration of Human Rights and remain sustainability through our operations, the requirements and our obligations under committed to upholding these principles.
We development of our fields, our adoption of relevant national and international laws.
endeavour to ensure that these commitments new technologies and the conduct of our extend to all of our supply chains and we relationships with all stakeholders.
ilo declaration on work with our partners and contractors to fundaMental principles and ensure that they are part of our contractual Our approach to: rights at Work requirements.
health and safety Matters Heritage supports the four fundamental principles contained within the International land access Health and safety is a natural priority and Labour Organisation ILO Declaration.
In We ensure that we receive the widest possible a core element of all of our activities.
All accordance with local legislation and practice, support for our proposals throughout the energy companies face a wide range of health we respect freedom of association, the right life cycle of our activities.
We do this by and safety matters ranging from industrial to collective bargaining, employment that is working in partnership with our stakeholders accidents to occupational illnesses.
Our freely chosen with no use of forced or child to optimally and sensitively co-ordinate goal is simply zero injuries and fatalities labour and we do not discriminate on the relevant economic, technical and sustainable across all areas of our operations.
We strive basis of gender, colour, ethnicity, culture, development factors in an integrated process.
to ensure that important factors, such as religion, sexual orientation or disability.
an understanding of cultural differences Our approach to: in host countries and the use of external equal opportunity business conduct Matters contractors, are addressed in the development Heritage values all employees for their of our systems and procedures.
We strive to political involveMent contribution to our business.
We are construct, maintain and develop world-class Heritage does not, directly or indirectly, committed to diversity and opportunities safety systems across all of our operations.
Heritage does not for advancement and these factors are not provide financial support to political parties influenced by considerations other than or politicians.
Employees are provided with the opportunity to develop their bribery and corruption potential and, where appropriate, to develop Heritage is resolutely opposed to bribery and their careers further within our Group.
corruption in whatever forms they may take.
Gifts or entertainment may only be offered to occupational health a third party if they are consistent with usual We strive to protect the physical health of all business practice in the relevant territory, are of our employees and contractors whilst in the modest in value and cannot be interpreted workplace.
In particular, we aim to meet the as a form of inducement.
challenges presented to our employees and the wider communities in which they live and operate.
Corporate Social Responsibility 2010 heritage oil plc 07 relations With suppliers accounting and records It is Heritages policy that revenues and We ensure that all of our suppliers are treated Heritage maintains accounting documentation purchases and services from suppliers are fairly and responsibly.
All potential suppliers that identifies clearly the true nature of all made solely on the basis of price, quality, will have a reasonable opportunity to win business transactions, assets and liabilities, in performance, value and for its benefit.
We strive to pay our suppliers line with relevant regulatory, accounting and purchases or award of contracts should never on time and in accordance with agreed terms of legal requirements.
No record or entry may be be made as the result of giving or receiving trade.
Suppliers will conduct their activities in false, distorted, incomplete or suppressed.
inducements in the form of gifts, money or accordance with our own policies.
entertainment from third parties or favours All Group reporting must be accurate and in any other form.
coMpetition complete and in compliance in all material We always aim to compete vigorously with respects with stated accounting policies and Employees should not accept gifts, money or our competitors, but in a fair and responsible procedures.
Employees must not materially entertainment from third party organisations way.
We strive to ensure that our success is misstate, or knowingly misrepresent, or individuals, where these might reasonably built upon excellence.
When in contact with management information for personal gain or be considered likely to influence business our competitors, employees will be required any other reason.
Gifts, other than trivial ones to avoid disclosing confidential information.
of low value, are not accepted.
In a culture We will not make improper attempts to external reporting where such an action might cause offence, the acquire competitor trade secrets or other Our businesses may be required to make gift must be declared to the Company and, if confidential information.
Employees will not statements or provide reports to regulatory practical, donated to an appropriate charity.
undertake any arrangements or practices that bodies, government agencies or other may conflict with laws applicable to conduct government departments.
Our businesses will The UK Ministry of Justice published of our business.
take care to ensure that such statements or guidance on the UK Bribery Act at the end reports are correct, timely and not misleading.
The Act will become law at Our approach to: Senior management must be made aware of the beginning of July.
Heritage is currently c o r p o r at e g o v e r n a n c e any sensitive disclosure before it is made.
obtaining legal advice concerning how the Mat ters legislation will impact on the Group.
Heritage Heritage ensures that statements made to has charged Paul Atherton, Chief Financial coMpliance With the l aW and the media are correct and not misleading.
Officer CFO, with the responsibility to relevant regulations Media enquiries are referred to our media oversee how this law will impact Heritage.
Heritage is committed to protecting the experts and or advisers and statements will This will include overseeing: interests of its shareholders and other only be made by designated spokespersons.
stakeholders through compliance with Heritage provides, through its Group website a review of the government guidance: relevant legal and regulatory environments www.
com, its Annual Report the conduct of specific processes which are and similarly through effective management and Accounts and other statements, including indicated within the guidance: of business risks.
We comply fully with all this report, appropriate information to enable a review of Heritages current policies relevant national and international laws and shareholders and stakeholders to assess its and systems with respect to bribery, code act in accordance with local guidelines and performance.
Heritage always complies with of conduct, whistle-blowing and other regulations, including those that are industry applicable laws and regulations concerning relevant policies for both employees and specific and govern our operations.
disclosure of information about the Group.
contractors: and the development and enhancement of these It is the responsibility of senior personnel to policies and systems, if required.
ensure, by taking legal or other advice where appropriate, that they are aware of all local treatMent of custoMers laws and regulations that may affect the area We regard mutual trust and confidence of the business in which they are engaged.
between our companies, contractors and customers as very important.
We require employees to deliver high levels of service consistently, surpassing expectations and meeting their changing requirements.
Corporate Social Responsibility 2010 Targets and Achievements We aim to apply heritage oil plc 08 targets to focus our employees and enable our stakeholders to assess our performance.
In the table below we show our achievements on our 2010 targets and detail further targets for 2011.
01 02 03 Environment and Health and Safety Employees Sustainability 2010 progress 2010 progress 2010 progress no spills, warnings or environmental no fatalities or LTIs: and majority of employees to be drawn from incidents: and no fines or sanctions related to our health each country of operation.
no fines or sanctions related to our and safety management.
2010 targets achieved 2010 targets achieved 2010 targets achieved 2011 targets 2011 targets 2011 targets no spills or environmental incidents: no fatalities or LTIs: majority of employees to be drawn from no fines or sanctions related to our no fines or sanctions related to our health each country of operation: and environmental management: and and safety management: and contribute to training for staff.
Environmental Impact Assessments experience sharing with peer group.
EIAs to be conducted for all major work programmes.
Corporate Social Responsibility 2010 heritage oil plc 09 04 05 06 Community and Business Conduct Corporate Governance Human Rights 2010 progress 2010 progress 2010 progress no human rights violations: and no fines or sanctions related to poor report publicly the findings and decisions no fines or sanctions related to our business conduct.
community and human rights management and activities.
2010 targets achieved 2010 targets achieved 2010 targets achieved 2011 targets 2011 targets 2011 targets no human rights violations: no fines or sanctions related to poor report publicly the findings and decisions no fines or sanctions related to our business conduct: and of the CSR Committee: community and human rights monitor developments and peer group review guidance for the UK Bribery Act management and activities: and best practice.
and make changes if required: continue dialogue with specialist review of final sector supplement for organisations.
GRI with a view to adoption if deemed appropriate: and continued emphasis on Company best practice.
