Corporate Governance 2010 heritage oil plc 10 report of the independent directors Board composition In addition to the requirements of the Combined Code, the Boards The Directors of the Company who served throughout 2010 and up to assessment of independence and effectiveness includes their total the date of the signing of this report are listed below.
number of commitments, relationships with major suppliers or Appointment dates with charities receiving material support from the Company.
This 1 Michael Hibberd assessment is made annually.
Chairman and Non-Executive Director 18 March 2008 2 the relationship agreement Anthony Buckingham Albion Energy Limited Albion, the Companys largest shareholder Chief Executive Officer 25 February 2008 and Anthony Buckingham entered into a relationship agreement with 2 Paul Atherton the Company on 28 March 2008 the Relationship Agreement Chief Financial Officer 6 February 2008 as part of the process to list the Company on the Main Market in Salim Macki 2008.
The purpose of the Relationship Agreement is to ensure that Non-Executive Director 12 August 2008 transactions and relationships between the Group, Albion and Anthony 1 Buckingham are at arms length and on normal commercial terms.
The John McLeod Relationship Agreement prescribes that at all times, the Board shall Non-Executive Director 18 March 2008 comprise of a majority of Directors who are all independent of 1 Gregory Turnbull Anthony Buckingham.
Non-Executive Director 18 March 2008 1 General Sir Michael Wilkes conflicts of interest Non-Executive Director and Under the Articles of Association of the Company the Articles, a Senior Independent Director 18 March 2008 Director may be a party to, or otherwise interested in, any transaction or arrangement with the Company as long as he has disclosed to 1 The Non-Executive Director was appointed on 18 March 2008 and this became effective the Directors the nature and extent of any of his interests at the first on the Companys listing on the LSE on 28 March 2008. meeting of the Directors at which a transaction is considered or as soon 2 The Executive Director was appointed as indicated and this became effective on the as practical after that meeting by notice in writing to the Secretary.
Companys listing on the LSE on 28 March 2008.
Where disclosure is made to the Secretary, the Secretary must inform the other Directors that it has been made and table the notice at the Biographical details of all Directors can be found on page 7 of this next meeting of the Directors.
Any disclosure at a meeting of the report.
With the exception of General Sir Michael Wilkes and Salim Directors must be recorded in the minutes of the meeting.
Macki, all the Directors were previously, and continue to be, Directors of HOC.
The Companys Code of Business Conduct and Ethics also requires Directors and employees to avoid conflicts of interest which may Board Balance and independence interfere or appear to interfere with the obligation to act in the best There are currently seven Directors, five of whom are Non-Executive interests of the Company.
The Chairman and three of the Non-Executive Directors are deemed to be independent under the terms of the Combined Code.
Related party transactions with Directors are disclosed in note 22 of notes to consolidated financial statements in the Financial The Board is satisfied that its composition will ensure that no individual Statements Report.
The only current related party transaction relates or group of individuals will dominate the decision-making process.
to transportation services provided by a company indirectly owned by Anthony Buckingham.
The Board considers that John McLeod, Salim Macki, General Sir Michael Wilkes and Michael Hibberd are independent in character and judgement and free from relationships or circumstances which may affect their judgement.
The Board acknowledges that John McLeod does not meet the independence criteria set out in the Combined Code as he has served as a Director of HOC, the prior holding company of the Group, for more than nine years and was previously granted options.
However, the Board has satisfied itself that neither of these factors impact on John McLeods independence in character and judgement.
His length of service on the Board enhances his ability to perform his duties effectively and helps maintain an appropriate balance between experienced Non-Executive Directors and those more recently appointed to the Board.
On appointment, the Chairman was also considered to be independent and continues to be so.
Gregory Turnbull does not meet the independence criteria set out by the Combined Code as he is a partner of McCarthy Ttrault LLP, the Canadian legal advisers to the Company.
