Corporate Governance 2010 heritage oil plc 09 statement of compliance compliance with the comBined code on The following sections of this report describe how the Company has corporate governance applied the Main Principles of the Combined Code: As a company with a Premium Listing on the LSE, the Company is subject to the Financial Services Authoritys Listing Rules and the Report of the Independent Directors: requirement to explain how it has applied the Main Principles of the Report of the Board as a Whole: Combined Code.
A copy of the Combined Code is available from Report of the Audit Committee: the FRCs website, www.
The Listing Rules also require Other Committee Reports: a company to confirm that it has complied with Section 1 of the Report of the Remuneration Committee: and Combined Code or explain areas of non-compliance.
The Company Share Capital, Information for Shareholders and Investor Relations.
is reviewing changes to the Combined Code in order to achieve compliance with the 2010 Code, as detailed in the Chairmans letter The following statements may be found on page 6 of the Financial and the table showing the summary of the main changes introduced Statements Report: by the 2010 Code on pages 2 to 5 of this report.
i Statement of the Directors responsibilities for preparing the Annual At the year end, the Board considers that the Company has complied Report and Financial Statements: with Section 1 of the Combined Code, save in the following respects.
ii Responsibility Statement of the Directors that the Financial Statements and Management Report which is incorporated in the Code Provision B.
1.6: Notice periods for Executive Directors are Annual Review and in the separate CSR Report give a fair review of 24 months.
These notice periods were set in place contractually the Companys business: and prior to the Companys listing on the LSE.
The Company has iii Going concern statement.
discussed Executive Directors employment contracts with external advisers and internally within the Remuneration Committee.
After For and on behalf of the Board reflecting on practical considerations raised in these discussions, the Company has decided, for commercial reasons, to retain the existing Executive Director notice period structure because of their importance to the business at this stage in its development: and Code Provision C. 3.1: The Chairman of the Company is a member michael J. hiBBerd of, and chairs, the Audit Committee.
The Board believes the chairman Chairman is the most appropriate person to be a member of, and 18 april 2011 chair, the Audit Committee given his extensive financial experience.
The Chairman is also considered by the Board to have maintained his independent status.
