Corporate Governance 2010 heritage oil plc 28 share capital, iNForMatioN For shareholders aNd iNvestor rel atioNs articles oF associatioN permitting, but the Directors have flexibility to make market purchases The Articles govern, amongst other things, the rights and obligations should the appropriate circumstances arise and the Directors believe it relating to the Companys shares, powers of the Directors, proceedings is in the best interests of shareholders generally.
at general meetings, and the appointment and resignation of the Directors.
The Articles may only be amended by a special resolution of The Company did not purchase any of its own shares during 2010 or in the Companys shareholders.
2011 up to 18 April 2011, being the date of this report.
share capital chaNge oF coNtrol agreeMeNts capital strUctUre The Company confirms that there are no significant agreements The Company has two classes of shares, namely the Ordinary Shares to which it is party that would take effect, alter or terminate and the special voting share of HOC the Special Voting Share.
upon a change of control following a takeover bid except those HOC, the Companys indirect subsidiary, has Exchangeable Shares disclosed below: outstanding that are convertible into Ordinary Shares of the Company.
the Executive Directors service contracts contain certain The Ordinary Shares and the Special Voting Share carry no right to provisions in relation to change of control as disclosed in the fixed income.
The Ordinary Shares have a right to one vote for every Remuneration Report: share at general meetings.
The holders of Exchangeable Shares have the LTIP rules contain a provision whereby in the event of a rights through the Special Voting Share held by the trustee of the change of control all awards will vest in their entirety subject to the Voting and Exchange Trust to one vote at general meetings for every achievement or otherwise of the performance conditions: and Exchangeable Share on the same basis as if they had exchanged them on 16 February 2007, HOC issued 1,650 $100,000 convertible for Ordinary Shares.
For clarity, the Voting and Exchange Trust is a bonds at par to raise $165,000,000 by way of a private placement.
Canadian Trust that holds the Special Voting Share for the benefit of Issue costs amounted to $6,979,268 resulting in net proceeds of the registered holders of the Exchangeable Shares pursuant to the terms $158,020,732.
The bonds at par have a maturity of five years and of a Voting and Exchange Trust Agreement dated 27 February 2008 as one day and an annual coupon of 8.00%.
The Bondholders had amended 24 April 2008. the right to convert the bonds into Ordinary Shares at a price of $4.70 per share.
As at 18 April 2011, $37,900,000 of bonds have Subject to applicable statutes, shares in the Company may be issued converted, leaving 1,271 $100,000 convertible bonds outstanding.
with such rights or restrictions as the Company may by Special Bondholders have a put option requiring the Company to redeem Resolution determine.
Unissued shares are at the disposal of the Board.
the bonds at par, plus accrued interest, in the event of a change of control of the Company, together with an additional cash payment The issued share capital of the Company and total voting rights of the of up to $19,700 on each $100,000 bond.
The amount of additional Company as at 18 April 2011 are as follows: payment depends upon the date of redemption and market value of the Companys Ordinary Shares at the date of any change of 284,913,430 Ordinary Shares of the Company are issued and control event.
outstanding, which constitutes 99% of the total voting rights of the Company: and iNvestor relatioNs 2,953,508 Exchangeable Shares of HOC each carrying one voting The Chairman, with input from the Senior Independent Director, is right in the Company, are issued and outstanding, which constitutes responsible for ensuring effective communication of shareholders 1% of the total voting rights of the Company.
views to the Board as a whole and will update the rest of the Board accordingly.
Board Members are expected to use their best endeavours votiNg to attend meetings with a broad range of shareholders or otherwise Details of how to vote and deadlines for exercising voting rights are keep in touch with shareholder opinion and discuss strategy and set out in the Notice of AGM.
Every member and every duly appointed governance issues with them as time progresses.
In addition, the proxy present at a general meeting has, upon a show of hands, one Company employs an investor relations specialist and an investor vote.
If voting at a general meeting is carried out by poll, every member relations programme is in place for the Company to meet major present in person or by proxy has a vote for each share held.
traNsFers General Sir Michael Wilkes, as the Senior Independent Director, has Subject to the Articles, any member may transfer certificated shares by the chief responsibility of maintaining sufficient contact with major an instrument of transfer in writing in any usual form or in any other shareholders to help develop a balanced understanding of their issues form acceptable to the Directors.
Directors may refuse to register any and concerns.
In this role General Sir Michael Wilkes is available to transfer of certificated shares which are not fully paid or where the shareholders who have concerns that have not been, or cannot be register of transfer is not in the acceptable form.
resolved through discussion with the Chairman, CEO or CFO or where such contact is inappropriate.
pUrchase oF owN shares At the AGM held on 17 June 2010, a Special Resolution was passed The Board is aware of reporting responsibilities and, where necessary, by shareholders authorising the Company to make market purchases takes advice to ensure that material information is released on a timely of its own shares.
Any shares which have been so purchased may be basis.
It is the Companys policy not to comment on market rumours or held as treasury shares or cancelled immediately upon completion of press speculation.
Heritage will consider using this authority, regulations Corporate Governance 2010 heritage oil plc 29 MaJor shareholders Throughout 2010, Executive Directors and senior management met As at 18 April 2011, the Company had been notified in accordance with with institutional investors in London and across the UK as well as other the Disclosure and Transparency Rules, of the following interests in European and North American cities.
These roadshows, combined voting rights in its issued share capital: with the attendance of various Directors and or senior management at several conferences, provided for comprehensive and engaging dialogue Ordinary 1 with shareholders.
In December 2010, an investor day was held in Erbil, Name Shares held % held Kurdistan, where attendees were provided with details on the Companys 2 Albion 84,540,340 29.4 operations and strategy and a presentation made to investors by senior Capital Research and Management Company 31,528,707 10.95 management.
The accompanying information was also posted on the Lansdowne Partners Limited 28,498,394 9.9 Companys website www.
1 Includes voting rights attaching to the Special Voting Share as well as the The Company engages with and considers the views of investor voting Ordinary Shares.
advisory services such as that provided by the Institutional Voting 2 Number of Ordinary Shares held by both Albion and Anthony Buckingham.
Information Service and RREV Proxy Advisory Services.
Albion and Anthony Buckingham entered into a Relationship The Group issues its results and other news releases promptly and Agreement as part of the listing on the Main Market of the LSE.
The publishes them on the Companys website at www.
purpose of the Relationship Agreement is to ensure that transactions Other corporate information, including the Annual Report, any circulars and relationships between the Group, Albion and Anthony issued during the year and other financial presentations are also available Buckingham are at arms length and on normal commercial terms.
Shareholders and other interested parties can subscribe to receive news updates by email by registering online on the website.
registrar The Companys share registrar is Computershare Investor Services shareholder aNalysis Channel Islands Limited of Queensway House, Hilgrove Street, Analysis of the Companys shareholder base, shown on the following St Helier, JE1 1ES, Jersey, Channel Islands.
two graphs, indicates that there has been a small change in the profile of those holding shares in Heritage in 2010.
There has been a decrease aNNUal geNeral MeetiNg in retail and hedge fund holdings offset by an increase in those The 2011 AGM will be held at 22 Grenville Street, St Helier, JE4 8PX, classified as other.
Jersey, Channel Islands on 20 June 2011.
Formal notice of the AGM including details of special business will be set out in the Notice of AGM and dispatched to shareholders at least 20 working days December 2009 before the meeting.
The Notice of AGM will also be available on the Companys website at www.
81 7 6 1 Management 30.0% The AGM gives shareholders an opportunity to hear about business 2 Multiple 29.5% 5 developments and ask questions of the Directors.
Shareholders are 3 Hedge Fund 12.8% 4 Growth 10.3% encouraged to write in prior to the meeting with any questions to the 5 Retail 9.0% 4 Companys registered office in Jersey.
For those shareholders not able 6 Index 3.6% 2 to attend the meeting, any presentation given at the meeting together 7 Other 3.9% with results of voting will be available on the Companys website.
All 8 Value 0.9% 3 of the Directors, including the Chairmen of the Board Committees are expected to attend the AGM and be available to answer questions.
Source: J. P. Morgan Securities Ltd. Other consists of arbitrage, corporate, emerging markets, trading positions and custody.
December 2010 81 7 1 Management 30.0% 6 2 Multiple 34.9% 5 3 Hedge Fund 11.7% 4 4 Growth 6.4% 5 Retail 6.0% 6 Index 3.2% 2 7 Other 7.3% 3 8 Value 0.5% Source: J. P. Morgan Securities Ltd. Other consists of arbitrage, corporate, emerging markets, trading positions and custody.
