Corporate Governance 2010 heritage oil plc 11 report of the Board as a whole heritage oil plc governance structure Audit Committee Remuneration Committee communications Nomination Shareholders Board Committee elect Reserves Committee CSR Committee role of the Board Board of directors The Board as a whole is collectively responsible for the success of the The Board is currently comprised of seven Directors, five of whom Company and each Director must take decisions objectively in the are Non-Executive Directors.
The Chairman and three of the Noninterests of the Company.
The Boards principal role is to set strategy Executive Directors are deemed to be independent under the terms of and the parameters within which the Group operates in furtherance of the Combined Code.
The Board has approved a schedule of matters reserved for its attention which sets out its responsibilities.
These include: chairman The Chairmans role is to ensure the effective running of the setting Group strategy and objectives: Board on all aspects of its roles and setting its agenda.
His other approving annual budgets, annual and half year reports, interim key responsibilities include leading the Board, ensuring effective management statements and dividends: communication with shareholders, ensuring constructive relations reviewing financial performance: between all Directors and that all Directors are encouraged to Board changes: participate fully in the activities and decision-making process of approving material acquisitions, disposals and contracts: the Board.
ensuring the effectiveness of the Companys system of internal controls including managing risks: chief executive officer ceo approval of health, safety and environmental policies: and The CEO is responsible for managing the Groups business, setting the Companys values and standards including approval proposing and developing the Groups strategy and overall of the Groups Code of Ethics.
commercial objectives in consultation with the Board and, as leader of the executive team, implementing the decisions of the Board and its Committees.
Corporate Governance 2010 heritage oil plc 12 report of the Board as a whole continued The Board delegates the management of the business and day-to-day in consultation with the Board and, as leader of the executive team, operational decisions to executives and is responsible for monitoring implementing the decisions of the Board and its Committees.
General Sir Michael Wilkes is the Senior Independent Director with Individually, the Directors evaluate and challenge the Companys the chief responsibility of maintaining sufficient contact with major business strategy constantly to ensure they identify areas where shareholders to help develop a balanced understanding of their issues improvements can be made or where new opportunities exist so that and concerns.
In this role General Sir Michael Wilkes is available to strategies remain appropriate and relevant to the Companys business.
shareholders who have concerns that have not been, or cannot be resolved through discussion with the Chairman, CEO or Chief Financial Officer All of the Directors bring either extensive experience of the oil and CFO or where such contact is inappropriate.
The Senior Independent gas industry, or a broad range of business, commercial and corporate Director is also responsible for leading the Non-Executive Directors in governance experience, to the Board.
The Executive Directors have reviewing the performance of the Chairman.
close involvement with the operations of the business through their operational roles.
The Directors are aware of their responsibilities and how the Board operates feel able to raise any concerns at Board meetings which are minuted Board meetings accurately in the Board meeting minutes.
The Board is supported by The Board met in formal meetings nine times during the year and is a strong and experienced senior management team.
scheduled to meet at least four times a year.
It also engaged informally in numerous ad hoc information calls which were not convened as powers of the directors formal meetings.
The Board believes that one of its strengths is in Subject to the Articles, relevant statutory law and any direction that having open communication channels that enable its Directors to may be given by the shareholders in general meetings, the business of engage informally on a variety of topics.
The Board will continue to the Company is managed by the Directors who may exercise all powers meet sufficiently regularly to discharge its duties by way of scheduled of the Company.
Board meetings as well as through ad hoc meetings as required.
chairman, ceo and senior The attendance record of each Director at formal Board and Committee independent director meetings is shown in the table below.
In addition to the formal meetings There is a clear division of responsibility between the roles of the of the Board, the Chairman, CEO and CFO maintain frequent contact Chairman, Michael Hibberd, and the CEO, Anthony Buckingham, with the other Directors to discuss any issues they may have relating to to ensure an appropriate balance of responsibility and accountability.
the Group or as regards their areas of responsibility and to keep them These responsibilities have been formalised in writing and approved fully briefed on the Groups operations and initiatives.
Additionally, the by the Board.
Chairman and or the Non-Executive Directors met and spoke regularly during the year, and on an ad hoc basis, without the Executive Directors The Chairmans role is to ensure the effective running of the being present.
Board in all aspects of its roles and setting its agenda.
His other key responsibilities include leading the Board, ensuring effective The Board receives in good time before each Board meeting a Board communication with shareholders, ensuring that Board Committees information package including an update on operational and financial function effectively within their terms of reference, ensuring performance and a review of the performance and future potential of constructive relations between all Directors and that all Directors are all material assets.
encouraged to participate fully in the activities and decision-making process of the Board.
The Chairman also ensures that the Directors committees receive accurate, timely and clear information with all Board and The Board has delegated certain responsibilities to Committees in line with Committee meeting information being issued to members in advance.
recommendations of the Combined Code and to facilitate the business of The Chairmans other significant appointments are disclosed to the Company.
These are the Audit, Remuneration, Nomination, Reserves the Board and may be found in the Directors biographies on page 7 and CSR Committees.
The Reserves Committee was established in 2009 of this report.
and met for the first time in January 2010.
The CSR Committee was established in April 2010.
The duties of these Committees are set out in The CEO is responsible for managing the Groups business, proposing formal Terms of Reference, approved by the Board and are available on the and developing the Groups strategy and overall commercial objectives Companys website www.
Audit Remuneration Nomination Reserves CSR Board Committee Committee Committee Committee Committee 9 meetings 4 meetings 4 meetings 3 meetings 2 meetings 2 meetings Michael Hibberd 9 4 3 2 2 Anthony Buckingham 9 3 2 Paul Atherton 9 2 2 John McLeod 9 4 4 2 Salim Macki 7 4 4 Gregory Turnbull 8 General Sir Michael Wilkes 9 4 4 3 Corporate Governance 2010 heritage oil plc 13 Membership of the Committees was reviewed and confirmed during Under the Articles, Directors are indemnified out of the assets of the the year.
Further details of these Committees and their activities can be Company against any loss or liability incurred by reasons of having found later in their respective reports on pages 14 to 27. been a Director of the Company.
company secretary induction and continuing Given the size of the Company, the Board feels that it is in the professional development shareholders best interests not to employ a full time Company Upon joining the Board, if considered appropriate, a Director will Secretary at this stage in the Companys development.
The current participate in an induction programme covering the principles and Company Secretary is a corporate entity based in Jersey that deals with legal and regulatory duties required of them.
This training is tailored the normal statutory compliance for the Company.
The Board and its to an individuals needs, taking into account their qualifications Committees are, therefore, serviced by the Company Secretary or its and experience.
In addition, meetings are arranged with senior nominee.
The other duties that would normally be carried out by the management to enable Non-Executive Directors to develop a detailed Company Secretary, such as the provision of information flows to the understanding of the Companys business and of its strategy, and the Board, are dealt with by either the Chairman or CFO or their nominee.
key risks and challenges facing the Company.
In terms of corporate governance issues, the Board is advised by McCarthy Ttrault, a firm of registered foreign lawyers and solicitors To build on the formal induction programme, Directors are encouraged with offices in North America and in London.
The Board monitors to make site visits to the Groups operations and are offered access to the provision of company secretarial duties and takes any action as company secretarial services or independent professional advice at the appropriate to ensure its requirements are met.
The appointment or Companys expense, should this be necessary for them to discharge removal of the Company Secretary is a matter for the Board as a whole.
independent professional advice The Board believes that the Directors possess a wealth of diverse The Board ensures, in line with Board policy, that all Directors and experience and business skills.
Non-Executive Directors are actively Committees have access to independent professional advice whenever encouraged to question, examine and review the Groups businesses it is required and at the Companys expense.
and to undertake training applicable to their roles.
Non-Executive Directors develop an understanding of the views of major shareholders commitment through various channels including briefings by the Chairman and the It is in the whole Boards interest to ensure that all Directors have Senior Independent Director and by information provided at Board sufficient time to commit to their responsibilities as Directors.
In meetings on investor relations strategy.
respect of the Non-Executive Directors, their letters of appointment set out their terms of appointment including the expected time All Directors have the opportunity to update their skills and knowledge commitment which has been agreed and confirmed with them.
This on a regular basis through further briefings on issues, including is then assessed as part of performance evaluation to ensure they changes in law and regulation, corporate governance, financial continue to be able to devote sufficient time to their duties.
Prior to reporting and operational matters.
For example, during the year the appointment, all Directors are expected to disclose their other time Directors received a briefing on the requirements and possible impact commitments in order to demonstrate that they have sufficient time of the UK Bribery Act on the Groups operations.
to fulfil their role as a Director.
Furthermore, Directors are in regular communication with senior It is the Companys policy that Executive Directors are permitted to executives through both formal and informal ad hoc meetings, to accept directorships of other quoted companies provided that they ensure a regular exchange of knowledge and experience between have obtained the prior permission of the Chairman.
However, an management and Non-Executive Directors.
Executive Director will not be permitted to take on more than one non-executive directorship in a FTSE 100 company nor the Board assessment and effectiveness chairmanship of such a company.
The Board considers that all the The Board undertakes regular evaluations of its own performance as Directors are currently able to devote sufficient time and attention well as that of the various Board Committees and the Chairman.
At to their duties and responsibilities.
least once a year, this process, which was first formally established during 2009, is facilitated by an external party.
The Board is aware insurance cover and directors of the provision of the Combined Code that the evaluation exercise indemnity provisions should include an externally facilitated assessment of the performance The Company recognises the potential personal liabilities to which the of each individual Director at least every three years.
Currently, Directors are subject by acting as a Director of the Company.
The individual Director assessment, particularly for those Directors retiring Company, therefore, believes that it is appropriate to protect Directors and seeking re-election, is conducted internally by the Board.
The from innocent error or omission and maintains a Directors and evaluation of the Chairmans performance is conducted by the NonOfficers Liability insurance policy to provide the Directors with an Executive Directors, led by General Sir Michael Wilkes as the Senior indemnity under certain circumstances.
Independent Director, and also takes into account the views of the Directors will not be covered where they have acted fraudulently Executive Directors.
Corporate Governance 2010 heritage oil plc 14 report of the Board as a whole continued The assessment process considers matters covering the main duties of report of the audit committee the Directors as members of the Board of a listed company, including: m e m B e r s o f t h e au d i t c o m m i t t e e Michael Hibberd, Chairman the procedures that are in place for monitoring the Companys financial performance: Salim Macki John McLeod planning for the future: reviewing and contributing to the development of the General Sir Michael Wilkes Companys strategy: considering the major risks affecting the business: and main responsiBilities to monitor the integrity of the financial statements, including providing both clear direction to, and oversight of, management.
annual and interim reports and any other formal announcement relating to the Groups financial performance: The assessment of the Board as a whole, and of the various Board Committees, also considered matters relating to the quality and to report to the Board on its proceedings, identifying any matters in respect of which it considers that action or improvement is timeliness of the information provided to Directors, the effectiveness of meetings, the composition of the Board and the Board Committees, needed and making recommendations as to the steps to be taken: to review the annual audit plan and effectiveness of the the training available to Directors and the overall Board dynamics and leadership.
external audit: to review the Groups budgets: The review indicated that the Board and Committees continue to to consider the establishment of an internal audit function: to review the Groups internal control procedures and risk function effectively and in accordance with their respective Terms of Reference.
The review also confirmed that the Board has built on those management systems: to oversee the relationship with the external auditors and review areas previously identified by the 2009 review, including the need for the Board as a whole to focus more on succession planning issues.
the effectiveness of the external audit process: to make recommendations to the Board on the appointment, Following increased emphasis by the Board on this area, the review has confirmed that the effectiveness of discussion and the quality of the review and removal of external auditors: to approve the external auditors remuneration: debate around succession planning has further improved this year.
to monitor the external auditors independence including reviewing the policy on provision of non-audit services: and directors election and rotation With regard to retirement and re-election of Directors, the Company to review whistle-blowing arrangements and the Companys procedures for detecting fraud.
is governed by its Articles, the 2010 Code and the Jersey Companies Law.
Under the Articles, Directors have the power to appoint a Director to the Board during the year but any person so appointed must stand All members of the Audit Committee, including the Chairman, are for election at the next AGM.
It is the Companys current policy that independent Non-Executive Directors.
Other members of the Board all Directors should retire and stand for re-election at least once every may also be invited to attend meetings as and when appropriate.
external auditors, KPMG Audit Plc, are also invited to attend regularly.
The Audit Committee also meets the external auditors without The Board has discussed the requirements of the 2010 Code and will management present.
monitor investor comments on the requirement that Directors will retire and offer themselves for re-election at each AGM.
Depending The Chairman of the Company, Michael Hibberd, is a member on investor feedback, it is likely that the Companys Directors will, in of, and chairs, the Audit Committee which is not in line with the future, stand for annual re-election beginning with the 2012 AGM.
recommendations made in the Combined Code.
However, the Board Therefore, in accordance with the current policy on re-election, continues to believe that his recent and relevant financial experience, General Sir Michael Wilkes and Salim Macki will retire and, being including his experience in corporate financial matters is invaluable eligible, offer themselves for re-election at the next AGM on 20 June in supporting the Audit Committee to perform its role.
The Audit 2011 for a term of only one year.
Committee meets formally at least twice a year to discharge its responsibilities and also engages in numerous ad hoc discussions.
The Terms of Reference of the Audit Committee, as summarised above, were reviewed during 2010, and part of that review involved consideration of matters considered to be good practice in other listed companies.
The Terms of Reference of the Committee are available on the Companys website www.
The performance of the Audit Committee was reviewed during the year as part of the external Board performance review and the operation of the Audit Committee was considered to remain effective.
Corporate Governance 2010 heritage oil plc 15 activities during the year A formal risk assessment is conducted periodically during the year which During the year the Audit Committee considered the following main covers all material controls, including financial and operational, and risk items of business: management systems.
The key risks are collated from this assessment with recommended controls to mitigate these risks and presented to the review of operations and sale of the Ugandan Assets: Audit Committee for review.
The Board receives reports of the Audit review of the integrity of the financial statements and formal Committees review of the internal control system, risk assessment announcements relating to the Groups financial performance: process and any reports made under its whistle-blowing policy.
reports from the external auditors, KPMG Audit Plc: review of internal controls, risk and internal audit: Details of principal risks and uncertainties, which are those reviewed review of whistle-blowing reports and policy: by the Audit Committee during the year, are discussed on pages 36 to review of the external auditors independence: 39 of the Annual Review.
audit engagement letter and management representation letter: 2011 audit plan and key audit risks: financial reporting procedures review of the Committees Terms of Reference: Financial reporting procedures were reviewed as part of the process review of the 2010 and 2011 budgets and budgeting effectiveness: to become listed on the Main Market of the LSE and a Board review of related party transactions: and memorandum was prepared which is reviewed on an annual basis.
The review enabled the Directors to confirm that the financial reporting procedures in place provide them with a reasonable basis internal control and risK management on which to make proper judgements on the financial position and It is the Boards responsibility to determine the nature and extent prospects of the Company on an ongoing basis.
of the significant risks it is willing to take in achieving its strategic objectives.
It also has overall responsibility for the Groups system In fulfilling its responsibility to monitor the integrity of financial reports of internal controls and has put in place processes for identifying, to shareholders, the Audit Committee also reviews the accounting evaluating and managing the significant risks that the Group faces.
principles, policies and practices adopted in the preparation of public This includes significant risks that may arise from environmental, financial information and examines documentation in relation social and governance matters.
The Groups system of internal control to the Annual Report and Accounts and annual financial report is designed to manage, rather than eliminate, the risk of failure to announcements.
The ultimate responsibility for reviewing and approving achieve business objectives and can only provide reasonable and not the interim and annual financial statements remains with the Board.
absolute assurance against material misstatement or loss.
The risk assessment and internal control procedures were in place from the The internal control procedures in relation to financial reporting form start of 2010 to the date of the approval of this report and have been part of the internal control and risk management systems described reviewed by the Board in accordance with the FRCs guidance on above.
The Directors recognise the need to maintain financial internal control the Turnbull Guidance.
reporting procedures, to review them on an ongoing basis and to adapt them to changing circumstances and will use the Board memorandum The Audit Committee reviews regularly, on behalf of the Board, as a basis for further developing the Board processes.
the effectiveness of the Groups system of internal controls.
The review covers all controls, including financial, operational and risk internal audit management processes.
Appropriate actions are put into place to At present there is no internal audit function established.
The remedy any weaknesses identified by the review.
One weakness Committee reviewed the need for an internal audit function in identified in its financial procedures reporting concerns accounting 2010 and again in April 2011 and concurred with the opinion of the for complex transactions and the Company ensures that it seeks third Board, which maintains that the current control systems in place party advice to mitigate this weakness.
and management oversight are sufficient to highlight any areas of weaknesses in the financial reporting systems.
The need for an internal internal control frameworK audit function is kept under review at least annually.
The internal control systems consist of both high level controls and controls in place at an operational level.
These systems are based on whistle-Blowing policy established management structures with defined lines of responsibility The Company has a whistle-blowing policy and systems in place.
and clear delegation of authority.
Information is available to all employees advising them that they can raise concerns in confidence about possible wrong doing by contacting High level controls include: the Chairman of the Audit Committee.
In addition, whistle-blowing is an agenda item at Board and Audit Committee meetings with review of management accounts with comparison of actual appropriate action taken as required.
Our policies and procedures in performance against prior periods and budget: this area are being reviewed as part of the processes we are conducting approval of orders, authorisation of invoices and two signatories concerning the UK Bribery Act.
This activity will be completed by the required to make a transfer from the principal bank accounts: end of June 2011. quarterly reconciliation of all control accounts: prior approval by the Board for major investments: and audit information segregation of duties between relevant functions and departments.
Directors who held office at the date of approval of the Annual Report and Accounts confirm that, so far as they are each aware, there is no relevant audit information of which the Companys Auditors are unaware: and Corporate Governance 2010 heritage oil plc 16 report of the Board as a whole continued each Director has taken all the steps that they ought to have taken as a continue as auditors.
Ordinary resolutions to reappoint KPMG Audit Director to make themselves aware of any relevant audit information and Plc as auditors of the Company and authorise the Directors to set their to establish that the Companys Auditors are aware of that information.
remuneration will be proposed at the forthcoming AGM.
external auditors and financial risKs and financial instruments auditor independence Information on financial risk management, including credit and The Audit Committee and Board recognise the importance of the liquidity risks and information about financial instruments is set out independence and objectivity of the Groups external auditors, KPMG on pages 31 to 39 of the Annual Review.
Audit Plc, when performing their role in the Groups reporting to nomination committee report shareholders.
The Audit Committees review of the independence of the external auditors includes consideration of information provided memBers of the nomination committee by the external auditor on policies and processes for maintaining Michael Hibberd, Chairman independence and monitoring compliance with current regulatory Anthony Buckingham requirements, including those regarding the rotation of audit partners General Sir Michael Wilkes and staff.
The external auditors are required to rotate the audit partner responsible for the Group audit every five years and the current audit main responsiBilities partner has been in place for three years.
In addition, in its assessment to formalise succession planning and the process for new Director of the auditors independence, the levels of non-audit services provided appointments: by the external auditor are reviewed by the Audit Committee.
to identify, evaluate and recommend candidates for appointment or reappointment as Directors taking into account the challenges As well as considering independence and objectivity of the external and opportunities facing the Company: auditor, their overall performance is reviewed regularly by the to review the structure, size and composition including the Audit Committee.
balance of knowledge, skills and experience of the Board in order to recommend changes to the Board and to ensure the orderly The Audit Committee has a policy in place in respect of the provision succession of Directors: and of non-audit services to the Company by the external auditor.
The to review the outside directorships and time commitments of Audit Committee pre-approves all audit and non-audit services Non-Executive Directors.
undertaken by the external auditor, to ensure independence of the external auditors is not impaired.
Other accounting firms are used for the provision of non-audit services wherever possible except where The majority of the members of the Nomination Committee are the knowledge and expertise of the external auditor means that it is independent Non-Executive Directors.
External advisers may also be more efficient and effective for them to carry out the work.
This is on invited to attend meetings as and when appropriate.
The Nomination the overriding principle that the external auditors independence will Committee has the power to request the attendance of any other remain unaffected.
Director or member of management, for all or part of any meeting, as may be considered appropriate by the Chairman of the Committee.
Fees billed by KPMG Audit Plc, the Companys auditors and its associates, during 2009 and 2010, are summarised below: The Nomination Committee meets formally at least once a year and also engages in numerous ad hoc discussions.
The Nomination 2010 2009 Committee ensures, amongst other things, that there is a formal, $ $ rigorous and transparent procedure for the appointment of new Audit and audit related services Directors.
Recommendations are made objectively taking into account Group audit of annual statements the balance of skills, knowledge and independence of a candidate.
The and review of interim statements 255,658 259,744 Nomination Committee will ensure that candidates from a wide range Audit of subsidiary financial statements 21,660 of backgrounds are considered and take into account diversity and gender make up of the Board.
The activities for which the Nomination 277,318 259,744 Committee is responsible are set out in its Terms of Reference which Non-audit services can be found on the Company website www.
Tax compliance and advisory 23,900 43,744 1 Transaction services 1,274,820 activities during the year During the year the Nomination Committee considered the following 23,900 1,318,564 items of business: 1 The majority of the 2009 transaction services costs relate to an aborted acquisition see Financial Statements Report, page 2. a report on succession planning in the event of an unexpected loss of a key employee or Director: Having reviewed the independence and effectiveness of the auditors approval of a revised succession plan: and being satisfied that the auditors remain independent and effective review of the independence of the Non-Executive Directors: in their role, the Audit Committee has not considered it necessary to the balance of independent Non-Executive Directors on the Board: carry out a tender process this year.
The Audit Committee therefore review of the need for internal audit function: has recommended to the Board that the existing auditors, KPMG Audit review of the Nomination Committees Terms of Reference: and Plc, be reappointed.
KPMG Audit Plc has expressed their willingness to Corporate Governance 2010 heritage oil plc 17 review of the performance evaluation of the Board and its the conduct of specific processes which are indicated within Committees including a review of the performance of the the guidance: Nomination Committee.
a review of Heritages current policies and systems with respect to bribery, code of conduct, whistle-blowing and other relevant csr committee report policies for both employees and contractors: and the development and enhancement of these policies, if required.
memBers of the csr committee Paul Atherton, Chairman political and charitaBle donations Anthony Buckingham The Company made charitable, social and community-related Michael Hibberd donations during the year totalling $945,991 2009 $334,526.
The Group has undertaken a wide range of community projects, including main responsiBilities public health, education, environment, public facility and community to maintain the Companys CSR Policy Framework in line relations based programmes further details of which can be found with best practice and appropriate international standards in the separate CSR Report.
In line with Group policy, no political and guidelines: donations were made during 2010 2009 nil.
to develop a framework for submission, assessment and approval of discretionary and obligatory community, social, educational reserves committee report and charitable expenditures undertaken by the Company memBers of the reserves committee worldwide: John McLeod, Chairman to prepare the annual Group CSR Report and ensure that it is a fair Michael Hibberd reflection of the Companys CSR approach, policies, systems and Paul Atherton performance, is coherent and published in a timely manner: and Brian Smith, VP Exploration to review the internal CSR programme of the Company and ensure it has the appropriate standing within the Company.
main responsiBilities The CSR Committee meets formally at least once a year and also to assist the Board in fulfilling its oversight responsibilities engages in numerous ad hoc discussions.
External advisers may also be generally with respect to the oil and natural gas reserves invited to attend meetings as and when required.
evaluation process and public disclosure of reserves data and related information in connection with oil and gas activities: activities during the year to review, at least annually, the Companys procedures relating to During the year the CSR Committee considered the following items disclosure of information with respect to the oil and gas activities of business: of the Company, including its procedures for complying with any disclosure requirements and restrictions: review of the scheduled CSR programmes that were undertaken to review annually the qualifications and independence of an during the year: independent qualified reserves evaluator s to be appointed or review of CSR policy: reappointed by the Board and in the case of any proposed change review of the CSR budget: in the independent qualified reserves evaluator s, determine the review of feedback from the Board and Committee performance reasons for the proposed change and whether there have been any evaluation exercise: disputes between the appointed qualified reserves evaluator s and review of Directors training needs: and management of the Company: and review of the CSR Committees Terms of Reference.
to review any public disclosure or regulatory filings with respect to any reserves evaluation and oil and gas activities.
Details of the Groups CSR policies and programmes may be found in the separate Corporate Responsibility Report.
The Terms of Reference The Reserves Committee engages in numerous ad hoc discussions and of the Committee can be found on the Companys website will formally meet at least once a year.
External advisers may also be www.
invited to attend meetings as and when required.
code of ethics and the uK BriBery act activities during the year The Code of Ethics is currently being reviewed as part of the process During the year the Reserves Committee considered the following being conducted concerning the UK Bribery Act which becomes law items of business: at the beginning of July 2011.
Guidance from the government has recently been published with the overriding principle that companies a review of year end planning for reserves disclosure: should adopt a risk-based approach to application of the UK Bribery discussion on asset impairment: Act.
Heritage is currently obtaining legal advice concerning how consideration of engagement of alternative independent consultants the legislation will impact on the Group.
In addition, in preparation to assist in evaluation of licences: and for this change Heritage has charged Paul Atherton, CFO, with the review of the Reserves Committee Terms of Reference.
responsibility to oversee how this law will impact Heritage.
This will include overseeing: Details of the Groups current reserves are set out on page 28 of the Annual Review.
The Terms of Reference of the Committee can be a review of the government guidance: found on the Companys website www.
