Corporate Governance 2010 heritage oil plc 04 SUMMary of the Main changeS introdUced by the 2010 code riSK To improve risk management, a companys business model should be explained in the annual report and the board is responsible for determining the nature and extent of the significant risks it is willing to take.
Heritages business model is explained in the Annual Review.
The Board recognises its responsibility for setting the framework within which risks are undertaken and will be further reviewing its approach to risk during 2011.
The Audit Committee has initiated discussions on this in 2010 and set a framework for risk management which the Board will continue to review.
perforMance-related pay Performance-related pay should be aligned to the long-term interests of the company and its risk policy and systems.
The Remuneration Committee reviews the Long Term Incentive Plan LTIP annually.
The current structure of performance-related pay is already aligned to promoting the longer-term success of the Company through the operation of the LTIP.
accoUntabilit y re-election To increase accountability, all directors of FTSE 350 companies should be put forward for of directorS re-election every year.
The Board has discussed this and will monitor investor comments on a proposal that Directors will, in future, stand for annual re-election beginning with the AGM in 2012.
The Directors standing for re-election at the 2011 AGM will, therefore, seek a term of only one year.
proper debate To promote proper debate in the boardroom, there are new principles on the leadership of the chairman, the responsibility of the non-executive directors to provide constructive challenge and the time commitment expected of all directors.
Heritage conducts regular meetings with comprehensive papers sent in advance to promote challenging and vigorous discussions.
The Chairman encourages debate from all Directors and time commitment is assessed as part of the performance process.
Corporate Governance 2010 heritage oil plc 05 well balanced board To encourage boards to be well balanced and avoid group think there are new principles on the composition and selection of the board, including the need to appoint members on merit, against objective criteria and with due regard for the benefits of diversity, including gender diversity.
The Nomination Committee will review this in 2011 as part of overall Board composition.
Part of the Nomination Committees mandate is to ensure that new Board members are appointed on merit.
Members of the Committee are aware of the importance of a well balanced Board and the Terms of Reference of the Nomination Committee will be examined and amended to properly reflect this objective.
board perforMance To help enhance the boards performance and awareness of its strengths and weaknesses, the chairman should hold regular development reviews with each director and FTSE 350 companies should have externally facilitated board effectiveness reviews at least every three years.
These measures are already in place and an external Board review has been undertaken in each of the last two years.
b oa r d t r a i n i n g a n d The chairman should review and agree with each director their training and developMent development needs.
The Chairman is already aware of, and will continue to review through performance evaluation, any development needs of the Directors which are discussed as appropriate.
All Directors are already encouraged to attend appropriate training courses, which the Company will fund.
