Corporate Social Responsibility 2010 Risk Management CSR related risks heritage oil plc 22 and opportunities and our strategy and systems for dealing with them.
d e S c r i p t i o n o f r i S k S and opportunitieS Strategy and SyStemS Environment and Threats to licence to operate, financial penalties and The Group conducts environmental impact Sustainability reputational harm as a result of accidents or spills assessments before commencing any activities, has leading to pollution and environmental damage.
systems in place to ensure that sites are properly Similar consequences resulting from a failure to restored and aims to minimise any negative impacts return sites to their natural state.
of activities during project life cycles.
Opportunities to work in new territories as a result of a track record from existing activities.
Employees Opportunities to attract or difficulties in attracting and Heritage offers competitive remuneration packages, retaining the best employees to enable us to maintain including performance-related pay, professional our outstanding growth record.
training, promotes equal opportunities and provides a positive working environment.
Community and Threats to licence to operate, day to day operational We employ a high percentage of personnel from our Human Rights difficulties, financial penalties and reputational local regions of operation.
We also consult local harm as the result of campaigning activity and poor communities and stakeholders throughout all stages local relations.
of our operations so that we can best work in partnership, for mutually beneficial outcomes, Opportunities to develop brand and reputation and with them.
improve the overall effectiveness of Company projects.
Health and Safety Threats to licence to operate, production disruption, The Company provides health and safety training at financial penalties and reputational harm resulting all levels of our operations, and continually monitors from a poor health and safety record.
The Company strives to maintain international health and safety management Opportunities to develop brand and reputation and systems of the highest standard.
Business Conduct Threats to licence to operate, financial penalties and We develop close, positive and transparent working reputational harm as a result of poor business conduct relationships with host governments and business record.
Risks concerning the retention of individual key partners.
Our business conduct policies and members of staff.
In particular, we prohibit improper business behaviour.
Opportunities to work in new territories following a strong track record from existing activities.
Corporate Governance Our overall CSR risks are minimised and our We have established a CSR Committee that is tasked opportunities are maximised.
with ensuring that Heritage has a comprehensive policy framework and effective management systems.
The Committee also monitors, reviews and acts upon our CSR performance.
Heritage has taken steps to ensure that adequate structures and procedures are in place.
