ethos progress Annual Review 2010 Corporate Social Responsibility The business heritage oil plc 15 approach of Heritage is underpinned by CSR from the first stages of planning and being awarded a licence through to the exploration and production from a field.
our vision our areas of impact and opportunity We aim to be a responsible and en v iro nmen t a nd he a lt h a nd transparent business in all the areas 01 02 sustainability safety in which we operate.
CSR encompasses our management community and of relationships with shareholders, 03 employees 04 human rights stakeholders, employees, contractors and the local communities in which we work, together with our impacts on society and busine ss corporate 05 06 the environment.
conduct governance our approach Devise and Measure Communicate Apply Set policies maintain and monitor and report to stakeholder systems performance stakeholders feedback developments in 2010 csr in action Heritage continued with an excellent health Our CSR policy framework is and safety record in 2010 with no lost time integrated within our business model incidents or fatalities.
Community projects were implemented through health and safety and sets out the essential core values programme investments in Tanzania, Russia, that we believe make Heritage a good Kurdistan and Pakistan.
The Company sets There were no environmental incidents in the itself a high standard with which year and Environmental Impact Assessments to measure itself and we recognise were conducted for all major work the importance of being a partner programmes in line with local regulations.
During the year the Company also undertook a proactive dissemination exercise to obtain Heritage aims to make a positive feedback on its CSR approach and, in addition, engaged a third party to enhance contribution in all areas where it policies, stakeholder engagement and operates.
Examples of these activities reporting of CSR issues.
can be seen throughout the Asset For further detail on CSR please see the Review on pages 21 to 29 and in the separate CSR Report.
Annual Review 2010 Chief Executives Review The sale of our heritage oil plc 16 Ugandan Assets in 2010 reconfirms our ability to monetise assets at the appropriate stage of a project.
It also provided us with the opportunity to As a matter of course we review our systems pay out a special dividend of 100 pence per continually to ensure that our operations share in August 2010, which, from investor are consistently carried out to the highest feedback, was well received.
The health and safety has still left Heritage with a year end cash of our employees and contractors, and of those position approaching $600 million, excluding living around the areas where we operate, is monies relating to the tax dispute in Uganda.
of paramount importance to us.
We had no The decision to exit Uganda was taken with environmental spills or incidents and have not recognition that the very large multi-billion incurred any warnings or fines relating to our dollar investment required to develop the environmental management during 2010.
Albert Basin and the related infrastructure was beyond our existing resource capabilities.
exploration operations We believe this sale, which generated cash Kurdistan of $1.45 billion, of which Heritage received The Miran West-2 well commenced drilling and retained $1.045 billion, constituted in November 2009 as an appraisal well for one of the largest completed oil deals in carbonate reservoirs encountered in the Miran Sub-Saharan Africa.
After commencing drilling, assets demonstrates the continued success additional seismic data was acquired which of Heritages strategy of gaining a first mover indicated that the Miran West-2 location was anthony bucKingham advantage, supported by sound decision optimally located to drill to deeper exploration making and technical and operating expertise.
Accordingly, the Miran West-2 well chief executive Our balance sheet remains strong following was deepened and reached a total depth of officer the sale of the Ugandan Assets and we continue 4,426 metres in November 2010 after which to actively appraise many new opportunities a series of tests were conducted.
In January with the potential of generating value 2011, we announced the discovery of a major for shareholders.
gas field with oil and condensate.
Global equity markets remained volatile in Following completion of the test programme, 2010, with debt issues causing markets to hydrocarbon volumes of the Miran Field have decline sharply before rebounding in the been re-evaluated.
Management currently second half of the year.
Oil prices remained estimates in-place volumes for the Miran West steady in the range of $70$80 per barrel structure to have a P90P50 range of 6.89.1 over the year.
However, towards the end TCF, with an upside P10 potential of 12.3 of the year demand growth, particularly in TCF of gas with a P90P50 range of 4271 emerging markets, coupled with concerns over MMbbls of condensate and 5375 MMbbls a cold winter caused oil prices to strengthen.
Miran East has an additional estimated Oil prices have risen sharply since year end P90P50 gas in-place range of 0.60.9 TCF following escalating instability in North Africa with a P10 upside of 1.3 TCF.
We believe and the Middle East.
Heightened instability in Miran to be the largest gas field discovered the world means that there should be further in Iraq in the last 30 years.
We are delighted opportunities for oil companies, such as to have discovered such a large hydrocarbon Heritage, which have an excellent appreciation accumulation, one of the largest within of political and security risk and are nimble Kurdistan, and to have had incredible success and able to operate safely and responsibly in on this wildcat acreage with our first two wells.
Most importantly, a gas field of this size is a The oil sector continues to face many commercial discovery and we are considering future challenges.
In 2010, the spectre many different development options including of environmental, health and safety and deliveries to local markets in Kurdistan operational issues rose to prominence with the and exports to Turkey and to the European unfortunate incident in the Gulf of Mexico.
market via the proposed Nabucco Pipeline.
Heritage recognises that its business approach Discussions with the Kurdistan Regional is reliant on its approach to CSR matters, Government the KRG over the fastwhich includes health and safety and the tracked phased development of the Miran environment.
Our track record in both is very Field have continued.
The KRG has outlined good.
We have operated in Kurdistan for over their favoured development options for gas one million man hours without incident.
utilisation and the initial priority will be to satisfy local gas demand by supplying produced gas on commercial terms to local power stations and other end-users in the Annual Review 2010 As a matter of course we review our systems heritage oil plc 17 continually to ensure that our operations are consistently carried out to the highest international standards.
This will then In addition we will also be acquiring 180 be followed by the export of gas to Turkey kilometres of 2D seismic across the Block Europe and production of the oil and in the summer of 2011 to help define other condensate zones enabling full development potential prospects.
tanzania Management believes that there is further Acquisition of 300 square kilometres of 3D potential for condensate and gas which we seismic data offshore Tanzania commenced will appraise with our accelerated drilling in 2010 and was completed in January 2011. programme which will begin in July with the The data is currently being processed which Miran West-3 well.
This will take an estimated should help to establish a location for drilling.
160 days to drill and test and is targeting East Africa has become a hot-spot in recent the flanks of the Jurassic structure, with months as there have been many significant the benefit of the current 3D seismic survey.
gas discoveries made offshore Tanzania and in The well will appraise the Upper and Lower neighbouring Mozambique.
This is significant Cretaceous reservoirs whilst drilling to its as the possibility of an export LNG terminal primary Jurassic objective, with an estimated moves much closer with each new discovery.
total depth of approximately 3,800 metres.
On completion of this well the rig will move other exploration assets to drill the Miran West-4 appraisal well.
Work programmes are progressing across A second rig is being sourced to drill the the remainder of Heritages exploration asset Miran East-1 exploration well in the fourth portfolio.
Acquisition of approximately 500 quarter of this year, at which point we will kilometres of 2D seismic data has commenced have two rigs operating in country.
in Block 11 in Mali with a view to establishing a drilling location for early 2012.
In Malta, Heritage Additionally, deeper potential remains in the is planning the acquisition of 1,000 kilometres of Miran Field as a target in the Triassic was not 2D seismic data this summer.
Finally, in Pakistan, reached in the Miran West-2 well, since this we plan to commence drilling on the Zamzama proved to be beyond the operating capability North licence when the challenges presented by of the rig.
last years floods are overcome which we estimate will be in the second half of this year.
We were expecting to discover a multiphase hydrocarbon province with gas and p r o d u c t i o n o p e r at i o n s condensate in the deeper horizons and russia oil in the shallower Cretaceous zones and Our Zapadno Chumpasskoye Field is located while drilling, there were shows throughout in Western Siberia.
Production during the the Cretaceous consistent with liquid year averaged 542 bopd which is an increase hydrocarbons.
However, on test, the Lower over the previous year of 65%.
In 2010, well Cretaceous produced liquid rich gas which P14, an exploration well drilled in 1976, resulted in a reduction in the overall estimated was re-entered and relogged but work was oil resources of the field.
Management now suspended due to spring break-up and access estimates, based on initial evaluation of difficulties.
Further development work is the well, that Heritage has mean net risked being undertaken in 2011 and a horizontal contingent and prospective resources in Miran well should commence drilling in May 2011.
West and Miran East of 744 MMboe, based This is the first horizontal well to be drilled in on a 75% working interest, thereby increasing the licence and it is hoped that this will lead to mean net contingent risked resources from a material increase in production.
The KRG has a back-in right which could, if exercised, reduce corporate Heritages working interest to 56.25%.
In December 2009, a Sale and Purchase Agreement the SPA was executed with ENI We are currently acquiring 730 square International B. V. Eni to sell Heritages kilometres of 3D seismic across the Miran 50% working interests in Blocks 1 and 3A in Block to help define further appraisal drilling Uganda the Ugandan Assets.
In January locations to exploit the fracture networks.
2010, Tullow Uganda Limited Tullow This is the largest ever 3D seismic programme exercised its right of pre-emption on the same undertaken, to date, in Kurdistan.
We will terms and conditions as agreed with Eni.
be analysing the data in separate tranches The transaction completed on 26 July 2010. to expedite understanding of the structures.
Annual Review 2010 Chief Executives Review continued heritage oil plc 18 We are firmly focused on upstream opportunities that will create value through a balanced international portfolio of production, development and high-impact exploration.
On completion, Tullow paid a cash programmes on our existing asset portfolio consideration of $1.35 billion and an and potential acquisitions.
additional contractual settlement amount of $100 million, of which Heritage has received Heritages strategy of first mover advantage, and retained $1.045 billion.
An additional, supported by sound decision making and approximately $405 million, was in part technical and operating expertise, has proven deposited with the Government of the to be successful.
Since listing in 1999 on Republic of Uganda Government and the Toronto Stock Exchange, Heritage has in part held in escrow pending resolution achieved a remarkable return to shareholders of a tax dispute with the Ugandan Revenue of 10,276% to 31 December 2010.
Heritages position, management team is closely aligned in based on comprehensive advice from leading interests to our shareholders, through its 30% tax experts in Uganda, the United Kingdom shareholding, and is dedicated to continuing and North America, is that the disposal of the to achieve superior performance during the Ugandan Assets is not taxable in Uganda.
On 15 April 2011, Heritage and its wholly opportunities owned subsidiary Heritage Oil and Gas Heritage has been reviewing a substantial Limited HOGL received Particulars of number of corporate and asset opportunities Claim filed in the High Court of Justice in to position itself to continue to generate value England by Tullow seeking $313,447,500 for shareholders.
We are firmly focused on for alleged breach of contract as a result of upstream opportunities that will create value HOGLs and Heritages refusal to reimburse through a balanced international portfolio Tullow in relation to a payment made by of production, development and high impact Tullow of $313,447,500 on 7 April 2011 to exploration.
Heritage and HOGL believe that the claim has no basis and will vigorously and corporate social robustly defend it.
Heritage and HOGL have responsibility also reserved their other rights against Tullow The framework of our CSR policy continues and against Government.
to evolve and in 2010 we established a Board level CSR Committee.
One of the important On 15 April 2011, HOGL sent a request responsibilities of this new committee is to to Tullow, as a co-signatory to the escrow review community involvement regularly.
account with Standard Chartered Bank, for We believe that our active, ongoing the release of $283,447,000 plus interest to involvement in community projects in the HOGL.
HOGL contends that, consequent areas where we operate is fundamental on Tullows admission that its payment of in developing and maintaining strong $313,447,000 to the URA has discharged relationships within these regions.
HOGLs alleged tax liability, funds no longer need to be held in escrow.
During 2010, we spent a total of $945,991 on CSR related activities.
During the first half On 27 August, 2010, Heritage returned of 2010 we continued with our programmes approximately $490 million to shareholders in Uganda with the completion of the and Bondholders through a 100 pence per water gravity system in Hoima, providing share special dividend.
The remainder of clean water to over 6,000 villagers across Heritages funds, $598 million excluding five villages and with our support for the amounts related to the Uganda tax dispute, Carl Nefdt School.
will be allocated between accelerating work Annual Review 2010 heritage oil plc 19 outlooK Our community programmes in both CSR spend in 2010, $000 Heritage has a strong balance sheet with Kurdistan and Tanzania are progressing with which to pursue opportunities to create the benefit of the framework developed from further value for our shareholders.
I believe our experience in Uganda.
that 2011 will be Heritages busiest year ever as we accelerate work programmes in Kurdistan our current portfolio and also look for new Our current activities in this region are $946 opportunities.
focused on supporting local education, healthcare and assisting the development of As always, I am very grateful to our local infrastructure.
We pay an annual fee to management team, employees and supportive the KRG towards environmental costs and Board for their dedication and contribution to for the training of local staff.
During 2010, the remarkable progress made by Heritage this our initiatives in local schools have benefited past year.
Furthermore, we have undertaken work in the Finally, to our shareholders, thank you for your region to help repair some of the main access continued support and interest in Heritage.
roads to villages near our operations.
tanzania Our activities in this region have focused on anthony bucKingham supporting the local health services.
In June chief executive officer 2010, we made a donation to the Baobab Maternity Hospital in Dar es Salaam where a new maternity hospital is urgently needed.
The government has donated land for the hospital and will provide support in terms of salaries, supplies and equipment.
The donation has been provided to contribute towards the construction, management and service delivery of the Baobab Maternity Hospital.
The expectation is that every year this hospital will save thousands of lives, reduce the spread of HIV AIDS and prevent the occurrence of disabilities.
Currently, reproductive health services in Dar es Salaam are insufficient and do not meet the needs of the hundreds of daily births.
Consequently, maternal and newborn death rates are very high and much of this suffering can be prevented.
paKistan In light of the unprecedented floods in Pakistan, Heritage committed $72,000 to a disaster relief fund and immediate relief to those most affected in our Zamzama North licence area.
