Corporate Social Responsibility 2010 Heritage Oil Plc is an independent oil and gas Advisers and Financial Calendar heritage oil plc exploration and production company with a Premium Listing on the London Stock Exchange LSE symbol HOIL.
The Company is a member of the FTSE 250 Index.
The Company has Exchangeable Shares listed on the Toronto Stock Exchange TSX symbol HOC and the LSE symbol HOX.
The Company has exploration assets company secretary auditors oF the company Woodbourne Secretaries Jersey Limited KPMG Audit Plc in the Kurdistan Region of Iraq Kurdistan, Malta, Ordnance House 15 Canada Square 31 Pier Road Canary Wharf Tanzania, Mali and the Democratic Republic of St Helier JE4 8PW Jersey London E14 5GL Congo the DRC and a producing asset in Russia.
Channel Islands United Kingdom r e g i s t e r e d o F F i c e o F registrars oF the company This Corporate Social Responsibility CSR Report the company Computershare Investor Services Jersey Ltd Ordnance House Queensway House details the approach made by Heritage to all aspects 31 Pier Road Hilgrove Street St Helier JE4 8PW Jersey St Helier JE1 1ES Jersey of our CSR policies, systems and performance.
Our Channel Islands Channel Islands CSR strategy is a key factor in securing long-term head oFFice and directors p r i n c i pa l b a n K e r s o F success and the Company considers managing business address the company Fourth Floor Standard Bank Europe relationships with stakeholders as a key element in Windward House Barclays Bank developing a reputation as a preferred partner.
La Route fide la Liberation Bank of Scotland Europe St Helier JE2 3BQ Jersey Investec Channel Islands independent petroleum The Heritage Oil Plc Annual Report and uK oFFice oF the company e n g i n e e r i n g c o n s u lta n t s Contents Accounts 2010 consists of four documents 34 Park Street to the company as detailed below.
London W1K 2JD RPS Energy overview United Kingdom 309 Reading Road 2010 Highlights 01 Henley-on-Thames The CSR Committee Chairmans Statement 02 b r o K e r a n d F i n a n c i a l Oxfordshire RG9 1EL Annual Review About this Report 04 advisers United Kingdom The Annual Review Our CSR Framework 05 J. P. Morgan Securities Limited provides an overview CSR Policy Framework 06 10 Aldermanbury press agents of Heritage, its processes Targets and Achievements 08 London EC2V 7RF Pelham Bell Pottinger and a Business Review.
United Kingdom 6th Floor K e y are as Holborn Gate Environment and Sustainability 10 e n g l i s h l e g a l a d v i s e r s 330 High Holborn Health and Safety 12 to the company London WC1V 7QD Employees 14 Corporate Governance McCarthy Ttrault United Kingdom Community and Human Rights 16 The Corporate Governance Registered Foreign Lawyers & Solicitors Business Conduct 18 Report provides detailed 125 Old Broad Street, 26th Floor Financial calendar Corporate Governance 20 information on all aspects London EC2N 1AR Group results for the year to 31 December of Heritages corporate United Kingdom are announced in March April.
The Annual additional inFormation governance.
Risk Management 22 General Meeting is held during the second Global Reporting Initiative 23 J e r s e y l e g a l a d v i s e r s quarter.
Half year results to 30 June are CSR Glossary 34 to the company announced in August.
Additionally, the Group Corporate Social Advisers and Financial Calendar ibc Mourant Ozannes will issue an Interim Management Statement Responsibility 22 Grenville Street between 10 weeks after the beginning and six The CSR Report provides St Helier JE4 8PX Jersey weeks before the end of each half year period.
detailed information Channel Islands concerning Heritages website CSR activities.
com to the company McCarthy Ttrault LLP Suite 3300 Financial Statements 4217th Avenue SW The Financial Statements Calgary Alberta Report provides detailed T2P 4K9 information on Heritages Canada financial position.
