ENVIRONMENT & SUSTAINABILIT Y Corporate Social Responsibility 2010 Oil and gas operations have the potential to damage hERITAgE OIL pLc 11 the environment but, if managed well, we can minimise any negative impacts of our activities.
2010 hIghLIghTS To minimise our impact in these areas, we are CSR spend in 2010 once more we can report that we have had focused on restricting and reducing flaring, no environmental incidents, such as spills, switching diesel generators to gas where during the year: possible and using the highest standard, most we conducted EIAs for all major work energy efficient equipment available, which programmes in line with local regulations: also has the effect of reducing our energy costs.
gas flared within Russia is within the limits Additionally, our camps and sites are planned provided by the government: and to minimise their environmental footprints.
$0.9M minimal gas was flared in Kurdistan during well testing operations.
BIOdIVERSITY We operate in varied terrains, with their own OUR gOAL unique set of biodiversity considerations.
The We are committed to making a positive impact of wells and infrastructure can have an contribution to the protection of the adverse impact on this biodiversity.
environment in areas in which we operate and to minimising any adverse effects of Heritage is focused on developing and our operations.
We strive to contribute adhering to processes which minimise our positively to global sustainability through impact on areas in which we operate.
We our operations, the development of our fields, identify and assess potential environmental our adoption of new technologies and impacts at the planning stage of our the conduct of our relationships with all operations.
We protect, as best we can, the of our stakeholders.
local environment during operations and aim to restore it to the same standard that KEY cONcERNS we found it in once activities are completed.
cLIMATE chANgE This restoration activity is conducted in Heritages operations can contribute both conjunction with the local authorities and the directly and indirectly to climate change.
Because of the nature of exploration activities, Heritage often works in remote locations, None of our active operations were in without access to grid electricity, where we are protected areas or areas of high biodiversity reliant on generators to power our equipment.
value during 2010. understand our approach to business and as How does the Company address informational requests from NGOs and campaigning an opportunity to enhance our systems and performance.
We therefore strive to respond Q&A organisations?
The Company welcomes interest in its to all informational requests in a full and transparent way and to follow this up activities from all of our stakeholders.
We see dialogue with NGOs and campaigning with dialogue either directly or through our CSR advisers.
groups as a useful way of ensuring that they hEALTh & SAfET Y Corporate Social Responsibility 2010 Health and safety is a priority and a core element of hERITAgE OIL pLc 13 all of our activities.
All energy companies face a wide range of health and safety challenges ranging from industrial accidents to occupational illnesses.
2010 hIghLIghTS cRISIS MANAgEMENT LTIs, Russia no LTIs reported across our operations: The Company appreciates that no 2010 over 1 million man hours worked with organisation is immune to a crisis, which zero LTIs: and can happen at any time.
Due to the potential in Russia an operational safety system and consequences that these can have, the ecological safety system for hazardous sites Company recognises the importance of has been installed.
Developing a comprehensive crisis management 0 OUR gOAL programme that captures the ongoing Our goal in this area is simply zero injuries nature of crisis management is not a simple and fatalities across all areas of our operations task.
The process is varied and requires the and to minimise and or negate operational integration of knowledge from such diverse LTIs, Kurdistan health issues.
areas as small group decision making, media 2010 relations, environmental scanning, risk RESpONSIBILITY TO EMpLOYEES assessment, crisis communication, crisis It is the Companys responsibility to minimise plan development, evaluation methods and our employees exposure to health and safety reputation management.
This, combined with risks of any kind.
In implementing health and the unpredictable nature of many crises, often 0 safety systems, we balance the need to protect presents major challenges to even the best our workers with the knowledge that working resourced organisations.
practices and traditions vary by location and so we amend or tailor where necessary.
Heritage continually reviews crisis All sites are covered by safety management management systems to ensure that systems with general managers responsible the Groups processes match its needs for overall safety measures.
have the authority to intervene in a task if they believe it could lead to harm or is considered unsafe.
We are very proud of our health and safety performance overall.
How does Heritage ensure that its contractors We regularly review our systems to ensure and sub-contractors adhere to its health and that they are commensurate with best practice Q&A safety standards?
taking into account local health and safety Our local managers are tasked with ensuring culture.
This can vary widely and we therefore that all of our employees, contractors and subtake an individual approach in each area.
contractors are fully aware of the Companys policies and procedures in this important area.
employees Corporate Social Responsibility 2010 Our ability to create sustainable shareholder heritage oil plc 15 value is linked to our ability to recruit, motivate and retain high calibre staff.
Heritage strives to ensure that relationships between our employees are cohesive, safe and effective.
2010 highlights Training of employees and contractors Hours spent training in Russia, 2010 we continued to operate with a high continued to receive high priority in 2010. percentage of workers drawn from our We believe there is a strong business case for areas of operation, using expatriates only investing in development of our workforce when their particular skill sets were not as this can result in efficiency savings, available locally: reduce time lost through injury and assist staff turnover has remained low at 3%: in identifying opportunities for improving 642 local sourcing is also important to our our business.
business practices and we aim to contract services to local firms whenever possible.
It is our responsibility to train all workers to Many of our transport and security needs provide better access to job opportunities in have been fulfilled using local firms: and the long-term.
We emphasise transferable on the job training and third party training skills and a broad range of learning, as well as provided to all local personnel.
the basic aim of developing a knowledgeable, productive and happy workforce.
our approach Heritage values all employees for their occupational health contribution to our business.
Opportunities and safety training for advancement are equal and not influenced $212,500 was spent on training and related by considerations other than performance and courses in 2010.
Employees are provided with the operations includes a focus on the following opportunity to develop their potential and, skill sets: where appropriate, to further their careers within the Group.
operational safety: ecological safety: Heritages success has been attributable in fire safety: and part to assembling the right team of people.
Staff are motivated to develop within a flexible framework and are encouraged to provide feedback on their expectations.
How often does Heritage review its CSR policies?
Q&A The Companys policies are reviewed regularly and monitored by our CSR advisers, CO3, to ensure that they are appropriate for our impacts and opportunities as the Company develops.
This is also part of the role and responsibilities of our Board level CSR Committee.
communit y & human rights Corporate Social Responsibility 2010 We ensure that relationships with our neighbours and heritage oil plc 17 local communities are conducted sensitively and with mutual respect.
Enduring partnerships are a central and fundamental element of these relationships.
2010 highlights our approach Amount committed in Pakistan in Tanzania we donated $7,500 to the A natural part of our new project development Baobab Maternity Hospital: involves consultation with local communities in Pakistan we committed $72,000 to a as well as government authorities, to identify disaster relief fund and immediate relief to ways in which Heritages expertise can be best those most affected in our Zamzama North applied.
Our licence to operate in any area $72,000 licence area: is dependent on Heritage being viewed as a in Kurdistan we continued to help with positive force by those most directly affected repairing roads close to our operations and by our operations and therefore it is in the funded healthcare initiatives: Companys interest to consult its stakeholders in Uganda we completed a water gravity and find ways to be a trusted and useful system in Hoima, providing over 6,000 partner.
villagers across five villages with clean water: and Companies operating in developing countries in Uganda we continued providing funding often face the challenge of supporting local for the local Carl Nedft school we helped communities without creating a dependency build and develop.
We believe that by partnering with other organisations such as NGOs, our goal governments local and national and other We aim to promote sharing of economic companies, we reduce the risk of creating this benefits created by our activities through the situation, encourage dialogue and manage conduct of community relationships and we expectations.
It is our intention to improve are firmly committed to upholding principles conditions in the vicinity of our operations set out in the Universal Declaration of and we try to invest in sustainable projects Human Rights.
where the local communities have a sense of ownership, thus increasing their longterm effects.
However, in terms of having the greatest impact, we believe this is best achieved through helping countries realise their natural resource potential to create shared economic wealth for everyone.
In Uganda, Heritage ran two main projects: the water gravity system and the Carl Nedft school.
Both of these projects were undertaken with the assistance of input from the local communities in order to provide stakeholders with the opportunity to guide the Company as to what would be most beneficial.
Does Heritage work with external experts to stakeholder communications.
As part of develop its approach to CSR?
our exploration projects we often work with Q&A Heritage works with an experienced external internationally recognised experts to conduct CSR advisory service, CO3, to provide activities such as EIAs.
the Company with strategic guidance and expertise concerning its related policies, systems, performance, reporting and other business conduct Corporate Social Responsibility 2010 We uphold the highest standards of business heritage oil plc 19 conduct across all of our operations.
We are resolutely opposed to bribery and corruption in whatever forms they may take and do not participate in, or finance, party politics.
2010 highlights approval of the CSR Committee and are Breaches in business conduct, 2010 the Company did not have any material documented at the front of this report.
breaches of its policies during 2010: over the year we have engaged with a Whistle-bloWing number of our stakeholders including procedures NGOs, certain investors and research The Company has whistle-blowing procedures companies.
This has increased their and systems that have been in place for a understanding of our approach and we number of years.
These aim to ensure that 0 have been able to apply their feedback employees and other parties connected to further develop our systems and with the Company have the opportunity to procedures, where necessary: and confidentially report breaches of business we reviewed our whistle-blowing conduct policies.
Details of these procedures procedures.
are available to all of our employees at all of our offices.
The Chairman or the CEO are our approach to receive any reports and are responsible Heritage conducts its activities predominantly for their follow-up.
The outcomes of these in certain developing countries.
The instances are reported to and monitored by Companys business approach both within either the Audit Committee or the Board.
these territories and in the parts of the world where we may wish to conduct business The Audit Committee aims to discuss in the future, is dependent upon how our regularly the effectiveness of our whistlebusiness relationships are conducted.
We are, blowing procedures, which have been in particular, resolutely opposed to bribery strengthened recently, and will be reviewed and corruption in whatever form they may again during the coming financial year to take.
Our policies also preclude financial ensure that they are sufficient to maintain our support for political parties, require that Companys policies.
relationships are conducted with mutual trust and confidence, and that suppliers and uK bribery act competitors are treated fairly.
We strive to The UK Bribery Act will become law at the ensure that this fundamental aspect of our beginning of July 2011.
Guidance from the business extends to all of our relationships government has recently been published.
with our host governments and local In preparation for this change, Heritage has authorities, suppliers, customers, business charged Paul Atherton, CFO, to oversee partners, employees, contractors and other how this law will impact Heritage.
include overseeing: M a i n t e n a n c e a n d a review of the government guidance: d e v e lo p M e n t o f o u r the conduct of specific processes which are policies and procedures indicated within the guidance: The responsibility for this aspect of our a review of Heritages current policies activities lies with the CSR Committee.
It is and systems with respect to bribery, code tasked with the maintenance and development of conduct, whistle-blowing and other of our business conduct policies and relevant policies for both employees and procedures, monitoring our performance in contractors: and this area and instigating changes to prevent the development and enhancement of these breaches of Company policies.
These were policies, if required.
recently extended and developed with the Does Heritage participate in oil and gas CSR informally in a number of areas.
We believe initiatives and conduct knowledge sharing with this approach is particularly important to Q&A its peer group to enhance its approach?
the CSR related aspects of our business Heritage has close relationships with a number for instance health and safety matters.
of its peer group companies.
The Company actively seeks the opportunity to share knowledge and expertise both formally and corporate governance Corporate Social Responsibility 2010 Heritage is committed to protecting the interests heritage oil plc 21 of shareholders and stakeholders, through compliance with relevant legal and regulatory environments and through the effective management of risk.
2010 highlights c h a n g e s to t h e established a Board level CSR Committee: coMbined code Board has reviewed changes in the 2010 The 2010 Code, introduced in June 2010, Code and has already begun working applies from 1 January 2011.
The main changes towards compliance: concern risk within the business model, set a framework for risk management for performance-related pay, accountability review in 2011: and re-election of Directors, proper debate, well began preparations for the UK Bribery Act.
balanced Board, Board performance and Board training and development.
These our approach are reported on in detail in our Corporate Heritage complies fully with all relevant Governance Report.
national and international laws and acts in accordance with local guidelines and uK steWardship code regulations including those that are industry We recognise that the introduction of the UK specific that govern our operations.
Stewardship Code by the Financial Reporting Council in July 2010 provides a means of csr coMMittee enhancing the quality of engagement between Our corporate governance structure has institutional investors and companies.
Several been strengthened by the establishment of of our major institutional shareholders have a CSR Committee.
Its members are Tony already published statements on their own Buckingham CEO, Michael Hibberd compliance with the UK Stewardship Code.
Chairman and Paul Atherton CFO.
The Committee is tasked with maintaining staKeholder engageMent the Companys CSR Policy Framework Heritage views stakeholder engagement as in line with best practice and appropriate a very important element of the way that it international standards and guidelines.
The success of projects in the different parts of the world is dependent The Committee is responsible for ensuring on relationships with governments, local that the CSR Report is a fair reflection of our authorities and local communities.
This area policies, systems and performance, is coherent has always been a priority for Heritage and and published in a timely manner and that the examples of activities over the past year are same approach is applied to the Companys detailed within this report.
This report is an important element of our The Committee is empowered to request any engagement process and we aim to develop information it requires from any employee of our CSR reporting and communications the Company in order to perform its duties.
It both in this form and online in the future.
may request any employee be interviewed by Throughout 2010 we proactively engaged with the Committee.
It is also authorised to obtain stakeholders to aid their understanding of our outside legal or other professional advice and business and enhance our approach to CSR support on any matter that is within its Terms and sustainable development.
This can be supplied by referring to the contact information at The full Terms of Reference of the CSR the back of this report or on our website Committee are available for download on the www.
How does the Company envisage the role of the making and provide focused leadership and CSR Committee developing over time?
The Terms of Reference of the Q&A Heritage is developing its CSR reporting Committee are reviewed regularly to ensure systems to enable the Committee to have an that they reflect these developments.
improved role in managing our related impacts and opportunities.
We believe that this will help the Committee to improve its decision-
