Corporate Governance 2010 heritage oil plc 08 introduction The Directors of the Company are pleased to submit their reports The Company has not declared or paid any other dividends since including those on corporate governance and remuneration for the year incorporation and does not have any current intentions to pay further ended 31 December 2010.
The consolidated audited financial statements dividends in the foreseeable future.
Future payments of dividends for the Group are included within the separate Financial Statements are expected to depend on the earnings and financial condition of Report of the Companys 2010 Annual Report and Accounts.
the Company and such other factors as the Board of Directors of the Company consider appropriate.
company history and principal activities The Company was incorporated as Heritage Oil Limited on 6 February Business review 2008 in Jersey under the Companies Jersey Law 1991, as amended The Business Review includes the financial performance during the Jersey Companies Law to become the ultimate holding the financial year, future developments, performance of the Group company of the Group.
Heritage Oil Limited changed its name to and principal risks and uncertainties.
A review of the business is Heritage Oil Plc on 18 June 2009. incorporated by reference, forming part of this report, and includes information which can be found in the reports below: The Company has had a Premium Listing on the Main Market of the LSE since March 2008.
The Group has two share classes traded: the Chief Executives Statement in the Annual Review on pages 16 Ordinary Shares issued by the Company which trade on the Main to 19: Market of the LSE symbol HOIL and Exchangeable Shares issued by Operations and Financial Reviews in the Annual Review and Heritage Oil Corporation HOC, a wholly owned subsidiary of the Financial Statements respectively: and Company, which trade both on the Main Market of the LSE symbol CSR Report.
HOX and on the Toronto Stock Exchange symbol HOC.
The Company is a member of the FTSE 250 Index.
The cautionary statement concerning forward-looking statements on page 39 of the Annual Review forms part of this report and is The Group is an independent, international oil and gas exploration, incorporated by reference.
development and production company with a focus on Africa, the Middle East and Russia.
It has exploration projects in Kurdistan, Key performance indicators Malta, Tanzania, Pakistan, Mali and the DRC and a producing Heritage uses a number of financial and operating KPIs against which it property in Russia.
The Group operates through a number of monitors performance.
These KPIs will continue to be developed as the subsidiaries which are set out on page 14 of the separate Financial Companys operations evolve.
1 LTIFR 0 0 2 results and dividends Staff turnover 3% 3% The Groups financial results for the year ended 31 December 2010 are 3 Production from continuing operations 65% 13% set out in the separate Financial Statements Report of the Companys 4 Reserves and contingent resources additions 42% 103% 2010 Annual Report and Accounts.
Average realised price 26% 35% The disposal of the Companys interests in Blocks 1 and 3A in the 1 Lost Time Injury Frequency Rate per 10,000 hours worked.
Ugandan Assets to Tullow Uganda Limited Tullow was completed 2 Excludes staff members in Uganda who transferred with the sale of the Ugandan Assets.
A significant portion of the sale proceeds were returned 3 Excludes production from Block 8, Oman which was sold in April 2009. to the Companys shareholders via a special dividend during 2010.
Company paid a special dividend of 100 pence per Ordinary Share in August 2010 and its wholly owned subsidiary, HOC, paid a special dividend of Cdn$1.62 per Exchangeable Share of HOC, calculated at an exchange rate of 1.00:Cdn$1.62.
