Hikma Pharmaceuticals PLC Annual report 2010 remunerAtion Committee rePort Continued Potential compensation for 2011: Policy Median to Upper Quartile depending on performance The following charts illustrate the maximum 2011 level of salary, benefits, bonus and LTIP award as a proportion of total compensation: Said Darwazah maximum Mazen Darwazah maximum 36% 30% 36% 31% 4% 2% 30% 31% Salary Salary Benets Benets Bonus Bonus FMV LTIP award FMV LTIP award other remuneration matters Directors shareholding policy The Company does not have a formal Directors shareholding requirement due to the substantial shareholdings of the Executive Directors.
The Committee, however, wholeheartedly supports the alignment of interests created by a minimum level of executive shareholding and should the make-up of the Board change would consider the introduction of a formal shareholding requirement.
Management Incentive Plan MIP Under the MIP, the Company makes grants of conditional awards to executive management across the Group based on the satisfaction of annual performance targets.
The key features of the MIP are as follows: the miP is open to management level employees across the Group below senior executive level: participation in the LtiP will preclude participation in the miP: participants will be notified of a maximum monetary entitlement the maximum award level is anticipated to be 50% of salary per annum the value of which will be awarded to participants in the form of conditional awards over shares, based on annual performance against individual and Group KPis: nil cost options will vest two years after the date of award being approximately three years after the commencement of the financial year to which the award relates, subject to the participant remaining in employment with the Group during this period.
once the options have been awarded, the continued employment requirement is the only condition for vesting.
At the AGM held on 13 May 2010 the Company obtained approval from shareholders to satisfy awards under the MIP from newly issued shares.
Executive Directors contracts Details of the service contracts of the Executive Directors of the Company in force at the end of the year under review, which have not changed during the year, are as follows: name Company notice period Contract date unexpired term of contract Potential termination payment said darwazah 12 months 1 July 2007 rolling contract 12 months salary and benefits mazen darwazah 12 months 25 may 2006 rolling contract 12 months salary and benefits 64 Section Four: Governance 4 The Executive Directors contracts are on a rolling basis, unless terminated by at least 12 months written notice.
This arrangement is in line with best corporate practice for listed companies.
In the event of the termination of an executives contract, salary and benefits will be payable during the notice period there will, however, be no automatic entitlement to bonus payments or share incentive grants during the period of notice other than in accordance with the rules of the relevant incentive plan.
The Remuneration Committee will ensure that there have been no unjustified payments for failure on an Executive Directors termination of employment.
There are no special provisions in the contracts of employment extending notice periods on a change of control, liquidation of the Company or cessation of employment.
External appointments The Committee recognises that Executive Directors may be invited to take up non-executive directorships or public sector and not-for-profit appointments, and that these can broaden the experience and knowledge of the Director, from which the Company can benefit.
Executive Directors may therefore accept such appointments as long as they do not lead to a conflict of interest, and are allowed to retain any fees paid undersuch appointments.
During the year under review, Said Darwazah and Mazen Darwazah received fees of US$10,000 and US$10,000 respectively, in respect of suchappointments.
Non-Executive Directors Fees Policy 2010 Upper quartile The remuneration of the Non-Executive Directors is determined by the Board based upon recommendations fromtheChief Executive Officer and Executive Vice Chairman and is within the limits set by the Articles of Association.
The nature of the Companys business is international, requiring the Non-Executive Directors to travel to the USA, Middle East and Europe.
TheBoard is therefore made up of Non-Executive Directors with a wide range of experience both in the UK and internationally.
The use of options for Non-Executive Directors is prevalent in the US and also to some extent internationally.
However, as a UK listed company complying with UK bestpractice it is not considered appropriate to grant options to the Companys Non-Executive Directors.
To ensure that the Company remains able to attract the appropriate calibre of candidate and to take account of its inability to grant options, the Board has therefore set its fee policy at the upper quartile.
The individual basic and committee fees, which are paid in pounds Sterling, are as follows: 2010 2011 2011 total fee Basic fee Chairmanship fee Committee fee total fee name 000 000 000 000 000 samih darwazah 157.5 157.5 157.5 michael Ashton 78.0 67.0 7.5 7.5 82.0 Ali Al-Husry 63.0 67.0 67.0 Breffni Byrne 85.5 67.0 15.0 7.5 89.5 ronald Goode 72.4 67.0 7.5 7.5 82.0 sir david rowe-Ham 78.0 67.0 7.5 7.5 82.0 During 2009 the Board commissioned  LLP to conduct a study of non-executive remuneration against the Comparator Group.
This showed that, in relation to the overall NED fee policy set by the Group, Hikmas NED fees remained out of step with those of the Comparator Group.
Following the review it was resolved by the Board that the composition of the NED fees should be updated to reflect not only the work undertaken as a chairman of a Board committee, but also as a member of Board committees.
Therefore, a Board committee membership fee is paid in addition to the basic fee to those NEDs who sit on the board committees in 2010.
The Board also resolved that from 1 January 2011, the basic fees of Non-Executive Directors should be increased to the amounts set out above.
There has been no change in the fees of the Non-Executive Chairman.
The increases continue to move non-executive fees back towards the Groups stated policy, though overall non-executive fees remain below the level set by Group policy.
The Board continues to believe that it is important to ensure that the fees paid to non-executives remain competitive, that they reflect the increasingly important role played by non-executives and allow the Nomination Committee to recruit Non-Executive Directors of the appropriate calibre in accordance with the requirements of succession planning.
A further external review of non-executive fees will be conducted in 2011.
Non-Executive Directors do not participate in any bonus plan or share incentive programme operated by the Company and are not entitled topension contributions or other benefits provided by the Company.
The Non-Executive Directors do not have service contracts, but have letters ofappointment with the Company.
Each appointment is terminable on one months notice from either the Company or the Director, but is envisaged to be for an initial period of up to 36 months, subject to the terms of the Companys Articles of Association, the Companies Act andshareholder approval.
