Hikma Pharmaceuticals PLC Annual report 2010 CorPorAte resPonsiBiLity rePort Continued Rewarding our people Health and Safety Policy Community During 2010, we continued to develop our We cannot operate successfully and deliver In 2010, we continued to seek new ways remuneration plans for the Group.
We are quality products without ensuring the for our employees to engage with their working with the Hay Group and other healthand wellbeing of our employees.
international consultancy firms to improve Communication of Hikmas Health and Hikmas Global Volunteering Day employee compensation, benefits and Safetypolicy to meet and, where possible, The Hikma Global Volunteering Day, held in working conditions.
In 2010, our employees exceed all the labour laws and regulations April each year, aims to encourage more and benefited from an employee savings fund, withregards to workplace health and safety more employees in our different units to invest share-based LTIP and MIP incentive programmes, inall the countries in which we operate time in their local communities.
This year, medical and life insurance and bonus schemes, continued to be a priority in 2010.
Hikma celebrated its global volunteering day where possible.
Health awareness bysupporting cancer patients.
Over 1,300 Communication As a leading pharmaceutical company, employees in 10 Hikma locations participated As our business grows, both in terms of Hikmaaspires to prepare its employees to in mid-April 2010 by donating blood, thenumber of employees and across new beleaders in health.
By raising awareness cleaningand painting hospitals and grounds, geographies, we are continuously working about obesity and other diseases and by fundraising, spending time with patients, toimprove our internal communications.
settingan example for healthy nutrition and entertaining children and organising awareness Through bi-annual management briefings, lifestyle, Hikma hopes to lead the way for all campaigns and lectures for Hikma employees.
Hikmas internal quarterly magazine and our itsemployees.
Development and education Ask your CEO initiative, we are able to relay In 2010, significant events were organised to We are active in our communities throughout key messages regarding the strategy and raise health awareness including: the year through a number of other initiatives, performance of the business, articulate the including providing funding for students in shortand long-term business priorities, you Are Hikma campaign thefields of Technical Pharmacy and Applied raising awareness within the Group recognise employee achievements and regardinghealth, safety, and the environment Medical Sciences.
The time, interest and addressany employee questions or concerns.
at Hikma and in the broader community funding that we provide to local students is Through these tools, and our open-door Hikmas day against Breast Cancer a real indication of our ongoing commitment policy, we have been able to maintain our events and activities focused on awareness, to the communities in which we work.
closefamily culture of openness and respect.
early detection and health screening Over the long term, these efforts should also Hikmas world Heart day help toensure that we can continue to attract raising awareness about heart diseases and well-trained employees in each of the markets prevention in conjunction with the world in which we are operating.
Heart federations world Heart day Hikma Anti-obesity campaign Awareness campaign and obesity screening HiKmAs GLoBAL voLUnteerinG dAy Amman, Jordan in 2010, Hikma celebrated its global volunteering day by supporting cancerpatients.
on the occasion, Jordanianemployees planted seedlings atThe King Hussein Cancer Centre.
