Hikma Pharmaceuticals PLC Annual report 2010 BUsiness And finAnCiAL review GeneriCs tHis yeAr we HAve exPAnded oUr mArKet sHAre in tHe Us GeneriCs mArKet tHroUGH A ContinUinG foCUs on imProvinG serviCe LeveLs And By LeverAGinG oUr QUALity rePUtAtion 22 Section Two: How are we delivering on our strategy?
2 2010 HiGHLiGHts The Generics segments gross profit increased overview of the marketplace The US represents the worlds largest generic by 55.7% to $81.8 million, compared to Generics revenues up 29.2% to $174.5 million $52.5million in 2009.
Gross margin market, accounting for nearly 45% of the robust demand across the core product global generic market.
The total number of reached46.9%, up from 38.9% in 2009. portfolio supports the underlying business Consequently, the Generics segment achieved USoral generic prescriptions dispensed grew specific market opportunities enhance by6.9% in 2010.
Generics now account an operating profit of $51.1 million compared segment results to $25.0 million in 2009.
Generic operating for nearly 75% of all prescriptions dispensed in the US.
Generics now account for nearly margin grew from 18.5% to 29.3% in 2010.
This significant improvement in both the 75% of all prescriptions dispensed in the US.
Theincrease in generic prescriptions has been grossand operating profit reflects the exceptional performance of colchicine as driven by the greater availability of generic options and the efforts of both public wellas a good performance from our core product portfolio.
andprivate healthcare payers to use lower-cost alternatives.
The US generic pharmaceutical In 2010, the Generics business launched 2 new compounds in 3 new dosage forms industry is very competitive and has experienced significant pricing pressure in recent years.
and strengths and received 4 new product approvals.
Going forward we expect that expanded health coverage and significant patent expiries other businesses will offset pricing pressures and drive future Other businesses primarily comprise Arab generic market growth.
Medical Containers, a manufacturer of Generics performance pharmaceutical packaging, and International Pharmaceuticals Research Centre, which Revenue in our Generics business increased by 29.2% to $174.5 million, compared to conducts bio-equivalency studies.
These businesses, which supply Group operations $135.1 million in 2009.
This performance reflects strong demand for our core products andthirdparties, had aggregate revenues of$4.8million, compared with aggregate as well as a substantial increase in sales resulting from our ability to take advantage revenue of $5.1 million in 2009.
These Other businesses delivered an of specific market opportunities.
Since mid-2008 we have focused on operating loss of $2.9 million in 2010, compared to an operating loss of $2.3 million improving service levels, leveraging our quality reputation and optimising our manufacturing in 2009.
The slight increase in loss can be attributed to an increase in overheads in capacity tomeet market needs.
In 2010, these actions enabled us to deliver solid growth in ourChemicals division.
revenues from our core product portfolio.
We were also able to take advantage of some specific market opportunities.
The most notable relates to the sale of colchicine, an oral drug recommended for the treatment ofgout.
This opportunity was finite and on 30September 2010, West-Ward discontinued LeverAGe oUr sales of oral colchicine to comply with exPertise And CAPACity regulatory requirements of the US Food and in tHe UsmArKet Drug Administration.
New Jersey, USA Through our commitment to quality and service, we have taken market share fromourcompetitors and are now the thirteenth largest generic company in theUsmarket in terms of number of prescriptions written.
