Section Four: Governance 4 The Senior Independent Director is Sir David Rowe-Ham who remains Company organised training for directors by external parties on the available to shareholders should they have concerns that they do not changing legal and regulatory landscape.
The Companys brokers and wish to raise with the Chairman.
Sir David is also Chairman of the financial advisers also presented industry and market updates to the Nomination Committee and is responsible for chairing meetings Board on several occasions in 2010.
These sessions are in addition to the of the Non-Executive Directors conducted without the presence of written briefings on areas of regulatory and legislative change presented theChairman or executive management.
at each board meeting in the form of a Corporate Governance Paper.
The Board continues to discuss its composition and the skills and This year briefings took place on the Bribery Act 2010, UK Governance business experience of its members.
All of the Directors believe in the Code, UK Stewardship Code, ICSA guidance review, market abuse, necessity for challenge and debate in the Boardroom and consider andvarious aspects of the Listing Rules.
A tailored induction programme that Board dynamics encourage honest and open debate with the would be made available to new directors joining the Board.
The Directors believe that the Boards decision Board meetings making process is inclusive, and is not dominated by any individual During the year under review the Board held eight scheduled meetings or group of individuals.
The Company Secretary attended all information flow Board meetings and committee meetings.
A table showing attendance Board and committee papers are circulated to members in advance at the Board and committee meetings is set out below.
To the extent ofthe meetings.
In addition to formal meetings, the Chairman and Directors are unable to attend additional meetings called on short notice, non-executive directors maintain regular contact with each other and or are prevented from doing so by prior commitments, they receive and strong relationships with executive management outside the formal read the papers for consideration at that meeting, relay their comments timetabled board meetings, as well as visiting subsidiary companies in advance and, where necessary, follow up with the Chairman on the regularly in order to discharge their obligations.
The Chairman also holds decisions taken.
informal meetings with non-executive directors without the executive director Board Audit remuneration nomination Compliance management present to discuss issues affecting the Group.
At the samih darwazah 9 discretion of the Board or relevant committee, senior executives are said darwazah 9 invited to attend meetings and make presentations on the results and mazen darwazah 9 3 1 strategies of their business units.
Ali Al-Husry 9 This year the Board received presentations from the CEO and COO sir david rowe-Ham 9 9 6 3 of the MENA region, the CEO of the US business, the Chief Financial Breffni Byrne 9 9 6 1 Officer, the General Counsel, the Head of Treasury, and the Corporate michael Ashton 9 9 6 3 Vice President for HR.
Strategic presentations were received on human resources, sales, compliance, supply chain management, finance and dr. ronald Goode 9 9 6 1 operations.
Each of the senior executives will update the Board on their Total meetings held 9 9 6 3 1 initiatives in their areas of responsibility during the course of 2011.
All directors have access to the advice and services of the Company Board performance evaluation Secretary, who under the Chairmans direction is responsible for ensuring As required by the Combined Code, a formal evaluation of the good information flow to the Board and its committees, that sound performance of the Board was undertaken during the period board procedures are followed, assisting with training and induction underreview.
fordirectors and for advising the Board through the Chairman on all During 2009 the Board reviewed its approach to board evaluations matters of corporate governance.
The appointment and removal of the and approved a three year evaluation process, which included seeking Company Secretary is a matter reserved for the Board.
The Directors external consultation every third year.
During 2010 the Board decided to areable to obtain independent professional advice at the Companys advance the move towards external facilitation and appointed Lintstock expense in the performance of their duties as directors and the Board to conduct an independently moderated evaluation of the Board and has approved a formal policy in this regard.
As in previous years the process was overseen by the senior independent director.
Lintstock prepared online questionnaires Board training Continuing Professional development designed to assess key governance and management themes.
Lintstock The Directors maintain a close dialogue between board meetings, managed the process and reported independently tothe Chairman and ensuring that, amongst other things, the non-executive directors are the senior independent director, following which Lintstock presented the kept up to date with major developments in the Groups business.
results and findings to the full Board.
The report for each committee was TheBoard is also encouraged to visit the major business units and to reviewed by the relevant Committee.
meet the senior management teams in order to facilitate a better understanding of the key issues facing the business.
