Hikma Pharmaceuticals PLC Annual report 2010 BoArd of direCtors Said played a key role in the development of directorships of various non-governmental and 1. samih darwazah the Group strategy during his tenure, including educational organisations.
He has previously served Non-Executive Chairman, 80 the acquisition of West-Ward Pharmaceuticals as the President of the Jordanian Association of Samih Darwazah is founder and Chairman of Hikma in the USA and the development of the Injectables Manufacturers of Pharmaceuticals and Medical Pharmaceuticals PLC.
Samih was employed at Eli Lilly business in Europe and the MENA region.
Mazen holds a BA in Business from 1964 to 1976 before establishing Hikma this period the Companys facilities in the USA, Administration from the Lebanese American Pharmaceuticals in Jordan in 1977.
Between 1995 Jordan, and Portugal received FDA approval.
University and an Advanced Management and 1996 he served as Minister of Energy and Mineral Said was Minister of Health for the Hashemite Programme from INSEAD.
He also founded the Jordan Kingdom of Jordan from 20032006.
He is currently Exporters Association and served as a member of Vice Chairman of the Capital Bank of Jordan.
He is 4. sir david rowe-Ham the Senate of the Hashemite Kingdom of Jordan.
also Chairman of the Dead Sea Touristic and Real Senior Independent Non-Executive Director, 75 A Fullbright scholar, Samih holds a Masters Estate Investments and Chairman of the Health Care Sir David Rowe-Ham was appointed to the Board Degree in Industrial Pharmacy from the St. Louis Accreditation Council of Jordan.
He has a degree in inOctober 2005 as senior independent director.
College of Pharmacy, Missouri which he obtained in industrial engineering from Purdue University USA Healso holds the position of Chairman of the 1964, and from which he was awarded an honorary and an MBA from INSEAD.
Doctor of Science degree in 2010.
He obtained Sir David brings to Hikma wide experience his BSc Degree in Pharmacy from the American 3. mazen darwazah # infinancial matters, corporate governance, public University of Beirut in 1954.
In January 2011, the Executive Vice Chairman, CEO of MENA, 52 affairs and the development of listed companies.
Samih Darwazah Center for Innovation Management Mazen Darwazah was appointed Executive Vice Heis also Chairman of Olayan Europe Ltd. and Entrepreneurship was established at the Olayan Chairman in 2005.
Since joining Hikma in 1985 he School of Business at the American University of Beirut.
has held various positions within the Group, including Chairman and CEO of Hikma Pharmaceuticals 2. said darwazah Limited Jordan.
Chief Executive Officer, 53 Mazen was recently appointed as a Senator of Said was appointed Chief Executive Officer in the Hashemite Kingdom of Jordan.
He joined Hikma in 1981, and was theChairman of the Jordan International Insurance Chairman and Chief Executive of the Group holding Company and holds a number of non-executive company from 19942003.
Ali Al-Husry 6. michael Ashton 8. dr. ronald Goode # Non-Executive Director, 53 Independent Non-Executive Director, 65 Independent Non-Executive Director, 67 Ali Al-Husry was appointed as a Non-Executive Michael Ashton was appointed to the Board in Ronald Goode was appointed to the Board in Director in 2005.
He joined Hikma as Director of October 2005 and is Chairman of the Remuneration December 2006 and holds the position of Hikma Pharma Limited in 1991 and has held various Committee.
Chairman of the Compliance, Responsibility and directorships within the Group.
Michael has over 30 years experience in the Ethics Committee.
In 1995 Ali was a founder of The Capital Bank pharmaceutical industry, having previously held Ron has spent over 30 years in the international ofJordan.
He was Chief Executive Officer of the positions with Pfizer and Merck.
He was formerly pharmaceutical industry, including senior positions Bank until 2007 and continues to be a Director.
He is Chairman, President and Chief Executive of with Pfizer and Searle.
He is currently the Chairman chairman of Endeavour Jordan, a director of the Fauldingand Chief Executive of Skyepharma PLC.
of The Goode Group, advisers to the pharmaceutical Microfund for Women and a member of the Board Heis also a non-executive director at Transition industry, on the Advisory Board of ART Recherches et ofTrustees of the Jordan Museum.
He brings great Therapeutics, Proximagen Neuroscience plc and Technologies Avances Inc. a TSX-listed company, a financial experience to the Board as well as an Phosphagenics Limited.
director of Mercy Ships International and a trustee of in-depth knowledge of the MENA region and Hikma Thunderbird School of Global Management.
Ali has a degree in Mechanical formerly President and Chief Executive Officer of 7.
Breffni Byrne # Engineering from the University of Southern Unimed Pharmaceuticals, Inc. and eXegenics Inc.
Independent Non-Executive Director, 65 California and an MBA from INSEAD.
Breffni Byrne was appointed to the Board in October 2005 and is Chairman of the Audit Committee.
Board Committee membership key As a chartered accountant with over 30 years of Audit Committee experience in public practice, including significant Remuneration Committee international responsibilities, he has extensive Nomination Committee experience in financial reporting, international # Compliance, Responsibility and Ethics Committee operations, corporate governance and general financial and commercial matters.
Breffni is Chairman of NCB Stockbrokers, a non-executive director of Irish Life and Permanent plc, Cpl Resources plc, Coillte Teoranta the Irish state forestry company and other companies.
