Section Four: Governance 4 minimum Performance criteria element of award requirement maximum requirement tsr against comparator 50% median upper quartile sales growth 16.7% 9% 13% ePs growth 16.7% 15% 20% return on invested capital 16.7% 10% 12% LTIP performance criteria 16.7% 16.7% 50% 16.7% TSR Sales growth EPS growth Return on invested capital Where the minimum requirement is achieved, 20% of this element of the award vests and becomes exercisable.
Where the maximum requirement is achieved all of this element of the award vests and becomes exercisable.
Each criterion is independent of the other criteria.
Therefore, the proposed grant of awards with the attached performance conditions ensures that: 1 in respect of the element of the award measured against tsr, that the Companys comparative tsr performance against the Comparator Group is at least at the upper quartile before executives receive the full benefit of this element of their share incentives: and in respect of the remainder of the award, that the underlying financial performance of the Group supports the comparative performance before executives receive their full award.
This structure demonstrates the Remuneration Committees desire to correlate incentive arrangements with the achievement of substantial performance.
The Remuneration Committee granted the following awards to Executive Directors during 2010. uQ in CG Percentage percentage name of salary of salary said darwazah 147.4% 343% mazen darwazah 147.4% 213% The following table summarises the main features of the LTIP in 2010 and its proposed operation during 2011.
2 Maximum annual grant face value as percentage of salary and performance condition Maximum annual grant 300% current normal operating maximum set by the Remuneration Committee 200%.
The Awards will be subject to comparative tsr performance against the Comparator Group 50% of the Award and financial metrics relating to sales growth, ePs growth and return on invested capital 50% in aggregate.
20% of Awards will be released forachieving minimum performance with full release occurring for maximum performance, as detailed in the table, above.
in relation to tsr the minimum requirement is median comparable performance and the maximum requirement is upper quartile performance.
The remuneration Committee will also ensure that the underlying financial performance of the Company is consistent with its tsr performance.
when considering this underlying financial performance the factors taken into account by the remuneration Committee will include profit after tax, revenue growth and the achievement of operational milestones.
said darwazah mazen darwazah maximum grants for 2011 face value as a percentage of salary 200% 200% 1 Total Shareholder Return TSR is a measure showing the return on investing in one share of the Company over the performance period the return is the value of the capital gain and reinvested dividends.
It is normally used comparatively and the company which achieves the best return is ranked number one.
2 Face value for awards under the LTIP face value is the aggregate market value of the shares subject to the award at the date of grant.
