Section Four: Governance 4 The Audit Committee held extensive discussions with Deloitte LLP, dialogue with shareholders the UK-based Group auditors, regarding the safeguards that have been Ongoing communication with shareholders is a high priority.
The Company put in place to ensure continued audit independence.
These include undertakes a continuous programme of meetings with institutional completely separate teams undertaking audit and non-audit work and shareholders in the UK, Europe, the United States and the MENA region.
regular UK audit partner and US audit partner review of the nature of This programme includes but is not limited to one-to-one meetings, the non-audit work being performed in the United States, together with investor days, conference calls and presentations at investor conferences.
an independent US partner review of the local audit engagement in the In addition the Company makes formal presentations at the time of its United States.
The Committee is satisfied that, whilst fees charged for annual and interim results which are webcast and disseminated on the this non-audit work in the United States are higher than those charged Companys website.
The Chief Executive Officer, Executive Vice Chairman, for the audit work during the year, adequate controls remain in place Chief Financial Officer and other senior corporate executives have all tosafeguard auditor independence.
In accordance with the Groups participated in the investor programme during the period under review.
non-audit services policy, none of the work for the MSI acquisition The principal ongoing communication with shareholders is through undertaken in the United States by Deloitte Consulting LLP was of a the publication of the Companys Annual Report and Accounts, Interim financial information systems design, valuation, executive recruitment or Results and Interim Management Statements, together with the opportunity advocacy nature.
The assistance has not involved undertaking decisions to question the Board and Committees at the Annual General Meeting.
that are the responsibility of management.
The Committee continues Shareholders are encouraged to attend the AGM and if unable to do so tokeep the position under review.
The UK-led audit team continues to are encouraged to vote by proxy.
Copies of presentations made at the provide an appropriately high level of audit challenge to management AGM are available on the website after the event together with the and constructively raise issues with the Committee.
Should shareholders results of the voting.
The full Board is present at the AGM.
The Company wish to discuss the situation with the Company, the Chairman of the maintains a website www.
com which is updated regularly.
Audit Committee will be happy to make himself available.
Additionally, the Company presents a balanced view of the Groups Fees paid in respect of audit, audit-related and non-audit services are performance and prospects through the release of appropriate press outlined in Note 6 to the Consolidated Financial Statements.
Audit-related announcements and other updates.
services are services carried out by the external auditor by virtue of its role The Board is kept updated on the views of shareholders and the as auditor and principally include assurance-related work.
market in general through the feedback from the investor meeting The Group also maintains a policy whereby prior approval by the programme and results presentations.
Analysts reports are circulated to Audit Committee is required before the recruitment of a senior member the Board members together with monthly Investor Relations reports.
of the audit team or the recruitment of an employee of the external The Investor Relations Director also presents an annual investor relations auditors to a senior finance position within the Group.
review to the Board and regularly provides feedback from institutional There are no contractual provisions that restrict the Committees investors and analysts.
It is also the Committees policy to consider every year Procedures to deal with conflicts of interests whether there should be an audit tender process and whether using The Company has implemented procedures to deal with Directors auditors from one audit network continues to enhance the quality of conflicts of interest or potential conflicts of interest.
As part of its review of the effectiveness of the auditors, the been delegated to the Audit Committee to operate, monitor and review Committee gave extensive consideration to this issue during the year and the procedures, which have operated effectively during the year.
concluded that the existing team continue to conduct an effective audit, the teams knowledge of the Group, particularly the Groups diverse Breffni Byrne international operations, is advantageous in terms of its ability to identify Chairman of the Audit Committee issues of importance and that there is a strong and open relationship between the audit team leadership and the Audit Committee.
TheCommittee recommended to the Board the re-appointment of theexisting external auditor, who has been in place since the Company listed in 2005 Overview Consequently, the Audit Committee concludes that it has acted in accordance with its terms of reference and ensured the independence of the external auditors.
The Chairman of the Audit Committee will be available at the Annual General Meeting to answer questions on the work of the Committee.
