Hikma Pharmaceuticals PLC Annual report 2010 remunerAtion Committee rePort Continued Bonus payments for the Executive Directors for 2010 have been awarded at the maximum level.
The Committee assessed corporate performance during the year to be exceptional and therefore decided that it would be appropriate to reflect this in the performance-related remuneration for the executive directors reflecting their strong leadership in difficult trading circumstances.
The Executive Directors salaries are set at lower quartile levels, enabling the Committee to reflect outstanding performance in bonus payments whilst remaining within the overall policies set by the Group.
Seepages 56 to 57 for further information on the basis for the Committees decision.
The bonuses for 2010 have been paid on the basis of the level of satisfaction of the performance targets.
The table below shows the principal performance targets used for 2010 and their percentage satisfaction.
Percentage of maximum Percentage bonus potential satisfaction of Percentage of subject to target bonus target salary payable Said Darwazah Profit after tax 50% 100% 50% operational milestones 30% 100% 30% Personal business targets 20% 100% 20% Total 100% Mazen Darwazah Profit after tax 50% 100% 50% operational milestones 30% 100% 30% Personal business targets 20% 100% 20% Total 100% The targets for the annual bonus plan are reviewed and agreed by the Remuneration Committee each year to ensure that they are appropriate to the current market conditions and position of the Company and in order to ensure that they continue to remain challenging.
Underlying performance targets for Executive Directors bonuses were reviewed during 2008 to ensure that they remained in line with the Groups overall business strategy.
The Committee applied the same parameters in 2010 and it is the opinion of the Committee that the overall nature of the conditions remains appropriate for the requirements of the Group in 2011.
The 2011 bonus targets are set out below: Bonus performance targets 50% 30% 20% profit after tax Operational milestones Personal business targets share incentives Policy 2010 and 2011 Upper quartile The Remuneration Committees policy is to provide annual share grants to senior executives at a maximum of the upper quartile level compared to the Comparator Group.
Ongoing share incentives are provided to the Executive Directors solely through theLong-term Incentive Plan LTIP.
The Remuneration Committee believes that share awards under the LTIP enable the Company to provide a competitive incentive and retention tool which is also cost effective in respect of both shareholder dilution and income statement expense.
During 2010 the Committee reviewed the performance criteria for the LTIP with the assistance of the remuneration adviser.
The Committee decided that the performance criteria should be expanded to include financial metrics relating to sales growth, earnings per share growth and return on invested capital see the table below.
The Committee consulted the Companys major shareholders and the main shareholder representative bodies on the proposed change before it was implemented.
The Committee is grateful for the time taken by shareholders on the consultation and welcomes the confirmation received that the majority were supportive of the approach.
The Committee considers that the financial metrics ensure that absolute performance is taken into account and more closely align the criteria with the Groups strategy.
The advantages of Total Shareholder Return TSR, particularly performance compared to peers, are retained as this criterion applies in respect of 50% of the award.
