Hikma Pharmaceuticals PLC Annual report 2010 direCtors rePort tHe direCtors suBmit tHeir rePort toGetHer witH tHe Audited finAnCiAL stAtements for tHe 52 weeKs ended 31 deCemBer 2010.
This report forms the management report for the purposes of the An interim dividend of 5.5 cents per share was paid on 14 October Disclosure and Transparency Rules.
2010 approximately 3.6 pence per Ordinary Share 2009: 4.5 cents which together with the final dividend, will make a total of 13 cents Business review pershare for the period 2009: 11.0 cents.
The Company is required by the Companies Act 2006 to set out a fair review of the business during the year and a description of the principal Directors and their interests risks and uncertainties facing the Company, noting the performance and The names of the Directors as at the date of this report, together with development of the Company during the year and the position at the details of their roles, backgrounds and abilities, are set out in the year end.
The information that fulfils these requirements and which is Directors biographies on pages 42 and 43.
Details of the independence incorporated in this report by reference, is included in the following of Non-Executive Directors are set out in the report on corporate sections of the Annual Report: governance on page 46.
The Executive and Non-Executive Directors served the Company a review of the business and strategy and expected future developments throughout the year.
All of the Directors have been re-elected is set out in the Chairmans statement on pages 6 to 7, the Chief by shareholders within the last two years with the exception of executives review on pages 12 to 15 and the financial review on Mr. Said Darwazah.
At the 2011 Annual General Meeting, Said pages 16 to 28: Darwazah will retire in accordance with Article 110 of the Articles the principal risks and uncertainties are set out on pages 29 to 31 of Association and, being eligible, will offer himself for re-election.
andfinancial risks are described on page 31: The explanatory notes to the Notice of Annual General Meeting sets key financial performance indicators are described on page 15: out why the Board believes Said Darwazah should be re-elected.
information on environmental, social and community issues is set Details of Directors share-based incentives and interests in the out in our Corporate responsibility report on pages 33 to 39 Ordinary Shares of the Company are provided in the Directors whichalso provides key performance indicators in this area: and Remuneration Report on pages 67 to 68. the principal operating subsidiaries are set out on page 128.
Creditor payment policy Principal activity The Companys policy, which is also applied by the Group and will The principal activities of the Group are the development, continue in respect of the 2011 financial year, is to settle terms of manufacture and marketing of a broad range of generic and payment with suppliers when agreeing the terms of each transaction, in-licensed pharmaceutical products in solid, semi-solid, liquid and ensure that suppliers are made aware of and abide by the terms of injectable final dosage forms.
The Groups operations are conducted payment.
Trade creditors of the Company at 31 December 2010 were through three business segments: Branded Pharmaceuticals, equivalent to 73 days purchases 2009: 63 days, based on the average Injectable Pharmaceuticals, and Generic Pharmaceuticals.
The majority daily amount invoiced by suppliers during the year.
of the Groups operations are in the MENA region, the United States Charitable and political contributions and Europe.
The Group does not have overseas branches within During the year the Group made charitable donations of approximately the meaning of the Companies Act 2006.
$2.5 million 2009: $1.2 million, principally to local charities serving the The Groups net sales, gross profit and operating profit are shown communities in which the Group operates.
Donations of medicines by business segment in Note 4 to the consolidated financial statements.
accounted for approximately $1,662,000 2009: $108,000 of total Results and dividends donations made.
The Groups profit for the year attributable to shareholders in 2010 The Group does not make political donations.
The Board is recommending a Research and Development R&D finaldividend of 7.5 cents per share approximately 4.7 pence 2009: The Groups investment in Research & Development R&D during 6.5cents.
The proposed final dividend will be paid on 26 May 2011 to 2010 represented 3.2% of group revenue 2009: 2.6%.
Further details shareholders on the register on 15 April 2011, subject to approval at the on the Groups R&D activities can be found on page 27.
Annual General Meeting on 12 May 2011.
52 Section Four: Governance 4 itholds and also to its entitlement to a dividend.
No other shareholder Going concern Although the current economic and political conditions may affect has waived the right to a dividend.
During the year, the Company did not acquire any of its own shares by direct purchase, nominee purchase short-term demand for the Companys products, as well as place pressure on our customers and suppliers, the Directors believe that the Groups or any other means nor did it dispose of such shares previously acquired.
The Company does not have a lien over its own shares.
geographic spread, product diversity and large customer and supplier base substantially mitigate these risks.
In addition, the Group operates At the Annual General Meeting on 13 May 2010, the Directors were authorised to issue relevant securities up to an aggregate nominal inthe relatively defensive generic pharmaceuticals industry which the Directors expect to be less affected compared to other industries.
amount of 6,424,770, and to be empowered to allot equity securities for cash on a non pre-emptive basis up to an aggregate nominal amount The Group has reduced its year end net debt position to $101million 2009: $117 million following strong cash generation of 963,715, at any time up to the earlier of the date of the Annual General Meeting in 2011 or 30 June 2011.
The Directors propose to fromoperations.
Operating cash flow in 2010 was $145 million.
TheGroup has $265 million of undrawn banking facilities having renew these authorities at the Annual General Meeting to be held on 12May 2011 for a further year.
In the year ahead, other than in respect allowed for the US acquisition.
These facilities are well diversified acrossthe operating subsidiaries of the Group and are with a number of the Companys obligations to satisfy rights granted to employees under its various share-based incentive arrangements, the Directors have offinancial institutions.
The Groups forecasts, taking into account reasonable possible changes in trading performance, facility renewal no present intention of issuing any share capital of the Company.
The powers of the Directors are determined by its Articles of sensitivities and maturities of long-term debt, show that the Group should be able to operate well within the levels of its facilities and Association, the Combined Code and other relevant UK legislation.
TheDirectors powers are detailed in the Corporate Governance Report theirrelated covenants.
After making enquiries, the Directors believe that the Group starting on page 46.
The Articles give the Directors the power to appoint and remove directors and they also provide for re-election at three-yearly isadequately placed to manage its business and financing risks successfullydespite the current uncertain economic and political intervals.
The power to issue and allot shares contained in the Articles is subject toshareholder approval at each annual general meeting.
The Directors have formed a judgement that there is  that the Group has adequate resources Articles, which are available on the website, may only be amended by special resolution of the shareholders.
tocontinue in operational existence for the foreseeable future.
TheDirectors therefore continue to adopt the going concern basis significant agreements and contracts inpreparing the financial statements.
Due to the nature of the Groups business, members of the Group are party to agreements that could alter or be terminated upon a change Capital structure Details of the issued share capital, together with movements in the ofcontrol of the Group following a takeover.
However, none of these agreements is individually deemed to be significant in terms of its issued share capital during the year can be found in Note 31 to the financial statements.
The Company has one class of Ordinary Shares potential impact on the business of the Group taken as a whole.
TheDirectors are not aware of any agreements between the Company which carries no right to fixed income.
Each share carries the right to one vote at general meetings of the Company.
As at 31 December 2010 and its Directors or employees that provide for compensation for loss ofoffice or employment that occurs because of a takeover bid.
the Company had 193,516,989 shares of 10 pence each in issue.
During 2010 the Company issued 1,889,382 Ordinary Shares pursuant There are no persons, with whom the Company has contractual or other arrangements, who are deemed to be essential to the business to the exercise of options under the Hikma Pharmaceuticals PLC 2004 Stock Option Plan and 2005 Long-Term Incentive Plan.
There are no specific restrictions on the size of a holding or on Pre-emptive issue of ordinary shares the transfer of shares, which are both governed by the general During the year under review, and in the period since 1 November 2005, provisions of the Companys Articles of Association and prevailing the date of the Companys IPO, the Company did not issue any Ordinary legislation.
The Directors are not aware of any agreements between Shares pursuant to an authority given by shareholders atanAnnual holders of the Companys shares that may have resulted in restrictions General Meeting to issue Ordinary Shares for cash on a nonpre-emptive on the transfer of securities or on voting rights.
No person has any basis, other than in respect of the placing undertaken on 17January 2008. special rights with regard to the control of the Companys share capital and all issued shares are fully paid.
directors indemnities Details of any significant shareholdings in the Company can be The Company has made qualifying third party indemnity provisions for found on page 54 of this report.
the benefit of its Directors which were in force during the year and as at Details of the employee share schemes are set out in Note 36 to the the date of this report.
These indemnities are uncapped in amount in financial statements.
Shares are also held by the Hikma Pharmaceuticals relation to losses and liabilities which Directors may incur to third parties Employee Benefit Trust EBT and are detailed in Note 33 to the in the course of the performance of their duties.
The EBT has waived its right to vote on the shares 53 Hikma Pharmaceuticals PLC Annual report 2010 direCtors rePort Continued aggregate, options over 5,000 Ordinary Shares under the 2004 Plan substantial shareholdings As at the date of this document, the Company had been notified during the same period, all of which were sold.
pursuant to sections 89A to 89L of the Financial Services and Markets Auditors Act 2000 and Rule 5 of the Disclosure and Transparency Rules of the Each person who was a Director of the Company at the date when this UKLA of the following interests in the voting rights attaching to the report was approved confirms that: share capital of the Company: so far as the director is aware, there is no relevant audit information name of shareholder number of shares Percentage held of which the Companys auditors are unaware: and darhold Limited 57,183,028 29.549% the director has taken all the steps that he ought to have taken as a sectoral Asset management 6,222,574 3.216% director to make himself aware of any relevant audit information and Messrs Samih Darwazah, Said Darwazah, Mazen Darwazah and Ali Al-Husry, each being a to establish that the Companys auditors are aware of that Director and shareholder of the Company, are shareholders in the capital of Darhold Limited information.
and are also Directors of Darhold Limited.
This confirmation is given and should be interpreted in accordance with The takeover Code rule 9 the provisions of section 418 of the Companies Act 2006.
At the Annual General Meeting held on 13 May 2010, a vote of the Deloitte LLP have expressed their willingness to continue in office independent shareholders of the Company approved the award of up as auditors and a resolution to reappoint them will be proposed at the to an aggregate of 175,200 Ordinary Shares pursuant to the Companys forthcoming Annual General Meeting.
2005 Long-Term Incentive Plan to Said Darwazah and Mazen Darwazah the LTIP Holders and 4,500 Ordinary Shares pursuant to the Annual General meeting Management Incentive Plan to Hana Ramadan the MIP Holder.
The Annual General Meeting of the Company will be held at Because of the relationship of the LTIP Holders and the MIP Holder with TheWestbury, Bond Street, Mayfair, London W1S 2YF on Thursday, Darhold Limited, who at the time of the Annual General Meeting held 12May 2011, starting at 11.00 a. m. The Notice convening the meeting 57,183,028 Ordinary Shares at 9 April 2010 representing 29.56% of is given in a separate document accompanying this document, and the issued share capital of the Company, and as at 15 March 2011 includes a commentary on the business of the AGM, and notes to help being the latest practicable date prior to the publication of this shareholders exercise their rights at the meeting.
document, holding 57,183,028 Ordinary Shares, representing 29.55% ofthe issued share capital of the Company, each of the LTIP Holders Approved by the Board of Directors on 15 March 2011 and signed on and the MIP holder together with certain other identified individuals at itsbehalf by thatdate was treated as acting in concert with Darhold Limited for thepurposes of the Takeover Code the Concert Party.
As at 9 April 2010, the Concert Party held, in aggregate, interests in 65,969,712 Henry Knowles Ordinary Shares in the capital of Hikma then representing 34.46% Company Secretary ofthe then issued share capital of the Company.
As at 15 March 2011 being the latest practicable date prior to the publication of this 15 March 2011 document, the Concert Party held, in aggregate, interests in 64,453,907 Ordinary Shares in the capital of Hikma representing 33.30% of the then issued share capital of the Company.
On full exercise of the options under the Hikma Pharmaceuticals 2004 Stock Option Plan the 2004 Plan and full vesting of the LTIPs and the MIPs, the Concert Party would potentially have, in aggregate, interests in 65,238,707 Shares in the capital of the Company representing 33.57% of the enlarged issued share capital of the Company, on the basis that no Ordinary Shares were issued other than pursuant to the exercise of such options or vesting of LTIPs MIPs.
During the period from the Annual General Meeting in 2010 to 15March 2011, the LTIP MIP Holders together with other members of the Concert Party who hold options over Ordinary Shares pursuant to theCompanys 2005 Long Term Incentive Plan the Option Holders exercised, in aggregate, options over 100,000 Ordinary Shares in the capital of the Company, all of which Ordinary Shares were retained bythe Option Holder.
Additionally the LTIP MIP Holders exercised, in 54
