Section Three: How do we act responsibly?
3 Thecampaigns objective was to raise Giving NATIONALITY HEADCOUNT AS AT DECEMBER 2010 Across the Group, we continued in 2010 to awareness about infectious disease and preserving human rights for infected patients 14% give generously to local causes, to donate medicines to NGOs and to support communities within the community.
Examples include donating in kind to environment 4% the World Economic Forums Disaster Relief In 2010, we continued to work on reducing Network, sponsoring the 2010 King Hussein 44% 9% our impact on the environment across our Cancer Center summer camp, supporting businesses, while at the same time meeting theChildrens Museum Jordan, sponsoring our corporate and business requirements SOSChildrens Villages, and donating to to reduce costs and operate more efficiently.
26% thePalestinian Association for Childrens Encouragement of Sports PACES.
Hikmas Environmental Policy This year, we focused on disseminating our Global Fund to fight AIDS, TB and Malaria Jordanian African European Environmental Policy through awareness Hikma continues to support the Global Fund GCC Levant Other campaigns and You are Hikma training sessions.
tofight AIDS, TB and Malaria.
In December 2010, the MENA Chapter launched its first awareness and advocacy campaign.
37 Hikma Pharmaceuticals PLC Annual report 2010 CorPorAte resPonsiBiLity rePort Continued Hikmas Environmental Policys five key pledges: main units in Jordan and Saudi Arabia and or We are members of the Global Compact, a equivalent accreditations elsewhere.
We also UN-sponsored initiative for businesses committed 1.
To integrate our environmental policy performed a thorough assessment of carbon to aligning their operations and strategies with across the Group: emissions in our operations in Jordan.
This analysis ten universally accepted principles in the areas 2.
To reduce our impact on climate change: is based on the Carbon Disclosure Project of human rights, labour, environment and framework and will provide valuable insights on anti-corruption.
To comply with environmental legislation how to measure emissions and on which steps upholding these principles and embedding and regulation in every country in which to take to reduce emissions across the Group them into its operations.
We submitted our weoperate: inthe coming years.
GRI data collection also Communication on Progress Report for the 4.
To strive for continuous improvement in helped to heighten awareness of energy second consecutive year in December 2010 ourenvironmental protection: and usagein 2010 and helped to identify areas ensuring our active membership in the United 5.
To implement and develop ISO 14001 forimprovement.
We have updated our Supplier practices oritsequivalent at every production site ethics acrosstheCompany.
audit to become more comprehensive and in Hikma is committed to the highest ethical line with international best practice.
Suppliers Measuring our impact principles and we endeavour to ensure that all Audit questionnaires relate to the environment, our employees conform to the highest possible During the year, we successfully obtained a human rights, child labour, anti bribery continuity certification for ISO 14001 in our standards of integrity and honesty.
measures and other relevant issues.
