Section Four: Governance 4 remunerAtion Committee rePort The Remuneration Committee is responsible for developing policyon introduction This report has been prepared in accordance with The Large & Mediumremuneration for Executive Directors and senior management and for determining specific remuneration packages for each of the Executive Sized Companies and Groups Accounts and Reports Regulations 2008, the Regulations.
The report also meets the relevant requirements of Directors.
The Remuneration Committee members have nopersonal financial interest other than as shareholders in matters tobedecided, the Listing Rules of the Financial Services Authority and describes how the Board has applied the principles and complied with the provisions of nopotential conflicts of interests arising from cross directorships and noday-to-day involvement in running the business.
the UK Governance Code and the Markets Law relating to Directors remuneration.
As required by the Regulations, an advisory resolution to The Remuneration Committee sought the assistance of the Chairman, the Chief Executive Officer, Executive Vice Chairman and approve this report will be proposed at the Annual General Meeting of the Company at which the financial statements will be approved.
theCorporate VP, Human Resources on matters relating to Directors performance and remuneration in respect of the period under review.
The auditors are required to report on the auditable part of this report and to state whether, in their opinion, that part of the report has The Chairman, Chief Executive Officer, Executive Vice Chairman and General Counsel may attend meetings of the Remuneration Committee been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 2006 and the Regulations.
The report is therefore divided into separate by invitation, except when their individual remuneration arrangements are discussed.
No Director takes part in discussions relating to his own sections for unaudited and audited information.
As detailed below, during the year the unaudited information Remuneration Committee received independent advice on executive compensation from  LLP.
With the exception of Remuneration Committee certain corporate taxation advice, only services relating to human resource The Directors who were members of the Committee during the practices were provided to the Company by  year under review are set out on pages 42 to 43 in the Directors Report.
LLP during the year under review.
The Committee is composed entirely of Independent Non-Executive The Remuneration Committee is formally constituted with written Directors and is chaired by Michael Ashton.
terms of reference with the full remit of the committee role described.
The responsibility for the establishment of a remuneration policy The terms of reference were reviewed and updated during the year and and approval of the aggregate remuneration cost is a matter for the are available on the Companys website or on request by shareholders fullBoard, on the advice of the Remuneration Committee.
The ongoing inwriting from the Company Secretary whose contact details are set recommendations of the Remuneration Committee have been approved outon page 128 of the Annual Report.
without amendment by the Board for submission to shareholders.
The following chart shows how the Remuneration Committee spent Philosophy behind Remuneration Committees approach itstime during the year: The Companys remuneration policy is designed to incentivise, reward and retain executives and the Remuneration Committee believesthat shareholders interests are best served by remuneration packages which 35% 20% have a large emphasis on performance-related pay, thusencouraging executives to focus on delivering the Groups businessstrategy.
Byproviding meaningful incentives to executives theCompanys policyensures that the appropriate balance between fixedand performance-related pay is maintained.
Performance-related pay and risk profile The Remuneration Committee ensures that a significant proportion ofthe remuneration package varies with the financial performance ofthe Group and that targets are aligned with the Groups stated 20% 25% businessobjectives.
In applying its policy, the Committee is mindful of the Association Executive remuneration ofBritish Insurers Guidelines on Responsible Investment Disclosure, Performance metrics including bonus andseeks to ensure that the incentive structure for Executive Directors Oversight of share-based incentives and the wider senior executive management team takes account of Other including best practice updates corporate performance on environmental, social and governance issues, and will not raise environmental, social or governance risks byinadvertently motivating irresponsible behaviour.
More generally, withregard to theoverall remuneration structure, there is no restriction on the Remuneration Committee which prevents it from taking into account corporate governance on such matters and it takes due account 55
