Hikma Pharmaceuticals PLC Annual report 2010 CorPorAte GovernAnCe rePort Corporate Governance Principles Composition of the Board The Board is responsible for, and committed to, meeting the standards The Board comprises eight members, half of whom are independent: a of good corporate governance set out in the Combined Code on Non-Executive Chairman, five Non-Executive Directors, one of whom is Corporate Governance published by the Financial Reporting Council not classified as independent for the purposes of the Combined Code in June 2008 the Combined Code and the corporate governance and two Executive Directors.
The Board reviewed and considered the principles set out in the Markets Law of the Dubai Financial Services independence of the Non-Executive Directors during the year as part of Authority the Markets Law together the Corporate Governance the annual corporate governance review that takes place in December Principles.
This report, the Audit Committee report set out on pages each year.
49 to 51 and the Directors Remuneration Report set out on pages 55 to The names of the Directors and their biographical details are set 68 describe how the Board applied the Corporate Governance Principles out on pages 42 to 43.
The Chairman and the Executive Vice-Chairman during the year under review.
were appointed to the Board at the incorporation of the Company on The Listing Rules of the Financial Services Authority and the Markets 8 September 2005.
The Chief Executive Officer was appointed to the Law require the Group to report on its application of the principles of Board on 1 July 2007, and save for Ronald Goode, who joined the good governance and the extent of its compliance with the Corporate Board on 12 December 2006, each of the Non-Executive Directors Governance Principles.
This statement provides details on how the joined the Board on 14 October 2005.
The Non-Executive Directors have Group has applied these principles.
diverse business backgrounds, skills and experience and as such bring During the year under review, the Company applied the principles set independent judgement to bear on issues of strategy, performance, out in Section 1 of the Combined Code, including both the main principles resources, key appointments, standards of conduct and other matters and the supporting principles, and the Corporate Governance Principles.
Throughout the year and up until the date of this report the Company In 2011, Said Darwazah, offers himself for re-election at the was in full compliance with the Corporate Governance Principles.
His biographical details are on page 42.
The Combined Code has been replaced with the UK Governance The other Directors retired and sought re-election at either the 2009 or Code UK Code, which comes into effect for financial years 2010 AGM and, in compliance with the current governance guidelines, beginning on or after 30 June 2010.
The Board is conscious of the will retire every three years.
The Board is aware that the UK Code will need to have regard for the new principles set out in the UK Code and require all Directors to seek re-election every year and that this acknowledges that there are many similarities between the two codes.
requirement comes into force for the Group in 2012.
Non-executive Whilst the Company is only required to comply or explain its position in Directors are appointed for an initial term of three years, which can be relation to the Combined Code, where the UK Code is different from renewed and extended for not more than two further three-year terms.
the Combined Code the Board has, in addition, sought to explain its The roles of the Chairman and Chief Executive Officer are separate, position in relation to the UK Code in this report.
and the Board has approved a statement of their respective responsibilities in writing.
These guidelines were reviewed during The Board 2010as part of the annual corporate governance review.
Prior to the The Group is led and controlled by the Board of Directors.
appointment of the current Chief Executive Officer the Board undertook The Board is responsible for setting the strategic direction and consultation with its major shareholders and external advisers regarding monitoring the financial performance of the Group against its targets.
the continuation of Samih Darwazah in his role as Chairman.
The Board The Board also promotes good corporate governance within the Group, concluded that his former executive role should not prevent him from and ensures that the Group meets its responsibilities to shareholders, remaining as Chairman, especially as he has an in-depth understanding employees, suppliers, customers and other stakeholders.
There is a of the Group and the business and is able to provide a valuable formal Schedule of Matters Reserved to the Board for consideration and contribution in his capacity as Non-Executive Chairman.
The Chairmans decision, which is reviewed and, if necessary updated, annually.
This external commitments have changed during the year.
The Board has includes approval of strategic plans, approval of financial statements and reviewed these and considers that the changes do not affect his ability the annual Group budget, approval of material investment decisions, to perform his role.
acquisitions and divestments, and review of the effectiveness of the Sir David Rowe-Ham, Michael Ashton, Ronald Goode and Groups systems of internal control.
The Schedule of Matters Reserved BreffniByrne are considered by the Board to be independent.
The Board tothe Board was reviewed and updated during 2010. does not classify Ali Al-Husry as an Independent Director for the The Board delegates its powers to the CEO who is responsible for purposes of the Combined Code as a result of his involvement with delivering the Companys strategic objectives and is assisted in this task Darhold Limited, the Companys largest shareholder.
He was also a by the executive management team.
Director of Hikma Pharmaceuticals Limited prior to the Companys The executive management team who report directly to the CEO listing.
However, he continues to bring his broad financial experience to meetwith him to discuss strategy and key objectives for their areas of theBoard as well as a detailed knowledge of the MENA region which responsibility.
The CEO reports on operational progress in these areas to issignificant to the Groups business.
the Board and the key senior management team present to the Board, as appropriate, to highlight and debate developments in their areas ofresponsibility.
