Hikma Pharmaceuticals PLC Annual report 2010 senior mAnAGement LaRoche.
Michael has previously been responsible 1.
Bassam Kanaan 4. riad mechlaoui forall West-Wards operations as well as quality President and Chief Operating Officer EU Vice President and Global Head compliance for all worldwide Hikma facilities until his for the MENA and EU regions ofInjectables appointment as CEO of West-Ward in 2008.
Michael Bassam joined Hikma as Chief Financial Officer in Riad joined Hikma in 1990 as a Project Engineer in holds a Masters degree in Industrial Pharmacy from 2001, playing a leading role in the IPO in 2005. the engineering department where he was involved Long Island University and a Bachelors degree in He qualified as a Chartered Accountant in 1989 in the construction of Hikmas facility in Portugal.
Chemistry from St. Francis College.
Michael is also a with Deloitte & Touche USA where he held a variety Riad spent a significant period in the manufacturing graduate of INSEADs International Executive Program.
of roles prior to joining PADICO in 1994 as CFO.
operations of West-Ward, was general manager In February 2009, Bassam assumed the additional ofHikma Italy and became Head of Injectables 3.
Khalid nabilsi responsibility for Operations, Manufacturing and Manufacturing Operations before assuming his Chief Financial Officer Supply Chain management in Europe & MENA.
Riad has a BSc in Engineering and a Khalid joined Hikma in 2001 and was a member of InJanuary 2011, Bassam relinquished his CFO role Masters in Engineering and Administration from the IPO team in 2005.
Prior to assuming his current and became President and Chief Operating Officer George Washington University.
role Khalid held several senior positions in the Finance for the MENA and EU regions.
He currently holds department including Corporate Vice President, non-executive directorships in Zara Holding, Aqaba 5. majda Labadi Finance.
Following qualification as a CPA he held a Development Co. and Capital Bank of Jordan.
Bassam Corporate Vice President, Human Resources variety of roles in financial accounting, reporting and has an Executive MBA from Northwestern University Majda joined the Company in 1985 and has held financial advisory services, and with Atlas Investment and a BA from Claremont McKenna College, USA.
avariety of roles including Purchasing Manager at Group now ABInvest where he was involved in Hikma Pharmaceuticals Limited, Strategy Manager merger and acquisition advisory services.
Prior to 2. michael raya atHikma Investment, General Manager of Hikma Atlas, Khalidhad managed several multinational Executive Vice President and CEO of the Farmaceutica and from 2007, Vice President of audit engagements at Arthur Andersen in Amman, USA Injectables.
In February 2009 Majda assumed Jordan.
Khalid is a founder and board member hercurrent position as Corporate Vice President, Michael joined Hikmas US subsidiary West-Ward ofthe Jordan Association for Management HumanResources.
in1992 from Vitarine Pharmaceuticals where he Accountants and a board member of the Jordan hadworked from 1984 until 1992 in various roles, Armed Forces and Security Apparatuses Credit including Vice President, Quality Control.
Khalid has an MBA from the University Michael worked at Schering-Plough and Hoffman ofHull, UK.
44 Section Four: Governance 4 She has been responsible for establishing a central 7. susan ringdal 9. fadi nassar HR function and implementing and consolidating Vice President, Investor Relations Corporate Vice President, Active anumber of group-wide HR initiatives including a and Group Goal Compliance Pharmaceutical Ingredients API compensation structure and performance evaluation Susan joined the Company as Investor Relations Fadi joined Hikma in 1988 and has worked in process.
Majda holds a Masters degree in Health Director in November 2005, having previously various roles within the Group including Operations, Economics and a BA from the American University of worked for the pharmaceutical distribution and retail Purchasing and Business Development.
She is currently enrolled in the DBA program pharmacy group Alliance UniChem plc as Investor promoted to Corporate Vice President, API in 2007. at Instituto DeImpressa, Madrid.
She also has experience as an Fadi holds a BSc in Chemical Engineering from equity analyst at Morgan Stanley in London.
Susan Newcastle University and an MA in Chemical 6.
Henry Knowles holds a BA in History from Cornell University and an Engineering from Leeds University.
Fadi is also General Counsel and Company Secretary MBA from London Business School.
agraduate of INSEADs International Executive Henry joined the Company as General Counsel and Program.
Before 8. dr. ibrahim Jalal joining Hikma, he worked for the international law 10. ragheb Al-shakhshir Senior Corporate Vice President, firm, Ashurst, where he specialised in corporate law.
Corporate Vice President, Technical Affairs Since joining Hikma, Henry has advised on all aspects Research and Development of the Groups business, including commercial Ibrahim joined Hikma in June 1979 as Technical negotiations, supervising corporate governance and Director and has held a variety of roles including Ragheb joined Hikma in 2000 as a Research & compliance and contributing to the execution of the Corporate Technical Vice President for Compliance Development Manager.
Prior to joining Hikma he Groups acquisition strategy.
Henry is admitted as a and Senior Corporate Vice President for R&D.
held a variety of roles as Senior Scientist at Novartis solicitor in England and Wales and holds an MA in He has played a leading role in Hikma securing Pharmaceuticals, and at Alcon Labs in the United Social and Political Science from Cambridge University.
FDA approval for its manufacturing units.
From 20032008 Ragheb led the Hikma R&D holds a PhD in Pharmacy from the University of Injectable team and from February 2009 assumed the Wisconsin-Madison USA.
responsibility of Corporate Vice President, Research & Development.
Ragheb has a PhD in Industrial and Physical Pharmacy from Purdue University, MS in Engineering from the University of MassachusettsAmherst and a BS in Chemical Engineering from the University of Wisconsin-Madison.
