Hikma Pharmaceuticals PLC Annual report 2010 remunerAtion Committee rePort Continued of issues of general operational risk when structuring incentives.
Performance-related pay targets are reviewed to ensure they are consistent with thegeneral principles of effective risk management set by the Company anddo not encourage short-term risk taking at the expense of long-term objectives.
In assessing the extent to which annual bonus and LTIPperformance targets have been achieved, the audited results of theCompany areused and performance criteria are independently reviewed by the Companys advisers.
remuneration policy 2010 Overall policy The Remuneration Committees policy during the year under review was to set the main elements of the remuneration package at the following quartiles in comparison to the Companys Comparator Group: Annual bonus Benefits Potential total short-term Potential annual Potential total Base salary potential Pension in kind remuneration available share awards compensation value Lower Quartile upper Quartile Lower Quartile median to upper Quartile median to to median to median upper Quartile upper Quartile This supports the performance-based culture of the Company.
fixed costs are minimised and The policy in respect of long-term incentives total short-term remuneration will only reach and exceed the median if the performance-based and potential compensation value is an bonus is earned for the relevant financial year.
extension of the policy on total short-term remuneration.
executives will only receive a market competitive package if the annual bonus and long-term incentives are earned.
Background There have been several general statements from shareholder bodies and institutional investors clarifying their expectations for remuneration in 2010 and 2011 and a subsequent revised UK Corporate Governance Code has been issued.
In formulating the application of its policy for 2010 and future years, the Remuneration Committee has been cognisant of the evolving landscape in remuneration developments.
The Remuneration Committee also believe that many of the principles proposed by the Walker Review, UK Corporate Governance Code and byinstitutional shareholders and their representative bodies are already in operation or embedded within the Companys remuneration framework, namely: the terms of reference for the remuneration Committee include the responsibility for setting the over-arching parameters of incentive reward for all senior employees, including those who could have a material impact on the risk profile of the Group: the remuneration Committee has amended the performance conditions for the LtiP following full shareholder consultation to include key financial performance metrics to encourage consistent and sustainable levels of Company performance and has ensured when selecting the targeted level of performance that it is consistent with the risk profile set by the Board for the Company and therefore does not encourage inappropriate risk taking by the executives see later for full details of the new performance conditions for the LtiP.
The overall economic environment, the business background and the principal risks facing the Company are described in detail in the Business Review on pages 11 and 31.
In assessing the performance priorities set for annual bonus the Remuneration Committee takes into account the general performance of the Company and the prevailing economic environment.
The key highlights of the Company for 2010 include: sales Growth of 14.8% from 2009.
Profit after tax of $98.8 million an increase of 27.2% from 2009. ePs Growth of 25% from 2009: and return on invested Capital of 12.4% 2009 10.6%.
56 Section Four: Governance 4 The Remuneration Committee feels that this level of performance in 2010 justifies the maximum on target bonus of 100% of salary for the Executive Directors.
Further, the Remuneration Committee has determined to award an additional bonus of 100% of salary to each of the Executive Directors total 200% of salary to recognise the exceptional performance of the Company during 2010 in relation to the above measures and also to recognise the achievement of the following important strategic goals by the executive team during 2010: Continuation of the menA consolidation strategy: transformation of the global injectables business through the agreement to acquire Baxters multi source injectables business successful implementation of a partnership for entry into the biosimilars market: development and implementation of key executive management responsibilities in line with the strategic direction: and ongoing improvement of financial processes.
2010 Comparator Group During 2009 the Company reviewed its Comparator Group to ensure that it remained appropriate for the Company on an ongoing basis, reflecting the increase in size of the Company and further internationalisation of the business.
The only amendment to the Comparator Group during the year was the removal of Sepracor Inc. due to its merger with Dainippon Sumitomo Pharma Co. Ltd, another entity.
The constituents of the Companys Comparator Group for benchmarking remuneration during 2010 were as follows: name name name Amylin Pharmaceuticals inc Hospira inc. sanofi Aventis AstraZeneca PLC impax Labs inc shire Pharmaceuticals PLC BtG PLC King Pharmaceuticals inc. uCB sA Crucell nv merck KgaA valeant Pharmaceutical international endo Pharmaceuticals Holdings mylan inc watson Pharmaceuticals inc forest Laboratories inc novartis AG Grilfols sA Prostraken Group PLC Factors the Remuneration Committee took into account when selecting the current Comparator Group included: the industry within which the Company operates, specifically taking into account both the international nature of the Companys business and its competitors: the international nature of the Companys current executive team and potential recruits to that team: the market capitalisation, turnover and number of employees of the Company: the consolidation in the pharmaceutical industry affecting the number of uK comparable companies: and the uK listing environment.
Throughout this report, references to quartiles are to quartiles in the Comparator Group.
The Comparator Group was used as the comparator group in respect of the total shareholder return TSR performance condition for awardsgranted in 2010 under the Hikma Pharmaceuticals PLC 2005 Long-Term Incentive Plan LTIP and will also be used in respect of the TSRcondition for the 2011 LTIP Awards.
The Company has historically used the same comparators for both benchmarking remuneration and the TSR performance condition aspect of awards granted during the relevant year, and will continue to do so in 2011.
Awards made under the LTIP in2010also have financial performance criteria details of which are set out on pages 60 to 61 of this report in addition to the TSR criterion.
TheCommittee intends to continue this practice in respect of future grants.
Ongoing review The Remuneration Committee continues to review the remuneration policy on an annual basis to ensure it remains appropriate.
This includes reviewing overall remuneration practices to ensure that they achieve the strategic aims of the Group and to confirm and ensure that, after taking account of all employment conditions, the remuneration of all employees, management and directors remains aligned.
In this way the policy for remuneration of executive directors is examined within the context of employment and remuneration polices across the Group.
In particular the Company has focused on increasing share ownership throughout the Group with wide access at management level to the Management Incentive Plan.
