Section Three: How do we act responsibly?
3 Since the Company was founded in 1979, reporting wehave been committed to honesty, For the fourth year, we continued to use the integrityand the highest possible standards Global Reporting Initiatives G3 guidelines as ineverything we do.
We are dedicated to abenchmark tool.
We remain focused on thewelfare and education of our employees, indicators relevant to our business and our committed to the communities in which stakeholders: these indicators cover community wework and determined to preserve and investment, environmental impacts, employees protectthe environment in which we operate.
These principles have guided us for the People past30years and will continue to do so in We have always recognized that our people thefuture.
We have a Our five-year Corporate Responsibility talented and diverse workforce, which CR plan, which takes us from 2010 to HiKmAs dAy reachedapproximately 5,400 employees in 2015, revolves around two broad themes, AGAinst diABetes 2010.
To successfully grow our business, we wellbeing and education, and four key Amman, Jordan are continuously seeking new ways to develop platforms, our people, our community, and reward our people.
Theseplatforms The aim of the campaign is to raise public reflect Hikmas genuine commitment to awareness about diabetes and to promote Developing our people ahealthy lifestyle to combat the spread itsstakeholders and its dedication to fully With our commitment to maintaining the ofone of the most challenging integrate CR within its business strategy.
highest quality standards and cGMP current We believe the CR Strategy in place will good manufacturing practices, technical further enhance Hikmas reputation, support training continued to be a top priority across both the global health and environment the Group in 2010.
Our Continuing Education agendas, and support a culture of global Scheme, which supports employees in community engagement.
We continuously fully-funded further education programmes, aimfor Hikma to be internationally alsocontinued successfully in 2010, as did our acknowledged as a committed and ongoing graduate development programmes responsibleglobal business.
