Hikma Pharmaceuticals PLC Annual report 2010 remunerAtion Committee rePort Continued The following chart sets out the level of release of existing LTIP awards if the Companys performance measured as at 31December 2010 continued until the end of the relevant performance period.
LTIP level of release 2010 100% LTIP Grant 2009 100% LTIP Grant 2008 100% LTIP Grant 2007 100% LTIP Grant 2007 LTIP Grant has been released in full see later section of the report.
2010 LTIP Grant is based 50% on TSR performance and 50% on financial performance.
It should be noted that the real value received by the Executive Directors under the share incentive arrangements will be dependent upon the degree to which the performance conditions are satisfied at the end of the three year performance period and the share price of the Company atthat time.
Basis of performance condition selection and measurement Comparative TSR was selected as a performance condition for the proposed awards by the Remuneration Committee as it ensures that the executives have outperformed their peers over the measurement period in delivering shareholder value before being entitled to receive any of theirawards irrespective of general market conditions.
The Committee believes that the financial metrics link the final award of the LTIPs more closely to the underlying financial performance of the Group.
The combination of TSR performance and financial metrics allows comparable performance and absolute performance to be taken into account in equal measure.
In respect of the 2008 and 2009 awards the Remuneration Committee will provide a full explanation and justification at the time of the release of each LTIP award as to why it believes that the underlying financial performance of the Company is consistent with the TSR performance.
In respect of the awards made in 2010 and onwards, the Group performance will be taken into account by the financial metrics.
The Remuneration Committee determines whether the performance conditions for share awards are satisfied.
The Committee has appointed  LLP to assist in the ongoing calculation of TSR and newly introduced financial metrics in accordance with the rules of theLTIP.
The Committee will review and, if appropriate, approve these figures prior to the release of any award.
Dilution In accordance with the guidelines set out by the Association of British Insurers ABI the Company can issue a maximum of 10% of its issued share capital in a rolling 10 year period to employees under all its share plans and a maximum of 5% of this 10% for discretionary share plans.
The following table summarises the current level of dilution resulting from Company share plans following the IPO: share awards as a percentage share awards as a percentage of issued share capital as at of issued share capital as at 31 december 2010 in a rolling 31 december 2010 granted type of plan 10 year period during the year All employee share Plans 10% limit 0% 0% discretionary share Plans 5% limit 2.36% 0.62% The Company has not implemented any all-employee share incentive arrangements.
It is the Companys current intention that LTIP awards granted in 2010 will be satisfied by newly issued shares.
62 Section Four: Governance 4 Post-employment benefits Policy 2010 and 2011 Lower quartile to median The Executive Directors participate in the Hikma Pharmaceuticals Defined Contribution Retirement Benefit Plan the Benefit Plan in accordance with the Rules of the Benefit Plan relevant to employees of the Group based in Jordan.
Under the Benefit Plan the Group matches employee contributions made to the Benefit Plan.
These are fixed at 5% of applicable salary.
Participants are entitled to 30% of the Groups contributions to the Benefit Plan after three years of employment with the Group, and an additional 10% in each subsequent year.
The participants interest in the Groups contribution fully vests after 10 years of employment.
The following table sets out the percentage post employment contributions compared to the Comparator Group.
said darwazah mazen darwazah Company 1.35% 1.86% median CG 35% 22% In addition, pursuant to applicable law, each of the Executive Directors receives contributions as a percentage of salary which is paid by the Group into government social security systems.
Benefits in kind Policy 2010 and 2011 Market practice The Company provides the normal benefits in kind for executives of this level in a company of this size, such as company cars, healthcare and life insurance.
Total compensation Policy 2010 and 2011 Median to upper quartile depending on performance The following charts show the value of each of the main elements of the remuneration package provided to the Executive Directors during the year ended 31 December 2010.
