HMV Group plc Annual report and accounts 2010 24 Board of Directors Simon Fox Robert Swannell Aged 49 Aged 59 Chief Executive Officer and Chairman Managing Director HMV UK & Ireland Robert Swannell was appointed to the Board as Chairman of Chairman on 2 February 2009.
He was formerly the Nomination Simon Fox was appointed to the Board with effect from 4 Chairman of Citis European Investment Bank and Committee September 2006 and became Chief Executive Officer on Vice-Chairman, Citi Europe.
He is Senior Independent 28 September 2006 and additionally Managing Director Director of The British Land Company PLC and of HMV UK and Ireland on 1 February 2007.
He was of 3i Group PLC and a member of the Takeover previously Chief Operating Officer for Kesa Electricals plc.
Prior to his appointment as COO of Kesa, he was Managing Director of Comet, which he led through its demerger from Kingfisher.
Prior to this he founded Office World, the UKs first out-of-town office supplies retailer.
He began his career as a graduate trainee at Security Pacific Bank and thereafter worked at Boston Consulting Group and Sandhurst Marketing plc.
Mr Fox was appointed a nonexecutive director of Guardian Media Group in May 2010.
Neil Bright Orna Ni-Chionna Aged 47 Aged 54 Group Finance Director Non-Executive Director Neil Bright was appointed to the Board as Group Appointed to the Board on 30 September 2009.
Chairman of the Finance Director in March 1998.
He joined HMV in Orna Ni-Chionna is a former Partner at McKinsey Remuneration August 1996 as Group Finance Director from its then & Company, where she specialised in serving retail Committee parent company, Thorn EMI plc where he was Group and consumer clients.
She is currently the Senior Member of the Planning Manager.
He is a Chartered Accountant, Independent Director of Northern Foods plc, where Audit and Nomination having trained and qualified with Coopers & Lybrand she has been a non-executive director since 2002: Committees in London.
He is a non-executive director and the was appointed a non-executive director of Royal Mail Chairman of the Audit Committee of Holidaybreak plc.
in May 2009: and is Chairman of Eden McCallums Advisory Board.
She was, until recently, the Senior Independent Director of Bupa and was a non-executive director of the Bank of Ireland UK Holdings plc and Bristol & West plc.
She has also served as a member of the UK Retail and Consumer Advisory Board of Apax Partners.
She is Chair of Trustees of the Soil Association.
HMV Group plc Annual report and accounts 2010 25 Christopher Rogers Andy Duncan Aged 50 Aged 47 Non-Executive Director Non-Executive Director Christopher Rogers was appointed to the Board Chairman of the Andy Duncan was appointed to the Board on Member of the on 1 October 2006.
He is Group Finance Director Audit Committee 13 March 2009.
He was Chief Executive of Channel 4 Audit, Nomination of Whitbread PLC, having been appointed in May from July 2004 until November 2009.
Prior to this he and Remuneration Member of the 2005.
Previously he was Group Finance Director was a member of the BBCs Executive Board from Committees Nomination of Woolworths Group plc and Chairman of the 2001 to 2004 as Director of Marketing, Communications and Remuneration Woolworths Group Entertainment and Wholesale and Audiences.
He also led the project to launch Committees Publishing businesses.
He qualified as a Chartered Freeview and was Chairman of the joint venture with Accountant with Price Waterhouse and joined BBC, Sky and Crown Castle for its first two years.
Kingfisher Group as Corporate Finance Manager Prior to that, from 1984 to 2001, he worked at Unilever in 1988.
Subsequent appointments included where he held a series of Senior Director positions.
Group Financial Controller at Kingfisher plc and He has also been Chairman of the Media Trust Finance Director and Commercial Director of since 2006.
Philip Rowley Aged 57 Non-Executive Director Philip Rowley was appointed to the Board on 1 October 2007 Senior Independent and was made Senior Independent Director in February Director 2010.
He was Chairman and CEO of AOL Europe until Member of the February 2007.
He is a qualified Chartered Accountant and Audit, Nomination was Group Finance Director of Kingfisher plc from 1998 to and Remuneration 2001.
Prior to that his roles included Executive Vice President Committees and Chief Financial Officer of EMI Music Worldwide, and Chief Operating Officer and CFO of Golden Books Family Entertainment, the largest childrens book publisher in the US.
He was also the co-founder and Managing Director of Tribeca Technologies, a New York-based technology company and a former non-executive director of Tradus plc previously QXL ricardo plc until its delisting in March 2008 and was until March 2010 Chairman of Skinkers Ltd.
He is currently a non-executive director of each of ARM Holdings Plc, Misys plc and Promethean World plc and Chairman of Livestation Limited, and is on the Board of trustees of Scidev.
net, the science and development network.
