46 Directors report The Directors submit their report and audited financial statements Growth of digital entertainment for the 52 weeks ended 24 April 2010, which were approved on Physical entertainment media is a key driver of footfall to the behalf of the Board on 29 June 2010.
Groups stores and of online customers to its various Internet sites.
Technological advances and changing consumer Principal activities and business review preferences have given rise to new methods of digital delivery, The principal activities of the Group are the retailing of both legal and illegal, of music, film, electronic games and pre-recorded music, video, electronic games and related books, thereby reducing the purchase of physical media formats.
entertainment products under the HMV and Fopp brands, the The Group has responded to these challenges by the launch retailing of books principally under the Waterstones brand and and development of its own websites and continued investment the operation of a number of live music venues and festivals.
to grow these businesses, however further unforeseen The Group has operations in seven countries, with the principal technological developments could have a further adverse impact markets being those of the UK and Canada.
on the Groups future profitability and cash flows.
During the period under review the Company purchased the entire issued share capital of MAMA Group Plc for a total Seasonality consideration of 46.0m.
Commentary on the strategy of the The business of the Group is highly seasonal with the Christmas Company, the performance of the Group during the year, likely season being the most important trading period in terms of future developments and details of the purchase of MAMA Group sales, profitability and cash flow for the HMV and Waterstones Plc can be found in the Chairmans Statement on pages 6 and 7, businesses.
Lower than expected performance in this period and the Business and Financial Review on pages 8 to 23, which may have an adverse impact on results for a full financial year.
are deemed to be incorporated by reference in and shall be deemed to form part of this report.
External factors Both the retail and live music markets are sensitive to economic Risks and uncertainties conditions and if the current economic downturn is prolonged The Board has a policy of continuous identification and review of this could further reduce consumer spending which could affect key business risks and uncertainties.
It oversees the development revenue and profit.
Other external factors which could affect of processes to ensure that these risks are managed the Group include acts of terrorism or war or an outbreak of a appropriately and operational management are delegated with pandemic disease which could reduce the number of customers the tasks of implementing these processes and reporting to the visiting the Groups stores and venues, causing a decline in Board on their outcomes.
The key risks identified by the Board revenue and profit are as follows: Credit risk and liquidity Competition The Group has adequate medium-term financing in place to The Group operates in highly competitive markets where, for support its business operations.
The Board regularly reviews certain of its product ranges at certain times in the product life and stress tests its liquidity and covenant headroom to ensure cycle, the Group must adapt and invest in strategies to remain compliance with its facilities.
In view of the global economic competitive with supermarket and pure Internet retailers.
In and financial conditions, the Board has assessed its exposure addition, such is the competitive nature of its markets that at times to counterparty risk and its treasury policies have been amended in the past, pressure has been brought to bear on the Groups to restrict counterparties with which deposits, investments and weaker competitors which has led to one-off closing or liquidation other transactions may be made.
activity for a limited period of time.
In the past, such competitor actions have adversely impacted the Groups pricing, margins and Failure of supply profitability which in the future, may also have an adverse impact The Group has agreements with key suppliers and an interruption on the Groups business and financial condition.
or loss of supply of core category products from these suppliers would affect the Groups ability to trade.
Damage to reputation or brands The HMV and Waterstones brands and the brands of the live music and festival companies are material assets of the Group and maintaining their reputation is key to the success of the Group.
Failure to protect these brands, an event that materially damaged the reputation of these brands and or a failure to sustain their appeal to customers could have an adverse impact on the financial performance of the Group.
47 Information Technology systems With regards to the appointment and replacement of Directors, The Group relies on a number of important IT systems, both the Company is governed by its Articles of Association, the for its stores and its Internet sites.
Any significant system Combined Code, the Companies Act 2006 and related legislation.
performance problems could affect the Groups ability to trade The Articles themselves may be amended by special resolution of as well as its profitability.
The powers of the Directors are detailed in the Corporate Governance Report on page 26.
Key personnel The Directors interests in the shares of the Company, The performance of the Group depends on its ability to continue together with their remuneration where applicable and further to attract, motivate and retain key head office and store staff.
details of their service agreements are detailed in the Directors The retail sector is very competitive and the Groups people are Remuneration Report on pages 30 to 39. frequently targeted by other companies for recruitment.
No Director, at any time during the period under review, had a material interest in any contracts with the Company or any of its Retail store network subsidiary undertakings, other than the Executive Directors who Retaining a portfolio of good quality real estate, in prime retail had such an interest through their service agreements with the areas and at commercially reasonable rates remains critical Company, details of which are summarised on pages 33 and 39. to the performance of the Group.
All of the Groups stores are None of the Directors or their families at any time during the held under operating leases and consequently the Group is period under review, or subsequently, were interested in any exposed to the extent that any stores become unviable as a shares of the Companys subsidiary undertakings.
result of adverse trading or rental inflation.
Over the last financial Each Director has been given an unlimited indemnity from year the Group has looked to limit its exposure by negotiating the Company in respect of certain losses which they may incur to shorter lease lengths and rents linked to turnover.
Where a store third parties in the course of acting as Directors of the Company location becomes surplus to requirements, the Groups policy of and any subsidiary undertaking in which they hold a directorship.
occupying prime, highly marketable locations serves to limit such lease exposure.
Principal shareholders As at 28 June 2010 the Company had been advised of the Strategic initiatives following holdings representing 3% or more in its issued In March 2010, a strategic plan was laid out for the continued Ordinary Shares: transformation of the Group, which included a number of key Number of Percentage initiatives for improving the financial performance of the Group Ordinary of issued over a three-year period.
The failure of one or more of these Shares share capital initiatives could result in an adverse impact on the profitability UBS Global Asset Management 54,821,697 12.94 and cash flows of the Group.
Standard Life Investments Ltd 45,390,160 10.71 Results and dividends Schroders plc 34,619,783 8.17 The consolidated profit after deducting taxation amounted to Blackrock Inc 24,022,040 5.67 49.2m 2009: 44.2m.
The Board of Directors recommends a Fidelity International Ltd 23,068,556 5.44 final dividend of 5.6p per Ordinary Share.
This together with the interim dividend of 1.8p, already declared and paid, makes a total Artemis Fund Managers 19,450,931 4.59 for the year of 7.4p per Ordinary Share 2009: 7.4p per Ordinary Legal & General Investment Share.
Subject to approval at the forthcoming Annual General Management Ltd 18,450,931 4.47 Meeting the final dividend will be paid on 9 November 2010 to those shareholders whose names are on the register of members on 1 October 2010.
Directors Orna Ni-Chionna was appointed as a Non-Executive Director on 30 September 2009, Gerry Johnson resigned as a Director on 14 January 2010 and Lesley Knox resigned as a Non-Executive Director on 1 February 2010.
All other Directors served throughout the year under review and details for all present Directors are listed, together with their biographical details, on pages 24 and 25.
The Directors have decided, to comply with the requirement introduced by the new UK Corporate Governance Code, that directors should be subject to annual election by shareholders.
Accordingly, all the Directors will be retiring and seeking re-election at the forthcoming AGM.
48 Directors report continued Policy on payment of creditors Share capital The Group does not impose standard payment terms on its At the Annual General Meeting held in September 2009, suppliers but agrees specific terms with each and ensures that shareholders authorised the Company to purchase up to a each supplier is made aware of such terms.
It is the Groups maximum of 42.3 million of its own Ordinary Shares, representing policy to pay its suppliers in accordance with the terms that they 10% of the issued share capital of the Company.
The Group had 62 days purchases outstanding at period under review the Company did not purchase any of its 24 April 2010 2009: 59 days, based on the trade creditors at that own shares for cancellation.
date and purchases made during the year.
The Company is a Details of the Companys share capital can be found in holding company and therefore has no trade creditors.
Note 27 which is incorporated by reference and deemed to be part of this report.
Since the end of the period under review the Financial instruments Company has not increased its issued share capital.
The Groups Treasury Department is principally responsible for The Company has one class of Ordinary Shares which carry managing financial risks to which the Group is exposed, such as no right to fixed income.
Each share carries the right to one vote funding risk, liquidity risk, interest rate risk, credit risk and foreign at general meetings of the Company.
The percentage issued exchange risk.
Treasury manages these risks using policies nominal value of the Ordinary Shares is 100% of the total approved by the Board.
issued nominal value of all share capital.
There are no specific Details of the Groups financial risk management policies can restrictions on the size of a holding nor on the transfer of shares, be found in Note 25 to the Accounts, a breakdown of the Groups which are both governed by the general provisions of the net debt position is found in Note 26 and interest charges can be Articles of Association of the Company and prevailing legislation.
found in Note 10 to the Accounts.
The Directors are not aware of any agreements between holders of the Companys shares that may result in restrictions on the Employee policies transfer of securities or on voting rights.
No person has any The Group aims to employ and develop the best people, putting special rights of control over the Companys share capital and them in the right positions with a significant level of delegated all issued shares are fully paid.
authority and supporting them with the infrastructure and Details of the employee share schemes are set out in technology required to perform at the highest levels and at the Note 28 and in the Directors Remuneration Report on pages lowest costs with the quickest response time.
30 to 39 both of which are incorporated by reference in and Responsibility for employment rests primarily with each shall be deemed to form part of this report.
business operation under the general guidance of central policy and procedural guidelines.
Group companies are committed to Charitable donations the maintenance of a work environment free of discrimination The Group made charitable donations of 13,000 in the period on the grounds of age, gender, nationality, ethnic or racial origin, under review 2009: 18,000.
It is Group policy not to make non-job related disability, sexual orientation or marital status.
donations to political parties or independent election candidates The Group gives full consideration to applications from and therefore no political donations were made during the period.
disabled persons where a disabled person can adequately fulfil The Group is also involved in charitable fundraising, details of the requirements of the job.
Where existing employees become which can be found in the Corporate Responsibility Statement disabled, it is the Groups policy, wherever practicable, to provide on page 45. continuing employment under normal terms and conditions and to provide training, career development and promotion to Significant agreements disabled employees wherever appropriate.
The Companys Senior Bank Facility agreement, details of which In order to promote employee involvement in the Group, can be found in Note 25 to the financial statements, contains regular meetings are held between local management and provisions entitling the counterparties to exercise termination or employees to allow a free flow of information and ideas.
other rights in the event of a change of control of the Company.
The Company encourages staff involvement in the Groups The rules of the Companys Annual Bonus Plan and performance via a combination of employee bonus and share share plans set out consequences of a change of control schemes.
During the year under review the Group operated a of the Company on the employees rights under the plans.
Share Incentive Plan, which ceased in April 2010 but which is All outstanding awards on the change of control will vest being replaced by a new Save as You Earn share option immediately to employees to the extent that any performance scheme for all UK employees subject to shareholder approval conditions are satisfied and, unless the Remuneration Committee at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting.
otherwise decides, will be pro-rated to the extent that the vesting period for each outstanding award has been completed at that time.
Details of payments to the Executive Directors under their service contracts as a result of a change of control can be found in the Directors Remuneration Report on page 33 and are deemed to be incorporated by reference in and shall be deemed to form part of this report.
49 Auditors Annual General Meeting The Directors who were members of the Board at the time of The Annual General Meeting of the Company will be approving the Directors report are listed on pages 24 and 25. held at 2.30pm on 9 September 2010 at Nomura House, Having made enquiries of fellow Directors and of the Companys 1 St Martins-le-Grand, London EC1A 4NT.
The special business to auditors, each of these Directors confirms that: be proposed at that meeting will be the renewal of the Directors authority to allot new Ordinary Shares and to disapply to the best of each Directors knowledge and belief, there is pre-emption rights in certain circumstances: the renewal of the no information relevant to the preparation of their report of Directors authority to buy back the Companys shares in the which the Companys auditors are unaware: and market: to avoid an inadvertent breach of Companies Act 2006, each Director has taken all steps a director might reasonably the renewal of the Groups authority to make political donations: be expected to have taken to be aware of relevant audit the adoption of the HMV Group Share Option Scheme 2010 information and to establish that the Companys auditors and the amendment of the Companys articles of association.
are aware of that information.
The Notice of Meeting and details of the special business to be proposed can be found in the accompanying letter A statement of the Directors responsibility for the consolidated to shareholders.
and Company financial statements can be found on page 50, which is deemed to be incorporated by reference in and shall By order of the Board be deemed to form part of this report.
Ernst & Young LLP have indicated their willingness to Elaine Marriner continue in office and ordinary resolutions reappointing them as Company Secretary auditors and authorising the Directors to fix their remuneration 29 June 2010 will be proposed at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting.
Shelley House, 24 York Road, Maidenhead, Berkshire SL6 1SR Going concern The Groups business activities, together with the factors likely to affect its future development, performance and position are set out in the Business and Financial Review on pages 8 to 23.
In addition, this report describes the management of risks and uncertainties, including credit risk and liquidity, with further information on the Groups borrowing facilities detailed in the financial statements see Note 25.
The Directors report that having reviewed current performance and forecast they have a reasonable expectation that the Group has adequate resources to continue in operational existence for the foreseeable future.
For this reason they continue to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the financial statements.
50 Statement of Directors responsibility The following statement, which should be read in conjunction The Directors are responsible for keeping adequate accounting with the Auditors statement of their responsibilities on page 51, is records which disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time, the made with a view to distinguishing for shareholders the respective financial position of the Company and of the Group and enable responsibilities of the Directors and the Auditors in relation to the them to ensure that the financial statements comply with the financial statements.
Companies Act 2006 as well as Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
The Directors are responsible for preparing the Annual They are also responsible for safeguarding the assets of the Report and the financial statements in accordance with Group and hence for taking reasonable steps for the prevention applicable United Kingdom law, the Disclosure and Transparency and detection of fraud and other irregularities.
Rules, the Listing Rules of the UK Listing Authority and those We confirm that, to the best of our knowledge: International Financial Reporting Standards as adopted by the European Union.
i the financial statements, prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards, present fairly the The Directors are required to prepare financial statements for assets, liabilities, financial position and profit of the Group each financial year which present a true and fair view of the taken as a whole: and financial position of the Company and of the Group and the financial performance and the cash flows of the Company and of ii the Directors Report includes a fair review of the the Group for that period.
In preparing those financial statements, development and performance of the business and the the Directors are required to: position of the Group, together with a description of the principal risks and uncertainties that the Group may face.
i select suitable accounting policies and then apply them consistently: By order of the Board ii present information, including accounting policies, in a Simon Fox Neil Bright manner that provides relevant, reliable, comparable and Chief Executive Officer Group Finance Director understandable information: 29 June 2010 iii provide additional disclosures when compliance with the specific requirements in IFRS is insufficient to enable users to understand the impact of particular transactions, other events and conditions on the entitys financial position and financial performance: iv state that the Company and the Group have complied with IFRS, subject to any material departures disclosed and explained in the financial statements: and v make judgements and estimates that are reasonable and prudent.
