Hochschild Mining plc 30 Annual Report & Accounts 2010 Assuring the health of our employees Corporate responsibility continued HEALTH AND HYGIENE Health indicators 2010 2009 2008 2007 Our Approach We believe that providing a safe working environment to our Average number of 2,961 2,690 2,851 2,505 employees is a basic right, and we therefore invest in reducing medicalattendances at the inherent risks associated with mining activities.
Peruvian operations and at San Jos per month In the first instance, the Group strives to avoid occupational illnesses by taking all necessary steps to provide a working Average number of 25.75 24.5 n a n a environment that minimises any risk to the health of its workers.
work-related incidences This area has been given increased focus during the year, hence requiring medical attention the renaming of the Health team to the Health & Hygiene team.
at Peruvian operations and The Group also employs dedicated personnel who are charged at San Jos per month with the provision of medical and occupational health services Average number of 237 406 238 224 toassure the wellbeing of those employed by the Group on an occupational health on-going basis.
examinations at the Groups wholly-owned The Health & Hygiene team at Hochschild look to incorporate Peruvian operations and best practices adopted throughout the industry and, to support Moris, per month this endeavour, the Group benets from its membership of the Sociedad Nacional fide Minera, Petroleo y Energa Sociedad Figure has been restated.
Nacional fide Mineria a trade association comprising approximately 60 mining companies with operations in Peru.
Developments during 2010 Aspart of its mission, the Sociedad seeks to contribute to the In the area of promoting hygienic working practices to prevent development of leading thinking in health management.
the incidence of occupational diseases: The Head of the Groups Health & Hygiene team is a qualied Continued progress was made in compiling a thorough audit Doctor who also acts as Head of the Occupational Health Group programme to assess occupational health risks at the Sociedad Nacional fide Mineria.
Personnel were recruited and equipment procured toimprove the quality of incident reporting 2010 performance X-ray equipment was acquired and personnel trained in its TARGET STATUS useat the Groups Mexican operations Implement the Occupational Health & Hygiene Scheduled for In conjunction with external consultants, the implementation module of SAP in Peru and Argentina H2 2011 of the Health & Hygiene SAP module was commenced.
Implement the Hygiene Programme In process in Argentina and Mexico 2011 targets Establish a blueprint for the Wellbeing Complete implementation of the Health & Hygiene SAP Programme to support the psychological module in Peru and Argentina wellbeing of workers for roll-out to other Progress further with the incorporation of Hygiene-related partsof the Group initiatives within the existing Health team Build upon the promising start made by the Wellbeing Programme in 2009 and to consider the implementation oftheprogramme in Argentina.
Below: Health team using X-ray equipment purchased during the year.
