Hochschild Mining plc 46 Annual Report & Accounts 2010 Senior management Ramn Bara Isac Burstein Chief Financial officer Vice President, Business Development Ramn Bara was appointed CFO of Hochschild Mining on 1 June Isac Burstein joined the Group as a geologist in 1995.
He has most recently served as CEO of Fosfatos del Pacico, current position, Isac served as Manager for Project Evaluation, a mining project in nothern Peru owned by Cementos Pacasmayo, Exploration Manager for Mexico, and Exploration Geologist.
an associate company of the Hochschild Group.
During 2008, Heholds a BSc in Geological Engineering from the Universidad Ramn was the General Manager for Hochschild Minings Nacional fide Ingenieria, an MSc in Geology from the University Mexican operations, having previously worked as Deputy CEO and ofMissouri and an MBA from Krannert School of Management, CFO of Cementos Pacasmayo.
Prior to joining Hochschild he was Purdue University.
Isac is on the Board of Gold Resource Corp. a Vice President of Debt Capital Markets with Deutsche Bank in New York for four years and a sales analyst with Banco Santander Raymond Jannas in Peru.
Ramn is an economics graduate from Universidad fide Vice President, Exploration & Geology Lima and holds an MBA from Columbia Business School.
Raymond Jannas joined Hochschild in 2007 after working for eightyears at Gold Fields Limited where he served as Worldwide Ernesto Balarezo Project Generation Manager between 2006 and 2007 and as Vice President, Operations SouthAmerica Exploration Manager.
Raymond has over 30 years Ernesto Balarezo joined the Hochschild Group in 1997.
Prior to experience as a geologist throughout the Americas.
He holds a hisappointment as Vice President of Operations in April 2010, BSc in Geology from the Universidad fide Chile and an MSc and heserved as General Manager of Hochschilds Peruvian operations PhD in Geology from Harvard University.
from March 2008 and as General Manager of the Companys Mexican operations from January 2007.
From 2003 to 2006, he Jos Augusto Palma worked in Cementos Pacasmayo, an associate company of the Vice President and General Counsel Hochschild Group, initially as CFO and later as Deputy CEO.
Prior Jos Augusto Palma joined Hochschild in July 2006 after a to joining the Group, he worked at Productos Favel from 1994 to 13-yearlegal career in the United States, where he was a partner 1997.
He also worked in the United States for three years, first at at the law rm of Swidler Berlin and subsequently, at the World the Texas A&M University and then at Nadisco Inc. Ernesto holds Bank.
He also served two years in the Government of Peru.
an MSc in Industrial Management and a BSc in Industrial Joshas Law degrees from Georgetown University and the Engineering from Texas A&M University.
Universidad Iberoamericana in Mexico and is admitted to practise as a lawyer in Mexico, New York and the District of Columbia.
Prior to his current role Jos served as Senior Adviser to the Executive Committee.
Eduardo Villar Vice President, Human Resources Eduardo Villar has been with the Group since 1996.
Prior to hiscurrent position, he served as Human Resources Manager, Deputy HR Manager and Legal Counsel.
Eduardo holds a Law Degree from the Universidad fide Lima and an MBA from the Universidad Peruana fide Ciencias Aplicadas.
