Corporate responsibility Hochschild Mining plc Unlocking value through exploration Annual Report & Accounts 2010 29 Assuring the safety of our employees SAFETY Safety indicators 2010 2009 Our Approach Our people and their safety remain of paramount importance for Fatalities 2 3 the Group and this is reected in everything that we do.
Ensuring Accidents leading to an absence 66 79 the safety of the Groups employees is considered a vital element of one day or more in measuring the successful achievement of corporate strategy 1 LTIFR 3.70 5.22 to which the Board and management are committed.
2 Accident Severity Index 777 1,485 During 2010 the Group has continued to invest in operating 3 controls and processes to ensure that the highest standards Accidentability Index 2.88 7.76 ofsafety are met.
1 Calculated as total number of accidents per million labour hours.
It is with sadness that the Group reports two fatalities during the 2 Calculated as total number of days lost per million labour hours.
In the first incident, a worker was fatally injured during the 3 Calculated as LTIFR x Accident Severity divided by 1,000. cleaning of a tank.
The second fatality, which also occurred at Developments during 2010 theAres mine, resulted from the injuries sustained by a loader Progress made at Arcata, Pallancata and San Jos on the operator after the vehicle he was driving collided with a section implementation of the integrated risk management system of the wall of a stope.
Circumstances leading to these tragic developed jointly with DNV events have been investigated by management with the resulting recommendations implemented.
In light of its ongoing success, the Group continued to offer monthly awards at each mining unit for the best worker and After each accident, the Group suspends operations at the mine best group of workers demonstrating high safety standards to conduct an internal review of the relevant safety procedures and to provide training.
Implementation of selected safety suggestions submitted by employees for the Luis Hochschild Safety Innovation Award Whilst management continually strives to achieve the corporate goal of zero fatalities, it is encouraged to report that steps taken In conjunction with EXPECTRA, a leading South African to embed a safety-first culture across the Group are yielding consultancy specialising in Occupational Health & Safety, the results with the accident frequency rate in 2010 reduced to less Group designed and ran a safety training programme enabling than half of 2007 levels.
mine personnel to provide safety training to others.
2010 performance 2011 targets 8% reduction in LTIFR Index.
TARGET STATUS In relation to the DNV Management Information System, A 10% reduction in LTIFR 29% reduction in LTIFR toachieve: achieved Level 5 at Ares Severity index These targets were not of less than 200 achieved due to the two Level 6 at San Jos fatalities during the year Accidentability index Level 7 at Arcata and Pallancata of less than 1 To continue offering the monthly safety awards Achieving Level 5 of To achieve OHSAS 18001 accreditation at Pallancata and San the DNV Management Jos and recertify Ares, Arcata and the Selene plant as OHSAS Information System at: 18001 compliant the Peruvian Pallancata and Arcata To provide Stage 2 training to emergency crews.
operations achieved Level 6 in Ares expected to achieve process Level 5 in 2011 the Argentinian operations Read more about The second launch of the Luis Hochschild Safety Innovation Award howwemitigate social ON-GOING TARGET and environmental Zero fatalities risks to our business onpages 42 to 43.
