Governance Hochschild Mining plc Unlocking value through exploration Annual Report & Accounts 2010 47 Directors report The Directors have pleasure in presenting their report for the DIRECTORS INTERESTS year ended 31 December 2010.
Details of the interests of those Directors serving at PRINCIPAL ACTIVITIES AND BUSINESS REVIEW 31 December 2010 in the Companys shares are shown below: No of ordinary Hochschild is a leading precious metals company with a shares as at primary focus on the exploration, mining, processing and No of ordinary 1 January shares as at 2010 or date of sale of silver and gold.
31 December appointment, if The Group has four underground mines in production 2010 later supported by fully developed infrastructure, three of which 1 Eduardo Hochschild 182,415,206 182,415,206 are located in southern Peru and the fourth in Argentina.
2 Roberto Daino 500,000 1,725,000 The Group also has one open pit mine in Mexico and numerous 3 projects and prospects at various stages of development.
Ignacio Bustamante 0 0 A number of these projects and prospects are structured as Sir Malcolm Field 14,285 14,285 joint ventures or option arrangements with local or overseas Jorge Born Jr. 0 0 mining partners, whilst others are owned and operated exclusively by the Group.
Nigel Moore 14,285 14,285 Dionisio Romero 100,000 100,000 In addition, the Group has strategic investments in a number of mining companies including Gold Resource Corporation.
Fred Vinton 0 0 The At a glance, Chief Executive Officers review and 1 Eduardo Hochschild holds an indirect interest in the Company through an Operating and exploration review sections of this Annual intermediate holding company which he controls and which owns the entire Report give an indication of the likely future developments issued share capital of Pelham Investment Corporation which, in turn, owns shares in the Company.
of the Company, and the Operating and exploration review, 2 Roberto Dainos interest is held by Navajo International Holdings Ltd. Corporate responsibility and Financial review and risk 3 Ignacio Bustamante was appointed a Director of the Company on 1 April 2010. management sections of this Annual Report on pages 11 to 43 contain the information required to be disclosed in this report In addition, during the year, Fred Vinton acquired an interest under section 417 of the Companies Act 2006.
These sections, in Convertible Bonds of the Company with a nominal value together with the Corporate Governance Report, are of $500,000.
incorporated into this report by reference.
There have been no changes in the above interests in the period from 31 December 2010 to 28 March 2011.
RESULTS AND DIVIDEND RELATIONSHIP AGREEMENT 1 The Groups adjusted EBITDA for the year amounted to $397.7 million 2009: $249.9 million.
Revenue for the year was Prior to the Companys IPO, Pelham Investment Corporation, $752.3 million 2009: $539.7 million and attributable profit to Eduardo Hochschild and the Company amongst others equity shareholders after tax before exceptional items was entered into a relationship agreement to regulate the ongoing $94.9 million 2009: $52.9million.
relationship between them the Relationship Agreement.
An interim dividend of $0.02 per share was paid to The principal purpose of the Relationship Agreement is to shareholders of the Company on 22 September 2010. ensure that the Group is capable of carrying on its business The Directors recommend the payment of a final dividend for the benefit of the shareholders of the Company as a whole.
Subject to Further details on the Relationship Agreement are set out in shareholders approving this recommendation at the the Corporate Governance Report on page 53. forthcoming Annual General Meeting AGM, the dividend will be paid in UK pounds sterling on 7 June 2011 to shareholders CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY CSR on the register at the close of business on 13 May 2011.
Shareholders may elect to receive their dividend in US dollars.
The Directors are committed to ensuring the health and The US dollar dividend will be converted into UK pounds safety of the Groups employees, operating the Groups sterling at the exchange rate prevailing at the time of payment.
business with respect for the environment and by actively engaging with local communities.
The Group has sought to DIRECTORS reinforce this commitment by allocating resources and undertaking numerous initiatives over many years.
The names and biographical details of the Directors serving The CSR Committee has continued to discharge its at the date of this report are given on page 45. responsibilities during the year by: All directors were in office for the duration of the year under monitoring the Groups performance against agreed review except for Ignacio Bustamante who was appointed policy on all CSR-related issues, particularly on safety by the Board on 1 April 2010.
Miguel Arambur and Ignacio and occupational health, community relations, and Rosado resigned as Directors of the Company on 31 March the environment: 2010 and 31 May 2010 respectively.
reviewing managements investigation of incidents or Ignacio Bustamante, together with all other directors on the accidents that occur, in order to assess whether policy Board, will be seeking re-election at the forthcoming AGM in improvements are required: and line with the recommendation of the UK Corporate Governance Code.
1 Calculated as profit from continuing operations before exceptional items, net finance costs and income tax plus depreciation and exploration expenses other than personnel and other exploration related fixed expenses.
Hochschild Mining plc 48 Annual Report & Accounts 2010 Directors report Continued reviewing compliance with national and international be sought on similar terms at this years AGM when the 2010 standards to ensure that effective systems of standards, Authority expires.
procedures and practices are in place at each of the Companys operations.
SUBSTANTIAL SHAREHOLDINGS Further details on the Groups activities in this area are given As at 28 March 2011 the Company had been notified of the in the corporate responsibility report on pages 26 to 35. following interests in the Companys Ordinary Share capital in accordance with Chapter 5 of the Financial Services Authoritys REHABILITATION OF LAND Disclosure Rules and Transparency Rules: The Company has a policy of closing mine facilities as the lives Percentage Number of of issued of the mines progress in order to reduce liabilities at the end Ordinary Shares share capital of the mine life.
Total current estimates of end-of-life closure costs for the Groups operations are about $62 million, which Eduardo Hochschild 182,415,206 53.96 includes amounts estimated for ongoing maintenance of sites.
Vanguard Group Inc. 37,291,964 11.03 A provision for this amount was made as at 31 December 2010 Prudential plc Group of Companies 19,695,592 5.82 2009: $61.3 million which was calculated following a review of the mines estimated closure costs by external consultants and Blackrock Global Funds 17,021,418 5.03 which has been updated by management.
Altima Global Special Situations Master Fund Limited 12,003,175 3.55 EMPLOYEES RELATED PARTY TRANSACTIONS Employees of Minera Santa Cruz, S. A. are voluntarily affiliated to the Asociacin Obrera Minera Argentina the Argentine Details of related party transactions undertaken during the Mineworkers Union.
The Groups employees at the Peruvian year under review are given in note 30 to the Consolidated operations became members of unions which were formed financial statements on pages 119 and 120. during 2008.
Details of how the Group engages with its employees are provided in the corporate responsibility report on pages 26 to 35.
ADDITIONAL STATUTORY INFORMATION This section provides information as at 31 December 2010 SUPPLIER PAYMENT POLICY which is required to be disclosed in the Directors report.
It is the Companys policy that, subject to compliance with References below to the Articles are to the Companys trading terms by the supplier, payments to suppliers are made Articles of Association as at the date of this report, copies of in accordance with terms and conditions agreed in advance.
which are available from the Registrar of Companies or on request from the Company Secretary.
At 31 December 2010, the Company had an average of 24 days purchases owed to trade creditors 2009: 42 days.
References below to the Companies Act are to the Companies Act 2006.
POLITICAL AND CHARITABLE DONATIONS a Structure of share capital The Company does not make political donations.
During the The Company has a single class of share capital which year, the Group expended $6.7 million 2009: $6 million on is divided into Ordinary Shares of 25p each, which are in social and community welfare activities surrounding its registered form.
Further information on the Companys share capital is provided in note 27 to the Consolidated financial statements.
EVENTS SINCE THE BALANCE SHEET DATE b Rights and obligations attaching to shares Details of events occurring since 31 December 2010 are set The rights attaching to the Ordinary Shares are described out in note 38 to the Consolidated financial statements on in full in the Articles.
In summary, on a show of hands and on a poll at a general meeting or class meeting, every member present in person or, SHARE CAPITAL subject to the below, by proxy, has one vote for every Ordinary Share held.
However, in the case of a vote on a show of hands, The issued share capital of the Company as at 1 January 2010 where a proxy has been appointed by more than one member was 338,085,226 Ordinary Shares of 25p each.
No shares were the proxy has one vote for and one vote against if the proxy has issued by the Company during the year to 31 December 2010. been instructed by one or more members to vote for the resolution and by one or more members to vote against the SHARE REPURCHASE AUTHORITY resolution.
Members are entitled to appoint a proxy to exercise all or any The Company obtained shareholder approval at the AGM held of their rights to attend and to speak and vote on their behalf in May 2010 for the repurchase of up to 33,808,522 Ordinary at a general meeting or class meeting.
A member that is a Shares which represents 9.99% of the Companys current corporation is entitled to appoint more than one individual to issued share capital the 2010 Authority.
Whilst no act on its behalf at a general meeting or class meetings as a purchases were made by the Company pursuant to the corporate representative.
2010 Authority, it is intended that shareholder consent will Governance Hochschild Mining plc Unlocking value through exploration Annual Report & Accounts 2010 49 c Transfer of shares g Appointment and replacement of Directors The relevant provisions of the Articles state that: Directors may be appointed by the Company by ordinary resolution or by the Board.
A Director appointed by the Board registration of a transfer of an uncertificated share may holds office only until the next following AGM and is then be refused in the circumstances set out in the CREST eligible for election by shareholders but is not taken Regulations and where, in the case of a transfer to joint into account in determining the Directors or the number holders, the number of joint holders to whom the of Directors who are to retire by rotation at that meeting.
uncertificated share is to be transferred exceeds four: The Directors may from time to time appoint one or more the Directors may, in their absolute discretion, decline to of their body to be the holder of any executive office for such register any transfer of any share which is not a fully paid period subject to the Companies Act and on such terms as share.
The Directors may also decline to recognise any they may determine and may revoke or terminate any such instrument of transfer relating to a certificated share unless appointment.
Each Director is subject to periodic re-election the instrument of transfer: i is duly stamped if required by shareholders at intervals of no more than every three years.
and is accompanied by the relevant share certificate s and Each Director other than the Chairman and any Director such other evidence of the right to transfer as the Directors holding executive office shall retire at each AGM following the may reasonably require: and ii is in respect of only one class ninth anniversary of the date on which he was elected by the of share.
The Directors may, in their absolute discretion, Company.
Under law, the Company is entitled to adopt such refuse to register a transfer if it is in favour of more than practices which are no less stringent than those set out in the four persons jointly: and Articles.
Accordingly, notwithstanding the above, the Board the Directors may decline to register a transfer of any of has decided to adopt early the recommendation of the UK the Companys shares by a person with a 0.25% interest Corporate Governance Code that all directors should seek if such a person has been served with a notice under the annual re-election by shareholders.
The Company may, in Companies Act after failure to provide the Company with accordance with and subject to the provisions of the information concerning interests in those shares required Companies Act by ordinary resolution of which special notice to be provided under the Companies Act.
has been given, remove any Director before the expiration of his term of office.
The office of Director shall be vacated if: i he is prohibited by law from acting as a Director: d Restrictions on voting ii he resigns or offers to resign and the Directors resolve to No member shall be entitled to vote at any general meeting accept such offer: iii he becomes bankrupt or compounds or class meeting in respect of any shares held by him if any with his creditors generally: iv a relevant order has been call or other sum then payable by him in respect of that share made by any court on the ground of mental disorder: v he is remains unpaid.
Currently, all issued shares are fully paid.
absent without permission of the Directors from meetings of In addition, no member shall be entitled to vote if he failed the Board for six months and the Directors resolve that his to provide the Company with information concerning office be vacated: vi his resignation is requested in writing by interests in those shares required to be provided under the not less than three quarters of the Directors for the time being: Companies Act.
or vii in the case of a Director other than the Chairman and any Director holding an executive office, if the Directors shall e Deadlines for voting rights resolve to require him to resign and within 30 days of being Votes are exercisable at the general meeting of the Company in given notice of such notice he so fails to do.
respect of which the business being voted upon is being heard.
Votes may be exercised in person, by proxy, or in relation to In addition, under the terms of the Relationship Agreement: corporate members, by a corporate representative.
Under the for as long as the Major Shareholder has an interest of 30% Articles, the deadline for delivering proxy forms cannot be or more in the Company, it is entitled to appoint up to two earlier than 48 hours excluding non-working days before Non-Executive Directors and to remove such Directors so the meeting for which the proxy is being appointed.
appointed: and for as long as the Major Shareholder has an interest of f Shareholder Agreements 15% or more of the Company, it is entitled to appoint up The Relationship Agreement entered into prior to the IPO to one Non-Executive Director and to remove such Director between, amongst others, the Major Shareholder as defined so appointed.
in the Relationship Agreement and Eduardo Hochschild collectively the Controlling Shareholders and the Company: h Amendment of Articles of Association contains provisions restricting the Controlling Shareholders Any amendments to the Articles may be made in accordance rights to exercise their voting rights to procure an with the provisions of the Companies Act by way of special amendment to the Articles that would be inconsistent with resolution.
the Relationship Agreement: and contains an undertaking by the Controlling Shareholders that they will, and will procure that their Associates will, abstain from voting on any resolution to approve a transaction with a related party as defined in the FSA Listing Rules involving the Controlling Shareholders or their Associates.
Hochschild Mining plc 50 Annual Report & Accounts 2010 Directors report Continued or if any person proposes a scheme with regard to such i Powers of the Directors acquisition other than an Exempt Newco Scheme as Subject to the Articles, the Companies Act and any directions defined and such offer or scheme having become given by special resolution, the business and affairs of the unconditional in all respects or having become effective Company shall be managed by the Directors who may exercise the right to cast more than 50% of the votes which may all such powers of the Company.
ordinarily be cast on a poll at a general meeting of the Subject to applicable statutes and other shareholders rights, Company Voting Rights has or will become unconditionally shares may be issued with such rights or restrictions as the vested in the offeror and or an associate as defined of the Company may by ordinary resolution decide, or in the absence offeror: or ii the right to cast more than 60% of the Voting of any such resolution, as the Directors may decide.
Rights has or will become unconditionally vested in the Subject to applicable statutes and any ordinary resolution of ultimate controlling shareholder of the Company at the time the Company, all unissued shares of the Company are at the of issue and or an associate as defined : or iii the right to disposal of the Directors.
At each AGM the Company puts in cast more than 50% of the Voting Rights has or will become place annual shareholder authority seeking shareholder unconditionally vested in any person or persons acting consent to allot unissued shares, in certain circumstances together by reason of the acquisition of the Companys for cash, in accordance with the guidelines of the Investor ordinary shares or Voting Rights from the ultimate Protection Committee.
controlling shareholder of the Company at the time of issue.
Condition 6 d of the terms and conditions of the bonds gives j Repurchase of shares bondholders an early redemption option early repayment at Subject to authorisation by shareholder resolution, the face value plus accrued interest upon a Change of Control Company may purchase its own shares in accordance with the occurring.
Any shares which have been bought back may Awards made under the Groups Long-Term Incentive Plan be held as treasury shares or, if not so held, must be cancelled shall, upon a change of control of the Company, vest early immediately upon completion of the purchase, thereby unless a replacement award is made.
Vesting will be reducing the amount of the Companys issued share capital.
prorated to take account of the proportion of the period from The Company currently has authority to buy back up to the award date to the normal vesting date falling prior to the 33,808,522 Ordinary Shares and which will expire at the 2011 change of control and the extent to which performance AGM.
The minimum price which must be paid for such shares conditions and any other conditions applying to the award is specified in the relevant shareholder resolution.
k Dividends and distributions Certain arrangements in respect of derivative instruments Subject to the provisions of the Companies Act, the Company entered into by the Group would terminate on the occurrence may by ordinary resolution from time to time declare dividends of a change of control thereby triggering an event of default not exceeding the amount recommended by the Directors.
The Directors may pay interim dividends whenever the financial position of the Company, in the opinion of the Directors, ESSENTIAL CONTRACTUAL AND OTHER justifies its payment.
If the Directors act in good faith, they are ARRANGEMENTS not liable to holders of shares with preferred or pari passu rights for losses arising from the payment of interim dividends The Directors consider that the following are the contractual on other shares.
and other arrangements to which group companies are a party and which are considered to be essential to the business: l Significant agreements the mining concessions and operating permits granted by the A change of control of the Company following a takeover bid governmental authorities in the jurisdictions of the Groups may cause a number of agreements to which the Company, operations: and or any of its trading subsidiaries, is party, to take effect, alter or terminate.
Such agreements include commercial collective agreements with trade unions in respect of the trading contracts, joint venture agreements and financing workers at the Groups mines in Peru.
Further details are given below of those arrangements where the impact may be considered to be POLICY ON FINANCIAL RISK MANAGEMENT significant in the context of the Group.
The Companys objectives and policies on financial risk Under the terms and conditions of the $115,000,000 5.75% management can be found in note 38 to the Consolidated Convertible Bonds due 2014, condition 5 a sets out the financial statements.
Information on the Companys exposures conversion rights of the holders of the bonds and the to foreign currency, commodity prices, credit, equity, liquidity, calculation of the conversion price payable.
The conversion interest rates and capital risks can be found in this note.
price will decrease if a Change of Control occurs.
Change of Control is defined in Condition 3 and Condition 5 b x sets out the consequential adjustment to the conversion price.
In summary, a Change of Control occurs if i an offer is made to all or as nearly as may be practicable all shareholders other than the offeror and or any of its associate to acquire all or a majority of the issued ordinary shares of the Company Governance Hochschild Mining plc Unlocking value through exploration Annual Report & Accounts 2010 51 DIRECTORS AND OFFICERS LIABILITY AUDITORS INSURANCE A resolution to reappoint Ernst & Young LLP as auditors will be put to shareholders at the forthcoming AGM.
Since Directors are increasingly being added as defendants in legal actions against companies, the Board believes that the risk of Directors being placed at significant personal financial AGM risk is increasing.
The Board also believes that the provision of appropriate indemnities and the funding of Directors defence The fifth AGM of the Company will be held at 10am on 2 June costs as permitted by legislation are reasonable protections 2011 at the offices of Linklaters LLP.
The shareholder circular for the Directors and are important to ensure that the incorporating the Notice of AGM will be available at Company continues to be able to attract and retain the highest www.
com calibre individuals as Directors.
The shareholder circular contains details on, amongst other Accordingly, the Articles contain a provision whereby each of things, the business to be considered at the meeting.
the Directors is indemnified by the Company in respect of liability in relation to: i any negligence, default, breach of duty STATEMENT ON DISCLOSURE OF INFORMATION or breach of trust relating to the Company or any associated TO AUDITORS company: ii execution of their duties as Directors of the Company: and iii the activities of the Company or any Having made enquiries of fellow Directors and of the associated company as trustee of an occupational pension Companys auditors, each Director confirms that to the best of scheme.
For these purposes, associated company has the his knowledge and belief, there is no relevant audit information meaning given to it by section 256 of the Companies Act 2006. of which the Companys auditors are unaware.
Furthermore, However, a Director will not be indemnified for any liability each Director has taken all the steps that he ought to have incurred by him to the Company or Group companies: any taken as a Director in order to make himself aware of any criminal or regulatory fines: the costs of defending any criminal relevant audit information and to establish that the Companys proceedings in which he is convicted: or the costs of defending auditors are aware of that information.
any civil proceedings brought by the Company in which This confirmation is given, and should be interpreted, in judgement is given against him.
accordance with the provisions of section 418 2 of the The Company has purchased and maintains liability insurance Companies Act 2006. for its Directors and officers as permitted by section 233 of the Companies Act 2006.
STATEMENT OF DIRECTORS RESPONSIBILITIES CONFLICTS OF INTEREST The Directors confirm that to the best of their knowledge: the financial statements, prepared in accordance with the The Companies Act 2006 allows Directors of public companies applicable set of accounting standards, give a true and fair to authorise conflicts and potential conflicts of interest of view of the assets, liabilities, financial position and profit or directors where the Companys Articles of Association contain loss of the Company and the undertakings included in the a provision to that effect.
Shareholders approved amendments consolidation taken as a whole: and to the Companys Articles of Association at the AGM held on 9 May 2008 which included provisions giving the Directors the Management report includes a fair review of the authority to authorise matters which may result in the development and performance of the business and the Directors breaching their duty to avoid a conflict of interest.
position of the Company and the undertakings included in the consolidation taken as a whole, together with a description of The Board has established effective procedures to enable the principal risks and uncertainties that they face.
the directors to notify the Company of any actual or potential conflict situations and for those situations to be reviewed and, DISCLAIMER if appropriate, to be authorised by the Board, subject to any conditions that may be considered appropriate.
In keeping with Neither the Company nor the Directors accept any liability the approach agreed by the Board, Directors conflicts were to any person in relation to this Annual Report except to reviewed during the year under review.
the extent that such liability could arise under English law.
Directors of the Company who have an interest in matters Accordingly, any liability to a person who has demonstrated under discussion at Board meetings are required to declare reliance on any untrue or misleading statement or omission this interest and to abstain from voting on the relevant matters.
shall be determined in accordance with section 90A of the Any related party transactions are approved by a committee Financial Services and Markets Act 2000. of the Board consisting solely of Independent Directors.
The names and functions of the current Directors of the In addition, the Directors will be able to impose limits or Company are set out on page 45 of this Annual Report.
conditions when giving any authorisation, if they think this is appropriate.
On behalf of the Board GOING CONCERN Raj Bhasin In light of cash flow forecasts prepared for the Board and the Company Secretary year-end cash balance, the Directors confirm that they are 28 March 2011 satisfied that the Company has sufficient resources to continue in operation for the foreseeable future.
Accordingly, they continue to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the financial statements.
