Chief Executive Ofcers review P n r o o i j t e a A c M r t Hochschild Mining plc Unlocking value through exploration Annual Report & Accounts 2010 07 Looking to the future Chief Executive Ofcers review STRATEGY MODEL Having joined Hochschild Mining over 19 years ago, it gives me great pleasure to present my first set of results as CEO.
I am pleased to announce strong full year performance, reecting thecontinuing operational and financial strength of our business.
2010 has been a pivotal year for the Group.
As a new management team, we agreed, with the full support of the Board, that focusing on an organic growth strategy, utilising ourstrong exploration and project development skills, would be the optimum strategy to continue generating value for all our CORE shareholders.
With our unrivalled knowledge of the Americas, 1 2 3 ASSETS premium land packages in many of the key geological areas and extensive existing infrastructure, we are strongly positioned to consolidate and grow our role as one of the leading mining operators in the Americas.
Organic growth strategy Our strategy for growth is based on three distinct pillars.
Firstly, we continue to optimise production and extend the life ofour core producing assets, Arcata, Pallancata and San Jos, which are the bedrock of the Company.
Last year, we committed Arcata 3 Optimise resource life to increasing resources and I am pleased to say that we achieved Pallancata 1 3 Improve productivity this, with resource life up 23% to 8.7 years in 2010.
Particularly San Jos good progress was made at San Jos, where we discovered nine new veins and two extensions in the second half of 2010, thus 3 Land package increasing total resource life at the property by 36% to 11.4 years 3 advanced projects 3 People 8 Company Makers and at Arcata, where we have increased the resource life by 30% 2 3 Incentives Solid pipeline to 9.6 years.
3 Budget The second pillar is our exploration pipeline which currently 3 Early stage contains highly promising targets at various stages of 3 Strong geological potential development across four key countries Peru, Argentina, Bolt-on M&A 3 3 Highly accretive Mexicoand Chile.
In 2010, we delivered some excellent results 3 Control particularly at our three advanced projects in our southern Perucluster Inmaculada, Azuca and Crespo, which all moved through scoping to pre-feasibility feasibility stage.
These three projects combined have the potential to add a minimum of 12million attributable silver equivalent ounces per year to our production prole starting from the end of 2013.
Furthermore, we have increased the number of Company Maker prospects which have the potential to deliver 2030 million silver equivalent ounces.
To support our 2011 exploration programme, we have once again signicantly increased our budget by a further 40% to$70 million, more than double 2009 levels.
Thiswill deliver an extensive drill programme covering 335,000metres at greeneld and browneld sites in our four target countries.
Finally, our corporate development team has a clear mandate topursue early stage, value accretive opportunities which displaysignicant geological potential and a clear path to Questions to the CEO: control.
We saw this strategy in action in September 2010 with What are the Companys key the acquisition of a controlling stake in the Inmaculada project, goalsfor2011?
following the announcement of positive scoping results by our joint venture partner International Minerals Corp IMZ.
2010 was extremely active and we expect 2011 to beanother busy year.
We are committed to achieving InChile, we exercised our option to increase ownership in the ourproduction target of 22.5 million attributable silver Victoria project to a controlling 60% stake and we also signed equivalent ounces and on extending the resource life anoption agreement for a 100% stake in the Valeriano ofour core operations.
Completing feasibility studies propertywhich is located in an extremely prospective location, at our advanced projects is a key objective for 2011 aswell as the delivery of our extensive exploration 27kilometres north of Barrick Gold Corporations Pascua programme I am 100% dedicated to ensuring that the Lamaproject.
$70 million budget produces tangible results.
We look forward toupdating you on our progress next year... & & o A M l p p i p x e E l i n e Hochschild Mining plc 08 Annual Report & Accounts 2010 Looking to the future Chief Executive Ofcers review Continued We have a proven track record of identifying early stage, value accretive opportunities demonstrated by our investments in WithHochschilds Lake Shore Gold and Gold Resource Corp.
The divestment of the Lake Shore Gold stake at an attractive price allowed us to secure highly talented team, funding for the development of our advanced projects as well as for our exploration strategy.
solid asset base 2010 overview Our operations delivered a robust performance in 2010 with andextensive production of 26.4 million attributable silver equivalent ounces comprised of 17.8 million ounces of silver and 144.4 thousand ounces of gold.
Pallancata and San Jos performed particularly projectpipeline, I am well with silver equivalent production up 19% and 8% year-onyear respectively.
The 6% year-on-year reduction in attributable silver equivalent production was mainly driven by a lower confident that we are contribution from the Arcata operation where we made the rmdecision of mining reserve grades in order to achieve in a strong position aconsistent and sustainable level of production.
As a result of the significant increase in precious metals prices tocreate further in the second half of 2010, our Ares mine in southern Peru continued to operate for the full year, albeit at a declining rate.
We are monitoring the grade and cost prole of Ares and Moris, stakeholder value.
our ageing open pit mine in Mexico, to ensure that they are in line with our policy of producing profitable ounces.
We expect both operations to cease producing in 2011.
For 2011, we are targeting production of 22.5 million ounces from current operations.
We expect stable production at Pallancata and San Jos and lower production at Arcata as wemove towards the reserve grade, as mentioned above.
Therecontinues to be enormous potential at Arcata with newhigh grade veins continuing to be found and resource lifenow ata very solid 9.6 years.
2010 was not only a year of high prices but also of high cost ination.
The management team has worked hard to contain controllable costs.
Unit costs at our underground operations increased 16%, mainly due to local price ination in Argentina, higher royalties and the longer than anticipated mine life at the high cost Ares operation.
Looking ahead, we are forecasting overall 2011 unit cost per tonne performance in Peru to be broadly in line with industry cost ination of around 10%, whilst in Argentina we expect the rate to continue rising as a result ofongoing local price ination of around 2530%.
Questions to the CEO: When do you expect your  tomovetoproduction?
Our three advanced projects in Peru, Inmaculada, Azuca and Crespo, are scheduled to commence production from the end of 2013.
Together, the three projects have the potential to contribute a minimum of 12 million attributable silver equivalent ounces to our annual production prole.
We believe that this is a 2 3% base case estimate with drilling at the three properties already delivering impressive results.
Increase in resource life of mine to 8.7 years Chief Executive Ofcers review Hochschild Mining plc Unlocking value through exploration Annual Report & Accounts 2010 09 The business is in sound financial health reporting record revenue Outlook of $752.3 million in 2010 up 39% year-on-year, underpinned by Mining is a long-term investment proposition and we have a higher realised silver and gold prices, which were up 83% and clear strategy for delivering long-term growth and value for 30% year-on-year respectively.
Attributable profit after tax rose shareholders.
2011 is already proving to be another promising 79% to $94.9 million 2009: $52.9 million with pre-exceptional year in this important phase of Hochschilds evolution: targeted EPS of $0.28 for the full year, up 65% on 2009. production of 22.5 million attributable silver equivalent ounces, key stage development at all three of our advanced projects At San Jos, I am also pleased that during 2010 we resolved the andan exploration programme which, with unprecedented lawsuit with our joint venture partner, Minera Andes Inc MAI investment, will aim to make tangible progress in 2011 and and we are fully committed to working together with MAI to beyond.
With Hochschilds highly talented team, solid asset deliver the mines full potential.
baseand extensive project pipeline set to deliver long-term We closed the year with an extremely substantial cash balance production growth, I am confident that we are in a strong of $525.5 million which enabled us to repay our entire existing position to create further stakeholder value.
I look forward syndicated loan facility of $114.3 million in January 2011 and toupdating you on our progress over the course of the year.
announce a 50% increase in our final dividend.
This strong cash balance, together with healthy operating cash ow which is up 52% to $304.2 million in 2010, gives us the financial exibility Ignacio Bustamante topursue our ambitious exploration programme in 2011 and Chief Executive officer beyond.
It also supports a full capital expenditure programme 2010: $156.5 million including investment in our existing 28 March 2011 producing assets, mine development, advanced exploration projects and equipment.
Finally, our strong capital position enables us to make selective, value accretive acquisitions whichare consistent with Group strategy.
More details on our operations... Below: Selene processing plant.
Hochschild Mining plc 10 Annual Report & Accounts 2010 Operating & exploration review Operating & exploration review 11 Current operations 16 Advanced projects 18 Exploration pipeline 24 Market & geographic overview
