Corporate responsibility Hochschild Mining plc Unlocking value through exploration Annual Report & Accounts 2010 27 Committed to safe & sustainable mining OUR APPROACH Since our listing in London in 2006, we have endeavoured tomaintain and reinforce our corporate values of respecting thewellbeing of our employees, the environment and the communities in which we operate.
By actively interacting with our people and the communities inwhich we operate, using natural resources efficiently and putting safety first, we can build our reputation as a trusted andresponsible mining company, factors that we believe will help usto grow.
What we mean by corporate responsibility To ensure that our values are adhered to, we have adopted a number of policies which demonstrate our commitment to: A safe and healthy workplace Above: Children from the local communities Managing and minimising the environmental impact of attending the mobile medical unit ouroperations donated by the Group.
Encouraging sustainability by respecting the communities inwhich we operate.
We prioritise these three areas in terms of resource allocation, with respect to governance, policy development, andmeasurement.
In its efforts to achieve the above objectives, we seek to: comply with all relevant legislation and leading  promote continuous improvement of our management systems with the aim of incorporating best practice adopt a proactive approach to preventing and managing, therisks that may limit the achievement of our corporate responsibility objectives encourage employees to adopt the Groups values through theuse of training and internal communications.
Governance The Board has ultimate responsibility for establishing Group policies relating to Corporate Social Responsibility CSR andensuring that national and international standards are met.
TheCSR Committee has been established as a formal committee of the Board with delegated responsibility for variousCSR issues, focusing on compliance with national and CR GOVERNANCE international standards and ensuring that appropriate systems and practices are in place Group-wide to ensure the effective BOARD OF DIRECTORS management of CSR-related risks.
The CSR Committee was chaired during the year under review by Roberto Daino who had Board-level responsibility for CSR issues.
Following Roberto Dainos change in role to that of a Non-Executive Director with CSR Committee effect from 1 January 2011, Eduardo Hochschild has taken on the chair of the Committee from that date.
CSR Working Group Community Environment Health and Human Safety Relations Hygiene Resources Hochschild Mining plc 28 Annual Report & Accounts 2010 Committed to safe & sustainable mining Corporate responsibility continued A working group of relevant personnel meets on a monthly monitored the status of the Group-wide initiatives undertaken basisto support the work of the CSR Committee and is tasked by management to raise the prole ofsafe working practice toconsider, at an operational level, local health and safety toassist with accident prevention and policies, environmental programmes, community relations considered updates from the work done across the Group andemployee matters.
These meetings are chaired by the tomanage community and labour relations.
Groups Head of CSR and are attended by the VP of Operations, Legal and HR.
Engaging with the outside world Despite our on-going target of zero fatalities, the Committee We recognise the potential to affect the people that work in, issaddened to report two incidents leading to loss of life andlive near, our operations.
The Board is committed to preventing accidents Within this report, we highlight the initiatives we have in place atthe Groups operations and has overseen thorough tounderstand these stakeholders, and use this insight to inform investigations into the cause of the fatalities as well as our approach to many of the issues discussed in this part of our theimplementation of theassociated recommendations.
report, from safety to community engagement.
The CSR Committees work in 2010 We also recognise that the mix of in-house tools, such as our Organisational Climate Survey, and working in partnership with During the year, the CSR Committee: trade bodies such as the Sociedad Nacional fide Mineria both of approved the 2009 CSR Report which are referred to on pages 3031, various governmental oversaw the investigations into the two fatalities that occurred authorities, charities and NGOs, provide invaluable insight for during the year and considered the action plans to implement our business and the best results for our stakeholders.
the associated recommendations Performance indicators monitored the execution of the yearly plan in each of the four We continue to make progress in measuring our performance key areas of focus against our corporate responsibility objectives.
Where Groupconsidered the on-going progress of the implementation wide information is not available, the Report gives performance ofthesafety management information system designed indicators in respect of the Peruvian operations, which represent inconjunction with Det Norske Veritas DNV approximately 75% of the Groups attributable production.
Below: Members of the community close toArcata with a Hochschild sponsoreddoctor.
