GOVERNANCE Statement of directors responsibilities The directors are responsible for preparing the annual report, the directors The directors are responsible for keeping adequate accounting records remuneration report and the financial statements in accordance with that are suf cient to show and explain the Companys transactions and applicable law and regulations.
disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the financial position of Company law requires the directors to prepare financial statements for the Company and the Group and enable them to ensure that the financial each financial year.
Under that law the directors have prepared the Group statements and the Directors remuneration report comply with the and Parent Company financial statements in accordance with International Companies Act 2006 and, as regards the Group financial statements, Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs as adopted by the European Union.
Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
They are also responsible for safeguarding Under company law the directors must not approve the financial the assets of the Company and the Group and hence for taking reasonable statements unless they are satis ed that they give a true and fair view steps for the prevention and detection of fraud and other irregularities.
of the state of affairs of the Group and the Company and of the pro t or The directors are responsible for the maintenance and integrity of loss of the Group for that period.
In preparing these financial statements, the Companys website.
Legislation in the United Kingdom governing the the directors are required to: preparation and dissemination of financial statements may differ from s elect suitable accounting policies and then apply them consistently: legislation in other jurisdictions.
m ake judgements and accounting estimates that are reasonable and Each of the directors, whose names and functions are listed on page 34, prudent: con rm that to the best of their knowledge: s tate whether applicable IFRSs as adopted by the European Union t he Group financial statements, which have been prepared in have been followed, subject to any material departures disclosed and accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the EU, give a true and fair view explained in the financial statements: and of the assets, liabilities, financial position and pro t of the Group: and p repare the financial statements on the going concern basis unless it is t he directors report includes a fair review of the development and inappropriate to presume that the Company will continue in business.
performance of the business and the position of the Group, together with a description of the principal risks and uncertainties that it faces.
52 Home Retail Group Annual Report 2010 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Independent auditors report to the members of Home Retail Group plc Group We have audited the Group consolidated financial statements of Home Retail Group plc for the 52 weeks ended 27 February 2010, which comprise the consolidated income statement, the consolidated statement of comprehensive income, the consolidated balance sheet, the consolidated statement of changes in equity, the consolidated statement of cash ows, and the related notes.
The financial reporting framework that has been applied in their preparation is applicable law and International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs as adopted by the European Union.
Respective responsibilities of directors and auditors As explained more fully in the statement of directors responsibilities, the directors are responsible for the preparation of the Group consolidated financial statements and for being satis ed that they give a true and fair view.
Our responsibility is to audit the Group consolidated financial statements in accordance with applicable law and International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland.
Those standards require us to comply with the Auditing Practices Boards Ethical Standards for Auditors.
This report, including the opinions, has been prepared for and only for the Companys members as a body in accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006 and for no other purpose.
We do not, in giving these opinions, accept or assume responsibility for any other purpose or to any other person to whom this report is shown or into whose hands it may come save where expressly agreed by our prior consent in writing.
Scope of the audit of the financial statements An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements suf cient to give reasonable assurance that the financial statements are free from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or error.
This includes an assessment of: whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the Groups circumstances and have been consistently applied and adequately disclosed: the reasonableness of signi cant accounting estimates made by the directors: and the overall presentation of the financial statements.
Opinion on financial statements In our opinion the Group consolidated financial statements: gi five a true and fair view of the state of the Groups affairs as at 27 February 2010 and of its pro t and cash ows for the 52 weeks then ended: have been properly prepared in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the European Union: and have b een prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006 and Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
Opinion on other matters prescribed by the Companies Act 2006 In our opinion: t he information given in the directors report for the financial year for which the Group consolidated financial statements are prepared is consistent with the Group consolidated financial statements.
Matters on which we are required to report by exception We have nothing to report in respect of the following: Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, in our opinion: ce rtain disclosures of directors remuneration speci ed by law are not made: or w e have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit.
Under the Listing Rules we are required to review: the directors statement in relation to going concern: and t he part of the corporate governance statement relating to the Companys compliance with the nine provisions of the June 2008 Combined Code speci ed for our review.
Other matter We have reported separately on the Parent Company financial statements of Home Retail Group plc for the 52 weeks ended 27 February 2010 and on the information in the directors remuneration report that is described as having been audited.
Andrew Paynter Senior Statutory Auditor for and on behalf of  LLP Chartered Accountants and Statutory Auditors London 28 April 2010 Home Retail Group Annual Report 2010 53
