GOVERNANCE Directors report The directors present their report and the audited financial statements for Number of ordinary shares Number of ordinary shares at 27 February 2010 at 28 April 2010 the 52 weeks ended 27 February 2010 the period.
Terry Duddy 2,183,932 2,236,158 Principal activities and business review Richard Ashton 571,387 598,152 The Groups principal activities comprise home and general merchandise retailing.
The chairmans statement, review of the business and financial Oliver Stocken 126,936 140,353 statements report on performance of the business during the period, the position at the period end, likely future developments, the principal risks John Coombe 55,844 61,969 and uncertainties facing the Group, financial key performance indicators and charitable donations and are incorporated by reference into this Penny Hughes 15,250 21,375 directors report as is the Groups statement on corporate governance.
There were no material acquisitions or disposals during the period.
Mike Darcey, on his appointment on 20 April 2010 and as at 28 April 2010, had no bene cial or non-bene cial interests in Home Retail Group plc shares.
Pro t and dividends The Groups consolidated income statement on page 54 shows a pro t Substantial shareholdings for the period of 209.8m.
The directors recommend the payment of a As at 28 April 2010, the Company had been noti ed under Rule 5 of final dividend of 10.0p per ordinary share, to be paid on 21 July 2010 to the Financial Services Authoritys Disclosure and Transparency Rules shareholders on the register at the close of business on 21 May 2010. of the following holdings of voting rights in the issued share capital of An interim dividend of 4.7p per ordinary share was paid on 20 January 2010 the Company: giving a total dividend for the year of 14.7p per ordinary share.
Total number of Percentage of voting rights total voting ordinary shares rights % Directors The names and biographical details of the directors as at the end of the Schroders plc 87,463,013 9.99 period are shown in the Board of Directors and Operating Board section on pages 34 and 35.
On 1 July 2009, Andy Hornby resigned from the BlackRock Investment Management Board.
On 20 April 2010, Mike Darcey was appointed to the Board as a UK Limited 63,137,923 7.20 non-executive director.
Particulars of directors remuneration are shown Taube Hodson Stonex Partners LLP 43,983,617 5.01 in the directors remuneration report on pages 43 to 51.
Details of the service contracts of the directors, and how a change of control will affect Legal and General Group plc 34,590,018 3.94 the service contracts of the executive directors, are summarised within the directors remuneration report.
Neither contract for the executive Share capital and control directors provides for extended notice periods or compensation in the As at 28 April 2010, the Companys issued share capital comprised a single event of termination or a change of control.
class of shares, referred to as ordinary shares.
Details of the ordinary share The directors retiring at the 2010 Annual General Meeting are Penny capital can be found in note 27 to the consolidated financial statements Hughes who, being eligible, offers herself for re-election, and Mike Darcey, on page 91. who will seek election to the Board.
The rights and obligations attaching to the shares are more fully set out During the period, the Group maintained liability insurance and in the Articles of Association of the Company.
There are no restrictions on third-party indemni cation provisions for its directors, under which the the transfer of ordinary shares in the Company other than the following: Company has agreed to indemnify the directors to the extent permitted by certain restrictions may from time to time be imposed by laws and law in respect of all liabilities to third parties arising out of, or in connection regulations such as insider trading laws : and with, the execution of their powers, duties and responsibilities as directors pursuant to the Listing Rules of the Financial Services Authority, of the Company and any of its associated companies.
These indemnities the Company requires certain employees to seek the Companys are Qualifying Third-party Indemnity Provisions as fide ned in Section 234 permission to deal in the Companys ordinary shares.
of the Companies Act 2006 and copies are available for inspection at the registered of ce of the Company during business hours on any weekday The Company is not aware of any agreements between shareholders which except public holidays.
may result in restrictions on the transfer of securities and or voting rights.
There are no shareholdings which carry special rights relating to control of Directors interests the Company.
A change of control of the Company following a takeover bid The bene cial interests of the directors, together with non-bene cial may cause a number of agreements to which the Company or its trading interests in Home Retail Group plc shares, are shown below: subsidiaries is party to take effect, alter or terminate.
In the context of the Company as a whole, these agreements are not considered to be signi cant.
Purchase of own shares At the Annual General Meeting of the Company held on 1 July 2009, authority was given for the Company to purchase, in the market, up to 87,000,000 ordinary shares of 10p each.
The Company did not use this 36 Home Retail Group Annual Report 2010 GOVERNANCE authority to make any purchases of its own shares during the period.
At the Trade creditor days of the Group at 27 February 2010 were 51 2009: 51, Annual General Meeting to be held on 30 June 2010, shareholders will be based on the ratio of Group trade creditors at the end of the year to the asked to give a similar authority, details of which are contained in the amounts invoiced during the year by trade suppliers.
The Company has Notice of Meeting.
As stated in the business review, over the next 12 months no trade creditors.
up to 150m of capital will be returned to shareholders through a share buy-back programme.
Articles of Association Details of the Companys interests in its own shares are set out in The Articles of Association set out the internal regulation of the Company note 28 to the consolidated financial statements on page 92. and cover such matters as the rights of shareholders, the appointment or removal of directors and the conduct of the Board and general meetings.
Employee share plans Copies are available upon request and are displayed on the Companys Some of the Companys employee share plans include restrictions on the website at www.
In accordance with the Articles transfer of shares while the shares are subject to the plan.
As described in of Association, directors can be appointed or removed by the Board or the directors remuneration report, non-executive directors received part shareholders in general meeting.
Amendments to the Articles of of their fees in shares, which may not normally be transferred during a Association must be approved by at least 75% of those voting in person directors period of of ce.
or by proxy at a general meeting of the Company.
Subject to company law Where, under an employee share plan operated by the Company, and the Articles of Association, the directors may exercise all the powers of participants are the bene cial owners of the shares but not the registered the Company and may delegate authorities to committees.
Details of the owners, the voting rights are normally exercised by the registered owner, main Board committees can be found in the corporate governance report at the direction of the participant.
All of the Companys share plans contain provisions relating to a change At the 2010 Annual General Meeting a special resolution, as set out in of control.
Outstanding awards and options would normally vest and the Notice of Meeting, will be put to shareholders proposing the adoption become exercisable on a change of control, subject to the satisfaction of of new Articles of Association, which will incorporate amendments to the any performance conditions at that time.
current Articles of Association to re ect the implementation in the UK in 2009 of the Shareholder Rights Directive and the remaining provisions of Political donations the Companies Act 2006.
The Group has made no political donations and incurred no items of political expenditure during the period.
Annual General Meeting The Annual General Meeting of the Company will be held at the Jurys Inn Employees Hotel, Midsummer Boulevard, Milton Keynes MK9 2HP, commencing at The Group has in place measures to provide its employees with information 11.00 am on Wednesday 30 June 2010.
The Notice of Meeting is included on matters of concern to them as employees, including consulting in a separate circular to shareholders which accompanies this annual report.
employees or their representatives on a regular basis so that the views of It is also available on the Companys website at www.
employees can be taken into account in making decisions which are likely to affect their interests.
Various communication routes are made available Financial risk management to employees to give them awareness of the financial and economic The financial risk management objectives and policies of the Group and the factors affecting the performance of the Company and employees are exposure of the Group to price, credit, liquidity and cash ow are set out in also encouraged to be involved in the Companys performance through note 4 to the consolidated financial statements on pages 68 to 71. a Save as You Earn share scheme.
The Group has a policy in place for giving full and fair consideration to Relevant audit information applications for employment by the Company made by disabled persons, As at 28 April 2010, so far as each director is aware, there is no relevant having regard to their particular aptitudes and abilities, and for continuing audit information of which the auditors are unaware and each director has the employment of, and for arranging appropriate training for, employees taken all steps that he or she ought to have taken as a director in order to of the Company who have become disabled persons during the period make himself or herself aware of any relevant audit information and to when they were employed by the Company.
The policy also covers the ensure that the auditors are aware of that information.
training, career development and promotion of disabled persons employed by the Company.
Auditors The auditors,  LLP, have indicated their willingness Creditor payment to continue in of ce and a resolution that they be reappointed will be For all trade creditors, it is, and will continue to be for the next financial proposed at the Annual General Meeting.
year, Group policy to: agree and con rm the terms of payment at the commencement By order of the Board Gordon Bentley Registered Of ce: of business with that supplier: Secretary Avebury pay suppliers in accordance with applicable terms: and 28 April 2010 489-499 Avebury continually review the payment procedures and liaise with suppliers Boulevard as a means of eliminating dif culties and maintaining a good working Milton Keynes relationship.
MK9 2NW Home Retail Group Annual Report 2010 37
