REVIEW OF THE BUSINESS Our product markets Home Retail Group operates in the home and general merchandise market, worth approximately 58bn in terms of UK retail sales.
We are the leader in this market, with an PRODUCT MARKETS approximate 10% share.
The overall market declined by around 3% in calendar year 2009.
Group Market The market can be analysed into various Argos Homebase position size bn product categories.
A summary of these, including where products are sold at Argos, Home enhancement Homebase or both, the Groups overall share Housewares 1 9.0 position, and the market size of each product Furniture 1 7.7 category, is as follows: Home improvement DIY tted kitchens bathrooms 2 11.1 Horticulture, garden furniture and outdoor living 2 3.5 Housewares The housewares market is relatively fragmented, Sub total 31.3 according to analysis by Verdict Research, with the 10 largest retailers accounting for General merchandise over 40% of the market.
Argos is market leader, Small domestic appliances 1 1.3 with Homebase adding further Group scale.
Consumer electronics 2 15.1 The competition base is very broad across the Large domestic appliances 3 3.6 department stores John Lewis, Marks & Spencer, Toys 1 2.3 House of Fraser, Debenhams and Bhs, as well as Jewellery 1 3.6 fashion and home retailer Next, some national Sports and leisure equipment 1 1.1 specialists IKEA, Dunelm, the supermarkets Tesco, Asda, Sainsbury and some broader Sub total 27.0 generalists Wilkinson, Matalan, TK Maxx.
Specialist independents are estimated to Total 58.3 account for around one-third of the market.
The housewares market in calendar year Note: All market positions are for calendar year 2009 and by retail sales except for jewellery, which is measured by volume.
2009 was estimated to have experienced a low The market sizes and positions quoted above are taken from reports provided by Verdict, Mintel, NPD GfK and the EPOS tracked markets.
These reports are subject to prior year restatements upon more current data becoming available.
single-digit decrease in retail sales.
Furniture Home improvement The structure of the furniture market shows The largest part of the home improvement fairly close resemblance to the housewares market is the DIY category excluding furniture market according to analysis by Verdict and homewares.
There are four national Research, with the 10 largest retailers accounting specialists B&Q, Homebase, Wickes and Focus for approaching 40% of the market.
Argos is accounting for 45% of the market according to market leader, with Homebase again adding Verdict Research, with other national operators further Group scale.
The competition base has selling products in this category being Argos, a number of national specialists DFS, IKEA, Wilkinson, Robert Dyas, Wyevale, Topps and Homestyle Group, Magnet, Furniture Village, Dobbies.
Approximately 50% of the DIY market Dreams, with other signi cant players being is estimated to be accounted for by specialist B&Q, M&S, John Lewis and Next.
The home improvement market The total furniture market in calendar year also includes the kitchens, bathrooms and 2009 was estimated to have experienced a mid oorcoverings excluding carpets categories, single-digit decline in total retail sales, with with additional national competitors in several major sub-categories declining by these areas including Magnet, Howden, double-digit rates.
The home improvement market in calendar year 2009 was estimated to have experienced a low single-digit decline in total retail sales.
Home Retail Group Annual Report 2010 11 REVIEW OF THE BUSINESS Our product markets continued Horticulture, garden furniture and specialist independents, while other online outdoor living retailers represent a small but growing share This market according to Verdict Research, of this market.
is mainly dominated by the four national DIY The consumer electronics market in calendar specialists, with Argos and the two garden centre year 2009 was estimated to have experienced specialists Wyevale and Dobbies also being a mid single-digit decline in total retail sales, signi cant retailers of products in this category.
This was largely Approximately one-third of this market is driven by the video gaming category as well as Hear more about our business, estimated to be accounted for by specialist the of ce and telecoms categories, with a more with video interviews and case independents.
marginal decline in the other major areas of studies in our illustrated review, The horticulture, garden furniture and consumer electronics.
available online from our outdoor living market in calendar year 2009 corporate website or at was estimated to have experienced a low Large domestic appliances www.
com double-digit increase in total retail sales, This market is again relatively concentrated reports bene ting from signi cantly better weather according to GfK, with the two major electrical conditions in Spring 2009. specialists being then followed by Argos.
Department stores such as John Lewis, DIY and Small domestic appliances kitchen retailers including Homebase, and to This market is relatively concentrated according a lesser extent the supermarkets and home to GfK, with Argos being the clear market leader shopping businesses, represent other signi cant with a substantial market share.
Competition is retailers in this category.
Approximately mainly in the form of the electrical specialists one-third of the large domestic appliances Currys and Comet, Boots in terms of personal market would be accounted for by specialist care appliances, the supermarkets, and the independents.
A relatively small proportion The large domestic appliances market in of the market would be accounted for by calendar year 2009 was estimated to have specialist independents.
experienced a low single-digit increase in total The small domestic appliances market retail sales, according to EPOS tracked markets.
in calendar year 2009 was estimated to have experienced a low single-digit decline in total Toys retail sales, according to Verdict Research.
The toy market is relatively concentrated according to analysis by NPD, with the eight Consumer electronics largest retailers accounting for over 60% of This market is also relatively concentrated the market.
Argos is the market leader, with according to GfK, with Currys being the market Toys R Us as the other major national specialist, leader, followed by Argos and then Comet.
Other following the demise of Woolworths.
The Early competition is mainly in the form of John Lewis Learning Centre, Toymaster, The Entertainer and and other department stores, the supermarkets, the Disney Store are other signi cant specialists, and national specialists in certain sub-categories with the supermarkets also being prominent such as Game in video gaming and Jessops in toy retailers.
Around onefifth of the consumer The toy market in calendar year 2009 was electronics market would be accounted for by estimated to have experienced a mid single-digit decline in total retail sales.
12 Home Retail Group Annual Report 2010 REVIEW OF THE BUSINESS Jewellery Although retail conditions are likely to remain Market competitor analysis on the jewellery tough in the near term, the longer-term outlook market is based on volume sold rather than for market growth remains positive.
A return to total retail sales value.
According to research long-term growth in the general merchandise by Keynote, this is a highly concentrated market and home enhancement markets would be with Argos being the market leader by volume, expected on account of population growth and followed by H. Samuel.
Other major retailers an increasing number of households, a reversion of jewellery volumes include fashion jewellery back to the general trend of rising overall shops, department stores, and specialist household disposable income, technology jewellers selling a greater proportion of precious changes and other new product developments, metal jewellery such as Ernest Jones Leslie Davis as well as the need to replace many existing and Goldsmiths.
The jewellery market in calendar year 2009 Home Retail Groups key strengths mean was estimated to have experienced a low we are well equipped for the future.
Our strong single-digit decline in total retail sales according retail brands, multi-channel offering, extensive to Keynote.
product choice and competitive pricing, together with a strong financial position, mean we are Sports and leisure equipment relatively well placed to trade through the This market is relatively fragmented according downturn and bene t from renewed consumer to analysis by Verdict Research, with Argos being con dence later in the cycle.
While we have the market leader.
Other sellers of equipment leading positions in multiple product markets, include the predominantly sports clothing there remains substantial headroom for growth retailers Sports Direct, JJB Sports, JD Sports, the in many categories.
The more fragmented department stores, and retailers such as Halfords markets provide growth opportunities, and and Blacks in sub-categories such as cycles and we expect to take market share from weaker camping.
The majority of the market is estimated competitors and to bene t from any capacity to be made up of specialist independents.
The sports and leisure equipment market Our businesses are well established but in calendar year 2009 was estimated to have continue to evolve to meet changing customer experienced a low single-digit decline in total preferences.
Our product range is constantly retail sales.
Our supply chain is highly ef cient and cost effective.
With all the key determinants Expected future development for success in place, we expect to emerge in the of the competitive landscape long run as a stronger competitor in a more We expect our product markets to remain consolidated market.
highly competitive in the future.
Supermarkets have been growing share in certain parts of the non-food, non-clothing market, building on Our businesses are well established but their regular footfall and the increased space given to these ranges.
Online retailers, such as continue to evolve to meet changing amazon.
co. uk, currently represent a small but growing share of certain product categories.
Our product However, in categories undergoing a sharper slowdown in consumer spending, many range is constantly expanding.
Our specialist retailers, often with some signi cant market shares, have experienced financial supply chain is highly effi cient and cost dif culties.
In most categories, the independent specialists have faced even greater pressures on eff ective.
With all the key determinants the ability to weather the challenging economic environment.
for success in place, we expect to emerge in the long run as a stronger competitor in a more consolidated market.
Home Retail Group Annual Report 2010 13
