HomeServe 42 Governance annual report & accounts 2010 DIrecTorS 1234 J M Barry Gibson 58 richard Harpin 45 Martin Bennett 41 Jon Florsheim 50 appointed to the Board in april 2004 chief executive since april 2004. appointed to the Board as chief appointed to the Board and as and appointed as chairman on appointed to the Board in May Financial officer in June 2009. chief executive of UK Membership 1 april 2010 following a year as Senior 2001.
Founder of HomeServe Previously finance director of in March 2007.
currently which was originally a joint UK Membership having been marketing officer and managing non-executive director of Playtech venture with South Staffordshire finance director of the Warranties director, customer group of British plc.
Previously group retailing director Group set up in 1993.
Previously business and commercial director.
Prior to joining at Baa plc, group chief executive of a brand manager with Procter Prior to joining HomeServe in BSkyB in 1994, he was marketing Littlewoods plc and non-executive & Gamble, followed by 2003 he spent three years as director of Dixons Stores Group director of Somerfield plc, national management consultancy with group finance director of clarity now DSG International plc and express plc and William Hill plc.
Deloitte and his own company.
Group and 10 years at arthur had marketing posts with Tesco.
andersen where he qualified as a chartered accountant.
1234 1234 1 Ian chippendale 61 Mark Morris 50 andrew Sibbald 43 anna Maughan 40 appointed to the Board in appointed to the Board in appointed to the Board in June appointed company Secretary January 2007 and as Senior February 2009.
Previously in audit, 2007. an experienced corporate in July 2008 following 12 years non-executive Director on 1 april business advisory and corporate financier, he is senior partner as assistant company secretary.
2010. currently an independent finance with Price Waterhouse and the co-founder of Lexicon also secretary to the industry director of Transatlantic Holdings before joining Sytner Group plc as Partners, an independent wide Water companies Pension Inc and also of aioi Motor and Finance Director, later becoming corporate advisory business Scheme.
General Insurance company of Managing Director.
currently which specialises in the financial europe Ltd.
Previously chairman senior non-executive director of services, utility and energy of rBS Insurance, group chief LSL Property Services plc and a sectors.
Previously managing executive of the Direct Line Group former non-executive director director, financial institutions of companies, chief executive of of christian Salvesen plc and group, Donaldson, Lufkin & Privilege Insurance and chairman Maxima Holdings plc.
Jenrette and a partner of the of the Insurance Division of Phoenix Partnership.
Jonathan King 49 rachael Hughes 39 appointed as chief executive appointed as chief executive of Home Service USa in of HomeServe europe in 2005 2005 following four years as having been managing director managing director of the UK of Domo, HomeServes joint Membership business and a venture with veolia in France, year as business development since its launch in 2001.
He previously worked managing director of cHeP KeY in retail marketing with the argentina Sa following a total of Main Board Boots company as group brand seven years with cHeP equipment executive committee only manager for no.
Pooling Systems in north and 1 non-executive South america and GKn Group 2 audit committee chairman: Mark Morris in the UK.
3 nomination committee chairman: J M Barry Gibson 4 remuneration committee chairman: Ian chippendale
