HomeServe 44 Governance annual report & accounts 2010 DIrecTorS rePorT The Directors have pleasure in presenting their Details of employee share schemes are set out in annual report and accounts for the year ended note 38. no votes are cast in respect of the shares 31 March 2010. held in the employee Benefit Trust and dividends are waived.
PrIncIPaL acTIvITIeS no person has any special rights of control over During the year the Group was engaged in the provision of insured repair solutions and the companys share capital and all issued emergency services to the home.
Details of the shares are fully paid.
Subject to the companies Groups activities and a review of the business are act 2006 and any relevant authority of the set out in the chairmans statement, chief company in general meeting, the company has executives review and Financial review on pages authority to issue new shares.
The aGM held in 2009 authorised the Directors to Details of the key performance indicators used by allot shares in the capital of the company up to a the Directors to assist in the management of the maximum nominal amount of 2,841,739 being business and to provide evidence of the approximately 35% of the then issued share achievement of its strategies are included on capital with a further authority to allot shares up page 9. to a maximum nominal value of 406,462 being approximately 5% of the then issued share a description of the principal risks and capital as if statutory pre-emption rights did uncertainties facing the Group is included in the not apply.
The authorities given to the Directors to allot Information relating to the environment and shares at the 2009 aGM were granted for a employees is included in the corporate period expiring at the 2010 aGM of the company responsibility report.
Similar resolutions will be put to the forthcoming aGM to renew this FInancIaL reSULTS anD DIvIDenDS authority.
The Groups results are shown in the Group income statement on page 70.
The Directors are The 2009 aGM authorised the purchase by the recommending the payment on 4 august 2010 of company of up to 6,535,405 ordinary shares a final dividend of 8.5p per ordinary share to being approximately 10% of the then issued shareholders on the register at the close of share capital and this authority will remain business on 2 July 2010 which, together with the available until the forthcoming aGM, when the net interim dividends of 11.5p per ordinary share granting of a similar authority will be proposed.
paid on 3 January 2010 and 24.0p per ordinary no shares were purchased during the year and share paid on 1 april 2010, results in a total net no shares are held in Treasury.
dividend for the year of 44.0p per share 2009: 35.5p.
For further details of the dividend see note There are a number of agreements that take effect, alter or terminate upon a change of control 12 to the financial statements.
of the company such as commercial contracts, caPITaL STrUcTUre bank loan agreements, property lease Details of the authorised and issued share capital, arrangements and employees share plans.
none together with details of the movements in the of these are considered to be significant in terms companys issued share capital during the year of their likely impact on the business of the Group are shown in note 26.
The company has one class as a whole.
Furthermore, the Directors are not of ordinary shares which carries no right to fixed aware of any agreements between the company income.
each share carries the right to one vote at and its Directors and employees that provide for a general meeting of the company.
compensation for loss of office or employment that occurs because of a takeover bid.
There are no specific restrictions on the size of a holding nor on the transfer of shares, which are both governed by the general provisions of the articles of association and prevailing legislation.
The Directors are not aware of any agreements between holders of the companys shares that may result in restrictions on the transfer of securities or on voting rights.
45 DIrecTorS annUaL GeneraL MeeTInG The Directors who held office during the year The 2010 annual General Meeting of the company were: is to be held on 30 July 2010 at 10.00am.
The richard Harpin notice of the meeting accompanies this report.
Martin Bennett appointed 26 June 2009 aUDITorS Jon Florsheim a resolution proposing the reappointment of Ian chippendale Deloitte LLP as auditors and authorising the Board JM Barry Gibson to fix their remuneration will be put to the annual Mark Morris General Meeting.
andrew Sibbald Brian Whitty resigned 31 March 2010 FIxeD aSSeTS Jonathan Simpson-Dent resigned 26 June 2009 capital expenditure on tangible fixed assets amounted to 5.2m 2009: 4.1m during the year.
Having been appointed since the notice of the last aGM, Martin Bennett will retire from the Board in DonaTIonS accordance with the articles of association and, charitable donations of 23,000 2009: 43,000 being eligible, will offer himself for election.
Ian were made during the year.
no political chippendale retires by rotation and, being contributions were made in either year.
eligible, offers himself for re-election.
Martin PaYMenT oF creDITorS Bennett serves under a contract of employment The Groups policy is to pay suppliers in line with terminable on 12 months notice by either party.
the terms of payment agreed with each of them Ian chippendale serves under a three year when contracting for their products or renewable letter of appointment with no services.
Trade creditors at 31 March 2010 liquidated damages.
represented 49 days of purchases during the year In respect of the appointment and replacement of 2009: 68 days for the Group and 45 for the Directors, the company is governed by its articles company 2009: 45 days.
of association, the combined code, the SUBSTanTIaL SHareHoLDInGS companies act 2006 and related legislation.
The as far as the Directors are aware, no person had articles may be amended by special resolution of a beneficial interest in 3% or more of the voting the shareholders.
The powers of Directors are share capital at 10 May 2010, except for the described in the Boards terms of reference which following: are available on request from the company ordinary Secretary and the corporate governance report.
name shares % The beneficial interests of the Directors in the aMveScaP PLc 11,662,738 17.74 1 shares of the company and the options held as at richard Harpin 11,021,714 16.76 31 March 2010 and 25 May 2010 are set out in the Schroders plc 5,182,416 7.88 remuneration report.
none of the Directors Standard Life Investments Ltd 4,676,196 7.11 serving at the year end had a beneficial interest in Baillie Gifford & co 4,176,287 6.35 the share capital of any subsidiary company.
Jeremy Middleton 2,500,000 3.80 Legal & General Group plc 2,262,623 3.44 each of the Directors confirms that as far as he is 1 Includes an indirect interest of 5,700 shares.
aware, there is no relevant audit information of which the companys auditors are unaware and that he has taken all reasonable steps to make himself aware of any relevant audit information and to establish that the companys auditors are aware of that information.
HomeServe 46 Governance annual report & accounts 2010 DIrecTorS rePorT TaxaTIon STaTUS We continue to make effective use of company The company is not a close company within the intranets, staff magazines and employee meaning of the Income and corporation Taxes representative forums both to disseminate act 1988. information and to receive feedback and ideas from employees regarding business strategy and eMPLoYMenT PoLIcIeS performance.
consultation between It is the Groups policy that all persons should be management and staff is an ongoing process considered for employment, training, career and employees are consulted on issues directly development and promotion on the basis of their affecting them as soon as is practicable.
abilities and aptitudes, regardless of physical ability, age, gender, sexual orientation, religion or By order of the Board ethnic origin.
HomeServe plc and its subsidiaries apply anna Maughan employment policies that are fair and equitable company Secretary for all employees and these ensure that entry 25 May 2010 into, and progression within the Group, are determined solely by application of job criteria and personal ability and competency.
Full and fair consideration having regard to the persons particular aptitudes and abilities is given to applications for employment and the career development of disabled persons.
HomeServes training and development policies also make it clear that it will take all steps practicable to ensure that employees who become disabled during the time they are employed by the Group are able to remain employed by the Group.
eMPLoYee InvoLveMenT HomeServe attaches considerable importance to ensuring that all its employees are provided with information concerning them as employees, particularly the economic and financial factors affecting its performance and the market in which it operates.
Involvement of employees in the Groups performance is also encouraged by the availability of performance-related bonuses as well as share option schemes, which are described in more detail elsewhere in this report.
