homeserve 8 BUsiness revieW annual report & accounts 2010 oUr strategy We have a successful, membership-focused business model that provides us with a sustainable competitive advantage and high levels of recurring income.
We have a clear and simple strategy to grow, which is built on the seven key pillars of this business model.
all over the world people experience We create products that take the worry and inconvenience out home emergencies and need our services.
prodUCts people Want of home emergencies, offering simple introductory products for new customers, cross-sell products for increased cover and combined policies for complete peace of mind.
We build long-term relationships with partners whose brands strong partnerships have an affinity with our products, providing us with direct and Brands access to millions of customers via trusted brands.
our partners benefit from risk-free income and are able to offer their customers value-added products that build their customer relationships and differentiate them from competitors.
We use our expertise in direct marketing and telephony to sell Winning sales our products directly to customers, and constantly innovate to and marKeting ensure our marketing is fresh and relevant.
We operate our own local call centres to handle customers exCellent CUstomer claims, and manage our own networks of qualified engineers serviCe in order to offer our customers the best service when they experience a home emergency.
We encourage our customers to renew their policies year after loyal CUstomers year, securing high levels of recurring income, by offering them great service and loyalty initiatives.
We recognise the importance of our people and are investing great people in training, including apprenticeships, and in building rewarding career paths for our employees.
homeowners all over the world experience home emergencies gloBal expansion and need our services so we are expanding our business into new countries and transferring best practice across the group.
our focus is on organic growth, but we will consider buying local service delivery capabilities and policy books if they are available.
