Howden Joinery Group Plc Annual report & accounts 2010 Directors report The directors have pleasure in environmental matters, social & are not aware of any agreements submitting their report and the audited community issues and additional between holders of the Companys financial statements for the 52 week information on employees.
shares that may result in restrictions period ended 25 December 2010. on the transfer of securities or on The full results for the period are Comparative figures relate to the voting rights.
shown in the financial statements on 52 weeks ended 26 December 2009. pages 56 to 112.
Details of employee share schemes are set out in note 28.
Shares held Principal Group activities, business Information about the use of by the Howden Joinery Group Plc review and results financial instruments by the Employee Share Trust abstain On 15 September 2010, the Company Company and its subsidiaries is from voting.
changed its name from Galiform Plc given in note 30 to the financial to Howden Joinery Group Plc.
No person has any special rights of control over the Companys share The principal activity of Howden The subsidiary and associated capital and all issued shares are Joinery Group Plc and its undertakings principally affecting fully paid.
subsidiaries is the sale of kitchens the profits or net assets of the and joinery products, along with the Group in the year are listed in the With regard to the appointment and associated procurement, table of Parent company and replacement of directors, the manufacture and distribution of principal subsidiary undertakings Company is governed by its Articles these products.
on page 113. of Association, the Combined Code, the Companies Act and related The Company is required by the There have been no significant legislation.
The Articles may be 29 Companies Act 2006 to include a events since the balance sheet date.
amended by special resolution of the business review in this report.
The business of the information that fulfils the Dividends Company is managed by the Board requirements of the business review The Board is not recommending who may exercise all the powers of can be found in the following payment of a final dividend 2009: the Company subject to the provision sections which are incorporated in nil.
No interim dividend was paid of the Articles of Association, the this report by reference: during the year 2009: nil.
Companies Act and any ordinary Chairmans statement on page 8. resolution of the Company.
Share capital Chief executives statement on Details of the issued share capital, There are a number of agreements page 10. together with details of the that take effect, alter or terminate movements in the Companys issued upon a change of control such as Review of operations and finance share capital during the year are commercial contracts, bank loan on page 15 including a review of shown in note 25.
The Company has agreements and employee share principal risks and uncertainties one class of ordinary shares which plans.
The only one of these which is and key performance indicators carry no right to fixed income.
Each considered to be significant in terms and the illustrated business model share carries the right to one vote at of likely impact on the business of on page 2. general meetings of the Company.
the Group as a whole, is the bank facility as described in note 22 Corporate governance report There are no specific restrictions on which requires majority lender including Going Concern the size of a holding nor on the consent for any change of control.
statement on page 46. transfer of shares which are both Should such consent not be governed by the general provisions forthcoming, a change of control Corporate social responsibility of the Articles of Association and would trigger a mandatory report on page 22 containing prevailing legislation.
The directors repayment of the entire facility.
Directors report continued The directors are not aware of any Nominations Committee has accordance with the agreed terms agreements between the Company considered the formal performance and conditions.
and its directors or employees that evaluation in respect of those The number of days purchases provide for compensation for loss of directors seeking re-election and the outstanding for payment by the Group office or employment that occurs contribution and commitment of the at the period end was 44 days 2009: 40 because of a takeover bid.
directors that are required to offer days and nil 2009: nil for the Company.
He has Essential contracts confirmed to the Board that their The mission of the Group relies on Fixed assets performance and commitment is product of no-call-back quality There is no material difference such that the Company should being in stock at all times in order to between the book value and the support their re-election.
service the needs of the builder.
The current open market value of the Group benefits from a number of The Board recognises that, Groups interest in land and buildings.
contracts which are key to providing having served nine years as a the volume of product required to non-executive director, Ian Smith Charitable and political contributions enable the Group to fulfil this may cease to be independent for the Kitchen and joinery products and mission but is nevertheless purposes of the Combined Code after services donated to various charities, confident that other commercial the 2011 AGM.
The Board is actively as well as charitable donations made solutions would be available should searching for a candidate to replace during the period amounted to these contracts be terminated.
The Group Ian Smiths contribution to the Boards made no political donations during the Contracts with key personnel are deliberations on future strategy and in current and previous period.
discussed in the review of principal 30 order to provide continuity in the short risks and uncertainties on page 20. term and ensure a smooth transition Substantial shareholdings As at 2 March 2011, the Company of responsibilities, the Nominations Directors and their interests Committee is proposing that Mr Smith had been notified in accordance Details of the directors in office with Chapter 5 of the Disclosure & be elected for a further year in 2011. on 25 December 2010 are shown Transparency Rules, of the following on page 28.
Information on the directors service voting rights as a shareholder of All of the directors, with the agreements, options and interests the Company: exception of Tiffany Hall, will retire of the directors and their families at the Annual General Meeting in in the share capital of the Company, Standard Life Investments Ltd 14.80% accordance with the UK Corporate is set out in the separate Directors Old Mutual Asset 5.33% Governance Code and each will remuneration report on pages 32 Managers UK Ltd offer himself for re-election to 45.
Details of indemnity provisions Jupiter Asset Management Ltd 5.28% in accordance with Article 118 made for the benefit of directors are Blackrock Inc 5.08% of the Articles of Association.
given in the Corporate governance JP Morgan Asset 4.99% report on pages 46 to 55.
In accordance with Article 117 Management UK Ltd of the Articles of Association, Cazenove Capital 4.91% Suppliers payment terms Tiffany Hall will retire at the Management Ltd The Group and Companys policy, in Annual General Meeting and EES Trustees International Ltd 4.10% relation to all its suppliers, is to settle will offer herself for re-election as Trustee of Howden its terms of payment when agreeing in accordance with Article 118 Joinery Group Employee the terms of the transaction and to of the Articles of Association.
Benefit Trust abide by those terms provided that Legal & General Assurance 3.87% In proposing their re-election, it is satisfied that the supplier has Pensions Management Ltd the Chairman confirms that the provided the goods or services in Howden Joinery Group Plc Annual report & accounts 2010 The percentage interest is as in the financial success of the the director has taken all the steps stated by the shareholder at the Group.
In keeping with the structure that he ought to have taken as a time of notification and current of the business, the Company is director in order to make himself interests may vary.
committed to applying this policy aware of any relevant audit locally, and as a result, staff of all information and to establish that Acquisition of the levels regularly benefit from the Companys auditors are aware Companys own shares achieving local targets throughout of that information.
At the end of the year, the directors had the year.
The Board also recognises The confirmation is given and should authority under the shareholders employees for their contribution be interpreted in accordance with resolutions of 19 May 2010 to purchase through the use of employee the provisions of s418 of the through the market 63,391,533 of the incentive plans and share plans Companies Act 2006.
Companys ordinary shares at prices within overall remuneration.
ranging between 10p and the higher of Deloitte LLP have expressed their The Group promotes the importance a 105% of the average middle market willingness to continue in office as of diversity and adopts an Equal quotation for an ordinary share as auditors and a resolution to reappoint Opportunities Policy under which derived from the London Stock them will be proposed at the training and career development Exchange Daily Official List for the five forthcoming Annual General Meeting.
opportunities are available to all business days immediately preceding employees, regardless of gender, the day on which the ordinary share is Annual General Meeting religion or race.
The Group is purchased and b an amount equal to The Annual General Meeting is committed to meeting the code of the higher of the price of the last to be held at UBS Investment Bank, practice on the employment of independent trade of an ordinary share 31 1 Finsbury Avenue, London, disabled people and full and fair and the highest current independent EC2M 2PP on 16 May 2011. consideration is given to disabled bid for an ordinary share as derived applicants for employment.
It aims from the London Stock Exchange By order of the Board to do all that is practicable to meet Trading System.
The authority expires Caroline Bishop its responsibility towards the at the conclusion of the next AGM or Secretary employment and training of disabled 15 months from the date of passing.
people and welcomes and considers 2 March 2011 fully, applications by disabled Employees persons, having regard to their The average number of employees particular aptitudes and abilities.
and their remuneration are shown in It is also the Groups policy to note 8 to the financial statements.
retain employees who may become At the year end, the Group had 6,156 disabled while in service and to employees 2009: 5,619 throughout provide appropriate training.
the United Kingdom and overseas and strives to engage its employees Audit information and auditors wherever possible in its business Each of the persons who is a goals by means of regular regional director at the date of approval of and local staff meetings.
this annual report confirm that: The Board remains committed to so far as each of the directors is linking reward to business budgets aware, there is no relevant audit and targets thereby giving information of which the Companys employees the opportunity to share auditors are unaware:
