Board of directors Non-executive Chairman Non-executive directors with Shell UK Oil in various roles.
Will Samuel Angus Cockburn Most recently, he led a Parliamentary Will was appointed a non-executive Angus was appointed a nonreview of the Civil Service published director and Chairman designate in executive director in October 2006. with the budget in March 2010 and is July 2006 and became Chairman in He has been Group Finance Director now working in Israel Palestine with October 2006.
He is a Vice of Aggreko plc since 2000, having the Quartet OQR.
Chairman of Lazard & Co Ltd, previously been Managing Director Michael Wemms Chairman of Ecclesiastical of Pringle of Scotland and Regional Michael was appointed a nonInsurance Group plc, Deputy Finance Director Central Europe for executive director in November Chairman of Inchcape plc and a Pepsico Foods.
Michael was Chairman of non-executive director of the Accountant and qualified with KPMG House of Fraser plc from 2001 until Edinburgh Investment Trust plc.
November 2006 and was an Prior to this he was a director of Tiffany Hall executive director of Tesco plc from Schroders plc, Co-Chief Executive Tiffany was appointed a non- 1989 to 2000.
He is a non-executive Officer at Schroder Salomon Smith executive director in May 2010. director of Inchcape plc and Barney a division of Citigroup Inc Currently Interim Group Marketing Moneysupermarket.
He was and Vice Chairman, European Director at BUPA, Tiffany was Chairman of the British Retail Investment Bank of Citigroup Inc previously Head of Marketing at Consortium from 2004 until 2006. and Chairman of H P Bulmer plc.
She was also He is a Chartered Accountant.
Chairman of Airmiles and BA Holidays.
Prior to that, she held Chief Executive 28 various positions at British Airways Matthew Ingle including Head of Global Sales and Matthew was appointed Chief Distribution and Head of UK Sales Executive in October 2005.
Tiffany was up Howden Joinery in 1995 and has previously a non-executive director been responsible for its growth into of Think London.
Prior to joining the Company he had been Ian Smith Managing Director of the Magnet Ian was appointed non-executive Trade operation.
He was elected to director in September 2001.
He was the Board of the Company in 1998.
Chief Executive Officer of Reed Elsevier plc, and previously Chief Chief Financial Officer Executive Officer of Taylor Woodrow Mark Robson plc, Chief Executive Officer of the Mark joined the Board in April 2005 General Healthcare Group, CEO as Chief Financial Officer.
Mark Europe for Exel, Group Commercial spent the previous six years as Director of Ocean Group plc before Group Finance Director at Delta plc.
its merger with NFC to form Exel and Prior to this, he had held a number prior to that, Managing Director of of senior financial positions with ICI Monitor Company Europe Ltd, a between 1985 and 1998.
He is a strategy consulting firm.
Ian began Chartered Accountant and qualified his business career with Royal Dutch with Price Waterhouse.
Shell Group of companies, working
