Howdens supplies from local stock nationwide the small builders ever-changing routine kitchen and joinery requirements, assuring no-call-back quality and best local price.
Design, manufacturing and sourcing Howdens is a unique service proposition based on relationships with suppliers, factory and depot staff, small builders and their customers, and end-users in their homes.
The business has been built through recommendation and reputation, and it is based on supplying small builders with rigid kitchens that are always available from stock.
Access to low-cost supply is critical to our continuing success.
Last year, around 400,000 Howdens kitchens were installed in homes across the UK.
Our range provides the builder with a wide choice of options to present to his customer, who might be a public landlord or housing association but might equally be an owner-occupier.
Last year, we successfully introduced 12 new kitchen ranges, building on the concept of product families, first launched in 2009 the most popular styles in the most popular colours.
The standardisation of range content across the families helps the builder get an accurate fit, and it helps us achieve lowest cost production and efficient stock management.
02 Our team of expert product designers, based at our Howden factory, are responsible for making sure our kitchen ranges look good and work beautifully.
Our designers also work closely with our appliance suppliers to make sure Lamona products meet our exacting specifications.
In the rapidly sophisticating kitchen market, products of all types are expected to do more, better, and faster, even at entry level.
We operate a measurement system to benchmark our performance in respect of wood, energy and waste, the elements of our business that have the greatest impact on our environment.
In 2010, we were pleased to gain the new Carbon Trust Standard, the successor to the Trusts Energy Efficiency Accreditation which we have held continuously for over ten years.
We manufacture all our cabinets and most of our worktops in our factories in Runcorn in Cheshire and Howden in Yorkshire.
In peak periods, our Runcorn factory makes up to 90,000 rigid kitchen cabinets per week.
The raw material for Howdens cabinets comes from trees grown in managed forests in Scotland.
We always try to source wood and timber-based products in a way that is good for the environment as well as good for our business.
Howden Joinery is certified by the UK Forest Stewardship Council FSC and by the European Programme for the Endorsement of Forest Certification PEFC.
03 We buy kitchen fascias, appliances and joinery products from specialist suppliers all over the world.
Ethical and environmental sourcing is an important factor in our international supply chain.
We operate a fleet of 106 trucks to deliver product to our 490 depots across the country.
In our peak autumn trading period a fully loaded truck leaves our Howden factory every 15 minutes of every day.
In the local depot The local depot is the hub of Howdens trading activity.
Each depot occupies around 10,000 square feet, much of which is taken up by warehousing because Howdens is an in-stock business.
Howdens is low-cost, locally driven and entrepreneurial by nature.
A new depot opens with around six members of staff, some of whom will have been recruited from existing Howdens depots.
Their first job is to open new accounts for local builders.
The range of performance in depots of all sizes and ages tells us we have significant further opportunities within the existing 490 depots even before we open new ones.
Howdens employs nearly 1,000 experienced kitchen planners who work with the latest CAD software to create detailed visualisations and technical drawings for every kind of project.
Their job is to realise the end-users aspirations while saving the builder both time and money.
The depot manages its stock tightly to ensure it can satisfy its local customers.
Accurate re-ordering and forward planning depend on a good knowledge of local preferences and strong relationships with account holders.
04 Every Howdens depot manager is responsible for the depots profit and loss account as well as for hiring the staff who open new trade accounts and help to build the depots success.
Handles, hinges and hardware are usually displayed at the counter, along with news, tips and local information for the trade.
The builder who drops in for a chat and a cup of coffee can collect plans, get fitting advice, discuss new products with knowledgeable staff, and get involved in local community projects all in one visit.
Stock is critical to Howdens success.
Stock is secured inside recyclable, Efficient warehouse management is branded cardboard packaging a key task in any Howdens depot.
clearly marked on each side for fast and accurate identification.
Our trucks with their distinctive red and black Howdens livery are easily recognisable everywhere.
05 The depots display area allows the builder to inspect the design and build quality of our kitchens, appliances, worktops and flooring and examine samples of different finishes and colours.
The builder often commissions a local driver to help him get all the materials he needs from depot to site.
Howdens does not have to bear delivery cost or risk, and importantly the builder can be sure everything will arrive in the right place at the right time.
The builder has no time to waste and his idea of travel time is less than ten minutes.
We are confident there is scope for at least 650 Howdens depots in the UK.
On site Howdens offers the builder a full range of kitchen and joinery products, including cabinets, frontals, worktops, flooring, lighting, appliances and joinery doors.
These are available to the builder from stock, on credit terms, which enable him to plan his cash flow, and at a confidential discount which allows him to manage his margin.
The builders daily work pattern is in a constant state of flux.
Customers change their minds: other contractors change their plans: and the weather changes the kind of work that is possible tomorrow.
The builder has to juggle with all these factors, usually across several jobs at once.
This is why he values Howdens unique in-stock proposition.
He doesnt have to store anything and there are no ordering delays: he can pick up everything he needs from Howdens, when he needs it.
Howdens also offers no-call-back quality, which means he can be sure that our products will not break and are fit for purpose.
He can swap items that dont suit, and Howdens staff are always on hand to answer his queries.
Howdens supplies a range of laminate, engineered and solid wood flooring which means the builder can offer his customer a complete kitchen package and grow his business, using his joinery skills in hallways, corridors, landings and elsewhere.
06 We have been experimenting with specially fitted vans that carry a selection of hardware and flooring.
These vans help us to build relationships with new customers and strengthen links with existing ones.
With Howdens, the builder can manage each project more efficiently.
He can arrange for electricians, plumbers and other specialist trades to be on site on a given day because he knows the Howdens product will be there.
We are constantly working to improve the design and quality of our products.
Last year, we introduced new cabinet sizes, better backings, curved dcor ends, a new range of lighting and more hardware to suit both traditional and modern kitchens.
We now offer a full range of Lamona branded appliances including ovens, hobs, dishwashers, fridges, freezers, taps, sinks and washer-dryers.
Howdens high-quality laminate worktops, manufactured by us in Yorkshire, are available in a wide range of designs and finishes to suit all budgets and uses.
07 The builder is in partnership with his customers, just as we are in partnership with him.
Howdens complete service proposition gives him the confidence to build his reputation along with his business.
