Job: 14875 HUNTING AR10 frt AW - CS4 Proof: 03 Proof Read by: Operator: rich Date: 25 February 2011 3:01 PM IMAGES TO BE CHECKED Server: studio 2 Set-up: r o b : set-up only First Read Revisions Hunting PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2010 04 A Snapshot of Our Year 1 2 3 4 Acquisition Trail Expanded Facilities Technical Innovation Service Delivery At 80.3m the completion Heavy investment has Increasingly complex The Chemical Injection of the purchase of Innovabeen made in existing geologies demand System having completed Extel in September marked facilities around the world increasingly sophisticated testing and acceptance, the largest acquisition in where regional demand tools.
Development of the has moved into Huntings history.
Based in has driven the need to SEAL-LOCK range of commercial production.
Houston, the company increase capacity.
Among premium thread forms has Eight units have been manufactures electronic these developments, led to the introduction of shipped with two at short products used in Logging phase2 of the expansion the WEDGE-LOCK, a notice to BP in the Gulf of While Drilling and programme at Fordoun unique high torque integral Mexico for the Macondo provides an additional Scotland has been connection with a metal to relief wells.
electronic dimension to completed to form one of metal seal engineered for the Companys core the worlds leading OCTG external pressure retention.
3 Richard Hunting, Dennis Proctor 2 and Peter Rose outline our year in review.
1 4 C o m P A n y B U S I N E S S f i n a n c i a l o v e R v i e w R E V I E W GOVERNANCE s t a t e m e n t s Job: 14875 HUNTING AR10 frt AW - CS4 Proof: 03 Proof Read by: Operator: rich Date: 25 February 2011 3:01 PM IMAGES TO BE CHECKED IMAGES TO BE CHECKED Server: studio 2 Set-up: r o b : set-up only First Read Revisions Hunting PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2010 ComPAny oveRview 01-05 05 Business Review 06-27 GoveRnAnCe 28-44 FinAnCiAL stAtements 45-108 5 6 7 8 Dubai Base American Shale China Opening 2010 Hunting Art Prize The integration of A new building programme The opening of a new Celebrating 30 years, the Welltonic has given the has been initiated across manufacturing facility in award annually attracts Company a range of the Group in response to Wuxi, China, is the largest over 2,000 entrants who Thru-Tubing tools specially anticipated market ever dedicated plant can only submit one designed for coiled tubing demand.
To access the commissioned by the single piece of work.
operations, as well as an burgeoning natural gas and Company.
With an area A professional jury enhanced regional emerging oil shale plays, of 323,000sqft and a shortlisted the 2010 presence in the Middle three new full service throughput design capacity finalists and this year chose East.
In answer to a typical drilling tool facilities have of 120,000 metric tonnes the winner, Lane Hagood, field problem, tools were been opened in new North of OCTG per annum, the for the US$50,000 prize.
deployed to a work-over rig American locations, aim is to serve the ever operating in Kurdistan, Iraq.
including here in Latrobe, growing domestic and The finalists and their Pennsylvania to service the regional Asia Pacific works were exhibited at a prodigious Marcellus market with a high quality reception held in Houston, formation.
timed for the eve of the worlds largest energy industry event, the 3 Offshore Technology 6 Conference.
Traditionally a poster has been created to advertise the event, which have themselves become collectible.
7 The Prize and reception also serve as a fundraiser, where over 65,000 was raised for Oilfield Helping Hands, a very deserving industry related charity.
The poster is available in high definition from 8 our website www.
com posters 5 making significant progress
