Directors Report The Directors submit their annual report and audited financial statements for the year ended 30 April 2010.
Principal Activities The principal activities of the Group are the design, development and marketing of multimedia technology, and products incorporating this technology.
Review of Business The importance of the Groups technologies is reflected in Imaginations continued strong growth despite the challenges to the global economic environment.
The full year saw good financial and strategic progress for the Technology business, with strong chip volume and royalty growth.
The Group successfully closed a number of important licensing deals as well as securing many new partners.
This resulted in a significant jump in operating profit for the Technology business.
The PURE business substantially reduced the previous years loss and achieved a close to break-even position whilst continuing its strong investment in research and development.
Its international business continued to grow strongly overall.
PUREs UK business saw a modest improvement in line with the initial signs of economic recovery.
Cash resources, which have doubled to 29.4m, are adequate for the Groups future needs.
A balanced, understandable and more detailed assessment of the Companys position and future prospects has been included in the Chief Executives Review.
This incorporates any significant events since the year end.
Further details are included in pages 3 to 10 of the annual report and financial statements.
The results of the Group for the year ended 30 April 2010 are set out in detail in the Consolidated Income Statement on page 51.
The Directors do not propose the payment of a dividend 2009: nil.
The key performance indicators used in the business are summarised below.
The performance of the business in the terms of these indicators is considered in the Chief Executives Review in pages 3 to 10 of the annual report and financial statements.
Year to Year to 30 April 2010 30 April 2009 % Technology business New licence Agreements 12 12 Licensing Revenue 22.9m 22.9m Partner Chip Design Wins 91 78 17% Partner Chips Shipping 37 29 28% Partner Chips Shipped units 126m 86m 47% Royalty Revenue 24.4m 14.0m 75% PURE Digital business Revenue 33.6 m 27.2m 23% Adjusted operating loss 0.3m 2.7m -90% Group Revenue 80.9m 64.1m 26% Gross Profit 55.9m 42.3m 32% Adjusted Profit before taxation 13.3m 5.0m 166% Profit before taxation 10.2m 2.7m 274% Net cash and cash equivalents 29.4m 14.6m 101% Adjusted before share based remuneration expense of 0.6m 2009: 0.3m Adjusted before share based remuneration expense of 3.3m 2009: 1.8m and a net gain on investments of 0.1m 2009: write down 0.5m.
Principal Risks and Uncertainties There are a number of risks and uncertainties which could impact the Groups performance.
The Group has a risk management structure in place which is designed to identify, manage and mitigate business risk.
The relevant structures are more fully described in the Groups internal control and risk management procedures in the Corporate Governance report on page 42.
33 The Group has experienced, and may in the future experience, fluctuations in the results of its operations.
There are a number of factors that can affect the results.
For the Technology business, these include the timing of new licence agreements with partners, the achievement of development project milestones and the timing and volume of products incorporating the Groups technology shipped by our partners.
The Group seeks to reduce this risk by both broadening the number of partners who utilize the Groups technology as well as widening the number of market segments that are targeted by the Groups partners.
For the Groups PURE Digital business, these factors also include the rate of adoption of digital radio technologies worldwide and the continuation of the supply of products from Chinese manufacturers.
The Group has mitigated the latter by spreading the manufacture of the Groups products across a number of manufacturers in order to reduce the reliance on any one manufacturer.
The Group operates in fast moving competitive marketplaces characterized by rapid changes in technology.
The Groups result will be impacted by the introduction of new technologies and products by the Group and by the Groups competitors as they respond to these changes in technology.
In order to mitigate risk, the Group has detailed dialogue with existing partners, as well as systems companies and industry bodies, in order to align its future products with advances in technology and market requirements.
As a technology business, the development and ownership of intellectual property is fundamental to the Groups performance.
Whilst the Group relies on patent, copyright, trademark and other intellectual property laws to establish and protect its proprietary rights, it cannot be certain that its proprietary rights will not be challenged, invalidated, circumvented or used without the Groups authorization.
The Group mitigates the risk by filing patents, trademarks and registered designs as appropriate to protect its intellectual property and through monitoring technologies promoted by third parties.
The Group transacts licence and development agreements with customers and purchases of products for PURE Digital primarily in US dollars and, therefore, the Groups earnings are exposed to fluctuations in foreign exchange rates.
The Group reviews its foreign exchange exposure on a regular basis and, if there is a material exposure to exchange rate fluctuations and the Board considers it appropriate, the Group will reduce the risk by currency hedging on net receivable payable balances.
The Groups performance is also subject to external macro economic conditions.
Changes in factors such as interest rates, inflation, unemployment and commodity prices can create uncertainty in the Groups markets and affect consumer spending.
This may result in the Groups customers and potential customers delaying the placing of orders with the Group and or the reduced shipment of products incorporating the Groups technology.
In turn, both of these would adversely affect the Groups result.
Future Developments The Group intends to continue to develop its range of graphics, video, display, processing and communication technologies for use in SoC System-on-Chip devices.
The Group will market these technologies to existing and new customers with a view to entering into commercial agreements for customers to incorporate the Groups technology in their SoC devices.
The PURE Digital business will continue to develop additional products using the Groups digital radio technology and internet connectivity streaming audio technology.
These products will be marketed to existing customers in the UK, and increasingly to overseas customers as digital radio markets emerge worldwide.
Research and Development The Group spent 35,370,000 2009: 31,114,000 on research and development and advanced technology projects.
Donations During the year the Group made donations for charitable purposes of 15,922 2009: 766.
There were no political donations during the year 2009: nil.
The Parent Company made no donations in the current year 2009: nil.
Purchase of own shares At the AGM in 2009, shareholders granted the Company the authority to purchase, in the market, its own shares.
During the year the Company did not undertake to purchase any of its own shares in the market place.
At the AGM in 2010, the Directors will be presenting and proposing similar authority to shareholders.
Directors during the Year G S Shingles, H Yassaie, T Selby, I R Pearson and D A Hurst-Brown served as Directors throughout the year.
In accordance with the Companys Articles of Association, G S Shingles will retire by rotation and, both I R Pearson and D A Hurst-Brown will retire in accordance with the 2008 FRC Combined Code at the Annual General Meeting of the Company to be held on 13 August 2010 and will seek re-election at the meeting.
34 Executive Directors service agreements are contracts of employment with a rolling notice period of less than one year.
Non-Executive Directors do not have any unexpired notice periods in their contracts.
The disclosable interests of Directors at 30 April 2010 including holdings, if any, of wives and children aged under 18 were as detailed in the Remuneration Report on page 48 and they remain unchanged as at 23 June 2010.
Disclosure of information to auditors The Directors who held office at the date of approval of this Directors Report confirm that, so far as they are each aware, there is no relevant audit information of which the Companys auditors are unaware: and each Director has taken all the steps that he ought to have taken as a Director to make himself aware of any relevant audit information and to establish that the Companys auditors are aware of that information.
Share Capital The Companys share capital consists of ordinary shares with a par value of 10 pence each and there were 243,454,365 ordinary shares in issue as at 30 April 2010.
The rights attached to ordinary shares are as follows: 1.
Each share carries the right to one vote at general meetings of the Company, and 2.
Shareholders are entitled to a dividend where declared.
There are no specific restrictions on the transfer of ordinary shares in the Company other than certain restrictions imposed by laws, regulations and Listing Rules.
There are no persons holding securities in the Company carrying special rights with regard to control of the Company.
The Company is not aware of any agreement between holders of securities that may result in restrictions on the transfer of securities or on voting rights.
Substantial Interests As at 4 June 2010 the Company had been notified or was aware that the following had direct or indirect interests in 3% or more of the share capital of the Company: Ordinary Shares of 10p Percentage in the Company Holding Intel Capital Corporation 36,576,268 15.0% M & G Investment Management 28,035,805 11.5% Apple Inc 21,923,058 9.0% AXA Financial SA 21,422,666 8.8% Legal & General Investment Management 9,242,228 3.8% Herald Investment Management 8,594,011 3.5% J. P. Morgan Asset Management 8,509,993 3.5% Going Concern Basis The Group has adequate financial resources together with long term contracts with a number of customers and suppliers across a range of consumer market segments and geographic areas.
As a consequence, the Directors believe that the Group is well placed to manage its business risks successfully despite the current uncertain economic outlook.
After making enquiries, the Directors have a reasonable expectation that the Company and the Group has adequate resources to continue in operational existence for the foreseeable future.
For this reason, they continue to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the financial statements.
Qualifying Indemnity Provision The Companys Articles of Association has a qualifying indemnity provision.
The Company has in place insurance cover for its Directors and Officers with a cover limit of 5,000,000 throughout the year.
Change of Control The Companys share based incentive plans contain provisions relating to a change of control.
The outstanding share options, long-term incentive plans, share awards and performance share award to the CEO would normally vest and become exercisable on a change of control of the Company, subject to the satisfaction of the performance targets.
Employee Involvement The Group recognises the importance and contribution of its employees.
There is considerable value placed on the involvement of employees in the development of the business and their participation in the decision making process.
This is encouraged by the open environment in the Group and through the delegation of responsibility throughout the business.
35 Presentations are made to all staff on a regular basis to encourage a full understanding of the Groups strategy, vision and operational developments.
Most employees receive share awards and are invited to participate in the SAYE scheme every year via share plans.
A number of employees have become shareholders thereby encouraging employee share ownership.
The Group is committed to the principle of equal opportunity in employment and to ensuring that no applicant or employee receives less favourable treatment on the grounds of age, gender, disability, ethnic origin, political or other opinion, religion or sexual orientation.
Disability is not seen as an inhibitor to employment or career development.
Employees who become disabled are, wherever possible, given assistance to continue in their existing employment or to be trained for other positions.
Information relating to environment, social and community polices are provided in the Corporate Governance Report on page 41.
Significant Relationships The Group does not have any contractual or other relationships with any single party which are essential to the business of the Group and therefore no such relationships have been disclosed.
Creditor Payment Policy It is Group policy to agree payment terms with suppliers when negotiating contracts or transactions.
The Group ensures that, subject to any necessary variations which may result from supplier-related problems, the agreed payment terms are adhered to.
The number of days billings from suppliers outstanding to the Group at 30 April 2010 was 36 days 2009: 42 days.
The Parent Company is purely a holding Company with investments and does not have trade creditors.
Statement of Directors Responsibilities in respect of the Annual Report and the Financial Statements The directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Reportand the group and parent company financial statements in accordance with applicable law and regulations.
Company law requires the directors to prepare group and parent company financial statements for each financial year.
Under that law they are required to prepare the group financial statements in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the EU and applicable law and have elected to prepare the parent company financial statements in accordance with UK Accounting Standards and applicable law UK Generally Accepted Accounting Practice.
Under company law the directors must not approve the financial statements unless they are satisfied that they give a true and fair view of the state of affairs of the group and parent company and of their profit or loss for that period.
In preparing each of the group and parent company financial statements, the directors are required to: select suitable accounting policies and then apply them consistently: make judgments and estimates that are reasonable and prudent: for the group financial statements, state whether they have been prepared in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the EU: for the parent company financial statements, state whether applicable UK Accounting Standards have been followed, subject to any material departures disclosed and explained in the parent company financial statements:- and prepare the financial statements on the going concern basis unless it is inappropriate to presume that the group and the parent company will continue in business.
The directors are responsible for keeping adequate accounting records that are sufficient to show and explain the parent company's transactions and disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the financial position of the parent company and enable them to ensure that its financial statements comply with the Companies Act 2006.
They have general responsibility for taking such steps as are reasonably open to them to safeguard the assets of the group and to prevent and detect fraud and other irregularities.
Under applicable law and regulations, the directors are also responsible for preparing a Directors Report, Directors Remuneration Report and Corporate Governance Statement that complies with that law and those regulations.
The directors are responsible for the maintenance and integrity of the corporate and financial information included on the companys website.
Legislation in the UK governing the preparation and dissemination of financial statements may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
36 Directors Responsibility Statement The Directors confirm that, to the best of their knowledge: the financial statements, prepared in accordance with the applicable set of accounting standards, give a true and fair view of the assets, liabilities, financial position and profit or loss of the Company and the undertakings included in the consolidation taken as a whole: and the Directors report includes a fair review of the development and performance of the business and the position of the company and the undertakings included in the consolidation taken as a whole, together with a description of the principal risks and uncertainties that they face.
Auditors A resolution is to be proposed at the Annual General Meeting for the re-appointment of KPMG Audit Plc as auditors of the Company.
Annual General Meeting AGM The AGM will be held at 11.00 a. m. on 13 August 2010 at Imagination House, Home Park Estate, Kings Langley, Hertfordshire WD4 8LZ.
Business to be transacted at the Meeting is set out in full in the Notice of the AGM.
After the AGM, the Company will publish on its website the proxy votes cast in respect of each resolution voted on at the AGM.
By order of the Board A. Llewellyn Secretary 23 June 2010 Company Number: 2920061 37
