DIrecTOrs anD aDvIsers Geoff Shingles Hossein Yassaie Trevor Selby Ian Pearson David Hurst-Brown aged 71, cBe, aged 53, PhD, aged 52, Ba Hons, aged 67, Dip Tech aged 61, Bsc Hons, FsI, Bsc Hons, FIee, FBcs, acma, Hons, c. eng, FIee, chairman chief executive chief Financial non-executive non-executive Officer Officer Director Director Geoff was, until Trevor worked for the Ian has over 30 David worked for after attaining his PhD, april 1994, executive Hossein was a research Dowty Group until years experience most of his career in chairman of Digital 1992 holding senior with companies the securities industry.
fellow at the university equipment co. finance positions specializing in In 2002 he left uBs, of Birmingham.
Limited, where he in several of the semiconductor where, for more than He then joined served for 29 years.
groups information design, manufacturing 10 years he had sTmicroelectronics while at Digital, he technology and management, worked in corporate Inmos, where he spent worked both in the companies, with director level Finance as adviser eight years, ultimately us and continental including Finance responsibilities.
These to a wide range of becoming responsible europe.
He joined Director of Dowty companies include companies.
David for the system divisions, the Imagination Information systems Inmos and sGs now works mainly including research Technologies board and latterly Finance Thompson.
He joined as a consultant and and development, in 1994 becoming Director of Dowty the board as nonhis non-executive manufacturing and chairman in 1996. communications.
executive Director in Directorships include marketing.
after joining He is non-executive He continued with 1998.
He is chairman anite plc and Ffastfill Imagination in 1992 chairman of sarantel the business after it of the remuneration plc.
He joined the as Technical Director, Group Plc and is also a was acquired in 1992 committee and board of Imagination Hossein refocused non-executive Director becoming Director serves on the audit Technologies as a the business on of a number of private of Financial Planning committee.
Ian is the non-executive Director advanced technology companies.
and analysis at cray senior non-executive in september 2000. development and communications.
He is chairman of created Imaginations joined Imagination the audit committee successful silicon Technologies, and and a member of IP business model.
the board, in 1996 the remuneration He became chief as Group Finance committee.
Imagination Technologies Group plc Secretary Registered number Solicitors a Llewellyn 2920061 Olswang Registered Office Financial advisers and Registrars Imagination House stockbrokers capita registrars Home Park estate J. P. morgan cazenove Bankers Kings Langley Auditors HsBc Bank plc Hertfordshire KPmG audit Plc wD4 8LZ 32
