Board reports DIRECTORS REPORT The directors present their report, together with Share capital the audited financial statements for the year ended As at 31 December 2010, the Companys share capital 31 December 2010. comprised a single class of share capital which is divided into Business review ordinary shares of 25p each.
Details of the share capital of the Company are set out in note 22 to the financial The Companies Act 2006 requires the Company to present statements on pages 114 and 115.
The ordinary shares are a business review in this report.
The information that fulfils listed on the London Stock Exchange.
the business review requirements can be found on pages 4 to 35 and page 46, which are incorporated into this report With effect from 16 February 2011, a Level 1 American by reference.
This includes a review of the development and Depository Receipt ADR programme was established in performance of the business of the IMI group of companies the USA for which Citibank, N. A acts as Depository.
The ADR the Group, including the financial performance during the programme is a convenient way for certain US investors to financial year ended 31 December 2010, key performance invest in IMI plc shares through American Depository Shares indicators, the principal risks and uncertainties facing the which are evidenced by ADRs and are traded on the USA Group and our risk management processes.
over-the-counter market, where each ADR represents two ordinary shares.
Principal activities As at 31 December 2010, 4,198,166 shares are held in an IMI plc is a global engineering solutions group focused on employee trust for use in relation to certain executive the precise control and movement of fluids in critical incentive plans representing 1.3% of the issued share capital applications.
IMI plc is the holding company of the Group.
excluding treasury shares at that time.
The voting rights The Groups businesses comprise five platforms organised attached to shares held in the employee trust were not into two principal activities: Fluid Controls, comprising exercised during the year.
Severe Service, Fluid Power and Indoor Climate: and Retail Dispense, comprising Beverage Dispense and Merchandising.
During the year, 406,063 new ordinary shares were issued The main subsidiary companies operating within these under employee share schemes: 189,823 under the all two principal activities are listed on pages 126 and 127. employee share ownership scheme and save as you earn The segmental revenue, profit, assets and liabilities plans and 216,240 under executive share plans.
Shares attributable to each of these businesses is shown in acquired through Company share schemes and plans rank note 2 on pages 81 to 83. equally with the shares in issue and have no special rights.
Results and dividend The rights and obligations attaching to the Companys ordinary shares are set out in the Companys articles The Group consolidated income statement is shown on of association, copies of which can be obtained from page 66.
Segmental operating profit amounted to 319.7m Companies House in the UK or by writing to the Company 2009: 234.2m and profit before taxation amounted to Secretary.
Subject to applicable statutes, shares may be 306.1m 2009: 186.2m.
issued with such rights and restrictions as the Company The directors recommend a final dividend of 17.0p per share may by ordinary resolution decide or if there is no such 2009: 13.2p per share on the ordinary share capital resolution or so far as it does not make specific provision payable, subject to shareholder approval, on 23 May 2011 as the Board may decide.
to shareholders on the register at the close of business on Holders of ordinary shares are entitled to receive the 15 April 2011.
Together with the interim dividend of 9.0p Companys report and accounts, to attend, speak and vote per share paid on 15 October 2010, this final dividend will at general meetings of the Company, and to appoint proxies bring the total distribution for the year to 26.0p per share to exercise their rights.
Holders of ordinary shares 2009: 21.2p per share.
may receive a dividend and on a liquidation may share in Research and development the assets of the Company.
Subject to meeting certain thresholds, holders of ordinary shares may requisition a Expenditure on research and development in the year was general meeting of the Company or propose resolutions at 41.9m 2009: 39.1m : of this amount 5.0m 2009: 4.9m annual general meetings.
Voting rights for ordinary shares has been capitalised.
held in treasury are suspended and the treasury shares Shareholders funds carry no rights to receive dividends or other distributions Shareholders funds increased from 399.8m at the end of of assets.
38 BOARD REPORTS BUSINESS OVERVIEW GROUP OPERATING REVIEW RESPONSIBLE BUSINESS BOARD REPORTS FINANCIAL STATEMENTS There are no restrictions on the transfer of ordinary shares Statement on corporate governance in the Company other than: The required disclosures are contained in the corporate governance report on pages 42 to 47 and are incorporated certain restrictions as may from time to time be imposed into this report by reference.
by laws and regulations for example insider trading laws : and Employment policies pursuant to the Companys share dealing code whereby The Group continues to support employee involvement at all the directors and certain employees of the Company levels in the organisation and strongly encourages each of require approval to deal in the Companys shares.
its businesses to keep its employees informed on Group and individual business developments and to make its employees The Company is not aware of any arrangements between aware of the financial and economic factors affecting the shareholders that may result in restrictions on the transfer performance of the business in which they work, using their of ordinary shares or on voting rights.
None of the ordinary own consultation and communication methods.
A European shares carries any special rights with regard to control of Works Council has been in operation since 2003 and meets the Company.
The only restrictions on voting rights are at least once a year to exchange views on pan-European those that apply to the ordinary shares held in treasury, as issues facing the Group.
At the date of this annual report, described above.
Electronic and paper proxy appointments there are 14 members of the European Works Council and voting instructions must be received by the Companys comprising 10 employee representatives nominated from registrars not later than 48 hours before a general meeting, among employees from each of our European businesses or any adjournment thereof.
with the balance being Company appointees.
The Groups Own shares acquired by the Company financial results and important initiatives are communicated At the annual general meeting of the Company held through a number of mechanisms including newsletters on 7 May 2010 authority was given for the Company to and intranets for the individual businesses and the purchase up to 48,000,000 of its ordinary shares of 25p Companys website.
The Company did not use this authority to make any Share schemes are a long established and successful part purchases of its own shares during the period.
At the of our total reward package, encouraging and supporting next annual general meeting of the Company, shareholders employee share ownership.
Full details of employee share will be asked to give a similar authority, details of which are schemes are set out in the Remuneration Report on pages contained in the separate circular.
52 to 55 and in note 20 to the financial statements on pages As at 31 December 2010, 19,124,700 ordinary shares 111 to 113. nominal value 4,781,175 were held in treasury representing A number of people development initiatives are co-ordinated 6% of the issued share capital excluding treasury shares across the Group, including the IMI graduate programme at that time.
These initiatives and the Substantial shareholdings Companys approach to employee investment and talent development are explained on page 33.
Information provided to the Company pursuant to the FSAs Disclosure and Transparency Rules is published on a It is Group policy to promote equal opportunities in regulatory information service.
As at 2 March 2011, the employment consistent with the requirements of the following voting interests in the ordinary share capital of the countries in which the Group operates.
The policy applies to Company, disclosable under the Disclosure and Transparency both employees and applicants for employment.
Companies Rules, have been notified to the Company: in the Group are required to eliminate discrimination and communicate and promote the policy to all employees.
BlackRock, Inc. 9.98% Managing Directors of operating units have responsibility Standard Life Investments Limited 9.02% for compliance and each employee is required to abide by the policy.
Every effort is made to ensure that applications AXA Investment Managers UK Limited 4.86% for employment from disabled persons are fully and Newton Investment Management Limited 3.96% fairly considered and that disabled employees have equal Legal and General Group plc 3.95% opportunity in training and promotion.
BT Pension Scheme Trustees Limited 3.01% Health, safety and the environment So far as the Company is aware, there are no persons with It is Group policy to maintain healthy and safe working significant direct or indirect holdings in the Company other conditions and to operate in a responsible manner with than those noted above.
Information on our key performance indicators in this area is given on page 7 and further information is available on our website www.
IMI ANNUAL REPORT 2010 39 Board reports DIRECTORS REPORT Policy and practice on the payment of trade creditors Directors powers Operating units are responsible for setting terms of The powers of the directors are determined by UK legislation payment when agreeing the terms of each business and the articles of association of the Company in force from transaction, ensuring that suppliers are made aware of the time to time.
The directors have been authorised to allot terms of payment and abiding by such terms, subject to the and issue ordinary shares and to make market purchases of supplier performing to its obligations.
IMI plc is a holding the Companys ordinary shares.
These powers are exercised company and has no trade creditors.
under the authority of resolutions of the Company passed at its annual general meeting.
Further details of authorities Donations the Company is seeking for the allotment, issue and 180,000 was given during 2010 2009: 233,000 for purchase of its ordinary shares are set out in the separate community and similar purposes including 180,000 2009: circular containing the notice of the annual general meeting.
The Group supports a Directors interests range of selected national charities and smaller charitable organisations operating in communities where the Group has The interests of the persons including the interests of any a presence.
Our approach to charitable and other donations connected persons who were directors at the end of the is explained on pages 32 and 33.
No political donations were year, in the share capital of the Company, and their interests made during the year.
under share option and incentive schemes, are shown on pages 60 to 62.
Directors Essential contracts and change of control The membership of the Board and biographical details of the directors are given on pages 36 and 37 and are The Group does not have any single contract or other incorporated into this report by reference.
Ian Whiting arrangement which is essential to its business taken as was appointed to the Board as an executive director with a whole.
Norman Askew has informed The Company and its subsidiaries are party to a number the Board of his intention to retire when a successor has of agreements that may allow the counterparties to alter been appointed, which is expected to be during the course or terminate the arrangements on a change of control of of 2011. the Company following a takeover bid, such as commercial The rules for the appointment and replacement of directors contracts and employee share plans.
Other than as referred are set out in the Companys articles of association to in the next paragraph, none of these is considered by the which provide for regular retirement as well as for the Company to be significant in terms of its likely impact on the appointment and removal of directors by the Board and Group as a whole.
general meetings of the Company.
Each new appointee to In the event of a change of control of the Company, the the Board is required to stand for election at the next Groups main funding agreements allow the lenders to annual general meeting following their appointment and renegotiate terms or give notice of repayment for all Ian Whiting will seek election having been appointed to the outstanding amounts under the relevant facilities.
In the Board during the year.
In addition, the Companys articles of current economic climate this could have a significant effect association require each director to stand for re-election at on the liquidity of the business.
least once every three years.
However, in accordance with The Company does not have agreements with any director the new provision contained in the UK Corporate Governance or employee that would provide compensation for loss Code, all continuing directors will submit themselves for of office or employment specifically resulting from a re-election at the next annual general meeting and are takeover, although provisions of the Companys share recommended for re-election.
Changes to the articles of schemes include a discretion to allow awards granted to association must be approved by a special resolution of the directors and employees under such schemes to vest in shareholders 75% majority required in accordance with the those circumstances.
legislation in force at the time.
Going concern The Company maintains directors and officers liability insurance and all directors of the Company benefit from A statement in relation to the adoption of the going concern qualifying third party indemnity provisions which were in basis in preparing the financial statements appears on page place during the financial year.
At the date of this Annual 27 and is incorporated into this report by reference.
Report there are such indemnity arrangements with each director in respect of the costs of defending civil, criminal and regulatory proceedings brought against them, in their capacity as a director, where not covered by insurance and subject always to the limitations set by the Companies Act 2006.
40 BOARD REPORTS BUSINESS OVERVIEW GROUP OPERATING REVIEW RESPONSIBLE BUSINESS BOARD REPORTS FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Disclosure of information to auditor Each director confirms that, so far as they are each aware, there is no relevant audit information of which the Companys auditor is unaware: and each director has taken all the steps that he or she ought to have taken as a director to make himself or herself aware of any relevant audit information and to establish that the Companys auditor is aware of that information.
Cautionary statements The business review and other content of this Annual Report have been prepared for and only for the members of the Company as a body and no other persons.
Neither the Company nor its directors or officers accept or assume responsibility to any person for this Annual Report beyond the responsibilities arising from the production of this Annual Report pursuant to and for the purposes required by UK legislation.
Sections of this Annual Report may contain forward-looking statements about the Group, including, for example, statements relating to: future demand and markets for the Groups products and services, research and development relating to new products and services, tax rates, liquidity and capital resources and implementation of restructuring plans and efficiencies.
Any forward-looking statements are by their nature subject to numerous risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from those expressed or implied by such statements depending on a variety of factors, including, for example, those described in this Annual Report under the heading Principal risks and uncertainties.
IMI undertakes no obligation to update any forward-looking statements whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise.
Nothing in this Annual Report should be construed as a profit forecast.
Annual general meeting The annual general meeting will be held at the Hilton Birmingham Metropole Hotel, National Exhibition Centre, Birmingham on Friday 6 May 2011, commencing at noon.
Auditor Resolutions for the reappointment of Ernst & Young LLP as auditor of the Company and to authorise the directors to determine their remuneration will be proposed at the next annual general meeting.
By order of the Board John OShea Company Secretary 2 March 2011 IMI plc is registered in England No.
