Group operating review KEY THEMES INVESTING IN OUR CORE COMPETENCIES OF KEY ACCOUNT MANAGEMENT AND ENGINEERING ADVANTAGE The balancing instrument TA-SCOPE optimises the hydronic balancing process, ensuring that the heating and cooling system in a building provides comfort using the absolute minimum of energy.
TA-SCOPE enables accurate measurement of differential pressure, flow, temperature and power and has advanced functions for data analysis.
The two core competencies common to all of IMIs businesses are Key Account Management and Engineering Advantage.
IMI is increasing its investment in these two key areas to underpin the Groups aspirations of accelerating top line growth and delivering further margin improvement.
Key Account Management World class Key Account Management we reduce their life costs and The new framework breaks Key is central to our strategic aims.
risks by minimising installation Account Management down into five By understanding the value drivers and warranty costs through our core skills: for our customers we are able to engineered solutions: and Backing winners create greater value for them.
we help them optimise their initial We aim to select the best customers Insight investment in their equipment, to partner with and manage those Engineering Advantage system or plant.
relationships closely for the benefit Capturing value We call this Engineering Advantage.
of both the customer and IMI.
Execution ability As with Key Account Management We set up our Key Account This new framework will be used to we are increasing our investment in Management Academy in 2003 train and develop all our KAMs across Engineering Advantage over the next with the help of Cranfield University.
At the same time IMI few years to help drive future growth, Since then our Key Account Managers is investing in new KAMs in each particularly in the emerging markets.
KAMs from across our platform business with over 100 expected to be This will result in more Valve Doctors businesses have had regular recruited in 2011 alone.
Recruitment in Severe Service and an increase opportunities to share best practice is heavily weighted towards the faster in the number of engineers in our and develop their skill sets within growing emerging markets.
technical centres in Fluid Power.
the framework of the academy.
In Indoor Climate we are investing in The next phase of our KAM Engineering Advantage a new engineering support centre in development is being led by Sean We create value for our customers in Poland and an increase in the number Toomes, President of Indoor Climate three critical ways: of Hydronic Gurus to help develop and Executive Committee member, our programme of seminars around we help them increase the value of who is refocusing our efforts in the world.
the products or systems they are this important area.
selling to their own customers and create competitive advantage for them in their own markets: 20 GROUP OPERATING REVIEW BUSINESS OVERVIEW GROUP OPERATING REVIEW RESPONSIBLE BUSINESS BOARD REPORTS FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Product development has been central to our Companys growth plans and the new Neptune series of engines is an example of this success.
The engine is designed to set benchmarks, offering superior levels of performance, power and fuel efficiency.
In order to also meet the demanding requirements of emissions legislation, we needed a partner to work with, who had the experience to provide a proven solution & appropriate technical support and we chose Norgren.
Norgrens proportional valve to control the exhaust gas recirculation system has provided a precise, compliant and reliable solution.
Their ability to integrate all the components that are needed for installation has reduced the number of sub-suppliers we use and the installation time required.
Mr. Murali Saketheran, Neptune Programme Manager & Special Director Central Quality, Ashok Leyland To further enhance understanding of the process challenges in the development of In Beverage Dispense there will be Overall we have plans to add well over severe service solutions, IMI Severe renewed focus on our new product 200 new engineers across the Group Service has developed the IMI Severe development activity and in in the next couple of years.
Investing Service University to provide customers with both classroom and on-site training.
Merchandising we are opening a new in Engineering Advantage is key to The course design team works directly interactive In-Vision laboratory using creating value for our customers and with the Valve Doctors, engineers, and field service experts to create courses the latest visual display technology to thereby creating greater value for that provide the ideal mix of industry explain the science of merchandising our shareholders.
knowledge, subject expertise, and hands-on experience.
based on the knowledge that we have built up over many years.
