Responsible business HIGH STANDARDS OF RESPONSIBILITY ARE AT THE HEART OF EVERYTHING WE DO Our code of responsible business is a WE BELIEVE THAT RESPONSIBILITY IMPACTS POSITIVELY ON guide to help employees consistently PROFITABILITY, RETURNS TO SHAREHOLDERS, REPUTATION AND demonstrate their commitment to GROWTH.
OUR INTERNAL STANDARDS DEMAND SOUND MANAGEMENT The IMI Way throughout our worldwide operations.
It can help determine OF OUR RESPONSIBLE BUSINESS AGENDA AND AIM TO INTEGRATE THIS the right course of action, for THINKING WITHIN ALL ASPECTS OF OUR BUSINESS.
instance, in a feedback conversation with a colleague, in negotiations with a major customer or supplier, in an THE IMI WAY: Our Code of assessment of our health and safety Responsible Business performance or in a review of product The most consistent factor in IMIs innovations.
longstanding business success has During 2010 face-to-face training been our commitment to a guiding was again given to all our employees set of values that exemplify how our worldwide.
Two of our businesses, employees behave.
Wherever anyone Severe Service and Indoor Climate, works in IMI and whenever an IMI held IMI Way days where all of their employee is encountered, you can employees were trained and took part expect to see these values at work: in team building activities on the same IMI people pursue excellence and day.
Training this year covered the deliver results introduction of the new STAR Guide, IMI people innovate and provide value which stands for Stop Think Act to our customers Reflect and acts as a user friendly aide memoire for considering ethical IMI people act with integrity dilemmas in the workplace.
There was In 2009, IMI formalised these values also more functional specific faceinto a code of responsible business to-face training which focused on entitled The IMI Way.
We believe ethical dilemmas for sales, finance that it is vital for our future business and procurement personnel.
performance that we continue, as a Group, to demonstrate the values and In 2011, all five platform businesses behaviours that set IMI apart.
are planning to hold IMI Way days and training will include the introduction of the new UK Bribery Act.
We will also be seeking input from all of our employees for an updated version of The IMI Way which is planned for 2012.
A comprehensive programme of anti-corruption processes, procedures and training has been developed for implementation across the Group.
This programme is led by Jo Morgan, the IMI Chief Compliance Officer, with direct sponsorship from the Executive Committee.
Group compliance staff and a team at CCI are working closely with the monitor appointed pursuant to a CCI settlement with the US Department of Justice.
In addition, we use The IMI Way to highlight any conduct which is not in line with our values and we provide our employees with an anonymous hotline 28 RESPONSIBLE BUSINESS BUSINESS OVERVIEW GROUP OPERATING REVIEW RESPONSIBLE BUSINESS BOARD REPORTS FINANCIAL STATEMENTS service on the telephone and via the which best practice ideas internet to raise any such concerns.
on health and safety, All hotline issues are reviewed by the customer engagement, Ethics and Compliance Committee on supplier audits and energy a monthly basis and reported to the efficiency are shared.
Executive Committee and the Board Our continued inclusion in as appropriate.
both the FTSE4Good and Dow Jones Sustainability indices is Again, in 2010 we presented CEO evidence of our responsible awards for The IMI Way, recognising business progress.
the achievement of individuals and teams for their commitment to The All of our businesses are IMI Way.
Additionally, the targets required to have associated with The IMI Way form responsible business part of the overall incentive bonuses objectives as part of and collation of the for the senior management group of their rolling three year annual audit data to the Company.
These further improve the quality include identification of future risks, and distribution of this opportunities and measures to ensure information.
The results of the IMI Responsible Business full alignment of each business with responsible business audit are initiatives the Groups four responsible business reviewed by the Board and statistics As a reflection of the values that priorities, as well as specific local from the annual audit are published underpin The IMI Way, we take our objectives.
This also feeds into our on our website www.
responsibilities to the environment Strategic Risk Assessment process.
Health and safety and the communities in which we Typical local actions include measures operate very seriously.
We put to improve health and safety, energy We promote a strong health and particular emphasis on ensuring that efficiency, waste minimisation and safety culture to minimise risk for our our management of people, social, recycling and steps to gain relevant people, the environment, adjacent environmental and economic issues HS&E or quality accreditation in communities and other stakeholders.
is aligned and integrated with the particular facilities.
During 2010, we made further overall management of the business.
progress in improving our health To support this commitment, IMI is a and safety record.
We now have Responsible Business signatory to the UN Global Compact, 45 full-time health, safety and priorities which establishes standards for environmental officers across the human rights, labour practices, The IMI Way sets out our four Group, up 20% on 2009.
We also the environment and anti-corruption.
responsible business priorities: increased capital expenditure in this We strongly believe that high critical area.
Our overall lost time Health and safety standards of responsibility are not accident rates fell from 0.27 accidents Supporting our customers just compatible with, but positively per 100,000 hours worked in 2009 responsible business priorities support growth and business to 0.25 in 2010, a 7% improvement.
Supply chain and manufacturing in efficiency.
Whilst modest compared to last lower cost economies years improvement, this performance In 2010, we continued to make good Energy efficiency and carbon demonstrates the continued progress on our initiatives in this area.
management clear focus and commitment at Responsible business activities are all levels across the Group on managed by a Steering Group chaired Our four key priorities are reviewed health and safety matters.
by Sean Toomes, President of Indoor at least annually to ensure that they remain relevant and appropriate.
Climate and the member of the We have increased resources, The performance of our business Executive Committee with functional improved the quality of reporting and units on these four key priorities is responsibility for health, safety focused more attention on near assessed during an annual responsible and environment HS&E matters.
misses to address health and safety business audit and throughout the Douglas Hurt has main Board risks more proactively.
In particular, year through other processes such as responsibility for HS&E.
Quarterly we continue to see positive changes in our risk control surveys and supplier calls are held with platform business many of our sites which had previously audits.
Last year we introduced a presidents and responsible business been underperforming.
web-based system for the collection champions from across the Group in IMI ANNUAL REPORT 2010 29 Responsible business 1.
Health and safety continued Examples of best practice included: Our employees at the Webber, Fluid Power site in Bristol, UK have During 2010 the Group mandated Utilising the IMI Safety First, Safety initiated and organised regular a safety stand down procedure Always slogan, we are committed mock disaster incidents to enable across all sites worldwide: where to effective communication and first aiders to get simulated any greater than 3-day lost time consultation on HS&E matters with experience of having to deal with a incident occurs the site is required all relevant stakeholders, particularly major incident on site.
Emergency, to stop operations in the area with employees.
IMI requires evacuation and chemical spill impacted for a period of time and those working for us directly, or procedures are all audited and have formally review the incident and on our behalf as contractors, to resulted in operational controls how it can be avoided in future.
comply with our HS&E standards being improved.
This ensures that valuable lessons and procedures.
are learnt from any accident that During 2010 the Chief Executive In support of these general takes place.
again presented awards for health commitments, IMI and each Our Severe Service business has and safety excellence recognising subsidiary manages its activities to taken on the leadership role in significant achievements by individuals, ensure that improvement in these implementing a global HS&E strategy teams and whole sites across all of areas is cumulative and constant.
and action plan to reduce overall IMIs operations.
In addition, health In 2010, Group-wide HS&E forums accidents, including a global and safety targets were again used were again held in the UK, the framework approach being as one of the main benchmarks for Americas and in Continental Europe.
developed and implemented to determining the responsible business Two of our platform businesses, manage health and safety risks element of annual bonuses for senior for our field service personnel.
Fluid Power and Indoor Climate, managers in 2010 and will also apply This included new training, a new risk held their own individual HS&E in 2011. manual, risk assessment tools and forums and there were other 2.
Supporting our customers near miss reporting requirements arrangements for sharing best responsible business priorities which have helped materially to practice throughout the year.
reduce the number of accidents.
Our continued success lies in creating superior long-term value for our customers and inspiring their trust.
We place significant emphasis on helping our customers to meet their own responsible business commitments - from diversity targets to carbon emissions - recognising the opportunities for sustainability and developing our respective businesses.
Global concerns relating to energy issues and climate change, whether driven by legislation or not, have a positive impact on customer demand for our products and services - many of which are clearly dedicated to energy efficient operation.
Our customers also value the high standard ethical and business practices set out in the IMI Way which is particularly relevant in emerging markets where responsible business risks can be higher.
IMI Global Graduates transformed a drab stairwell at a primary school in Birmingham into a colourful display of geometric shapes designed by local pupils.
30 RESPONSIBLE BUSINESS BUSINESS OVERVIEW GROUP OPERATING REVIEW RESPONSIBLE BUSINESS BOARD REPORTS FINANCIAL STATEMENTS There are a wide range of excellent All of these examples demonstrate 4.
Energy efficiency and carbon examples across the Group, many of how, by engaging closely with our key management which are highlighted elsewhere in this customers on their responsible IMI has an ongoing commitment to Annual Report, which demonstrate business agendas and initiatives, reduce its CO emissions and become 2 how we are helping our customers to we can generate end market more energy efficient in both our meet their own responsible business opportunities which create real products and processes.
Each year our Indoor commercial advantage for IMI.
both environmental and cost saving Climate business holds a number 3.
Supply chain and manufacturing in benefits.
All of our major factories of customer insight councils in its lower cost economies have local energy savings targets main markets where customers and initiatives in place and regular IMIs manufacturing plants in emerging responsible business agendas are teleconferences help to ensure that economies such as Mexico, China, the a regular topic of discussion.
It is ideas and best practice are shared Czech Republic and India have all been increasingly evident that greater around IMIs operations worldwide.
developed with full attention to HS&E energy efficiency has a direct, positive IMI measures its CO emissions by 2 risks and energy efficient, lean impact on building occupancy rates looking at tonnes of CO emitted per 2 manufacturing techniques.
and valuations and our customers 1,000 hours worked.
are looking for IMI to assist them in We hold annual supplier days in China In 2010 our sites implemented a achieving their goals in this area.
for each platform business, focusing range of initiatives aimed at reducing on ensuring that regional suppliers Our Severe Service business has been energy consumption and costs and at fully understand and can meet IMIs developing a variety of new products being more environmentally friendly.
demanding legal compliance, quality to help customers reduce emissions These included: assurance and responsible business of carbon and other gases.
This has requirements, including adherence to In the UK, our manufacturing sites included its new CoolMist solution at Lichfield Fluid Power and the UN Global Compact.
which has helped a major customer Loughborough Merchandising reduce CO emissions by around 20% 2 We operate a supplier evaluation implemented a range of new lighting in the interstage attemperation process and as part of this, suppliers management initiatives including application of a combined cycle plant are subject to rigorous and ongoing the use of zonal control, motion in North America.
Similarly, our Fluid audits by our procurement teams, sensors, daylight roof panels and Power business has a number of new including a substantial team based the replacement of light fittings products being developed with a in China.
This process follows a riskwith newer more energy efficient green agenda including a proportional based methodology for assessment alternatives.
control valve solution for a new and audit against our global In the USA, our Severe Service combined heat and power CHP responsible business measures.
business invested in a new system aimed at the domestic market.
In addition, IMIs risk control team compressed air generation unit conducts regular supplier visits and Both our Beverage Dispense and to replace two older inefficient training of our procurement Merchandising businesses continue to compressors.
This not only delivered personnel.
a significant improvement in develop more sustainable solutions for energy usage but also increased global brand owners and retailers, who In 2010, over 140 supplier audits took air capacity by over 50% and was themselves have set very demanding place and this process continues to be supported by rebates from the local targets aimed at reducing their reviewed and enhanced.
Our new energy of these audits we have required In our Beverage Dispense facility in efficient coolers for both carbonated improvement plans and, where Reynosa, Mexico the business soft drinks and beer continue to make appropriate, we have also terminated invested in a new water filtration good progress.
We also launched the our relationships with a number of and reverse osmosis system which Freedom Barrel for merchandising suppliers who were not able to meet enables the site to recycle waste cold drinks.
This is the first truly our strict responsible business water and is saving over 250,000 portable knock-down barrel, requirements.
In 2011 we will be gallons of water usage per annum.
manufactured from reprocessed refining this audit process to reflect materials, which delivers significant the latest profile of risks and we will reductions in packaging materials, be providing further training and transportation requirements and development for our supply chain warehousing space.
employees to ensure excellence in this important area.
IMI ANNUAL REPORT 2010 31 Responsible business 4.
Energy efficiency and carbon safety performance report that will Community engagement management continued be posted to the IMI plc website, IMI has benefited greatly from the www.
Importantly, in July 2010 IMIs UK communities in which we operate.
facilities became certified to In 2011, we have a clear priority to We have a duty to be a responsible The Carbon Trust Standard CTS.
improve this performance through business citizen and to meet our This represents a great endorsement more regular reporting and closer commitments to these communities.
for all the work we have been doing monitoring efforts.
In particular, we We want to show appreciation to on our energy efficiency and carbon will be focusing our efforts on our top these neighbours for their support.
The CTS twenty energy consuming locations To this end, IMI continues to certifies that an organisation which are responsible for around 70% demonstrate high economic, social and has genuinely reduced its carbon of the Groups energy usage.
We will environmental standards, remains footprint, and is committed to making be targeting a number of common key respectful of human rights and further reductions year on year.
initiatives in these locations including assists our local communities through lighting, compressed air management, charitable activities and community Despite all these efforts, in 2010 equipment upgrades, induction motor volunteering.
We also make sure that our key performance indicator rose controllers and also opportunities to we communicate appropriately with slightly from 3.5 to 3.6 CO tonnes per 2 take advantage of local government all of our stakeholders.
One way that 1,000 hours worked.
These efforts we support our local communities reflected the adverse impact of the should assist the Group to meet its is through responsibly sponsoring abnormally cold weather experienced emissions target set last year to recognised national and local charities in Europe and North America at reduce normalised CO emissions by 2 and causes, generally with auditable different points in the year.
Total CO 2 10% over a three year period to no accounts, that are most aligned emissions rose from 90,000 tonnes more than 3.2 CO tonnes 1,000 hours 2 with IMI or its companies regarding to 97,000 tonnes reflecting the worked in 2012.
Regular updates on location, supported cause or significant increase in activity levels.
our achievement against this target relevance.
Further information will be provided in are given on the Groups website.
the 2010 environmental and health and Across all our businesses, we actively encourage positive contributions to local communities and environments, whilst still delivering the necessary business performance.
For IMI people, responsibility and business performance are directly and intimately connected.
During 2010, IMI continued to provide support for many charities with its two main corporate charities being: Care for Children, a charity that exists to relieve hardship, distress and sickness in abandoned and orphaned children in China by placing them with foster and adoptive families.
DebRA, a charity working on behalf of people with the genetic skin blistering condition, Epidermolysis Bullosa.
Team 469 from the Detroit area, sponsored by Norgren, won the Michigan state championship and a silver medal at the World Championships in an annual high school robotics competition.
32 RESPONSIBLE BUSINESS BUSINESS OVERVIEW GROUP OPERATING REVIEW RESPONSIBLE BUSINESS BOARD REPORTS FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Severe Service employees in California worked in teams to build bicycles for a charity that provides food and gifts to local families over the Thanksgiving and Christmas holidays.
Elsewhere, employees right across our businesses have been involved in a wide range of fund raising activities for local charities and other good causes.
For example our Severe Service employees in Japan are collecting drinks bottle caps which can be exchanged for polio and other important vaccinations for children in developing countries through the Ecocap Movement.
Our Fluid Power business, Norgren, sponsored a team of local high school students in Detroit, USA in a robotics competition where they won the Michigan state championship and then went on to win a silver medal at the World Championships.
Employee investment and talent development IMI encourages its operating units The IMI graduate programme The geographical distribution of our to train and develop employees at continues to provide a pipeline of operations and activities across the all levels through a wide range of engineering talent into the business.
world enables us to draw upon a broad business-related education and The programme is now aligned with spectrum of talented people from training.
At the operational level each our business footprint and with our diverse ethnic, cultural and business IMI facility ensures that employees growth markets.
In recent years, we have receive suitable and continuing continues to be a rich source of talent accelerated the development of on-the-job training and support, for senior roles in the Company.
programmes and disciplines that with health and safety and will deliver the human resources IMI continued to invest heavily in environmental matters being a necessary to maintain and grow our health and safety resources, tools particularly important focus.
Ensuring that the Company and training to drive improvements has the appropriate expertise and in accident prevention and safe In 2010, IMI launched the Leadership skills at all levels is a fundamental working conditions.
Similar investment Blueprint which defines the critical management responsibility.
continued with The IMI Way, with skills and characteristics of ongoing education about the IMI successful business leaders at IMI.
During 2010 the businesses worked on confidential hotline, and continued The Blueprint includes the core the actions arising from the first all rigour with ethics and compliance requirements for an IMI Leader and employee engagement survey.
underpins the new suite of Leadership Employees reported high levels of programmes the Leaders Boot Camp commitment and engagement with We again invested in training in two and Management Fundamentals that their business and with the IMI Group core competency areas - Key Account began in 2010.
A diverse group of top and this has been built upon with Management KAM and Engineering managers and high potential business greater investment in local Advantage.
KAM training concentrated people are experiencing challenging communication forums.
The survey will on developing customer insight and personal development through this be repeated in 2011, progress tracked customer driven value propositions.
and further actions developed to drive Engineering Advantage training, excellence.
particularly in our Fluid Power business, has reinforced the strong product and technology understanding that our engineers, sales and customer facing employees need to help deliver more added value customer solutions.
