Business overview OUR GOALS AND HOW WE ARE ACHIEVING THEM OUR GOAL IS TO BECOME ONE OF THE WORLDS We are focused on growth with industry or sector leading customers in niche global markets.
LEADING ENGINEERING COMPANIES IN THE Adding value to such customers and improving their NICHES WE SERVE, RECOGNISED FOR OUR performance is the route to sustainable profit growth INNOVATION, APPLICATIONS EXPERTISE AND for our shareholders.
We seek to operate in those GLOBAL SERVICE.
markets which have good exposure to the key global trends, including climate change, resource scarcity, WE AIM TO DELIVER SUSTAINABLE ORGANIC urbanisation and ageing populations which are shaping GROWTH IN EXCESS OF GDP GROWTH AND our future and driving growth, where we already OVER TIME TO REACH OPERATING MARGINS hold or can achieve a market leadership position OF AT LEAST 20% IN EACH OF OUR FLUID and where we can clearly differentiate ourselves from our competitors with end-user insight and the CONTROLS BUSINESSES AND 15% IN IN EACH application of innovative technology.
OF OUR RETAIL DISPENSE BUSINESSES.
ACCELERATING OUR INVESTING IN KEY ACCOUNT FOCUS ENGINEERING ADVANTAGE Highly talented, customer-focused, We invest in techniques that improve market  teams of people in understanding and customer insight.
We then IMI add long-term value for both customers apply our acquired knowledge and our engineering and ourselves.
Developing these skills, capabilities to the issues faced by our customers.
understanding the drivers of our customers The result is relevant, bespoke technologies businesses, and our own, and ensuring that we and new products that create real value work with the best customer partners, are and strengthen our customer relationships.
critical components of our business model.
This core capability effectively engineers solutions Recognising where value can be added for that provide advantages for our customers both parties is a fundamental part of our and we refer to this as Engineering Advantage.
A centrally-based Key Account Our current aim is to accelerate our investment Academy helps to train our people and in research and development ensure that best practice is shared and thereby increase the across the Group.
percentage of revenue from new products, launched in the prior three years, to over 20% by the end of 2013.
Mike Doody was recently Jay Faramarzi has a worldwide promoted to President of our reputation in the control DCI Merchandising business valves technology that having successfully generated underpins CCIs Engineering value to our customers, and to Advantage.
Jay has IMI, through our key account accountability for the highly activities in sectors such as skilled engineering group in consumer electronics.
CCI and for leveraging our engineering capabilities to add value to our customers.
4 BUSINESS OVERVIEW GROUP OPERATING REVIEW RESPONSIBLE BUSINESS BOARD REPORTS FINANCIAL STATEMENTS World class key account management and project The Beverage Dispense and Merchandising management are important disciplines for the businesses operate in Retail Dispense markets, effective delivery of bespoke solutions to our where our customers are brand owners and retailers.
We also provide Our strategic growth drivers set out below are aftermarket support in the form of service and understood by all the senior management in IMI and spares to our customers installed product base.
We believe Our five business platforms share this common in the highest ethical standards and The IMI Way, philosophy.
The Severe Service, Fluid Power and our code of responsible business, is at the heart Indoor Climate business platforms serve Fluid Controls of everything we do.
markets, where our customers include plant operators, original equipment manufacturers and building owners.
SEIZING THE INITIATIVE IN BALANCE SHEET EMERGING ECONOMIES MANAGEMENT We continue to invest in emerging economies including The Group remains strongly cash generative and China, India, Brazil and Eastern Europe which currently maintains a healthy balance sheet with relatively offer stronger growth opportunities than most low levels of debt.
IMIs financial strength means developed economies.
To take advantage of these that it is extremely well placed to invest for the opportunities we are accelerating our investment future in organic growth, in partnering with our key in both engineering and in key account managers.
customers to develop new, innovative and bespoke In addition we are continuing to invest in a significant engineering solutions and in value enhancing manufacturing and procurement presence in acquisitions.
Acquisitions must align with our these markets with sites in Mexico, Brazil, the strategic criteria with good exposure to the key Czech Republic, China, Poland and most recently India.
global trends identified above and should bring Focused investment of this sort technology, talent and key account relationships enables us to support our with the ability to create significant customers as they seek differentiation, so strengthening further themselves to grow our leadership positions in our wellin these developing markets.
They must also be supportive of our growth and margin targets.
All potential acquisitions and all major investment proposals must be able to demonstrate positive economic value added on a cumulative basis within three years.
Ricardo Rodrigues, who MingMing Gao leads the finance began his career with IMI function in IMI China where she on our Global Graduate guides the businesses to ensure Programme, now has we have tight financial controls in accountability for Norgrens place and drives the effective Latin Americas Region.
optimisation of our balance sheet Ricardo is spearheading to get maximum value from our our growth with a special investment programme in China.
focus on Brazil, a key emerging market.
