Group operating review KEY THEMES HELPING OUR CUSTOMERS TO ACHIEVE ENERGY EFFICIENCY Display Technologies Freedom Barrel helps our customers meet their environmental impact goals.
Predominantly made from reprocessed materials, it can also be easily disassembled for recycling.
Three units are packed in approximately the same space as a single traditional unit, providing freight and warehouse savings of more than 50%.
Energy efficiency How we contribute Moving towards energy sustainability IMI has long identified energy will require a change, not only in the efficiency as a major growth driver for way that energy is generated and the Group.
It is fundamental to our supplied, but also in the way that own responsible business agenda it is used, so reducing the amount where we not only have a priority of energy required to deliver various to reduce the Groups own carbon goods and services is essential.
emissions, but also have a priority to Our Indoor Climate business is almost According to the International Energy engage with our customers on their entirely focused on providing more Agency, improved energy efficiency in own responsible business agendas energy efficient valve solutions for buildings, industrial processes and which, almost without exception, both commercial and residential transportation could reduce the include the reduction of carbon buildings.
As has been highlighted worlds energy needs in 2050 by one emissions.
Consequently, there previously, these trends are third, and thereby help control global continues to be increasing demand increasingly supported by legislation emissions of CO. As well as climate from our customers across all of our 2 and there is growing evidence that change, the other key factor behind businesses for more energy efficient greater energy efficiency can have a the drive for more energy efficient products and services.
This is often positive impact on building occupancy products is the increasing cost of supported by government legislation rates and valuations.
A combination of higher whether relating to truck emissions, Energy efficiency is now one of the raw material costs and the move or the energy efficiency of buildings.
key priorities in the development of towards more sustainable and Energy efficiency therefore remains all new dispensing equipment in more expensive energy production a key driver of our new product our Beverage Dispense business.
technologies is increasing the cost development activity.
Over the last few years we have of energy worldwide.
By investing Our Severe Service business has developed a range of new coolers for in more energy efficient solutions, developed a range of valve and the beer and carbonated soft drinks companies can reduce the impact of actuator solutions to help customers markets, such as the Energize and these higher costs.
reduce energy usage and emissions IntelliBlue systems, which both of CO and other gases.
Recent 2 use around 40% less energy than examples of this include the CoolMist traditional coolers.
This resonates solution in Combined Cycle Plants well with the global drinks brand which reduces emissions by around owners who are all now very focused 20% and our solutions to on reducing their carbon footprints.
help reduce fugitive emissions in the Similarly in Merchandising, we are Oil & Gas markets.
Similarly, product increasingly focused on developing development in our Fluid Power more energy efficient product designs business is largely focused on helping for our customers.
to improve efficiencies in key sectors such as rail and commercial vehicles.
16 GROUP OPERATING REVIEW BUSINESS OVERVIEW GROUP OPERATING REVIEW RESPONSIBLE BUSINESS BOARD REPORTS FINANCIAL STATEMENTS McDonalds welcomed the opportunity to partner with IMI Cornelius on its new drink cooling system - Energize, resulting in 40% energy savings, equivalent to CO emissions 2 of 3.0 tonnes a year, and reducing typical restaurant energy costs by 425 per year.
This type of energy efficient technology is aiding McDonalds in achieving their global sustainability targets.
The objective for our state of the art head office in Prague was to have a reliable and energy efficient heating and cooling network, operating in an environmentally friendly way.
The long standing cooperation between IMI Indoor Climate, the consultants and us, on the heating and cooling network, helped us to achieve our goal.
This successful collaboration contributed to the building, with its sustainable design features, becoming the first LEED certified building in the Czech Republic with a gold award - an internationally recognised green building certification.
Pavel Kavnek, Chief Executive Officer, CSOB 17
