OUR FIVE PLATFORM BUSINESSES SEVERE SERVICE FLUID POWER At the end of December we completed All of the five key global sectors - SEVERE SERVICE the acquisition of Zimmermann & Commercial Vehicles, Life Sciences, Our Severe Service business saw an Jansen Z&J, a leading engineering Rail, Energy and Food & Beverage - overall organic revenue decline of 14% business specialising in severe service performed well with a particularly for the full year.
This performance valves and related flow control strong bounce back in commercial was a reflection of the later cycle products, for a consideration vehicle volumes after a difficult 2009. nature of its markets and the lower net of cash acquired of 110m.
Overall our targeted sectors now order intake seen in new construction The acquisition of Z&J is highly represent 41% of total Fluid Power markets in 2009.
As previously complementary, both in market revenues.
indicated shipments of new valves in terms, extending our interests into both the Oil & Gas and Fossil Power The business continued to deliver downstream Oil & Gas Refining and sectors were significantly down on strong profits drop-through on higher Petrochemical and into Iron & Steel: 2009.
Activity levels in the Nuclear volumes throughout the year with and in technology terms, with Z&Js sector were slightly down, whilst in the segmental operating profits up 247% highly acclaimed isolation valve Aftermarket, shipments were stronger and operating margins up at 16.6% technology a natural fit alongside the than last year.
As expected, margins compared with the 6.3% delivered Truflo technology acquired in 2006. were impacted by lower volumes last year and 13.7% in 2008.
This step The use of IMIs global sales and and fell to 17.3% for the full year.
change in margin performance has aftermarket infrastructure is Our new manufacturing facility in the been driven by increased operational expected to improve Z&Js geographic Czech Republic opened in May 2010 efficiencies as we continue to transfer penetration.
and its sister facility in India is manufacturing to our low cost now operational.
The increased order intake seen in the facilities in China, the Czech Republic, year, together with ongoing strength Brazil and Mexico, and by our initiatives The order book at the year-end was up in the Nuclear and Aftermarket to deliver material cost savings and 17% on the position at the beginning businesses, are expected to support to maximise the value secured for of the year.
Order intake was up 3%, a return to growth in 2011.
However, our products and services.
with like-for-like orders up 9% margins in the first half of 2011 will after adjusting for the effect of the The positive momentum in Fluid Power be impacted by an unfavourable mix multiyear, master contract agreed seen in 2010 has been maintained in of lower margin Nuclear and Oil & Gas with EdF in 2009.
The strong recovery the first two months of 2011. projects.
in the Oil & Gas sector and the LNG INDOOR CLIMATE markets in particular continued with FLUID POWER As expected, the Indoor Climate order intake up around 70% in the full The overall organic growth in revenues business returned to growth in the year.
As previously indicated we have was 31% for the full year reflecting the second half of the year and delivered seen a slower recovery in bookings continued improvement in end markets full year organic revenue growth of 2% in the Fossil Power market where after the significant falls seen in 2009. despite the lacklustre construction order intake was down around 20% During the year we have continued market.
This resilient performance in the year.
There continues to be to make good progress in developing continued to be driven by strong significant opportunities in the Nuclear our sector business.
This part of our refurbishment activity levels and market and we were pleased to sign business, which focuses on bespoke the increasing impact of European a memorandum of understanding solutions for key original equipment energy efficiency legislation.
Overall with the Shanghai Automation manufacturer OEM customers in refurbishment activity represented Instrumentation Company Ltd in global niche markets, grew at 38% two thirds of sales in the year December to create a new venture to in the full year, compared to 28% for reflecting the growing trend to supply control valves into the China the rest of the Fluid Power business.
retrofit our products into existing nuclear industry.
12 GROUP OPERATING REVIEW BUSINESS OVERVIEW GROUP OPERATING REVIEW RESPONSIBLE BUSINESS BOARD REPORTS FINANCIAL STATEMENTS INDOOR CLIMATE BEVERAGE DISPENSE MERCHANDISING buildings in the drive to improve energy BEVERAGE DISPENSE MERCHANDISING efficiency and deliver more effective Beverage volumes continued to Overall organic growth for the year climate control.
recover throughout the year with was 2%.
As expected, after a weaker overall organic revenue growth of 5% first half, the second half benefited We continued to invest in educating on 2009, notwithstanding our decision from some good project wins in the market to help drive demand to exit a number of lower margin the automotive sector with second for our energy efficient products and product lines which accounted half organic growth of over 15%.
solutions with over 60,000 customers for around 3% of 2009 revenue.
While the automotive sector was attending one of our seminars during The strongest markets were in the stronger, the cosmetics sector ended the year.
We are expanding this Americas and China which more slightly down on last year and the food seminar programme further in than offset the more challenging and beverage sector was broadly flat.
2011 with particular focus on North conditions seen in Europe where America, Germany and China.
Operating profits were up 39% volumes were impacted by the weaker compared to 2009.
As with Beverage We benefited during the year from the Spanish, Greek and Irish markets Dispense, Merchandising has been cumulative impact of a number of cost and by our decision to exit some of focusing on improving the overall saving initiatives implemented during the lower margin beer business.
quality of the business by targeting 2009 and operating profit for Indoor 3Wire, our parts management business higher margin project opportunities.
in North America, continued to The business has made good progress The operating margin showed further perform well.
in this regard delivering operating strong progression on last year, Operating profit increased by 52% margins of 16.8% in the second rising from 20.8% to 23.8% in 2010 to 32.0m resulting in a strong half and 15.0% for the full year, as we continued to benefit from the uplift in operating margin to 10.2%.
a significant improvement on the positive mix of renovation business.
This positive performance reflects 11.1% achieved last year.
Underlying margins in the second both our focus on improving the half were nearer 24% as we benefited In 2011 we are planning to open our quality of the business and a from the recovery of certain legal new In-Vision customer experience further improvement in operational costs incurred in prior years.
In recent centre in the US which will be used efficiencies.
months we have faced significantly to explain to customers the science higher copper prices albeit we We have continued to make good of merchandising and to visually expect to recover this through progress on new product development demonstrate how we can add greater improved pricing.
where we are targeting the higher value for them.
growth water, juice, frozen drinks and As energy costs continue to rise smoothies markets.
The demand for we expect the drive to make both our new more energy efficient coolers existing and new buildings more energy is also growing as these products fit efficient to accelerate.
To take well with our major customers own advantage of this opportunity we sustainability initiatives.
are expanding our engineering and sales resource, notably in the emerging Looking forward we expect to benefit markets and North America, as from increased investment in emerging well as investing further in our markets by our major global customers industry leading seminar programme.
which together with continued The ongoing drive for improved energy strength in North America and our efficiency positions us well for higher new product initiatives should support growth in 2011. further positive progress in 2011.
