Group operating review KEY THEMES CONTRIBUTING TO CLEANER ENERGY PRODUCTION CCI is known internationally for providing reliable turbine bypass valves to the fossil power generating fleet, and it is now becoming the partner of choice for the emerging solar thermal industry.
Capable of providing precise flow control and withstanding cyclic operation, CCI is providing the technology today that tomorrows generating fleet needs.
Clean energy How we contribute If the world is to meet its ambitious IMI, principally through our Severe aims to reduce the growth of carbon Service and Fluid Power businesses, is emissions over the coming decades actively involved in supplying a number without constraining overall growth in of fluid control solutions to clean output, then the proportion of energy energy providers.
For instance, over generation coming from sustainable, the last few years we have supplied low carbon and cleaner sources will a range of control valves for thermo have to significantly increase.
To solar power generation projects in achieve these aims a wide combination Spain.
More recently in 2010 we of solutions and technologies will be supplied our first turbine bypass required, ranging from sustainable solution to a new biomass power energy sources such as hydro, wave, generation plant in Texas.
wind, thermal and solar, through next Nuclear power is also a key strategic In natural gas we have a market generation nuclear power reactors low carbon solution.
There are leading position in the supply of and also the use of cleaner fossil approximately 400 reactors in critical control and isolation valves power sources such as natural gas.
operation around the world today to used in liquefied natural g as LNG Natural gas is considered to be the which IMI has a long history of trains.
LNG is a high growth market most environmentally friendly fossil supplying parts and services to as countries with limited local fuel because it has the lowest CO 2 maintain these reactors in optimal resources of natural gas, such as emissions per unit of energy and condition.
More recently, ambitious China, seek to import supplies from because it is suitable for use in plans have been developed by a resource rich countries like Australia high efficiency combined cycle power number of countries to expand this in an efficient and secure way.
Going forward, we expect population and IMI is positioned well to supply a range of valves in the increasing worldwide government benefit from this expansion as and liquefaction plants including antisponsorship of cleaner energy when it materialises.
surge control valves, which protect solutions through a combination of the compressor, and also control and legislation and grants which should isolation valves in the regasification support strong growth in this area.
Worldwide LNG capacity is expected to continue to grow over the next few years which should represent a major opportunity for IMI.
14 GROUP OPERATING REVIEW BUSINESS OVERVIEW GROUP OPERATING REVIEW RESPONSIBLE BUSINESS BOARD REPORTS FINANCIAL STATEMENTS When we converted our Bayside Station in Florida from coal-fired generation to gas, the plant began a new era of cleaner but more severe service operation.
As the operating conditions were now going to require more variable operation, the valve solution needed re-engineering to help us improve the temperature and thermal shocks this kind of clean generation requires.
In addition to reducing our maintenance costs, CCI provided us with the sales, engineering and product design support necessary to solve our problem helping us to reduce maintenance and down time along with increased reliability.
Paul Lofton, Specialist Engineer, Tampa Electric Co. Bayside Station.
For more than 50 years, Thompson Valves, a business unit of Norgren and part of IMI Nuclear, has been the internationally recognised benchmark for nuclear control and instrumentation.
