Group operating review KEY THEMES CONTRIBUTING TO A HEALTHIER LIFESTYLE Healthier living Ageing populations is a global trend.
In the more developed regions the population aged 60 or over is increasing at the fastest pace ever and is expected by the United Nations The technical experts from Indoor Climate provided a system solution for the Sarvar to increase by more than 50% over Spa & Wellness centre in Hungary which not only optimises the performance and energy efficiency of the heating system, but also controls the water temperature, ensuring an the next four decades, rising from enjoyable and safe environment for the Spa visitors.
In the developing world, the population is ageing even more demands on the indoor climate How we contribute rapidly, with the population over and air quality system are very high.
In Fluid Power, IMI has identified 60 forecast to rise from 475 million to This is most critical in specialist Life Sciences as one of its key global 1.6 billion over the same time period.
areas, such as surgery and pulmonary sectors.
In 2010, revenues in this Population ageing has a number of medicine, where precise air treatment sector grew by over 20% and it major implications notably in the area and humidity levels are extremely remains a very strong growth of healthcare with spending in this important.
Indoor Climates expertise opportunity for the business.
area expected to rise significantly as and industry leading solutions, such Fluid Power has a range of bespoke populations grow older.
At the same as their differential pressure control valve solutions which are used in a time as developing countries become valves, have successfully delivered wide variety of medical equipment wealthier, they are also likely to these solutions in a number of new including respirators, anaesthesia increase the proportion of national hospital projects.
income spent on healthcare to bring The fastest growing area of the In addition, through its Kloehn them up towards the levels spent market for our Beverage Dispense business in the US, Fluid Power is in more developed countries.
business is health and indulgence.
supplying precise micro-dosing pump We therefore expect that healthcare Consumers are demanding healthier solutions for dispensing reagents in and related markets are likely to be drinks such as water and juices and new DNA sequencing systems, which is a major growth opportunity over the we have successfully developed a a very fast growing area of medicine.
In addition, people, number of new dispensing solutions particularly in the developed world, As well as providing energy efficient to address this area of the market.
are looking for healthier options in solutions, Indoor Climate systems This has included multi-purpose terms of the food and drinks that they are also able to optimise the climate purified still, carbonated and hot consume as part of a trend towards control and conditions in a building to water dispensing solutions for an overall healthier lifestyle.
provide the perfect environment for both the commercial and domestic the building users.
important in hospital buildings where 18 GROUP OPERATING REVIEW BUSINESS OVERVIEW GROUP OPERATING REVIEW RESPONSIBLE BUSINESS BOARD REPORTS FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Luxfers new Intelligent Oxygen System IOS features our patented SmartFlow technology, an exceptionally efficient valve-regulator that delivers dependable flow and near-complete use of cylinder contents.
This a unique feature that allows patients to breathe longer on one fill, which increases ambulatory time and improves a patients fitness level and quality of life.
We chose to work with Norgren on this project because of their reputation for high quality engineering.
David Rix, Managing Director Europe Luxfer Gas Cylinders Pearlmax3 from IMI Cornelius is a stylish water dispenser specially designed to supply organisations and venues with fresh drinking water.
The unit is made to ensure the highest levels of hygiene and connects to the mains water supply so is always ready to dispense a perfectly chilled and refreshing glass of water.
