Strategy Performance Governance Financials Corporate Governance Report continued Structure of the Board and Board Committees Remuneration Nominations Audit Board Committee Committee Committee Iain Napier, Chairman Michael Herlihy Pierre Jungels, Iain Napier, Chairman Berge Setrakian Mark Williamson, Chairman Chairman Pierre Jungels Mark Williamson Alison Cooper Ken Burnett Michael Herlihy Michael Herlihy Charles Knott Gareth Davis Jean-Dominique to 17 July 2010 to 12 May 2010 Charles Knott Comolli Pierre Jungels Matthew Phillips to 17 July 2010 to 14 September 2010 Susan Murray Secretary Graham Blashill Charles Knott Susan Murray Michael Herlihy to 17 July 2010 Berge Setrakian Ken Burnett Mark Williamson Pierre Jungels Susan Murray Mark Williamson Jean-Dominique Comolli Charles Knott to 14 September 2010 to 17 July 2010 Matthew Phillips Matthew Phillips Matthew Phillips Robert Dyrbus Secretary Secretary Susan Murray Secretary Between Board meetings, Directors are supplied with encouraging robust and constructive challenge and debate.
This enables our Non-Executive Directors to use their monthly performance reports, including detailed commentary judgement, experience and independence to critically review and analysis.
To ensure Directors were fully informed on all and, where appropriate, challenge strategies proposed by Committee matters, the Committee chairmen reported on management, thereby ensuring the further development of the proceedings of their Committee at the subsequent Board our business, effective use of our resources and maintaining meeting with copies of Committee minutes distributed to our high standards of conduct.
Our Non-Executive Directors also had regular weact in the best long-term interests of our shareholders, separate meetings at which the main item discussed was while taking account of the wider community of interests succession planning.
represented by our employees, customers and suppliers.
Our Non-Executive Directors play a key role in corporate Where appropriate, papers presented to our Board covered accountability and governance through their membership environmental, community, ethical and reputational issues, ofthe Boards Committees.
The membership and remit thereby fully integrating them into our decision making and ofeach Committee are considered below, together with risk assessment processes.
arecord of each Directors attendance at Board and During the year matters considered by the Board included Committee meetings during the year.
the Chief Executives succession, the evolving strategic To ensure Directors are kept up-to-date on developing direction of the business, a review of Group funding issues and to enhance the overall effectiveness of the Board arrangements specifically refinancing through Bond issues and its Committees, our Chairman and chairmen of the and the continued integration of the Altadisbusiness.
Committees communicate regularly with the Chief Executive At its June 2010 meeting, senior managers from across the and other members of the Chief Executives Committee business presented to the Board on key strategic issues.
from 1 October 2010 the Operating Executive.
During the year the Board also considered and approved In order for Directors to fulfil their duties they can seek both annual and medium-term plans and operating results.
independent professional advice, at our expense, and the By reviewing the Groups results at each Board meeting advice and services of the General Counsel & Company weensure Directors are kept informed on our progress.
How the Board spends its time % As part of the Groups policy of annual Strategy 30 10 review, the terms of reference for each of these Committees were reviewed and, 5 Operating performance 30 where necessary, updated during the 30 year and are published on our website, Financial performance 10 www.
They are also 15 and nancing available from the Company Secretary.
Governance 15 10 Feedback from committees 5 30 Other 10 60 Meetings of the Board, Board Committees and Shareholders Audit Remuneration Nominations Annual General 1 Board Committee Committee Committee Meeting Total number of meetings in Financial Year 6 3 4 1 1 Number of meetings attended in Financial Year Executive Directors Mrs A J Cooper 5 5 1 1 2 Mr G Davis 4 4 1 1 Mr G L Blashill 6 6 1 1 Mr R Dyrbus 6 6 1 1 Non-Executive Directors Mr I J G Napier 6 6 1 1 1 1 3 5 6 1 1 1 1 Dr K M Burnett 4 Mr J-D Comolli 6 6 1 1 1 1 Mr M H C Herlihy 6 6 3 3 4 4 1 1 1 1 Dr P H Jungels 6 6 3 3 4 4 1 1 1 1 5 Mr C F Knott 5 5 3 3 2 2 1 1 1 1 Ms S E Murray 6 6 3 3 4 4 1 1 1 1 3 Mr B Setrakian 4 6 0 1 1 1 Mr M D Williamson 6 6 3 3 4 4 1 1 1 1 1 Held in the form of a meeting of all Non Executive Directors as required by the Committees Terms of Reference.
2 Mr Davis retired from the Board on 12 May 2010.
3 Dr Burnett was unable to attend one Board meeting due to travel restrictions associated with the Icelandic volcanic ash cloud.
Mr Setrakian was unable to attend one Board meeting due to a family bereavement.
He was also unable to attend a further Board meeting and the Nominations Committee meeting, but for both meetings gave full consideration to the matters to be discussed and provided his input to the chairmen.
4 Mr Comolli resigned from the Board on 14 September 2010.
5 Mr Knott resigned from the Board on 17 July 2010.
The maximum number of meetings for each individual Director is the number which they were eligible to attend.
Business and the General Counsel & Company Secretary Chief Executives Committee from 1 October 2010 Group Corporate and Legal Affairs Director.
It met 13 times during the year.
Responsibilities The responsibilities of the Committee included: reviewing and subsequently recommending to the Board changes to Group Strategy: ensuring effective implementation of Group strategy: reviewing accounting information prior to submission to Alison Cooper Chief Executive theBoard: and ensuring the use and level of the Groups resources Members areoptimised.
Alison Cooper Matthew Phillips General Counsel & Company Secretary, from 1 October Gareth Davis to 12 May 2010 How the Chief Executives Committee Met its 2010 Group Corporate and Legal Graham Blashill Affairs Director Responsibilities During the Year Robert Dyrbus Kathryn Turner Group Human To ensure the effective implementation of Group strategy Resources Director Gary Aldridge Manufacturing Director andpolicy our Board delegated authority of the day-to-day Fernando Dominguez Chief Operating Officer Cigar Business operation of the business to our Chief Executive and the Chief Executives Committee.
This delegation was, however, Overview subject to the schedule of matters on which the Board alone To ensure that the business is structured to support our is able to decide and those on which only our shareholders sustainable sales growth strategy and provide specific focus are able to decide.
on the operational and development agendas of the business, In addition to implementing our strategy and ensuring that we have established two cross-functional teams: the Operating the use and level of the Groups resources are optimised and Executive and the Development Executive, which replaced the effectively managed, the Committee oversaw all the Groups Chief Executives Committee on 1 October 2010. activities, forecasts, policies and operations.
As part of The Chief Executives Committee comprised all our thisreview process the Committee developed and Executive Directors together with our Manufacturing Director recommended to the Board changes in strategy to enable who left the business on 30 September 2010, Group us to achieve our overall objective of creating sustainable Human Resources Director, Chief Operating Officer Cigar shareholder value.
