Strategy Performance Governance Financials Our Key Assets Market Footprint Link to Strategy FY10 Cigarette Volumes Western Rest of USA Europe Europe % % % 4 33 33 Africa & Middle East % 22 Key: FY10 cigarette volumes Mature markets 40% Emerging markets 60% Our Balanced Operating Platform We have a broad market footprint with a balance of mature and emerging markets, creating a strong operating platform from which to maximise the potential of our brands.
We drive sales growth across all markets with our global strategic brands complemented by our regional and local brand portfolio.
We balance our market share targets with sustainable profit growth in mature markets, while our investment priorities target Eastern Europe, Africa, the Middle East and Asia to further build our position in emerging markets.
10 o p c a W n c p i o a e 1 r r b. l s o d o N a t N n t d d u o l r. t c o 1 u W b e i e n n s Total Tobacco Asia % 5 Total Tobacco Australasia & Duty Free % 3 Our Powerful Brand and Product Portfolio Our comprehensive brand and product portfolio considerably enhances our growth opportunities.
We have strong local, regional and international brands and products across all key price segments and product types within individual markets providing us with the flexibility to best meet local consumer and customer needs.
Complementing our global strategic cigarette brands Davidoff, Gauloises Blondes and West is our world number one position in fine cut tobacco, cigars, papers andtubes.
We continue to leverage the strength of our portfolio through trade marketing excellence and our focus on innovation.
11 h t W g o n r s l e e d r t t t N s e o l r. a 1 a n i g o n i i t c c a i n n g r i a e r t s n I Strategy Performance Governance Financials Our Key Assets continued Brand Equity Link to Strategy Davidoff Gauloises Blondes Davidoff is our global strategic super premium cigarette Gauloises Blondes is our biggest selling brand and we have delivered compound volume growth of 6 brand by volume.
In 2010 this iconic per cent over the past five years.
In 2010, a number of new brand was 100 years old and we initiatives have driven further growth, particularly in Eastern celebrated this centenary with a Europe.
We have a new and reinvigorated brand strategy number of new formats and special with new packaging, brand variants and formats in areas editions in key markets.
including superslims and kingsize superslims.
12 Our global strategic cigarette brands Davidoff, Gauloises Blondes and West have benefited from brand rejuvenations to ensure they remain dynamic and aligned to consumer preferences.
West Our global strategic value for money brand is West.
New pack designs and variants have been well received by our consumers with positive results in Taiwan and Turkey and in a number of markets in Central and Eastern Europe.
We grew West cigarette volumes by 2per cent during the year.
13 Strategy Performance Governance Financials Our Key Assets continued Our People Link to Strategy Our People Our success is as much about our people as it is about ourbrands, products and markets.
We have a culture that is conducive to success, that encourages inventiveness, shares achievements and rewards performance.
We treat our employees with fairness, dignity and respect.
Weseek to provide a safe working environment which attracts, retains, develops and motivates the best people so that they can meet the challenges of the business and achieve personal success as well as share in the Groups success.
Our priority is to ensure that our people continue to develop and have the right skills to support our sustainable sales growth strategy.
As part of this focus we have conducted research into our current skills and capabilities and are benchmarking them against other FMCG companies.
The results are helping to shape a number of initiatives.
We have aloyal and highly motivated workforce and place a strong emphasis on maintaining high ethical standards in all of our business activities.
Supporting our sustainable sales growth strategy is a common framework that guides our employees intheir behaviour.
More details are included in our corporate responsibility performance on pages 41 to 52 of this report.
Our Code of Conduct The countries in which we operate have different languages, Critical to delivering our sustainable sales growth strategy isour collective commitment to further embedding high cultures, practices and ethical values.
However, in a multistandards of conduct and behaviour throughout the Group.
national company, common standards of behaviour must beadhered to by all employees.
The Code is available to A key component of this is our Code of Conduct which has employees in a number of languages.
Employee workshops been revised in 2010.
The Code sets out the standards of on the Code are underway, supported by an e-learning responsible behaviour that all of our employees are expected programme that will continue to be rolled out in 2011. to follow at all times.
The Code brings together a number OurCode of Conduct can be viewed on our website ofour long standing practices and policies that have helped www.
us build and maintain the Groups reputation as a trusted business partner and employer.
14 Imperial Tobacco Code of Conduct | 09.08.10 ENTER Our global team is fully aligned behind our enhanced sales focus.
