Strategy Performance Governance Financials Measuring Our Performance Growth Drivers and Key Performance Indicators We take a proactive approach to regulatory engagement and tackling the illicit trade in tobacco products.
Matthew Phillips, Group Corporate and Legal Affairs Director See examples overleaf of Link to Strategy future foundations in practice We create value for our shareholders We measure the success of our by delivering sustainable organic sales strategy with our KPIs of total growth, complemented by our focus shareholder return and adjusted on cost optimisation and effective earnings per share.
Our Strategy Total Shareholder Return Performance Definition KPI In 2010, we underperformed the Total Shareholder Return is the total 150 FTSEAll-Share Index by 3 per cent.
investment gain to shareholders Imperial Tobacco However over three years we have resulting from the movement in the 125 outperformed by 11 per cent.
share price and assuming dividends are immediately reinvested in shares.
100 With dividends reinvested 100invested in Imperial Tobacco 75 10years ago would now be worth 603 compared to just 138 invested 50 FTSE All-Share in the FTSE All-Share Index.
2007 2008 2009 2010 Adjusted Earnings per Share Performance Definition KPI Our organic sales growth performance Adjusted earnings per share is complemented by our focus on adjusted profit after tax attributable costoptimisation and effective cash tothe equity holders of the Company utilisation has enabled us to deliver divided by the weighted average 11per cent growth in adjusted number of shares in issue during the earnings per share.
period, excluding shares held to satisfy employee share plans and shares purchased by the Company 2008 2009 2010 and held as Treasury shares.
21 22 136.9p 161.8p 178.8p Our growth drivers of sales growth, cost optimisation and In addition to the key performance indicators, the Board cash management are directly underpinned by a set of key reviews Corporate Responsibility performance measures performance indicators.
These are the principal measures to continuously improve our responsible performance.
used by the Board to assess performance and continuous These are detailed on page 53. improvement in line with our strategy.
Certain of these are linked to executive remuneration.
We drive sales growth across our We measure this element of our balanced operating platforms through strategy through our KPIs of tobacco our focus on consumer centricity, net revenue, cigarette volumes and execution excellence, combined with white stick equivalent volumes.
astrong emphasis on building solid Sales future foundations for the business.
Growth Tobacco Net Revenue Performance Definition KPI Our tobacco net revenue was up by Tobacco net revenue comprises 3per cent to 7.1 billion 2009: 6.8 tobacco revenue less duty and billion with strong net revenue growth similaritems.
in the UK, Germany, Rest of Western Europe and Rest of the World regions.
Volume growth is one of the drivers ofrevenue growth although price and sales mix are equally important.
2008 2009 2010 White Stick Performance Definition KPI Equivalent Volumes Overall our white stick equivalent White stick equivalent volumes reflect volumes were down 2.9 per cent our combined cigarette and fine cut withstrong growth across our fine tobacco volumes.
cuttobacco portfolio of 8.7 per cent.
2008 2009 2010 Cigarette Volumes Performance Definition KPI Our cigarette volumes were down Cigarette volumes are the number 4.2per cent to 308.7 billion cigarettes ofunits sold in the period.
2009: 322.2 billion, as a result of market declines in Spain, USA, Russia and Ukraine being partly offset by gains in Central Europe and Asia Pacific.
2008 2009 2010 23 294.1bn 327.4bn 5.2bn 322.2bn 358.8bn 6.8bn 308.7bn 348.5bn 7.1bn Strategy Performance Governance Financials Measuring Our Performance continued Cost optimisation means we The review of our global manufacturing seekmaximum returns from our portfolio is ongoing.
We will maintain a investments, focusing on efficiency particular focus on addressing surplus capacity whilst ensuring that we remain improvements and increasing agile and responsive to changing Cost investment where we believe it consumer demands.
Optimisation Our current priority is to continue We measure this element of our toachieve our post-Altadis integration strategy through our KPI of tobacco synergy targets whilst driving adjusted operating margin, see below.
 initiatives andproductivity improvements acrossthe enlargedGroup.
Tobacco Adjusted Performance Definition KPI Operating Margin Optimising our cost base balanced with Tobacco adjusted operating margin is targeted investments has enabled us to the tobacco adjusted operating profit achieve a tobacco adjusted operating divided by tobacco net revenue.
Our operating margins were impacted by the change in business mix following the Altadis acquisition inearly 2008, however since then we have 2008 2009 2010 continued to improve operating margins across all our reporting regions.
Our business is highly cash generative, While debt reduction is our priority, due to effective working capital controls, wenevertheless have very strong disciplined capital expenditure and cashflows which provide us with the management of tax and interest costs headroom for further value creating toensure cash flows are optimised.
Cash Strategic alliances will offer further Utilisation Our short term focus remains on debt growth opportunities.
reduction following the acquisition of Altadis.
We also continue to make We measure this element of our disciplined investments across the strategy through our KPI of our business to add value and deliver cashconversion rate, see below.
Cash Conversion Rate Performance Definition KPI Strong cash generation remains a Cash conversion is calculated as cash keypriority for the Group.
Our cash flow from operations, interest and tax conversion was strong at 97 per cent, payments less net capital expenditure towards the top end of our target of relating to property, plant and equipment between 90 and 100 per cent.
and software as a percentage of adjusted operating profit.
