Management and Corporate Structure Board Chairman and Remuneration Nominations Audit Non-Executive Committee Committee Committee Directors Chief Executive and Executive Directors Disclosure Committee Operating Executive Risk Chief Executives Co-ordination Committee Committee Development Executive From 1 October 2010 the Chief Executives Committee was replaced by the Operating Executive and Development Executive.
Directors The Board is our principal decision making forum and manages overall control of the Groups affairs.
Key to this 1 The Board: How do we ensure the Company is control is the schedule of matters on which the Board headed by an effective, collectively responsible Board?
These include approving our Board and Board Committees commercial strategy, corporate plans, major corporate Board Structure activities and our financial statements, together with The Board met six times during the year with two of the dividends.
In addition, it is only the Board who can appoint meetings having a duration of two days and is scheduled and remove Directors and our Company Secretary.
tomeet five times in the 2010 2011 financial year.
To ensure the effective operation of our Board, the General Our Directors for the year to 30 September 2010 are Counsel & Company Secretary from 1 October 2010 Group shownon page 60.
Their biographies, on pages 56 and 57, Corporate and Legal Affairs Director provides advice on all demonstrate a detailed knowledge of the tobacco industry governance and regulatory matters.
He also assists the and the wider fast-moving consumer goods FMCG sector.
Chairman and Chief Executive insetting the agenda for This is supported with a wide range of international business eachBoard and Committee meeting.
and financial experience which is vital to our ongoing All Directors are equally accountable to our shareholders development and long-term sustainability.
Their biographies forthe proper stewardship of our affairs and the success also include details of any other major directorships.
All Board and Committee meetings during the year were held in an open atmosphere with chairmen Director industry background experience No.
Tobacco 3 2 Manufacturing 1 3 FMCG 3 1 Legal 1 Energy 2 1 3 59
