Strategy Performance Governance Financials How We Leverage Our Key Assets Consumer Centric Understanding what drives our consumers Link to Strategy Satisfying consumers and aligning our portfolio to their evolving preferences is fundamental to our sales growth strategy.
We work hard to understand how our consumers are impacted by the regulatory and economic environment, and how this affects their smoking enjoyment.
Consumer behaviours and their brand and product preferences vary from market to market, which means local consumer insights are key to driving sales.
We therefore make sure that our local management teams have the flexibility to align their portfolio to specific local market and consumer dynamics, within our Group strategic framework.
Our product quality management systems ensure we are fully focused on meeting the requirements of our consumers.
We also invest in research and development to bring consumers innovative improvements in products and packaging.
By further embedding our consumer mindset we are better able to anticipate consumer trends at a local level across all price segments ensuring that our comprehensive brand and product portfolio remains relevant and continually meets the demands of our consumers.
We have a versatile portfolio and our products are available across the pricing spectrum, which considerably enhances ourgrowth potential.
We are well known for our strength in value for money brands and products and this is increasingly relevant in the current economic climate.
Consumers are searching for value and wehave responded by developing a portfolio with significant strength in value offerings.
However, our total tobacco focus has created a versatile portfolio, which also includes a broad range of premium and mainstream brands and products.
16 Satisfying consumers and aligning our portfolio to their evolving preferences is fundamental to our sales growth strategy 1 JPS Australia Davidoff Eastern Europe As in many mature markets, smokers The Davidoff brand family has been in Australia are increasingly seeking extended in Eastern Europe in line quality products at a competitive with evolving consumer demands price, and we have aligned our inthe region.
Davidoff Black & White has been Replicating similar success in other made available in a kingsize superslim markets, most notably in Germany, format in Russia, Ukraine, Azerbaijan JPS has rapidly become a key and Armenia.
component of our portfolio in Australia.
The kingsize superslim category is Since 2009, the JPS brand has thefastest growing segment in many established a 1.7 per cent share markets in the region and this new oftheAustralian cigarette market.
variant builds on the rejuvenation ofDavidoff.
We are the only tobacco company in Australia to have grown our cigarette Snus Success volumes during the last 12 months and Our total tobacco portfolio was the performance of JPS has supported further broadened in 2005 through our overall market sharegrowth.
the acquisition of the Skruf snus business in Sweden.
Make Your Own MYO Central Europe Volumes of our snus brands Skruf and Leveraging our comprehensive brand Knox continue to grow year on year, and product portfolio continues to increasing by 24 per cent in 2010. provide growth opportunities in our The two brands now account for more Rest of EU region.
2 than five per cent of the combined By anticipating consumers snus market in Sweden and Norway preferences our volumes and market and five years on from the acquisition share in fine cut tobacco products we have developed significant have significantly increased in a expertise in the smokeless sector.
number of markets, particularly those Our plans for a new snus factory in Central Europe with volumes of will provide us with the additional MYO up by 44 per cent.
capacity required to match increasing A full range of Route 66 MYO products demand for our snus products in has been launched in Poland and the Scandinavia.
The factory is due to Czech Republic to complement our becompleted in 2011. existing Paramount brand.
In September 2010 we became thefirst manufacturer in Finland to launch a range of MYO products by extending our cigarette brand Bonus to this sector.
We have grown Davidoff by 20 per cent for fine cut tobacco in Central Europe in Eastern Europe with particular we have grown Paramount volumes by success in the growing superslims 67 per cent.
Strategy Performance Governance Financials How We Leverage Our Key Assets continued Execution Excellence We align our portfolio to A fast and flexible evolving consumer preferences.
business focused See examples overleaf of our consumer centricity in practice on delivery Link to Strategy We are a fast and flexible business with a strong reputation for delivering results through execution excellence.
Internally, our focus is on systems and processes that continually drive operational performance, ensuring that the entire organisation is aligned with our sales growth strategy.
This is particularly important within our supply chain operations ensuring that product and information flows areintegrated and that working capital is optimised.
Strong communication and processes between these teams is critical to ensure that we respond rapidly to consumer and customer requirements.
Externally, our execution excellence focus is on trade customers and industry partners.
Through our trade marketing activities we build strong and lasting relationships with retailers, working closely with them to maximise sales and supporting them in managing the impact of regulation.
Our trusted partnering credentials are highly respected in thetobacco industry.
We have a strong track record of developing many successful strategic alliances and joint ventures over the years with our industry peers and with other parties around the world.
Our ability to build these relationships whilst competing effectively, gives us a unique position as the partner of choicewithin the tobacco industry.
17 18 We are a responsive business with strong and trusted customer and industry partnerships which enhances our growth potential 1 South Korea Australia 1.
We have received a number of retailer awards in Australia In January 2010 we entered into a Retailer awards received in Australia including a best speed to licence agreement with the South recognise our committed approach market award for our JPS Korean tobacco manufacturer KT&G.
toproviding first class support to brand launch.
Left to Right Lee KwangUnder the terms of the agreement, youl, Senior Managing KT&G manufactures and sells our We were named as Tobacco Supplier Director, KT&Gand Andrew global strategic cigarette brand of the Year 2009 by Spar Australia, Lochrie, Regional Director, Davidoff on our behalf in South Korea.
anaward judged on a range of Asia Pacific sign an criteriaincluding sales value increase, agreement for the Leveraging KT&Gs experience manufacture and sale of levelsof service and category andexpertise in its home market, Davidoff in South Korea.
thepartnership has led to the successful launch of Davidoff in The successful launch of JPS in convenience stores across the Australia also earned recognition country, the outlet for international atthe 7 Eleven Supplier Awards.
By September, we had TheBest Speed to Market award captured 0.4 per cent of this reflected the excellent market share retailchannel.
gains made by JPS in its first three months in the market.
South Korea is an important global market, with a total size of around Since its launch across the7 Eleven 90billion cigarettes per annum.
network JPS has developed a share of more than 32 per cent Morocco of its growing segment and 2.8 We have a good working relationship per centoverall market share.
with Phillip Morris International PMI 2 and last year signed an agreement Netherlands forthe manufacture, distribution Our business in the Netherlands andmerchandising of their brands hasbeen named as a Golden inMorocco.
Partner for Constructive Approach inawards conducted by a Dutch The agreement complements retailtrade magazine.
ourlong-standing and successful distribution agreements with PMI The award was judged on feedback inthe UK and Ireland.
received from leading retail clients for the Companys approach to category Our subsidiary Altadis Maroc has management in stores across the unrivalled tobacco distribution Netherlands.
Imperial was praised expertise in the country and our forits constructive approach in AinHarrouda factory is one of providing retailers with quality advice ourleading manufacturing facilities.
on all products, across all tobacco ThePMI agreement also reflects categories, not just our own brands.
ourcontinuous focus on efficiency and quality improvements.
The award demonstrates our commitment to working closely withour customers and ultimately ourconsumers by sharing our knowledge of the tobacco category and providing genuine consumer choice by making the right products available at the right time and in the right place.
Strategy Performance Governance Financials How We Leverage Our Key Assets continued Future Foundations We build strong and lasting Building a partnerships with retailers sustainable future and industry partners.
See examples overleaf of our execution excellence in practice Link to Strategy Building future foundations that underpin our sales strategy and enhance our long-term sustainability is fundamental tothe way we manage our business.
We drive responsible behaviour throughout the organisation.
Our corporate governance and internal control procedures reinforce the high standards that our stakeholders rightly expect of us.
Our ongoing commitment to these high standards is encapsulated in our revised Code of Conduct.
The code clearly sets out the standards of responsible behaviours weexpect from all our employees and is currently being rolled out across the business.
Our proactive approach to regulatory engagement and tackling the illicit trade in tobacco are critical to our futuresuccess.
The counterfeiting and smuggling of tobacco products is aworldwide problem that adversely affects governments, retailers, consumers and the legitimate tobacco industry.
Enhancing our capabilities to combat illicit trade is an ongoing priority and this year we were pleased to sign a co-operation agreement with the European Commission andthe Member States of the European Union to strengthen our joint anti-illicit trade initiatives.
The agreement strengthens our ability to engage with governments and regulators on a range of issues, and we willcontinue to support sensible, evidence based regulation.
However, we will also continue to vigorously oppose regulation that is flawed, unreasonable or disproportionate inorder to protect our business and defend the rights of ourcustomers and our consumers.
19 20 Operating responsibly, combined with our proactive approach to tackling illicit trade and regulatory engagement, is critical to our long-term success 1 1 EU co-operation agreement In September we signed an anti-illicit trade co-operation agreement with the European Commission and the Member States of the European Union.
We initiated this agreement to strengthen our joint efforts to combat the illegal trade in tobacco.
Under the agreement we will worktogether with the European Commission and the law enforcement authorities of the Member States to tackle the smuggling and counterfeiting of tobacco products.
The agreement will strengthen co-operation in a number of areas and includes payments by us of 191 million US$300 million over 20 years to fund anti-illicit trade initiatives.
The agreement underlines our commitment to partner with authorities worldwide in the fight against tobacco smuggling and 2 Anti-illicit training in Poland Supporting tobacco farmers counterfeiting.
During 2010, a training course was inMalawi We encourage governments held in Krakw by Imperial Tobacco Imperial Tobacco is helping to andregulators to take into account to help customs officers tackle protectendangered woodland the issues surrounding illicit trade cigarette smuggling in Poland.
We are The course was conducted by Up to 14 per cent of Malawis forests particularly concerned about experts from Imperial Tobacco Poland have been lost due to tree felling proposals under discussion by the and was attended by around 50 forfuel, charcoal production and authorities in some markets which customs officers.
subsistence as well as commercial would require all tobacco products agriculture.
tobe made available in the same Attendees were shown the scale plain packaging.
This would lead to We support a project to increase tree andsources of tobacco products aconsiderable increase in counterfeit and bamboo cultivation through the smuggled into the country and tobacco which would significantly Eliminating Child Labour in Tobacco themethods of identifying legal undermine our joint anti-illicit ECLT Foundation.
We actively support customs authorities We contribute to the scheme as We apply stringent controls to our in the fight against criminal practices in aboard member of the ECLT and global network of distributors and the tobacco market.
have provided additional funds to its have a dedicated team of specialists partners Total Land Care to further who operate internationally in The course in Krakw was the latest develop the project.
conjunction with governments and in a series of initiatives we have customs and excise authorities on a developed with customs authorities global scale to disrupt the manufacture ina number of markets.
and supply of illicit tobacco products.
In September, we signed an anti-illicit 2.
We continue to support tobacco farmers trade co-operation agreement with the in Malawi.
European Commission and the Member States of the European Union.
