Strategy Performance Governance Financials Corporate Responsibility continued 2010 Performance Ingredients Reporting and Assessment Consumer Centric Consumers are able to access the ingredients for a number ofproducts via our website www.
Wecontinued to provide regular submissions to individual Satisfying consumers and aligning our portfolio to their evolving government authorities on the ingredients used in our tobacco preferences is fundamental to our sales growth strategy.
products and made 45 submissions in 2010.
This includes the In terms of CR we are focused on product quality, our toxicological information which we have available on those product stewardship responsibilities and on reducing ingredients.
We monitor alleged incidents of non-compliance complexity in our portfolio.
with technical product regulations and voluntary codes.
This year there were two alleged incidents of non-compliance, Our product quality management systems ensure we are however further testing of the product confirmed compliance.
firmly focused on meeting consumer demands.
We comply with government regulations on tobacco product We conduct scientific and research programmes to improve ingredients and in countries where no regulations exist we our knowledge of tobacco products and tobacco consumption, conform to international standards.
so we can meet the future requirements of our consumers.
Improving Product Quality Execution Excellence In 2010, we made further progress on how we incorporate consumers feedback into product quality improvements.
We are a fast flexible business with a strong reputation for The ISO 9001 management system provides our framework delivering results through execution excellence.
A total of 32 of our 51 factories are ISO 9001 In terms of CR, we are focused on responsible sales certified, with projects underway to implement the standard andmarketing, developing our people and employee in eight other sites by the end of 2011. engagement, occupational health and safety and our We drive improvements using a product quality rating system environmental performance.
PQRS, standardised test equipment and methodology, Our ability to deliver results depends on the commitment benchmarking of final products and quality-improvement andcapabilities of our employees.
PQRS is applied to all our factories and is currently being implemented in our tobacco processing sites.
We work hard to ensure they have the right skills to support out sustainable sales growth strategy, are competitively Reducing Complexity in our Portfolio rewarded and have a safe working environment as we This year we have implemented a new approach to how continue to develop our occupational health and safety OHS weevaluate and reduce complexity and reduction in our processes and management.
portfolio to achieve the right balance between meeting consumer and regulatory demands and our product We are committed to minimising our environmental impact.
Effective environmental management presents us with business opportunities supporting our value driver of cost optimisation.
As a result, we have reviewed and agreed complexity reduction criteria and, following an initial assessment, a Responsible Sales and Marketing number of our stock keeping units have been standardised Selling our products in a responsible way is simply part of and discontinued.
All Imperial Tobacco Group companies and employees must apply our International Marketing Complementing this, we have successfully reduced our Standards IMS as a minimum, regardless of geographical blends by eight per cent.
The IMS applies to all advertising, promotion and research agencies employed by us and is available on our website www.
Performance Highlights: CR We achieved a gold award rating in Business in the Communitys 2009 Corporate Responsibility Index.
44 We have revised our IMS and employee communications We have chosen not to report employment practice data about these revisions are ongoing.
From April 2010 we forthis financial year, as the data reported would have been introduced a monthly alleged breaches report of our IMS unrepresentative of the Group as it would only reflect our with information collated centrally through our non-financial operations prior to the acquisition of Altadis.
We have agreed reporting system.
Since then eight alleged breaches were revised employment practice measures.
These focus on our reported and investigated.
Three were dismissed, one was four main areas of general employment practice, fairness resolved and investigations into the remaining four alleged atwork, health protection and wellbeing and employee breaches are ongoing.
Case studies on our progress are available on our website.
We will be reporting on our revised employment We believe that the decision to enjoy tobacco products is practice measures in 2011. achoice for adults.
We do not want children to smoke and have consistently worked with governments to prevent Completing the Integration of Altadis under-age smoking.
During the year we reviewed our youth A priority during the year was completing the planned smoking prevention activities and benchmarked ourselves organisational changes and integration of Imperial Tobacco against our peers, with better sharing of best practice and Altadis.
We provided comprehensive outplacement around the Group an objective for 2011. support and training to affected employees in the UK, Spain, France, Belgium and Germany in addition to very competitive Developing our People severance payments.
Wherever possible we have relocated We have set up a project team to further understand and affected employees with a number of internal redeployment research the key skills and capabilities required to deliver opportunities available.
A case study on our approach is sustainable sales growth.
We have conducted research available on our website www.
toassess our current capabilities and benchmarked them against other FMCG companies.
The results have provided Engagement and Consultation valuable insight into our current skills and capabilities and Employee consultation and engagement is fundamental are helping to shape a number of initiatives.
toour success and we actively promote two-way dialogue.
A total of 72 employees representing 17 countries attended A broad range of development initiatives is available to our our joint European Employee Forum for Altadis and Imperial employees including our International Career Management Tobacco employees to enable information and consultation Program and we launched a second cycle of the programme at the European level.
The programme targets employees at the earlystage of their career and provides training, coaching, We have won a number of awards during the year both as mentoring and international assignments over a two to an employer and for our human resources practices and threeyear period.
In the UK, we were recognised for our commitment to our UK employees and awarded a Best Companies We have made a number of improvements to our accreditation.
In Slovakia, we were the winner of an annual performance management processes for 2010 to further survey of companies to find the countrys best employer, and strengthen our employees performance.
Our reward strategies are linked to Group, market and individual were commended as having effective HR policies aligned performance and we encourage employees to build a with both the employees interests and the goals of the stakein the Company through share-based employee business.
While in Greece, we won the KPMG Best People benefit schemes.
Further information is included in our Management Initiative Award in the category of employee Remuneration report on page 78. performance, reward management and retention.
Performance Highlights: CR We commenced negotiations to form a single European Works Council to represent our employees interests.
45 Strategy Performance Governance Financials Corporate Responsibility continued 1 Environmental Performance Occupational Health and Safety Management OHS We have a strong commitment to improve our OHS controls.
Our 2009 environmental performance remained on track Examples of our performance are below: tomeet our energy and waste to landfill reduction targets and we have made good progress in reducing our water We further extended our Deal with It behavioural safety consumption in line with our overall target.
training programme with training completed in our factories in Western and Eastern Europe, Africa and Asia.
Our performance on environmental waste and absolute carbon dioxide CO emissions was affected by the 2 We held regional bi-annual training workshops for OHS inclusionof Altadis data and factory restructuring activities.
We are committed to reducing our carbon emissions and We continued to progress independent certification for environmental waste and have developed a carbon saving ourOHS activities with 15 of our sites achieving OHSAS target of 20 per cent by 2020.
CO trends were also 2 18001 certification.
distorted by changes in the Greenhouse Gas Protocol conversion factors and UK DEFRA guidelines which we Our verified lost time accident rate for 2009 was broadly useto inform our reporting.
Improvements throughout our manufacturing operations were offset by increases in sales Examples of our performance are below: and marketing and support functions and we are taking Energy consumption per million cigarette equivalents was steps to improve this.
down 14 per cent since 2001 target down 10 per cent.
Provisional data for 2010 indicates that our occupational Waste to landfill per million cigarette equivalents was down health and safety performance has significantly improved.
by 26 per cent since 2004 target down 15 per cent.
The number of major injuries increased, with 16 events in Water consumption per million cigarette equivalents was 2009 compared to nine in 2008.
We operate in some difficult down 12 per cent since 2001 targets are set locally.
regions of the world and take our responsibilities regarding the personal security of our employees seriously.
Regrettably CO emissions per million cigarette equivalents were down 2 there was one fatality when a security guard was shot in 0.37 per cent since 2001 target down 10 percent.
We have reviewed and strengthened security Waste per million cigarette equivalents was up 4 per cent procedures to address the increasing level of security threats since 2004 target down 10 per cent.
We responded to 16 minor environmental complaints Following the previous fatality at our Nottingham factory fornoise, dust or odour and we sought to understand ofaDHL driver, the Health and Safety Executive HSE theissues and find remedial solutions in line with our subsequently investigated and prosecuted both Imperial standard practice.
Tobacco and DHL for whom the driver worked.
In August 2010, we both pleaded guilty to the charges but the judge We extended ISO 14001 accreditation, with 69 per cent accepted that these did not cause or contribute to the of our manufacturing sites now covered.
The training, assessment and supervisory We conducted independent energy audits at issues identified were immediately rectified after the accident 11 manufacturing sites, with promising energy and best practice in regard to trailer parking was shared saving opportunities identified.
More detailed environmental measures are available on our website www.
1 Our 2009 envir onmental data covers all manufacturing sites except the non-EU cigar sites which have been brought into reporting for 2010.
Environmental data is reported 12 months in arrears to allow for verification.
Lost Time Accident Frequency Rate per 200,000 hours 3.0 Lost time accidents LTAs are work-related accidents resulting in absence from one or more scheduled workdays 2.5 or shifts.
Our LTA frequency rate for 2009 for all operations 2.0 except Logistics remained stable.
