Strategy Performance Governance Financials Directors Report: Other Information continued Research and Development and b as a result of the change of control, there is either: i We support our sales growth strategy by our investment areduction to a non-investment grade rating or withdrawal of inresearch and development, which brings innovative the investment grade rating of the notes which is not raised improvements to the Group, both in the products supplied to again, reinstated to or replaced by an investment grade rating the consumer and in production and marketing techniques.
during the change of control period specified in the final terms: or ii to the extent that the notes are not rated at the Auditors and Disclosure of Information to Auditors time of the change of control, the Issuer fails to obtain an Each of the Directors in office at the date of approval of this investment grade credit rating of the notes within the change Annual Report and Accounts confirms that: of control period as a result of the change of control.
so far as they are aware, there is no relevant audit The bonds issued in such manner are as follows: information that is information needed by the Companys Auditors in connection with preparing their report of which 15 September 2008 600,000,000 8.125 per cent the Companys Auditors are unaware: and guaranteed notes due 2024: each has taken all the steps that they ought to have taken 15 September 2008 750,000,000 7.25 per cent as a Director in order to make himself herself aware of any guaranteed notes due 2014: relevant audit information and to establish that the 17 February 2009 1,000,000,000 9 per cent guaranteed Companys Auditors are aware of that information.
notes due 2022: A resolution to reappoint  LLP as 17 February 2009 1,500,000,000 8.375 per cent Auditors to the Company will be proposed at the AGM.
guaranteed notes due 2016: Disclosure and Transparency Rules 24 June 2009 500,000,000 7.75 per cent guaranteed The Directors confirm that to the best of their knowledge: notes due 2019: and the financial statements, prepared in accordance with the 24 June 2009 1,250,000,000 5 per cent guaranteed applicable set of accounting standards, give a true and fair notes due 2012. view of the assets, liabilities, financial position and profit or loss of the Company and the undertakings included in the Charitable and Political Donations consolidation taken as a whole: and We have continued to support the communities in which we operate by donating 3 million 2009: 3 million to charitable the Directors Report: Strategy, Performance and causes of which 2 million 2009: 2 million was in respect Governance sections on pages 6 to 95 includes a fair of the UK through the Charities Aid Foundation.
review of the development and performance of the business and the position of the Company and the No political donations were made to EU political parties, undertakings included in the consolidation taken as a organisations or candidates 2009: Nil.
whole, together with a description of the principal risks Creditor Payment Policy anduncertainties that they face.
Our current policy concerning the payment of the majority Statement of Directors Responsibilities ofour trade creditors is to follow the CBIs Prompt Payers The Directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Code copies are available from the CBI, Centre Point, Report, the Directors Remuneration Report and the Group 103New Oxford Street, London WC1A 1DU.
For other and the parent Company financial statements in accordance suppliers, our policy is to: with applicable law and regulations.
agree the terms of payment with those suppliers when Company law requires the Directors to prepare financial agreeing the terms of each transaction: statements for each financial year.
Under that law the ensure that those suppliers are made aware of the terms of Directors have elected to prepare the Group financial payment by inclusion of the relevant terms in contracts: and statements in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs as adopted by the European pay in accordance with our contractual and other Union, and the parent Company financial statements in legalobligations.
accordance with United Kingdom Generally Accepted This policy applies to all payments to creditors for revenue Accounting Practice United Kingdom Accounting Standards and capital supplies of goods and services without and Applicable Law.
Under company law, the Directors exception.
Wherever possible UK subsidiaries follow the must not approve the financial statements unless they are same policy and international subsidiaries are encouraged satisfied that they give a true and fair view of the state of toadopt similar policies by applying local best practices.
affairs of the Group and the parent Company and of the profit or loss of the Group for that period.
In preparing these We are an approved signatory of the Prompt Payment Code financial statements, the Directors are required to: sponsored by the Department for Business Innovation andSkills.
select suitable accounting policies and then apply themconsistently: The amount of trade creditors outstanding as at 30 September 2010 was equivalent to 43 days 2009: 44 days make judgements and accounting estimates that are of trade purchases.
