BUSINESS REVIEW GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION Directors Report: Governance Executive committee Executive committee 1 2 3456 7 8 9 10 11 12 13 14 15 1 Andr Lacroix eastern Europe.
George was appointed as Chief 7 Tony George Executive officer, Toyota Belgium in July 2009.
Position: Group Chief Executive Position: Group HR Director Appointment to Executive Committee: Appointment to the Executive Committee: George joined Inchcape from Yum Restaurants February 2006 February 2007 International previously Pepsi Restaurants Please see page 30 for full biography.
Skills and experience: Tony joined the Group International, where he spent 10 years holding in February 2007.
He has over 23 years of several senior management positions.
2 John McConnell experience in Human Resources and General Management in International FMCG, chemicals, Position: Group Finance Director 5 Dale Butcher telecommunications and customer service Appointment to Executive Committee: Position: Group Development Director February 2006 oriented retail companies.
In his previous Appointment to Executive Committee: Please see page 30 for full biography.
role he was HR Director, Corporate Functions February 2006 for Vodafone plc and prior to that, SVP Skills and experience: Dale joined Inchcape 3 Aris Aravanis International Partner Resources for Starbucks in 1986 and has been involved in numerous Coffee Company based in the US.
He has also Position: Chairman & Managing Director, restructuring and reorganisation projects as worked with ICI in India and Diageo plc where, Toyota Hellas the Group rationalised its portfolio, and in all at the time of the formation of the Company, he Appointment to Executive Committee: acquisitions and disposals since Inchcape was the first Global Management Development July 2009 became an automotive only Group.
Prior to Director UDV in the UK and latterly was the SVP Skills and experience: During his tenure with joining Inchcape, Dale worked for British Timken International HR for the Burger King business.
Inchcape, Aris has led the establishment and as a financial analyst from November 1980 During his career Tony has lived and worked in development of Ten, a finance company to 1982 before joining Alghanim Industries India, UK, USA and Australia.
that was constituted by Toyota Hellas and EFG in Kuwait as a financial controller, where he Eurobank, to the top of the automotive nancing worked in their motors and construction 8 Jean Van der Hasselt market in Greece.
In February 2000, Aris assumed divisions.
Dale is a member of the London CBI the position of General Manager of Toyota Hellas Position: Chief Executive officer, council and is a Freeman of the City of London.
Russia and the Nordics and then became Deputy Managing Director Appointment to Executive Committee: and member of the Board of Directors.
During his 6 Claire Chapman service, Toyota has established solid and clear June 2009 Position: General Counsel and Group leadership in the Greek market.
Skills and experience: Jean joined Inchcape Company Secretary in 2003 as Chief Executive officer of Toyota Appointment to the Executive Committee: Before joining Toyota Hellas and Inchcape, Aris Belgium, having been in the automotive industry March 2007 had extensive experience in the finance eld since 1985.
During this tenure the network has Skills and experience: Claire joined Inchcape in working in various sectors including the food been successfully restructured, leading to fewer March 2007 and is responsible for the Groups industry, electric cable and banking.
and better retailers whilst improving market legal and compliance programmes, mergers share and maximising the profitability for Toyota and acquisitions, major contracts, corporate 4 George Ashford Belgium.
The successful run out campaign of projects and restructurings and effective Position: Chief Executive officer, Toyota Toyotas best selling model in 2006 led to an corporate governance and Board management.
Belgium overall best market share performance.
In 2010, Appointment to Executive Committee: Claire was formerly a solicitor at Freshelds Jean was appointed to CEO Russia and the October 2006 Bruckhaus Derringer from 1991 to 1995 before Nordics and has responsibility for our Russian Skills and experience: George joined Inchcape joining the legal team at the Reuters Group and Nordic operations that include Finland, in March 2006 as Director of Implementation, PLC from 1995 to 2007.
Claire held various roles Estonia, Latvia and Lithuania businesses.
In this role George led whilst at Reuters, working for their UK, European Prior to Inchcape, Jean held several Director the implementation of Inchcape Advantage, a and US businesses.
She was General Counsel positions within the Volvo organisation and was Company wide strategic programme putting for the UK from 2000 to 2003 and General Managing Director for the Volvo Cars operations the customer at the heart of the Groups Counsel for Europe, Middle East and Africa from in Belgium, actively contributing to the set up of service initiatives.
In October 2006, George 2004 to 2007, advising on a range of matters the PAG structure, leading to effective synergies was appointed Managing Director European from major commercial and IT contracts, within Fords luxury brand cluster.
In this role he led the implementation global projects, integration and key corporate of world class retail operation programmes projects.
Additionally she advised on company across the European retail network.
He was also secretariat matters from 2004 to 2007. responsible for the integration of businesses Claire is a qualied solicitor for England and acquired in the Baltics and the construction Wales and Attorney, New York and has a Masters and opening of four greeneld operations in in International Law.
com 31 Directors Report: Governance Executive committee continued Executive committee continued 9 Koh Ching Hong 12 Patrick S Lee 15 Connor McCormack Position: Managing Director, Position: Managing Director, Position: Chief Executive officer, Inchcape UK Inchcape South Asia Inchcape North Asia Appointment to Executive Committee: Appointment to Executive Committee: Appointment to Executive Committee: November 2009 August 2009 November 2006 Skills and experience: Connor has been with Skills and experience: Ching Hong joined Skills and experience: Patrick is in charge the Group since July 2005, having initially joined Borneo Motors as its Managing Director in of our VIR operations in Hong Kong, Macau Inchcape as Finance Director, UK Retail.
He was appointed as Managing and Guam.
Representing Toyota in all three has led the business through the acquisitions Director, Inchcape South Asia in August 2009 markets, Toyota has maintained the No.
1 and integrations of the Lind Automotive Group and is responsible for Borneo Motors and position for several years.
He is also responsible and European Motor Holdings, as well as Champion Motors in Singapore and NBT in for Inchcapes operations in China.
Before playing an instrumental part in the right sizing Brunei.
Prior to joining the Group, Ching Hong joining Inchcape, Patrick was the Group of the UK business in the second half of 2008, was Managing Director of Fuji Xerox Singapore, General Manager, Sales and Marketing of as the global economy entered the downturn.
an Executive member of the Fuji Xerox Asia Kerry Beverages Ltd from 1998 to 2006.
Kerry Connor was appointed Chief Executive officer Pacic Senior Management from 1996 to 2008.
Beverages owned and operated 11 Coca-Cola of the UK business in November 2009.
In these roles he led the transformation and bottling plants in China.
Patricks experience Prior to Inchcape, Connor held senior positions restructuring of its business model and business in auto retailing came from a Toronto Honda with B&Q plc, Kingsher plc, the LOreal Group approach, thereby increasing market share, dealership where he worked for three years and the Gillette Company.
doubling revenue and leading the organisation and was awarded the highest honour Sales into the prestigious Singapore Quality Class, Master by Honda Canada for two consecutive achieving a high customer satisfaction index.
Patrick started his career in brand marketing with Procter & Gamble and has 10 Arthur Kipferler worked in various locations including Canada, Position: Group Strategy and Business Switzerland, Thailand and Hong Kong.
Patrick Development Director holds a BBA and an MBA from the Chinese University of Hong Kong.
Appointment to Executive Committee: February 2011 13 Spencer Lock Skills and experience: Arthur joined the Group on 1 February 2011.
Position: Chief Executive officer, Inchcape Australasia Arthur worked for the Toyota Motor Corporation Appointment to Executive Committee: from 2002 until 2011 with assignments in the February 2006 European headquarters in Brussels and in Skills and experience: Spencer joined Inchcape national sales in central Europe and the USA.
in 1998 and has held various senior operational He successfully led numerous strategic projects, roles within the UK Retail business, culminating among them a new European customer in his appointment as Chief Executive officer satisfaction programme, the streamlining of of Inchcape Retail in 2007.
Spencer has the European distributor network, the launch of been responsible for the development of the Lexus in the Czech and Slovak Republics and premium brand core partner strategy and the major cost reduction efforts.
From 1999 to 2002 acquisition and integration of both European Arthur was with The Boston Consulting Group, Motor Holdings and Lind Automotive Group.
In advising on strategic, corporate development November 2009, Spencer was appointed Chief and operational projects mostly in the Executive officer of Inchcape Australasia.
After becoming a Partner and Director of the company, Arthur led the Prior to joining Inchcape, Spencer was Global Automotive Practice Group.
responsible for franchise development in Nissan GB and previously worked for Ford 11 Ken Lee MotorCompany.
Position: Group Communications Director Appointment to Executive Committee: 14 Bertrand Mallet November 2006 Position: Managing Director, Skills and experience: Ken joined Inchcape in Emerging Markets September 2003 as Marketing Director for the Appointment to Executive Committee: UK businesses, where he led the development July 2008 of online car retailing and a pioneering Skills and experience: Bertrand is responsible for customer experience programme.
In early the Emerging Markets region, encompassing 2006 he was appointed Customer Strategy all of our retail and distribution activities in Director to lead the Group-wide identication Poland, the Balkans, South America and Africa of customer insights to drive the Companys businesses.
He oversees both current operations pioneering Inchcape Advantage programme.
and the denition of our future expansion plans In late 2006 he was appointed to the Executive in these markets.
He also serves as the Group Committee as Group Communications Director Strategy Director, a role in which he manages with global responsibility for internal and the Corporate Strategic Planning process and .
key strategic projects for the Group.
Prior to joining Inchcape, Ken held the position Before joining Inchcape, Bertrand spent over of Group Marketing Director at the RAC from six years with Euro Disney in both Strategy and 1999 to 2003 having been part of the team Sales roles, most recently as Managing Director that acquired and then led the business post for the French market.
During his tenure, a new demutualisation.
During his tenure the company sales and marketing approach was dened moved from a car breakdown organisation to and implemented.
Prior to Euro Disney, he a customer focused motoring services group.
spent five years as a senior consultant with Before joining the RAC, Ken worked for Lex Bain and Company, both in France and in the Service plc, where as Marketing Director he US.
His main areas of focus were around retail successfully established the Hyundai brand and distribution.
Bertrand began his career in inthe UK.
Sales and Marketing with Automobiles Peugeot inSweden.
32 Inchcape plc Annual Report and Accounts 2010
