Directors Report: Governance Board of Directors Board of Directors Ken Hanna Andr Lacroix Will Samuel Chairman Group Chief Executive Deputy Chairman and Senior Independent Non-Executive Director Appointment to Board: Appointment to Board: Appointment to Board: September 2001 September 2005 January 2005 Ken became Chairman in May 2009.
He Andr is a Non-Executive Director of Reckitt Will is Chairman of Howden Joinery Group is also a Non-Executive Director of Tesco Benckiser Group plc and the Chairman of plc previously known as Galiform plc and plc and became a Non-Executive Director Good Restaurants AG.
He was previously Ecclesiastical Insurance Group.
He is Vice of Aggreko plc in 2010.
Prior to joining Chairman and Chief Executive officer Chairman of Lazard & Co, a Non-Executive Inchcape, Ken was an Executive Director of Euro Disney S. C. A.
Prior to this he was Director of the Edinburgh Investment Trust and Chief Financial officer of Cadbury plc.
the President of Burger King International, plc and a Director of the All Churches He was previously a Partner of Compass previously part of Diageo.
He was previously a Director of Partners International and Group Finance Schroders plc, Co-Chief Executive officer of Andr is a member of the Nominations Director and Chief Executive of Dalgety plc Schroder Salomon Smith Barney a division Committee.
and had previous experience with Guinness of Citigroup Inc. and Vice Chairman, plc now Diageo plc, Avis Europe and European Investment Bank of Citigroup Inc Black & Decker.
and Chairman of H. P. Bulmer plc.
Ken is Chairman of the Nominations Committee and a member of the Will is a member of the Remuneration, Audit Remuneration Committee.
John McConnell Alison Cooper David Scotland Group Finance Director Non-Executive Director Non-Executive Director Appointment to Board: Appointment to Board: Appointment to Board: October 2009 July 2009 February 2005 John was appointed as Group Finance Alison is Chief Executive of Imperial Tobacco David was previously an Executive Director Director of Inchcape plc in October 2009, Group PLC.
Alison joined Imperial Tobacco of Allied Domecq plc and a Non-Executive having worked with the Group since 1999.
Group in 1999 and has held a number of Director of Photo-Me International plc, John joined Inchcape Australasia as Chief senior roles including Director of Finance Brixton plc and Thompson Travel Group Financial officer before moving to the role and Planning, Regional Director Western plc.
He was also a Trustee and Director of Chief Executive officer of Australasia.
Prior Europe, Corporate Development Director of Winstons Wish, a child bereavement to joining Inchcape he worked with Reckitt and Chief Operating officer.
and Colman now Reckitt Benckiser for was with  LLP.
David is the Chairman of the CR Committee 13 years in a variety of senior financial roles Alison is a member of the Audit Committee.
and a member of the Remuneration, Audit in the UK, Germany and Australia.
Michael Wemms Nigel Northridge Simon Borrows Non-Executive Director Non-Executive Director Non-Executive Director Appointment to Board: Appointment to Board: Appointment to Board: January 2004 July 2009 October 2010 Michael is a Non-Executive Director Nigel is Chairman of Paddy Power plc and Simon is the Chairman of Greenhill & Co of Howden Joinery Group plc Debenhams plc.
He spent 32 years with International LLP.
He was a founding partner previously known as Galiform plc and Gallaher Group plc in sales and marketing of Greenhills European business in 1998 Moneysupermarket.
He was roles, becoming the Group Chief Executive becoming Co-Managing Partner in 2000. previously an Executive Director of Tesco plc in 2000.
He was previously a Non-Executive Following otation on the NYSE he became and Chairman of House of Fraser plc and Director of Thomas Cook plc and the Senior Co-President of Greenhill & Co. Inc in 2004 British Retail Consortium.
He also held NonIndependent Non-Executive Director of and Co-Chief Executive in 2007.
He stepped Executive Director positions with Coles Myer Aggreko plc.
down from this role in April 2010.
Prior to Ltd, Majid Al Futtaim Group LLC and A&D Greenhill, Simon was the Managing Director Nigel is Chairman of the Remuneration Pharma Holding S. R. L. of Baring Brothers International Limited.
He Committee and a member of the Audit is also a Non-Executive Director of The British Michael is a member of the Remuneration, Committee.
Audit, Nominations and CR Committees.
Simon is Chairman of the Audit Committee.
30 Inchcape plc Annual Report and Accounts 2010
