Dr Pamela Kirby # Non-Executive Chairman 60 Chief Executive 55 Finance Director 43 Senior Independent # Derek Mapp joined the Board of After graduating from Manchester Adam Walker joined Touche Ross in Non-Executive Director 57 Taylor & Francis Group plc as a University, Peter qualified as an 1989.
Following his qualifi cation as a Dr Kirby is currently Chairman Non-Executive Director in 1998.
He accountant working at Metalbox Chartered Accountant he specialised of Scynexis Inc. a privately held is currently Non-Executive Chairman Company and then worked at in corporate fi finance work.
In 1994 he chemistry-focused drug discovery of Salmon Developments plc and WHSmith.
In 1983 he was appointed joined NatWest Markets as an and development Company based in Executive Chairman of Imagesound Finance Director of Stonehart Associate Director.
She is also a Non-Executive plc.
He is also Chairman of the Publications, which was acquired by joined Arthur Andersen where he Director of Smith & Nephew plc British Amateur Boxing Association.
IBC Group plc of which he became became a Director of Corporate and Victrex plc.
She was previously Following the merger of Informa CEO in 1989.
In 2001, he joined National Non-Executive Chairman of Oxford and Taylor & Francis in May 2004, Peter has completed two on-market Express Group Plc as Head of Immunotec Limited, Non-Executive he was appointed as Non-Executive mergers with LLP to form Informa Corporate Development, and was Director of Novo Nordisk A S and Director and was designated the in 1998 and Taylor and Francis appointed to the Board as Finance was the CEO of US-based Quintiles Senior Independent Director on 10 which, together with the major Director in 2003.
He took up his Transnational Corporation.
On 17 March 2008 he acquisitions of IIR and Datamonitor appointment as Finance Director to joining Quintiles, Dr Kirby held was appointed as Non-Executive and substantial organic growth has of the Company on 28 March 2008. various senior positions in the Chairman.
He is also Chairman of the helped establish Informa as a major pharmaceutical industry at Astra Nomination Committee.
Peter is also AB now AstraZenca plc, British Non-Executive Chairman of Electric Biotech plc now Vernalis plc and F. Word plc.
Dr Kirby was appointed as a Non-Executive Director of Informa in September 2004.
She chairs the Remuneration Committee and is a member of the Nomination Committee.
She was also appointed as Senior Independent Non- 1.
Audit Committee # Nomination Committee Remuneration Committee 20 Informa plc Annual Report & Financial Statements for the year ended 31 December 2010 INF2570 AR10 cover AW05.
pdf 22 21 03 2011 17:33 I In nforma forma plc plc Annual Annual Repor Report t & & Financ Financi ial al S St tatement atements s f fo or r the the year year ende ended d 3 31 1 fide December cember 20 201 10 0 a Trustee of The Royal Shakespeare 5.
Stephen A. Carter # Company, and a Vice President of Non-Executive Director 49 Non-Executive Director 62 Non-Executive Director 47 UNICEF UK.
He Having qualified as a Chartered Dr ONeill is currently a NonStephen A. Carter is the Chief was appointed to the Board on 11 Accountant with Price Waterhouse, Executive Director of Tyco Marketing, Strategy and May 2010 and as a member of the John has worked extensively within International Inc, Towers Watson Inc Communications Officer of Audit Committee on the same date.
the media sector most recently as the and Endurance Speciality Holdings Alcatel-Lucent, and is a member Chief Financial Officer of Yell Group plc Limited.
From 1999 to 2003 he was of the Executive Management 8.
John Burton where he spent over 10 years.
Previous Chief Executive of ICI plc.
He has held a variety Company Secretary 46 roles include Group Finance Director to joining ICI in 1998 he was an of Senior Executive roles in the John Burton is a solicitor and was of the FT Group, Chief Financial Executive Director of Guinness plc Media and Telecommunications formerly a partner at CMS Cameron Officer of Pearson Inc and Director with responsibility for the Guinness industry including the founding McKenna for eight years.
In that role, of Corporate Finance and Treasury Groups worldwide brewing Chief Executive of Ofcom the he advised the Group in relation to at EMAP plc.
John has a Masters in interests.
He was also Non-Executive UK Communications Regulator : the LLP and IBC merger in 1998, the Management from The Stanford Director of Emap plc from 1995 to Managing Director of NTL UK & acquisition of PJB Publications in Graduate School of Business.
Dr ONeill was appointed as a Ireland: and he has also been the 2003, the Taylor & Francis merger appointed as a Non-Executive Director Non-Executive Director with effect Chief Executive of two marketing in 2004 and the IIR acquisition and with effect from 1October2005 from 1 January 2008.
He chairs the service businesses.
Most recently rights issue in 2005.
John Burton and is a member of the Nomination, Audit Committee and is a member he served in the UK Government as was appointed as Group General Remuneration and Audit Committees.
minister for the Communications, Counsel and Company Secretary Technology & Broadcasting Sector.
He is a law graduate from Aberdeen University, and has also completed the Harvard Business School Advanced Management Program.
He is a past Chairman of the Marketing Group of Great Britain, and has served on the Board of a number of companies.
He is currently Chairman of the Board of Governors at the Ashridge Business School and NonExecutive Director of 2Wire Inc.
He is Informa plc Annual Report & Financial Statements for the year ended 31 December 2010 21 INF2570 AR10 cover AW05.
