Governance Directors Report The Directors present their Annual Report on the affairs of r information about the Companys Corporate Informa plc the Company and its subsidiaries the Group Responsibility policies, including environmental, or Informa, together with the financial statements and employee, and social and community issues are set out auditors report, for the year ended 31 December 2010. in the Corporate Governance Statement on page 37: The Directors Report including details of the business, the r details of the principal subsidiaries are set out in Note development of the Group and likely future developments 18: and as set out in pages 3 to 49 of this document, forms the management report for the purposes of the UK Financial r the results for the year are explained in detail in Services Authoritys Disclosure and Transparency Rule DTR the Financial Review and are summarised in the 4.1.
The notice concerning forward looking statements Consolidated Income Statement on page 52 and is set out on page 125.
References to the Company may also the related Notes.
include references to the Group.
In relation to the use of financial instruments by the Group, Corporate Structure a review is included within Note 24 to the Consolidated Informa plc is a public Company limited by shares, Financial Statements.
There are no significant differences incorporated in Jersey and domiciled in Switzerland.
It has a between the market value of any interests in land of the primary listing on the London Stock Exchange.
Group and the amount at which those interests are included in the Consolidated Statement of Financial Position.
Principal Activities Informa provides academics, businesses and individuals As a whole the Annual Report provides information about with unparalleled knowledge, up-to-the minute information the Groups businesses, its financial performance during the and highly specialist skills and services.
Our academic year and likely future developments.
information division publishes books and journals with in excess of 72,000 titles available that provide individuals and Other than as described in this report, there have not been organisations with the knowledge they need to carry out any significant changes to the Groups principal activities their work.
Our professional and commercial information during the year under review and the Directors are not businesses offer structured databases, subscription-based aware, at the date of this report, of any likely major changes services, real-time news, research and business-critical in the Groups activities in the new financial year.
There have information creating business advantage.
We are the been no significant events since the reporting date.
largest publicly-owned organiser of exhibitions, events and training in the world providing inspiring marketplaces Dividends and the opportunity for knowledge to be shared.
The The Directors have declared that a second interim dividend principal subsidiary undertakings affecting the profits or for the year of 9.50p per ordinary share to be paid on net assets of the Group in the year are listed in Note 18 to 18May2011 to ordinary shareholders registered as at the Consolidated Financial Statements.
the close of business on 26 April 2011.
Together with the first interim dividend of 4.50p per ordinary share paid on Business Review 17September 2010, this makes a total for the year of 14.00p The Business Review, forming part of the management per ordinary share 2009: 11.45p.
The Group pays a second report, provides a review of the development and the interim dividend rather than a final dividend due to the operational and financial performance of the business operation of the Dividend Access Plan.
during the year ended 31 December 2010.
Information that forms part of the Business Review is found in the following The Company operates a Dividend Access Plan for all its sections of this Annual Report: shareholders.
Those shareholders who hold fewer than 100,000 shares are deemed to consent to receive their r information about the strategy, development and dividends from Informa DAP Limited, a UK incorporated performance of the business, and key performance Informa Company.
Those shareholders holding over 100,000 indicators, of the Company during the financial year and shares may elect to join the Dividend Access Plan by future prospects are set out in the Chairmans Statement completing an Election Form.
This form is available from the and the Chief Executives Review on pages 10 to 14: Companys Registrars whose contact details can be found on page 126.
If shareholders holding over 100,000 shares r principal risks and uncertainties are described on do not elect to join the Dividend Access Plan, dividends pages 26 to 30: will be received from the Company which is domiciled in Switzerland and may be subject to Swiss tax regulations.
r financial risk management objectives and policies Shareholders may elect to receive shares instead of cash including a description of when hedge accounting has from their dividend allocation through the Dividend been applied and the Companys exposure to price Reinvestment Plan DRIP.
risk, credit risk, liquidity risk and cash flow risk are explained in Note 24: Informa plc Annual Report & Financial Statements for the year ended 31 December 2010 23 INF2570 AR10 cover AW05.
pdf 25 21 03 2011 17:33 Governance Directors Report continued Directors and Directors Interests Supplier Payment Policy The names of Directors of the Company are set out on The Companys policy, which is also applied by the Group, pages 20 to 21, which includes brief biographical details.
is to settle terms of payment with suppliers when agreeing the terms of each transaction, to ensure that suppliers The Non-Executive Directors of Informa, being Derek Mapp, are aware of the terms of payment and to abide by the Dr Pamela Kirby, John Davis and Dr Brendan ONeill were agreed terms, provided that the supplier has provided all re-elected as Directors at the AGM held on 27 April 2010. the goods or services in accordance with the relevant Stephen Carter was appointed as Non-Executive Director terms and conditions.
Trade payables of the Group at on 11May2010, and will offer himself for election at the 31December2010 were equivalent to 45 days purchases 2011 AGM.
There were no other changes to the Board 2009: 52 days, based on the average daily amount during the year.
invoiced by suppliers during the year.
The remuneration and interests in the share capital Substantial Shareholdings of the Company of the Directors who held office as As at 31 December 2010, the Company had been notified at 31December 2010 are set out in the Directors in accordance with Chapter 5 of the DTRs the following Remuneration Report on pages 38 to 47.
All the Directors substantial interests in the issued ordinary share capital offer themselves for re-election, and in the case of Stephen of the Company.
No change has been notified to the Carter, election, by the shareholders at the next AGM.
Company from any of the following during the period Details of the contracts of the Executive and Non-Executive from 31 December 2010 to the date of this report.
Directors with the Company can be found on page 43.
There are no agreements in place between the Company and its Number % Directors and employees providing for compensation for of shares held loss of office of employment whether through resignation, Prudential plc 50,975,689 8.50 purported redundancy or otherwise that occurs because of Legal & General Group plc 29,818,639 4.96 a takeover bid.
No Director was materially interested in any contract of significance.
FMR LLC Fidelity 29,446,919 4.90 Standard Life Directors Indemnities Investments Limited 27,391,613 4.56 Indemnities are in force under which the Company has AEGON UK Group of Companies 18,043,708 3.00 agreed to indemnify the Directors, to the extent permitted Norges Bank 20,499,996 3.41 by Jersey law and the Companys Articles of Association, in respect of any liability arising out of, or in connection with, the execution of their powers, duties and responsibilities, As at 18 March 2011, the Companys issued share capital as Directors of the Company, any of its subsidiaries or as a comprised 601,035,125 ordinary shares with a nominal trustee of an occupational pension scheme for employees value of 0.1p each.
Details of the authorised and issued of the Company.
The Company has purchased and share capital, together with movements in the issued maintains Directors and Officers insurance cover against share capital during the year, are shown in Note 7 of the certain legal liabilities and costs for claims in connection Companys Financial Statements.
with any act or omission by its Directors and officers in the The rights attaching to the Companys ordinary shares, execution of their duties.
being the only share class of the Company, are set out in Registration and Domicile the Companys Articles of Association Articles, which The Companys registered office is at 22 Grenville Street, can be found at www.
Subject to Jersey law, St Helier, Jersey, JE4 8PX.
The Company is registered in any share may be issued with or have attached to it such Jersey under number 102786.
The Company is domiciled preferred, deferred or other special rights and restrictions in Switzerland with its head office at Gubelstrasse 11, as the Company may by special resolution decide or, if CH-6300, Zug.
no such resolution is in effect, or so far as the resolution does not make specific provision, as the Board may decide.
Annual General Meeting No such resolution is currently in effect.
Subject to the The AGM will be held on 10 May 2011.
The notice is being recommendation of the Board, holders of ordinary shares dispatched as a separate document.
On liquidation, holders of ordinary shares may share in the assets of the Company.
Holders of Charitable and Political Contributions ordinary shares are also entitled to receive the Companys The Group made charitable donations during the year of Annual Report and Accounts and, subject to certain 0.3m 2009: 0.2m, principally to local charities serving thresholds being met, may requisition the Board to convene some of the communities in which the Group operates.
a general meeting GM or the proposal of resolutions at No political donations were made.
None of the ordinary shares carry any special rights with regard to control of the Company.
24 Informa plc Annual Report & Financial Statements for the year ended 31 December 2010 INF2570 AR10 cover AW05.
pdf 26 21 03 2011 17:33 Holders of ordinary shares are entitled to attend and speak may result in restrictions on the transfer of securities or at GMs of the Company and to appoint one or more proxies on voting rights.
or, if the holder of shares is a corporation, a corporate Shares are from time to time held by a trustee in order representative.
On a show of hands, each holder of ordinary to satisfy entitlements of employees to shares under the shares who being an individual is present in person Groups share schemes.
Usually the shares held on trust or being a corporation is present by a duly appointed are no more than sufficient to satisfy the requirements of corporate representative, not being himself a member, shall the Groups share schemes for one year.
The shares held have one vote and on a poll, every holder of ordinary shares by these trusts do not have any special rights with regard present in person or by proxy shall have one vote for every to control of the Company.
While these shares are held on share of which he is the holder.
Electronic and paper proxy trust their rights are not exercisable directly by the relevant appointments and voting instructions must be received employees.
The current arrangements concerning these not later than 48 hours before a GM.
A holder of ordinary trusts and their shareholdings are set out on page 45. shares can lose the entitlement to vote at GMs where that holder has been served with a disclosure notice and has There are no significant agreements to which the Company failed to provide the Company with information concerning is a party that take effect, alter or terminate upon a change interests held in those shares.
Except as 1 set out above of control following a takeover bid nor any agreements and 2 permitted under applicable statutes, there are between the Company and its Directors or employees no limitations on voting rights of holders of a given providing for compensation for loss of office or employment percentage, number of votes or deadlines for exercising that occurs because of a takeover bid except for the Groups voting rights.
private placement loan notes and facilities described in Note 23 of the Consolidated Financial Statements.
The Directors may refuse to register a transfer of a certificated share which is not fully paid, provided that the The rules for appointment and replacement of the Directors refusal does not prevent dealings in shares in the Company are set out in the Articles.
Directors can be appointed by the from taking place on an open and proper basis or where the Company by ordinary resolution at a GM or by the Board Company has a lien over that share.
The Directors may also upon the recommendation of the Nomination Committee.
refuse to register a transfer of a certificated share unless The Company can remove a director from office, including the instrument of transfer is: i lodged, duly stamped if by passing an ordinary resolution or by notice being given necessary, at the registered office of the Company or any by all the other Directors.
other place as the Board may decide accompanied by the certificate for the share s to be transferred and or such The powers of the Directors are set out in the Articles other evidence as the Directors may reasonably require to and provide that the Board may exercise all the powers show the right of the transfer or to make the transfer: or ii of the Company including to borrow money up to an in respect of only one class of shares.
aggregate of three times a formula based on adjusted capital and reserves.
The Company may by ordinary Transfers of uncertificated shares must be carried out using resolution authorise the Board to issue shares, and increase, CREST and the Directors can refuse to register a transfer of consolidate, sub-divide and cancel shares in accordance an uncertificated share in accordance with the regulations with its Articles and Jersey law.
governing the operation of CREST.
The Company may amend its Articles by special resolution The Directors may decide to suspend the registration of approved at a GM.
transfers, for up to 30 days a year, by closing the register of shareholders.
The Directors cannot suspend the registration Purchase of Own Shares of transfers of any uncertificated shares without obtaining At the end of the year, the Directors had authority, consent from CREST.
under a shareholders resolution passed on 27 April 2010, to purchase through the market up to 10% of the There are no other restrictions on the transfer of ordinary Companys issued ordinary shares as at 30 June 2010. shares in the Company except: 1 certain restrictions may This authority expires at the conclusion of the AGM of from time to time be imposed by laws and regulations the Company to be held in 2011. for example insider trading laws : 2 pursuant to the Companys share dealing code whereby the Directors and certain employees of the Company require approval to deal in the Companys shares: and 3 where a shareholder with at least a 0.25% interest in the Companys certificated shares has been served with a disclosure notice and has failed to provide the Company with information concerning interests in those shares.
There are no agreements between holders of ordinary shares that are known to the Company which Informa plc Annual Report & Financial Statements for the year ended 31 December 2010 25 INF2570 AR10 cover AW05.
pdf 27 21 03 2011 17:33 Governance Directors Report continued Employee Consultation Risks and Uncertainties The Group places considerable value on the involvement A number of factors risk factors affect the Groups of its employees and continues to keep them informed on operating results and financial condition.
In common matters affecting them and on the various factors affecting with other information providers, the Groups profitability the performance of the Group.
This is achieved principally depends in part on the prevailing economic environment through formal and informal meetings, email updates and and the strength of the academic, professional and business via the Companys global intranet site.
The internet site communities to which it sells.
In addition, the Groups was reconfigured this year improving global reporting on profitability is dependent on maintaining a strong and corporate responsibility.
The internet site enables staff to highly motivated management team, maintaining brand put anonymous questions to the Executive management.
reputation, quality of information and its ability to use Employee representatives are consulted regularly on a wide and protect the security of its marketing databases.
This range of matters affecting their current and future interests.
section describes some of the principal risk factors that the Directors believe could materially affect the Group.
The The Group divisions regularly undertake staff surveys.
As an Group adopts a risk management process that is monitored example Taylor & Francis global survey was undertaken in by the Board and which is intended to ensure a consistent 2010.
The response rate year on year improved from 80 to and coherent approach to the risk factors that are described 85% of all employees.
This survey illustrated an improved in this section and to those other risk factors that may arise year-on-year employee engagement rating and also or which may become material in the future.
Beneath the demonstrates a reduction in employee turnover.
description on each risk is a note of the main mitigating factors or actions which the Group takes.
All employees worldwide are also invited periodically to attend webinars, take part in live on-line polls, and ask the 1.
The Groups businesses are affected by the conditions of the Executive Directors questions about the business and its sectors and regions in which they and their customers operate future.
The webinars, including the results of the polls, are The performance of the Group depends on the posted on the Companys intranet so that those employees financial health and strength of its customers, which who are unable to attend can view them.
in turn is dependent on the economic conditions of the industries and geographic regions in which they Since the establishment of the Share Incentive Plan SIP operate.
Traditionally, spending on parts of the Groups in 2009, all UK employees are eligible to participate in the products has been cyclical due to companies spending SIP once they have completed six months service with the significantly less in times of economic uncertainty.
The SIP is an HM Revenue & Customs Approved All Additional negative factors include downward pressure Share Incentive Plan offering UK employees the opportunity on budgets and corporate consolidation in certain to purchase annually up to 1,500 of shares in the Company sectors e. g. financial services.
Global economic out of pre-tax salary.
In addition, from 2008, all US employees conditions also mean that certain customers might are eligible to participate in the Companys US Stock Purchase become insolvent which may in turn lead them to Plan SPP once they have completed six months service.
default on payment for products already purchased.
The SPP offers US employees the opportunity to purchase Unforeseen disruptions, whether caused by natural annually up to $2,940 of shares in the Company causes or otherwise, can also be detrimental to the at a 15% discount to the prevailing market price.
Equal Opportunities Mitigation is achieved, where possible, through Informa believes in equality of opportunity for all the Groups diversification of its operations across employees based on merit and that no employee or job vertical markets and geographies, which provides a applicant should receive less favourable treatment on broad customer base.
Furthermore, during the recent the grounds of age, gender, sexual orientation, disability, conditions of recession the Group has enhanced its colour, race, religion, nationality or ethnicity.
Informas credit control function with a view to maintaining divisions are all disabled friendly business operations.
tighter control over upfront payments for events and subscriptions and also continuous monitoring The Companys equal opportunity policy not only of trade receivables to mitigate further default risk.
covers fair recruitment, but also the opportunities given to staff on training and development, and the 2.
The markets in which the Group operates are highly Groups views on equal opportunities form a part of competitive and subject to rapid change the employee induction training.
The markets for the Groups products are highly competitive and in a state of ongoing and uncertain The Groups objective is to provide continued suitable change.
Some of the Groups principal competitors employment to staff whose circumstances change, with have substantial financial resources, recognised brands, appropriate training if necessary.
Informas offices are technological expertise and market experience that required to enable access for all abilities and comply may better position them to anticipate and respond with all applicable local laws.
If the Group is unable successfully 26 Informa plc Annual Report & Financial Statements for the year ended 31 December 2010 INF2570 AR10 cover AW05.
pdf 28 21 03 2011 17:33 to enhance and or develop its products in a timely activities outside of its traditional western markets fashion, the Groups revenue could be affected.
There to new markets where economic conditions are are also low barriers to entry in relation to certain parts perceived to be stronger, and uses advances of the Groups businesses.
in technology to develop new products that generate incremental revenue streams.
The Group maintains a competitive advantage through ongoing investment in its products, 5.
Currency fluctuations may have a significant impact reinforcing its market leading position in many on the reported revenue and profit of the Group markets.
The Group also recognises that its The financial results of the Group are reported competitiveness is maintained by the recruitment in pounds Sterling but its business operations and retention of key employees see point 7 below.
receive revenue and incur expense in other currencies in particular, US Dollars and Euros.
The Groups intellectual property IP rights may not The relative movements between the exchange be adequately protected and may be challenged by third parties rates in the currencies in which costs are incurred The Group relies on agreements with its customers and the currencies in which revenue is earned can and trademark, copyright and other IP laws to establish significantly affect the results of those businesses.
and protect the IP rights subsisting in its journals, books and training materials.
However, these rights may be A significant portion of the Groups revenues are challenged, limited, invalidated or circumvented by denominated in US Dollars and Euros.
Since the entities third parties seeking to infringe or otherwise profit generating these revenues have cost bases denominated from the Groups proprietary rights without its in US Dollars and Euros, there is a degree of natural authorisation.
In addition, there is now a growing hedging which partially mitigates the risk of reported amount of copyright legislation relating to digital revenues being impacted by currency movements.
These laws remain under legal review and there This risk can not, however, be completely eliminated.
remains significant uncertainty as to the form copyright Management therefore choose to present, in addition law may ultimately take.
Additionally, enforcement of IP to statutory revenue and operating profit metrics, both rights is limited in certain jurisdictions, and the global revenue and operating profit on a constant currency nature of the internet makes it impossible to control basis thereby allowing the reader of the financial the ultimate destination of content produced by the statements to assess the performance of the Group Group.
The Group may also be the subject of claims of without the distorting effect of currency fluctuations.
infringement of the rights of others or party to claims At a profit before tax level, the Group aims to hedge to determine the scope and validity of the IP rights of this risk further by drawing a proportion of its others.
Litigation based on these claims is common borrowings in US Dollars and Euros, which means amongst companies that utilise digital IP.
that currency fluctuations will increase decrease the The Group protects its rights by consolidating its Groups interest charge in the opposite direction to any portfolio of trademark registrations, implementing decrease increase in the Groups operating profit.
its brand protection strategy, and increasing its digital 6.
The Groups debt finance arrangements contain financial and rights protection.
The Group supports these activities non-financial covenants with which the Group must comply through membership of organisations that defend The Groups debt finance arrangements principally IP rights globally.
comprising a private placement of loan notes and bank 4.
The Groups Academic divisions revenue can be credit facilities contain covenants and undertakings adversely affected by changes in the purchasing with which the Group must comply.
If the Group were behaviour of academic institutions to fail to comply with any of the covenants in its credit Academic institutions fund purchases of Group facilities, it could result in acceleration of the Groups products from limited budgets that may be sensitive obligations to repay those borrowings or cancellation to changes in private including endowments and of those facilities.
In the event that the Group governmental sources of funding particularly in times anticipated such a breach or otherwise believed it had of economic uncertainty and austerity.
Accordingly, insufficient headroom for its operations, the Group may any such decreases are likely to affect adversely the be required to sell assets at depressed prices.
Groups results within its Academic division.
The principal financial covenants include a The Group is constantly developing its products to maximum net debt to Earnings Before Interest, Taxes, seek to ensure, as much as possible, that academic Depreciation and Amortisation EBITDA covenant institutions consider that its products are essential and minimum EBITDA interest cover covenant, each content for purchase even in times of economic of which is tested semi-annually.
Additionally, the Group has expanded, and continues to expand, its sales Informa plc Annual Report & Financial Statements for the year ended 31 December 2010 27 INF2570 AR10 cover AW05.
pdf 29 21 03 2011 17:33 Governance Directors Report continued organisation, which assists in their retention.
The Groups debt finance arrangements contain The effectiveness of the Groups HR policies has financial and non-financial covenants with been externally acknowledged, e. g. for the third which the Group must comply continued year running the Group was recognised as one of These ratios could be breached following a reduction Britains Top Employers by the CRF Institute.
in the Groups revenue arising from continued deterioration of economic conditions or other factors 8.
Changes in tax laws or their application or outside the Groups control.
The Groups current level interpretation may adversely impact the Group of borrowings are such that its net debt to EBITDA ratio, The Group operates in a large number of countries.
and other financial metrics, the subject of covenants Accordingly, its earnings are subject to tax in many in credit agreements, are comfortably achievable at jurisdictions.
Relevant authorities may amend the the present time.
Additionally, the Group has stated an substance or interpretation of tax laws that apply to intention to keep borrowings within a range of 2.0x to the Groups businesses, in a manner that is adverse to 2.5x of EBITDA over the medium-term except for shortthe Group.
There can therefore be no assurance that term increases following acquisitions, which is well the various levels of taxation to which the Group is within the covenant noted above.
Notwithstanding this, subject will not be increased or changed.
In addition, the detailed cash flow and profit forecasting procedures if any Group Company is found to be, or to have been, which the Group undertakes would normally be tax resident in any jurisdiction other than those in expected to identify any potential issues with regards to which the Group is currently deemed to be tax resident covenant compliance on a timely basis thereby allowing or to have a permanent establishment in any such mitigating actions to be taken if required.
jurisdiction, this may have a material adverse effect on Given the significance to the Group of profits the amount of tax payable by the Group.
Given that the derived from foreign currencies, management has Company has its domicile in Zug Switzerland, the risk also taken action to reduce the potential risk of may be more pronounced.
technical breaches of the net debt to EBITDA ratio, The Group employs an experienced Head of Tax who which could be caused by sudden movements in keeps abreast of potential changes in tax legislation exchange rates, by ensuring that both net debt and across a range of jurisdictions, engaging in pro-active EBITDA are translated at the same exchange rate.
tax planning strategies which enable the Group to react quickly to changes in the tax position of any The Groups non-financial covenants are of its companies or businesses.
reasonably standard for the Groups type of borrowings and its legal and corporate finance 9.
Risks associated with doing business internationally teams monitor compliance with them regularly.
and the expansion into new geographic regions 7.
The Group relies on the experience and talent of its present new risk factors specific to these regions senior management and on its ability to recruit and The Groups businesses could be adversely affected retain key employees for the success of its business by a variety of other international factors, including The successful management and operations of the changes in a specific countrys or regions political and Group are reliant upon the contributions of its senior cultural climate or economic condition and changes management and other key personnel.
In addition, the to, or variances among, foreign laws including laws Groups future success depends in part on its ability relating to intellectual property rights and contract to continue to recruit, motivate and retain highly enforcement and regulatory requirements.
The experienced and qualified employees in the face of often Groups expansion into various geographic regions intense competition from other companies.
Additionally, also presents logistical and management challenges many of the Groups key employees are employed by related to business cultures, language compliance and the Group under profit-sharing or profit related bonus restrictions on repatriation of earnings.
The Group may arrangements with respect to the businesses they face risks in penetrating new geographic markets due operate, and in times of declining profit there can be to established and entrenched competitors, difficulties no assurances that the Group will be able to retain such in developing products that are tailored to the needs of senior management or other key personnel or indeed local customers, lack of local acceptance or knowledge that the Group will be able to attract new personnel to of the Groups products, lack of recognition of its brands, support the growth of its business.
and the unavailability of local companies for acquisition.
In expanding its business geographically, both The Group offers compensation packages which are organically and by acquisition, the Group regularly competitive based on current market information and reviews risks relevant to particular geographies thereby give it the best opportunity to recruit and and formulates appropriate mitigation strategies.
retain people of sufficient calibre.
The Group believes The Group also believes that geographic expansion that its people are challenged in their day to day work provides a counterbalance to these risks in providing and obtain appropriate and relevant experience to opportunities in higher growth markets.
develop further and prepare for progression within the 28 Informa plc Annual Report & Financial Statements for the year ended 31 December 2010 INF2570 AR10 cover AW05.
Increased accessibility to free or relatively inexpensive 13.
The Group is subject to regulation regarding information sources may reduce demand for the Groups products the use of personal customer data In recent years, more public sources of free or relatively The Group is increasingly required to comply with inexpensive information have become available, strict data protection and privacy legislation which particularly through the internet, and this trend is restrict the Groups ability to collect and use personal expected to continue.
For example, some governmental information.
The need to comply with data protection and regulatory agencies have increased the amount of legislation can affect the Group in a number of material information they make publicly available at no cost.
Such ways including e. g. making it more difficult to grow and sources may reduce demand for the Groups products.
maintain marketing data and also through potential litigation or regulatory action relating to the alleged The Group regularly monitors changes in its market misuse of personal data.
In some cases, the Group may places and adjusts its product offerings where rely on third party contractors to maintain its databases.
It also seeks to take advantage of The Group is exposed to the risk that its data could be internet trends where appropriate to defend or wrongfully appropriated, lost or disclosed, or processed grow its business, e. g. use of social networking.
in breach of data protection regulation, by or on behalf of the Group in which case, the Group could face liability 11.
The Group is dependent on the internet and its electronic under data protection laws and or suffer reputational delivery platforms, networks and distribution systems damage from the resulting loss of goodwill.
The Groups businesses are increasingly dependent on electronic platforms and distribution systems, The Group seeks to monitor ongoing changes to which primarily deliver the Groups products through data protection laws and best practices across its the internet.
Any significant failure or interruption main trading areas in order to ensure that appropriate of these systems, including sabotage, break-ins, protections and procedures are in place in relation to terrorist activities, natural disaster, service outages and the data held by or on behalf of the Group.
This work computer viruses could thereby restrict the Groups is overseen by a Group Data Privacy Officer.
ability to provide services to customers.
The Group may also be disadvantaged if it does not keep abreast 14.
The Group may be adversely affected by enforcement of all relevant new technological procedures or if such of and changes in legislation and regulation affecting changes are expensive to implement.
its businesses and that of its customers Compliance with various laws and regulations may The Group regularly invests in its internet and impose significant compliance costs and restrictions electronic delivery platforms, networks and distribution on the Group or alternatively fines for non-compliance.
systems, and provides user support and services In addition, such regulations often provide broad to customers having problems accessing data.
discretion to the administering authorities and changes in existing laws or regulations, or in their interpretation or 12.
Breaches of the Groups data security systems or other enforcement, could require the Group to incur additional unauthorised access to its databases could adversely costs in complying with those laws, or require changes affect the Groups businesses and operations to its strategy, operations or accounting and reporting The Group has valuable databases and as part of its systems.
In particular, laws and regulations relating to businesses provides its customers with access to communications, data protection, e-commerce, direct database information.
There are persons who may try marketing and digital advertising have become more to breach the Groups data security systems or gain prevalent in recent years.
Existing and proposed legislation other unauthorised access to its databases in order and regulations may impose limits on the Groups to misappropriate such information for potentially collection and use of certain kinds of information fraudulent purposes or to approach its customers for and its ability to communicate such information commercial purposes.
Because the techniques used effectively to its customers.
Similarly, the Groups by such persons change frequently, the Group may be customers are required to comply with various laws, unable to anticipate or protect against the threat of regulations, administrative actions and policies that are breaches of data security or other unauthorised access.
For example, the Group relies on the This could damage the Groups reputation and expose pharmaceutical industry for a proportion of its publishing it to a risk of loss litigation or regulatory action and subscription revenue.
Changes in government possible liability, as well as increase the likelihood of health policies and regulatory pressures may affect more extensive Governmental regulation of pharmaceutical companies ability or desire to these activities in a way that could adversely affect continue to provide the same levels of spending with this aspect of the Groups business.
the Group as they do currently.
Anti-bribery legislation, which is becoming more comprehensive and widerThe Group regularly invests in improving data ranging, may also pose particular challenges, given the security, digital rights encryption and contracted uncertainty concerning some of its provisions.
These efforts are led by a designated data security officer.
The Group monitors legislative and regulatory changes and alters its business practices where appropriate.
Informa plc Annual Report & Financial Statements for the year ended 31 December 2010 29 INF2570 AR10 cover AW05.
pdf 31 21 03 2011 17:33 Governance Directors Report continued Further details in relation to these risk factors, and other However, the Directors are also required to: risks relating to the following are set out on pages 11 to 22 r properly select and apply accounting policies: of the prospectus issued by the Company on 1May2009: the 2009 scheme of arrangement: use of financial instruments: r present information, including accounting policies, borrowings: financing for future acquisitions: possibility in a manner that provides relevant, reliable, of impairment losses: protection of brands: reliance on comparable and understandable information: government spending: litigious environments: UK pension scheme deficits: Swiss withholding tax: the holding of the r provide additional disclosures when compliance with Companys ordinary shares: and relating to US shareholders.
the specific requirements in IFRSs are insufficient to Subject to stated restrictions, the document is available for enable users to understand the impact of particular viewing at: www.
com Investor-relations , other events and conditions on the entitys Transactions Redomicile.
financial position and financial performance: and Auditors r make an assessment of the Companys ability to Each of the persons who is a Director at the date of approval continue as a going concern.
of this annual report confirms that: The Directors are responsible for keeping proper r so far as the Director is aware, there is no relevant accounting records that disclose with reasonable accuracy audit information of which the Companys auditors at any time the financial position of the Company and are unaware: and enable them to ensure that the financial statements comply with the Companies Jersey Law 1991.
They are also r the Director has taken all the steps that he she ought responsible for safeguarding the assets of the Company and to have taken as a director in order to make himself hence for taking reasonable steps for the prevention and herself aware of any relevant audit information and detection of fraud and other irregularities.
to establish that the Companys auditors are aware of that information.
The Directors are responsible for the maintenance and integrity of the corporate and financial information Deloitte LLP have expressed their willingness to continue included on the Companys website.
Legislation in the UK in office as auditors and a resolution to reappoint them will governing the preparation and dissemination of financial be proposed at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting.
statements may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
Statement of Directors Responsibilities In accordance with DTR 4.1.
12, the Directors confirm that, The Directors are responsible for preparing the financial to the best of their knowledge: statements in accordance with applicable law and regulations.
r the financial statements have been prepared in Company law requires the Directors to prepare financial accordance with the applicable set of accounting statements for each financial year.
standards and give a true and fair view of the assets, liabilities, financial position and profit or loss of the Under that law the Directors have elected to prepare the Company and the undertakings included in the financial statements in accordance with International consolidation taken as a whole: and Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs as adopted by the European Union.
The financial statements are required r the year end review includes a fair review of the by law to be properly prepared in accordance with the development and performance of the business and Companies Jersey Law 1991. the position of the Company and the undertakings included in the consolidation taken as a whole, International Accounting Standard 1 requires that financial together with a description of the principal risks statements present fairly for each financial year the and uncertainties that they face.
Companys financial position, financial performance and cash flows.
This requires the faithful representation of the effects of transactions, other events and conditions in accordance with the definitions and recognition criteria Approved by the Board and signed on its behalf by for assets, liabilities, income and expenses set out in the International Accounting Standards Boards Framework for John Burton the preparation and presentation of financial statements.
Company Secretary In virtually all circumstances, a fair presentation will be achieved by compliance with all applicable IFRSs.
22 February 2011 30 Informa plc Annual Report & Financial Statements for the year ended 31 December 2010 INF2570 AR10 cover AW05.
