Andrew Sukawaty Chairman and Chief Executive Of cer Dates of Appointments: Chairman December 2003 Chief Executive Of cer March 2004 Committee Membership: Chairman of the Nominations Committee Andy served as President and Chief Executive Of cer of Sprint PCS, a Nasdaq listed global internet carrier for Background and four years and as Chief Executive Of cer of NTL Limited, a Broadband and Internet provider for three years.
His relevant experience: previous career has included various management positions with US West and AT&T and as a non-executive director on various listed companies.
Mr Sukawaty holds a BBA and MBA respectively from the University of Wisconsin and Minnesota.
Non-executive Chairman of Xyratex Limited Nasdaq and Ziggo B. V. External Appointments: 2.
Rick Medlock Chief Financial Of cer Date of Appointment: September 2004 Rick is a Chartered Accountant.
He served as Chief Financial Of cer and Company Secretary of NDS Group plc, Background and a provider of digital technology solutions listed on Nasdaq and Euronext for 8 years.
His previous career has relevant experience: included serving as Chief Financial Of cer of several private equity backed technology companies in the UK and the US.
He holds an MA in Economics from Cambridge University.
External Appointments: Non-executive director of Cheap ights Limited.
Sir Bryan Carsberg Independent Non-Executive Director Date of Appointment: June 2005 Committee Membership: Member of the Audit and Remuneration Committees Sir Bryan is a Chartered Accountant.
He spent 8 years as Director General of the Telecommunications head of Background and Oftel, having served as Director General of Fair Trading and Secretary General of the International Accounting relevant experience: Standards Board.
He was previously a non-executive director of Cable & Wireless Communications plc and a non-executive Chairman of MLL Telecom Limited.
He was knighted in January 1989.
Chairman of the Council of Loughborough University.
Independent non-executive director of RM plc and External Appointments: Novae Group plc.
Stephen Davidson Independent Non-Executive Director Date of Appointment: June 2005 Chairman of the Remuneration Committee.
Member of the Audit and the Nominations Committees Committee Membership: Stephen was Global Head of Media and Telecoms Investment Banking and subsequently Vice Chairman of Background and Investment Banking at West LB Panmure.
His previous career has included various senior positions in investment relevant experience: banking.
He was Finance Director, then Chief Executive Of cer of Telewest Communications plc and has been Chairman of the Cable Communications Association.
Chairman of Datatec Limited, Digital Marketing Group plc and Mecom Group plc LSE and holds two other External Appointments: non-executive directorships.
34 INMARSAT PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2010 2010 OPERATIONS GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 9 3 5 2 5.
Admiral James Ellis Jr Rtd Independent Non-Executive Director Date of Appointment: June 2005 Committee Membership: Member of the Remuneration and Nominations Committees Jims last assignment was as Commander of the US Strategic Command responsible for the global command Background and and control of US strategic forces.
He is a graduate of the US Naval Academy, was designated a Naval Aviator in relevant experience: 1971 and held a variety of sea and shore assignments in the US and abroad.
President and Chief Executive Of cer of the Institute of Nuclear Power Operations.
Non-executive director of External Appointments: the Lockheed Martin Corporation, Level 3 Communications and of the Space Foundation.
Kathleen Flaherty Independent Non-Executive director Date of Appointment: May 2006 Committee Membership: Member of the Remuneration Committee Kathleen served on the Board of a number of public and private companies including Marconi Corporation plc, Background and and Telent Plc.
She was President and Chief Operating Of cer of Winstar International.
Her previous career relevant experience: has included senior roles as Chief Marketing Of cer with AT&T, and other senior roles with BT and MCI Communications Inc. Kathleen was a non-executive director of GenTek Inc until October 2009.
Non-executive director of Yell Group plc LSE.
A member of the McCormick Advisory Board and its executive External Appointments: committee of Northwestern University.
Ambassador Janice Obuchowski Independent Non-Executive Director Date of Appointment: May 2009 Committee Membership: Member of the Audit Committee Background and Janice was formerly Head of Delegation and US Ambassador to the World Radiocommunications Conference and Assistant Secretary for Communications and Information at the Department of Commerce.
She held several relevant experience: senior positions both in the US government and in the private sector.
Janices previous career has included serving as Senior Advisor to the Chairman at the Federal Communications Commission.
Non-executive director of Orbital Sciences Corporation and CSG Systems, Inc.
John Rennocks Deputy Chairman and Senior Independent Non-Executive Director Date of Appointment: January 2005 Committee Membership: Chairman of the Audit Committee and member of the Nominations Committee Background and John has broad experience in emerging energy sources, support services and manufacturing.
He served as an Executive Director Finance of a number of public companies including British Steel plc Corus Group plc, relevant experience: Powergen plc and Smith & Nephew plc.
External Appointments: Non-executive chairman of Diploma plc and Intelligent Energy plc and holds non-executive directorships of several other companies.
Alison Horrocks Senior Vice President Corporate Governance and Company Secretary Date of Appointment: February 1999 Background and Alison is a Chartered Secretary.
She served as Group Company Secretary of International Public Relations plc, a worldwide public relations company, for eleven years prior to joining Inmarsat.
relevant experience: ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2010 INMARSAT PLC 35
