2010 OPERATIONS GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS REPORT OF THE DIRECTORS FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2010 ALISON HORROCKS to 28 and the Corporate Social Responsibility Report on pages 29 Senior Vice President to 33.
The cautionary statement set out on the inside back cover Corporate Governance forms part of this Annual Report and is incorporated by reference and Company Secretary into the Business Review.
The Statement on Corporate Governance on pages 40 to 46 falls within the scope of this Report.
Post balance sheet events Details of material post balance sheet events are included in note THE DIRECTORS HAVE PLEASURE 36 to the consolidated financial statements.
IN SUBMITTING THEIR REPORT Results and dividends AND THE AUDITED FINANCIAL The results for the year are shown in the consolidated income STATEMENTS FOR THE YEAR statement on page 60.
A final dividend of 22.69 cents US$ will be paid on 27 May 2011 to shareholders on the register of members at the close of business on 13 May 2011. Dividend payments are made in Pounds Sterling based on the exchange rate prevailing in the London market four business days prior to payment.
References to Group throughout include Inmarsat Global and Share capital and control Stratos Wireless operations unless otherwise noted.
The following information is given pursuant to the requirements of the Companies Act 2006, speci cally s992.
Principal activities The Group is the leading provider of global mobile satellite The Companys ordinary shares of 0.0005 each are listed on the communications services MSS, providing data and voice London Stock Exchange LSE: ISAT.
L. Details of the authorised connectivity to end-users worldwide.
It has over 30 years of and issued share capital of the Company, together with experience in designing, launching and operating its satellitemovements in the issued share capital during the year, are given based network.
With a fleet of eleven owned and operated in note 24 to the consolidated financial statements.
geostationary satellites, the Group provides a comprehensive portfolio of global mobile satellite communications services for The holders of ordinary shares are entitled to receive the use on land, at sea and in the air.
These include voice and Companys report and accounts: to attend and speak at general broadband data services, which support safety communications, meetings of the Company: to appoint proxies and to exercise as well as standard of ce applications such as email, internet, voting rights.
There are no restrictions on transfer or limitations secure VPN access and videoconferencing.
The Companys on the holding of any shares and no requirements for prior wholly-owned subsidiary, Stratos Wireless Inc Stratos, offers approval of any transfers.
None of the shares carry any special a broad portfolio of remote telecommunications solutions to rights with regard to control of the Company.
There are no known end-user customers, offering services over the mobile and arrangements under which financial rights are held by a person xed satellite systems of a number of the leading global and other than the holder of the shares and no known agreements on regional satellite system operators, predominantly Inmarsat, restrictions on share transfers or on voting rights.
and through their owned and operated microwave and satellite telecommunications facilities.
Stratos also provides customised Details of employee share schemes are set out in note 25.
Shares turnkey remote telecommunications solutions, value-added acquired through Company share schemes and plans rank pari services, equipment and engineering services.
passu with the shares in issue.
All of the ordinary shares held by the Inmarsat Employee Share Ownership Trust, being 1,273,910 The Group has several branch and regional of ces throughout shares, carry voting rights.
The subsidiary and associated undertakings principally affecting the pro ts or net assets of the Group in the year are Inmarsat Global does not have agreements with any Director or listed in note 35 to the consolidated financial statements.
A full employee of its operations that would provide compensation for list of subsidiary undertakings will be attached to the Companys loss of of ce or employment resulting from a takeover except that next annual return to be submitted to Companies House.
provisions of the Companys share option schemes and share plans may cause options and awards granted under such schemes to Business review and state of affairs vest on a takeover.
The senior management of Stratos have change The Directors are required by the Companies Act to provide a fair of control provisions within their employment agreements.
These review of the business of the Group during and at the end of the were in place at the time Stratos was acquired by the Company.
financial year and a description of the principal risks and uncertainties facing the Group.
In addition, the Directors are The powers of the Directors are determined by UK legislation and required to report on the development and performance of the the Articles of Association in force from time to time.
The rules Group and the Company during the year and their positions at about the appointment and replacement of Directors are the end of the year.
These requirements are met by the Chairman contained in the Companys Articles of Association.
Changes to and Chief Executives Review of the business and its operations the Articles of Association must be approved by shareholders in on pages 2 to 17, the Chief Financial Of cers Review on pages 18 accordance with legislation in force from time to time.
ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2010 INMARSAT PLC 37 REPORT OF THE DIRECTORS FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2010 CONTINUED The Directors have been authorised by shareholders to issue and No political donations were made during the year.
It remains the allot ordinary shares up to agreed limits and to have the ability to policy of the Company not to make political donations or incur make market purchases of ordinary shares.
At the 2011 AGM, political expenditure.
However, the Directors recognise that shareholders are being requested to renew these authorities.
occasions arise where it may be in the best interests of shareholders for the Company to be able, if appropriate, to Signi cant contracts participate in public debate and opinion-forming on matters The Group has in place several signi cant agreements, which which affect its business.
To avoid inadvertent infringement of the include, inter alia, its banking and debt arrangements, distribution Companies Act 2006, shareholders will be requested annually to agreements with its distribution partners DPs, manufacturing give authority at the Companys AGM to be permitted to make agreements and contracts for the in-orbit insurance of its political donations and to incur political expenditure.
Subject to the identity of a third party bidder, in the Directors and their interests event of a change of control following a takeover bid, the Group does not believe that these agreements would suffer a material The Directors who served at any time during the year were adverse effect or be subject to termination.
However, there are Sir Bryan Carsberg, Stephen Davidson, Admiral James Ellis Jr customary clauses in the long term debt funding agreements Rtd, Kathleen Flaherty, Rick Medlock, Janice Obuchowski, specifying that in the event of a change of control following a John Rennocks and Andrew Sukawaty.
Further details of the takeover bid, the lenders have the option to have the debt directors, including their experience, particular responsibilities repaid under the speci c terms of each type of debt.
and directorships held in other companies are set out on pages 34 and 35 of the Annual Report.
The majority of the space segment revenue of Inmarsat Global is derived from sales to its distribution partners who operate in The interests of the Directors in the share capital of the Company accordance with a suite of agreements regarding the distribution are disclosed in the Directors Remuneration Report.
None of the of Inmarsats services.
Stratos is one of the DPs to whom these Directors at any time during the year ended 31 December 2010 distribution agreements apply.
Stratos itself has operating or subsequently have had any interests in any shares of the agreements with its own customers.
These contracts vary in Companys subsidiaries.
monetary value and length of term.
Re-appointment of Directors In addition, the Group has signi cant on-going contracts with its The Companys Articles of Association require that one-third of partners regarding the construction of the Alphasat satellite and the Directors retire by rotation at each annual general meeting of its subsequent launch, with the construction of three Ka-band the Company.
Therefore, the following Directors, none of whom satellites and its related ground infrastructure and with third has been in their current term of of ce for more than three years, parties for the manufacture and production of our GSPS service.
will retire and have each con rmed that they will stand for re-appointment at the 2011 Annual General Meeting the AGM.
None of the current Directors had a material interest in any contract to which the Company or any of its subsidiary Andrew Sukawaty undertakings was a party during the financial year.
Kathleen Flaherty Admiral James Ellis Jr Rtd Financial instruments Details of the financial risk management objectives and policies The Board has con rmed that all Directors standing for of the Group, including hedging policies and exposure of the re-appointment at the forthcoming AGM continue to contribute entity to price risk, credit risk, liquidity risk and cash ow risk are effectively as Board members and demonstrate commitment to given in notes 3 and 32 to the consolidated financial statements.
Such commitment was evident from the Boards annual evaluation process.
Research and development Indemnities and insurance The Group continues to invest in new services and technology necessary to support its activities through research and Inmarsat plc maintains appropriate insurance to cover Directors development programmes.
and Of cers liability for itself and its subsidiaries.
At the date upon which this report was approved and for the year to Charitable and political donations 31 December 2010, the Company provided an indemnity in During the year, the Group donated in aggregate US$356,624 to respect of all of the Companys Directors.
Neither the insurance charities worldwide.
nor the indemnity provides cover where the Director is proved to have acted fraudulently or dishonestly.
In addition to providing satellite telecommunications services Employees and equipment in conjunction with support offered by its DPs and manufacturers to service providers in support of disaster The Group maintains open and productive relationships relief management in affected areas of the world, the Company with its employees by effective communication and employee also made a donation of US$250,000 plus US$50,000 of airtime engagement through the use of its intranets and other to the telecommunications relief aid organisation, Tlcoms communication channels.
These include regular brie ng Sans Frontires.
We also made a payment of US$105,600 to sessions and discussions with groups of employees, the World Maritime University as part of its support for the circulation of newsletters, Company announcements, education of maritime specialists.
information releases and dissemination of information through normal management channels.
Certain of the Groups worldwide subsidiary companies also made small contributions to local charitable causes.
38 INMARSAT PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2010 2010 OPERATIONS GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Staff Forums and a Works Council are established in some of Interests in voting rights the operating businesses, in accordance with local legislative At 7 March 2011, the Company had been noti ed, in accordance requirements, to extend two-way communications between with chapter 5 of the Financial Services Authoritys Disclosure and employees and management and to allow the views of Transparency Rules, of the following voting rights as a employees to be taken into account in making decisions shareholder of the Company: which are likely to affect their interests.
Number of voting rights over ordinary shares of 0.0005 each For all our of ces, appropriate employee relations practices Direct Indirect are in place.
Employees worldwide are able, if they wish, to join Lansdowne Partners appropriate Trade Union organisations.
Limited Partnership 59,942,059 13.04% BlackRock, Inc. 51,772,328 11.24% Gauging the opinions and views of employees is important and Inmarsat Global had its last staff survey in 2009.
Where actions Legal & General Group Plc 22,932,911 4.97% were identi ed, these have been followed up during 2010.
The next survey is expected to be in 2012.
A staff survey was also rolled KDDI Corporation 21,739,149 4.76% F&C Asset out to all Stratos employees during the first part of 2010 and the action points are being developed and implemented.
Employees Management plc 19,164,056 4.19% Allianz SE 490,186 0.11% 13,343,300 2.91% are actively encouraged to attend internal training courses to learn about the Companys business, its products and services.
Note: Percentages are based on the issued ordinary share capital in issue as at the date of the respective noti cations.
Participation in the Groups share and share option schemes Directors con rmation is encouraged.
Details of employee share awards and option schemes are shown in note 25 to the consolidated financial Each of the Directors has con rmed that: statements and on pages 51 to 57 of the Directors i so far as the Director is aware, there is no relevant audit Remuneration Report.
information of which the Companys Auditors are unaware: and Equal opportunities ii the Director has taken all the steps that he she ought to have The Group has a positive attitude towards the development of all taken as a Director to make himself herself aware of any its employees and does not discriminate between employees or relevant audit information and to establish that the Companys potential employees on grounds of race, ethnic or national origin, Auditors are aware of that information.
sex, age, marital status or religious beliefs.
The Groups workforce is diverse in that it has approximately 50 different nationalities This con rmation is given and should be interpreted in amongst the staff.
accordance with the provisions of s418 of the Companies Act 2006.
The Group gives full consideration to applications from disabled persons and to the continuing employment of staff that become Auditors disabled, including making reasonable adjustments where A resolution to re-appoint Deloitte LLP as Auditors of the appropriate or considering them for alternative positions.
Company and to authorise the Board to determine their Health and safety remuneration will be proposed at the 2011 AGM.
The Group is committed to maintaining high standards of health 2011 Annual General Meeting and safety for its employees, customers, visitors, contractors and The Annual General Meeting will be held on 3 May at 10am at anyone affected by its business activities.
Perry Melton, Chief 99 City Road, London EC1Y 1AX.
The Notice of Meeting which Operating Of cer, has been identi ed as having responsibility for sets out the resolutions to be proposed at the forthcoming AGM health and safety issues within the Inmarsat Global operations.
is enclosed with this Annual Report.
Stratos and Segovia have various managers responsible for health and safety across their operations.
By order of the Board Policy and practice on payment of creditors Alison Horrocks FCIS The Groups policy and practice on payment of creditors is: Senior Vice President Corporate Governance and Company Secretary to pay all suppliers within the time limit agreed with each at 7 March 2011 the start of business with that supplier: to ensure that suppliers are aware of the terms of payment: and to pay in accordance with the contractual and other legal obligations whenever it is satis ed that the supplier has provided goods and services in accordance with the agreed terms and conditions.
At 31 December 2010, the Groups trade creditors represented 58 days equivalent of aggregate amounts invoiced by suppliers during the year 2009: 59 days.
ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2010 INMARSAT PLC 39
