STATEMENT ON CORPORATE GOVERNANCE ANDREW SUKAWATY April 2009, the Board recognised that this transaction would Chairman and Chief increase revenues, costs, staff and the number of global of ce Executive Of cer locations.
Therefore continuity at Chief Executive Of cer level was important in managing key elements of integration alongside operating a fair channel strategy for all distributors.
There was a commitment that in time, there would be a separation of the roles of Chairman and Chief Executive Of cer and the Non-Executive Directors have discussed this at their meetings during 2010.
Mr Sukawaty will move to the role of A ROBUST GOVERNANCE Chairman and an announcement regarding the splitting of the STRUCTURE UNDERPINS THE joint role will be made at the appropriate time when the Board has completed its review, which will be during 2011.
DELIVERY OF THE GROUPS STRATEGY.
The Board believes that it is appropriate that John Rennocks acts as Deputy Chairman.
This has been of great value during the time when the Chairman and Chief Executive Of cer roles have been and are currently combined, allowing the opportunity for concerns to be conveyed to him by other Non-Executive Directors independently of the Executive Directors.
John Rennocks is also our Senior Independent Director.
Shareholders may discuss any issues or concerns with him where they have The Board is committed to the highest standards of Corporate been unable to resolve them through existing channels for Governance.
It follows an approach that complies with the investor communications.
provisions of the UK Financial Reporting Councils Combined Code on Corporate Governance dated June 2008 the Code.
Independent Non-Executive Directors To determine their independence, our Board reviews all The Board directors interests that may give rise to a potential or perceived Our Board, collectively, is the primary decision-making body for con ict, and any circumstances relevant to their current or all matters considered as material.
It also provides leadership, ongoing independence as set out in the Code.
Following guidance and sets strategic direction.
The composition of the such review, the Board considers all the Non-Executive Directors, Board and its various Committees is therefore, regularly reviewed including Admiral James Ellis Jr Rtd, who is an independent, and evaluated so as to re ect the Boards and the Committees non-executive Director on the Lockheed Martin Corporation balance of skills, expected time commitment, knowledge and Lockheed board, a supplier to the Company, to be experience.
Board membership and tenure are considered independent and free of any circumstances that could together, and weighed for relevant bene t considering any materially interfere with the exercise of objective, unfettered foreseeable business plans.
We hold this view of independence of James Ellis as the contract values with Lockheed are not Our Board has eight members: two Executive Directors and six material to the Groups revenues.
independent Non-Executive Directors, which is considered an effective size and balance for the Company.
A list of the individual Non-Executive Directors have been appointed initially for three Directors, their biographies and details of their Committee years and all Non-Executive Directors may not, unless agreed by membership are provided on pages 34 and 35. the Board, remain in of ce for a period longer than six years, or two terms in of ce, whichever is the shorter.
The diverse Chairman and Chief Executive Of cer experience and backgrounds of the Non-Executive Directors Following the Companys listing on the London Stock Exchange ensures that they can debate with, and constructively challenge in June 2005, Andrew Sukawaty has remained Chairman and management both in relation to the development of strategy and Chief Executive Of cer, both executive roles.
Whilst this does to operational and financial performance.
not meet the requirements of the Code, the Board continues to believe that with Mr Sukawatys wide experience of the Role and Responsibilities telecommunications industry in an executive capacity, his The Chairman, who is also our Chief Executive Of cer, is involvement in both roles provides a balanced and stable responsible for the running of the Board and for implementing platform for the Company and its shareholders.
In addition, strategy for the Groups operations.
The Board has a formal with the acquisition of the Companys largest distributor in schedule of matters reserved to it for decision but can also delegate speci c responsibilities to its Board Committees or to committees convened for special purposes.
The Board ensures that as an integral part of its performance and decision making, it carefully considers the statutory directors duties.
40 INMARSAT PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2010 2010 OPERATIONS GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS The Board has an annual rolling plan of items for discussion which The Non-Executive Directors meet annually and on a ad-hoc is reviewed and adapted regularly to ensure that all of the matters basis, without the Chairman and Chief Executive Of cer in reserved to the Board, as well as other key topical and strategic attendance, to assess Board balance and independence and to issues, are discussed at the appropriate time.
Regular items for monitor the powers of individual Executive Directors.
The Senior Board meetings include updates on business development Independent Director chairs these meetings.
opportunities, monthly financial and operational reviews and as appropriate, reports from each of the principal Board In addition to regular Board meetings, the Board also holds a Committees.
Among the key matters on which the Board alone two-day strategy meeting each year at which it considers the may make decisions are the Groups business strategy, its annual future direction of the business.
Strategy is reviewed at each budget, dividends, financial reporting and major corporate regular board meeting in addition to the focused two-day event.
These strategy sessions are attended by several senior executives who present on specialised agenda items.
During the Board Management of the business is delegated to the Companys meeting held at Inmarsats of ce in Washington, D. C. the Board Executive Staff and to the Management Boards listed on page 36. had the opportunity to meet with senior members of Inmarsat, Stratos and Sevogia management teams, enabling it to develop Meetings its relationships with these employee groups.
The Board meets as often as necessary to ful l its role.
The Board is satis ed that every Director commits suf cient time to the Board Effectiveness ful lment of their duties as Directors of the Company.
During the The effectiveness of the Board is an essential element of the year, the board met 8 times, with one of those meetings being Companys overall performance.
Collectively, the Board believes held in Washington D. C. and the rest in the UK.
This excludes that it possesses all of the necessary range of qualities and ad hoc meetings held solely to deal with either procedural experience to lead the Company effectively.
During 2010, the matters or for progressing and approving signi cant contracts Board and each of the Audit, Remuneration and Nominations or similar matters.
The main elements in the evaluation process were: In an instance where a Director is unable to attend Board or Committee meetings, any comments which he or she may have individual Directors and Committee members completed arising out of the papers to be considered at the meeting are separate evaluation questionnaires regarding the processes of relayed in advance to the relevant Chairman or the Company the Board and its Committees, their effectiveness and where Secretary who would then report to the Board.
They also undertook a peer review in which they assessed their fellow Directors The following table shows the number of Board meetings held performance: during the year and the attendance by directors: each of the Non-Executive Directors had a discussion with the Company Secretary: Attended the results were compiled and analysed by the Company Number of scheduled meetings in 2010 8 Secretary and circulated to the full Board: and Andrew Sukawaty 8 8 the Board considered the results of the evaluation process as a Rick Medlock 8 8 speci c item of business.
Sir Bryan Carsberg 8 8 The evaluation process concluded that during the year, the Board Stephen Davidson 8 8 and its main Committees had functioned well with a good balance of the necessary skills required and that the individual Admiral James Ellis Jr Rtd 8 8 Directors had also met the standards expected of them, with Kathleen Flaherty 8 8 each making a signi cant contribution to the Company.
The Non-Executive Directors continued to be highly supportive of the Janice Obuchowski 8 8 Executive team and of the culture of openness and transparency John Rennocks 8 8 within the Group.
Directors receive Board and Committee papers in advance of the relevant meetings.
Typically, at each meeting, the Chief Executive Of cer and Chief Financial Of cer provide reports to the Board and several senior executives, by invitation, present updates on strategy and the Groups operations.
All Committee Chairmen report orally on the proceedings of their Committees at the next meeting of the Board.
Meeting proceedings and any unresolved concerns expressed by any Director are minuted by the Company Secretary.
ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2010 INMARSAT PLC 41 STATEMENT ON CORPORATE GOVERNANCE CONTINUED The issues identi ed during the evaluation process included Secretary, including the provision of background material on the discussion of different formats for the presentation of regular the Company and brie ngs with senior management.
Each items to Board meetings, how to provide additional insight into Directors individual experience and background is taken discussions regarding key risks and how the timing for the into account in developing a programme tailored to his or replacement of Non-Executive Directors would be managed her own requirements.
These will be implemented and discussed as appropriate during 2011.
For professional on-going developments, the Board received presentations appropriate to the Companys business and A performance evaluation of the Board will continue to be changes to legislation.
The Company Secretary supplies all conducted annually and the process for such evaluation will be Directors with information on relevant legal and best practice.
reviewed by the Board, considering the new UK Corporate Governance Code recommendation that an external review is Re-election of Directors undertaken at least every three years.
All Directors are required by the Companys Articles of Association to be elected by shareholders at the first general The Nominations Committee con rmed to the Board that the meeting after their appointment.
Appointments to the Board are contributions made by the Directors offering themselves for made on merit and against objective criteria.
At least one-third of re-appointment at the 2011 AGM continued to bene t the Board the Directors must retire and, as appropriate, seek re-election by and the Company should support their re-appointment.
the shareholders at each annual general meeting.
External Directorships Company Secretary The Board believes, in principle, in the bene t of Executive The Company Secretary is responsible for developing and Directors accepting non-executive directorships of other maintaining the information systems and processes that enable companies in order to widen their skills and knowledge for the the Board to ful l its role.
She is also responsible to the Board for bene t of the Company.
All such appointments require the prior ensuring that Board procedures are complied with and advising approval of the Board.
Executive Directors may not take on more the Board on all governance matters.
than one non-executive directorship of a FTSE 100 company or any chairmanship of such a company.
Mr Sukawaty and Mr All Directors have access to the advice and services of the Medlock have external directorships and they are permitted to Company Secretary and are able to take independent advice retain any directors fees from these appointments.
Details of in the furtherance of their duties if necessary.
No requests for these directorships can be found in their biographies on pages external professional advice were received during the year.
34 and 35 and details of the fees retained can be found on Directors remuneration page 54.
To avoid potential con icts of interest, Non-Executive Directors are expected to inform the Chairman before taking Details of the Companys remuneration policy and Directors up any additional external appointments.
remuneration are contained in the Directors Remuneration Report on pages 47 to 57.
Induction and on-going developments Board Committees To ensure that each Director receives the appropriate support on joining the Board, they are given a comprehensive, formal and The Board has established Committees to assist it in exercising its tailored induction programme organised through the Company authority.
The permanent Committees of the Board are the Audit, Remuneration and Nominations Committees: BOARD COMMITTEES BOARD AUDIT REMUNERATION NOMINATIONS COMMITTEE COMMITTEE COMMITTEE Oversight, and review of, Oversight, and review of, Oversight, and review financial, audit and internal remuneration, bonus and of, senior appointments and RENUMERATION NOMINATIONS control issues share plan issues executive and non-executive COMMITTEE COMMITTEE director succession 42 INMARSAT PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2010 2010 OPERATIONS GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Each of the permanent Committees has Terms of Reference accounting policies.
Reviews by the Committee of audit plans under which authority is delegated by the Board.
The Terms of and risk reports include all Group operations.
Stratos and Segovia Reference for each Committee can be found on the Groups have adopted the risk reporting standard already used for website at www.
corporate and Inmarsat Global risks.
As the Senior Statutory Auditor rotates in 2011, the Committee Chairman was involved in The Company Secretary is Secretary to these Board Committees the selection process for his replacement.
and the of ce of the Company Secretary provides secretariat services for each of the Committees.
The Company Secretary, as Chairman of the Disclosure Committee the role of which is detailed on page 45, reported to Reports from each of the Committees are as follows: the Audit Committee on matters that affected the quality and timely disclosure of financial and other material information to the Board, to the public markets and to shareholders.
This enabled AUDIT COMMITTEE the Audit Committee to review and clarify the completeness of financial reporting disclosures prior to their release by the Board.
External Auditors The audit engagement partner rotates every five years and the present audit partner rotates following the 2010 audit.
A new partner has been appointed and will be taking responsibility after the March 2011 Audit Committee meeting where the financial 4 1 results for the year ended 31 December 2010 are approved.
3 2 Auditor objectivity and independence is safeguarded through a variety of mechanisms.
To ensure the Auditors independence, Attended Number of scheduled meetings in 2010 5 the Committee annually reviews the Companys relationship with its Auditors, Deloitte LLP.
Following the review in 2010, the 1.
John Rennocks Chairman 5 5 Company concluded that it has an objective and professional 2.
Sir Bryan Carsberg 5 5 relationship with the Auditors and that there are suf cient 3.
Stephen Davidson 5 5 controls and processes in place to ensure the required level of independence.
In addition, the Auditors are required to 4.
Janice Obuchowski 5 5 review and con rm their independence to the Committee on All members of the Audit Committee are independent, a regular basis.
Non-Executive Directors and have signi cant, recent and relevant financial experience.
The Board is con dent that the collective Non-Audit Services experience of the Audit Committee members enables them, The Companys Auditors may also be employed where, as a result as a group, to act as an effective Committee.
of their position as Auditors, they either must, or are best placed to perform the work in question.
A formal policy is in place in By invitation, the meetings of the Audit Committee may be relation to the provision of non-audit services by the Auditors to attended by the Chairman and Chief Executive Of cer, Chief ensure that there is adequate protection of their independence Financial Of cer and the Head of Internal Audit.
The Deloitte LLP and objectivity.
audit engagement partner is present at all Audit Committee meetings to ensure full communication of matters relating to the Fees charged by the Companys Auditors in respect of non-audit audit.
The Chairman of the Audit Committee meets regularly with services require the prior approval of the Audit Committee, the internal and external Auditors.
except where the fee does not exceed more than 5% of the total revenues paid to the Auditors in that financial year.
The Audit The Audit Committee has particular responsibility for monitoring Committee has agreed that the Company could commit to fees the financial reporting process, the adequacy and effectiveness of in relation to tax advisory and tax compliance work from the the operation of internal controls and risk management and the Auditors, in aggregate, of up to 20% of the total audit fee each integrity of the financial statements.
This includes a review of year, with up to 50,000 for any one project, without the need signi cant issues and judgements, policies and disclosures.
Its to seek approval for individual projects.
A breakdown of the duties include keeping under review the scope and results of the fees paid to the Companys Auditors during the year is set out audit and its cost effectiveness, consideration of managements in note 6 to the consolidated financial statements.
response to any major external or internal audit recommendation and the independence and objectivity of the internal and external It is the Companys practice that it will seek quotes from several Auditors.
rms, including the Auditors, before work on non-audit projects are awarded.
Contracts are awarded to our suppliers based on During the year to 31 December 2010, the Audit Committee individual merits.
Non-audit services principally related to tax reviewed and endorsed, prior to submission to the Board, advisory services.
It was determined that the tax services were half-year and full-year financial statements, interim management best provided by the Auditors due to their knowledge of the statements and results announcements.
Objectivity and independence were safeguarded audit reports and risk management updates, agreed external and through close oversight by the Audit Committee and the use of internal audit plans, received updates on management responses separate teams by the Auditors.
to audit recommendations and approved the review of ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2010 INMARSAT PLC 43 STATEMENT ON CORPORATE GOVERNANCE CONTINUED Remuneration Committee Relations with shareholders The Remuneration Committee meets as and when necessary The Company recognises the importance of communicating with to review and approve, as appropriate, the remuneration of its shareholders to ensure that its strategy and performance is the Executive Directors and senior management and major understood and that it remains accountable to shareholders.
The remuneration plans for the Group.
Full details of areas that the Board as a whole is responsible for ensuring that a satisfactory Committee focuses on, on behalf of the Board, are set out in dialogue with shareholders takes place, whilst the Chairman and the Remuneration Report on pages 47 to 57.
Chief Executive Of cer and Chief Financial Of cer ensure that the views of shareholders are communicated to the Board as a whole.
The Board ensures that the Companys strategic plans have been NOMINATIONS COMMITTEE carefully reviewed in terms of their ability to deliver long-term shareholder value.
An audited 2010 Annual Report will be made available to shareholders and all results are posted on the Companys website, as are presentations made in respect of the full year results.
4 The Company has undertaken regular investor road shows in the UK and overseas and presentations were also made after 1 3 publication of the Preliminary Results.
Investor and analyst 2 conference calls took place after the announcement of each set of quarterly financial results.
There is an ongoing programme of dialogue and meetings between the Executive Directors and Attended Number of scheduled meetings in 2010 2 institutional investors, fund managers and analysts.
At these meetings, a wide range of relevant issues including strategy, 1.
Andrew Sukawaty Chairman 2 2 performance, management and governance are discussed 2.
Stephen Davidson 2 2 within the constraints of information which has already been 3.
Admiral James Ellis Jr Rtd 2 2 made public.
The Board is aware that institutional shareholders may be in more regular contact with the Company than other 4.
John Rennocks 2 2 shareholders, but care is exercised to ensure that any The Nominations Committee comprises a majority of price-sensitive information is released to all shareholders, independent, Non-Executive Directors and meets as and institutional and private, at the same time in accordance with when necessary.
The Nominations Committee has responsibility the Financial Services Authority requirements.
for nominating to the Board, candidates for appointment as Directors, bearing in mind the need for a broad representation The Senior Independent Director, John Rennocks, is available of skills across the Board.
to shareholders if they have concerns which cannot be raised through the normal channels or such concerns have not been The Nominations Committee will also make recommendations to resolved.
Mr Rennocks and Mr Davidson Chairman of the the Board concerning the re-appointment of any independent, Remuneration Committee attended some institutional meetings Non-Executive Director by the Board at the conclusion of his or during 2010.
Arrangements can be made to meet with them her speci ed term: the election and re-election of any Director by through the Company Secretary.
shareholders under the retirement provisions of the Companys Articles of Association: and changes to senior management, In the past, the Board has consulted with shareholders in including Executive Directors.
The Nominations Committee gives connection with speci c issues where it is considered appropriate full consideration to succession planning in the course of its work, and it would do so in the future as needed.
taking into account the challenges and opportunities facing the Company and what skills and expertise are needed on the Board The Board obtains feedback from its joint corporate brokers, and from senior management in the future.
JPMorgan Cazenove and Credit Suisse, on the views of institutional investors on a non-attributed and attributed basis.
The Nominations Committee agreed which Directors would Any concerns of major shareholders would be communicated to retire by rotation at the 2011 AGM, and kept under review the the Board by the Chief Financial Of cer.
As a matter of routine, combined Chairman and Chief Executive Of cer roles.
The the Board receives regular reports on issues relating to share Chairman and Chief Executive Of cer did not and will not chair price, trading activity and details of movements in institutional the Nominations Committee when it is dealing with agenda investor shareholdings.
The Board is also provided with current items relating to the role of Chief Executive Of cer.
As analyst opinions and forecasts.
discussion relating to the review of the Chief Executive Of cer role is a matter of concern for all the Non-Executive directors, several meetings were held during the year for those discussions rather than limiting them purely to the Nominations Committee members.
44 INMARSAT PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2010 2010 OPERATIONS GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Annual General Meeting Risk Management: An overarching risk management policy is in Shareholders are welcome at the Companys AGM where they place which sets out the tolerance for risk within the Group and will have an opportunity to meet the Board.
The notice of the how this is measured across identi ed macro and business risks.
AGM is sent to all shareholders at least 20 working days before As required by the policy, management operates a risk the meeting.
The Chairmen of the Audit Committee and the management process to identify, evaluate and report signi cant Remuneration Committee, together with as many Directors as risks within the business and to report to the Board on how those possible, will attend the 2011 AGM and be available to answer risks are being managed.
Risks are highlighted through a number shareholders questions.
Voting may be by form of proxy, by poll, of different reviews and culminate in a risk register, monitored by by a show of hands or a combination of all three.
This year, Risk Committees in Inmarsat Global, Stratos and Segovia, which facilities are being provided for shareholders to vote electrically identify the risk area, the probability of the risk occurring, the either through Electronic Proxy Voting or through CREST.
The impact if it does occur and the actions being taken to manage voting results will be noti ed to the UK Listing Authority through the risk to the desired level.
All the risk registers are available a Regulatory Information Service immediately after the meeting monthly for review by senior management of each business and and will be published on the Companys website.
quarterly to the Board and to the Audit Committee.
Internal Controls Management Structure: There is a clearly fide ned organisational The Board con rms that the procedures necessary to implement structure throughout the Group with established lines of reporting the Internal Control: Revised Guidance for Directors on the and delegation of authority based on job responsibilities and Combined Code published by the Financial Reporting Council in experience.
Within the businesses, senior management meetings October 2005 have been established and are reviewed on an occur regularly to allow prompt discussion of relevant business ongoing basis.
The Board acknowledges its responsibility for issues.
A process of self-certi cation is used where Directors and establishing and maintaining the Groups system of internal senior managers are required to detail and certify controls in controls and it receives regular reports from management operation to mitigate risk in key process areas.
They also con rm identifying, evaluating and managing the risks within the annually, in writing, that risk management processes are in place business.
The system of internal controls is designed to manage, and are operating effectively.
rather than eliminate, the risk of failure to achieve business objectives and can provide only reasonable and not absolute Financial Reporting: Monthly management accounts provide assurance against material misstatement or loss.
Steps continue relevant, reliable, up-to-date financial and nonfinancial information to be taken to embed internal control and risk management to management and the Board.
Annual plans, forecasts and further into the operations of the business and to deal with performance targets allow management to monitor the key areas of improvement which come to managements and the business and financial activities and the progress towards achieving Boards attention.
The annual budget is approved by the Board.
The Group reports half-yearly based on a standardised The Company has an established Disclosure Committee reporting process.
In addition, in line with the Transparency with responsibility for reviewing and approving controls and Directive, the Company publishes interim management statements.
procedures over the public disclosure of financial and related information and other procedures.
These procedures enable Information Systems: Information systems are developed to the Chairman and Chief Executive Of cer and the Chief support the Groups long-term objectives and are managed by Financial Of cer to provide their certi cations in relation professionally staffed teams.
Appropriate policies and procedures to publicly disclosed information.
are in place covering all signi cant areas of the business.
The Board and the Audit Committee have carried out a review Contractual Commitments: There are clearly fide ned policies of the effectiveness of the system of internal controls during the and procedures for entering into contractual commitments.
year ended 31 December 2010 and for the period up to the date These include detailed requirements that must be completed of approval of the consolidated financial statements contained prior to submitting proposals and or tenders for work, both in in the Annual Report.
The review covered all material controls, respect of the commercial, control and risk management aspects including financial, operational and compliance controls and of the obligations being entered into.
The Board con rms that the actions it considers necessary have been or are being taken to remedy Monitoring of controls: The Audit Committee receives regular any signi cant failings or weaknesses identi ed from its review reports from the internal and external Auditors and assures itself of the system of internal control.
This has involved considering that the internal control environment of the Group is operating the matters reported to it and developing plans and programmes effectively.
There are formal policies and procedures in place to that it considers are reasonable in the circumstances.
The ensure the integrity and accuracy of the accounting records and Board also con rms that it has not been advised of material to safeguard the Groups assets.
Signi cant capital projects and weaknesses in that part of the internal control system that acquisitions and disposals require Board approval.
There are relates to financial reporting.
formal procedures by which staff can, in con dence, raise concerns about possible improprieties in financial and other The key elements of the Groups system of internal controls, matters, including pensions administration often referred to which have been in place throughout the year under review as whistleblowing procedures.
Arrangements are in place for and up to the date of this report, include: proportionate and independent investigation and appropriate follow-up action and the results would be reported to the Audit Committee.
ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2010 INMARSAT PLC 45 STATEMENT ON CORPORATE GOVERNANCE CONTINUED RISK MANAGEMENT PROCESS: Executive Management Boards Inmarsat plc Board Audit Committee Inmarsat Global, Stratos and Segovia fide fines the risk governance Reviews the risk management Review the risk management framework, risk culture and principles framework and the effectiveness of framework and the effectiveness of Sets overall risk strategy and policy internal controls, risk management internal controls, risk management Approves risk levels systems and major risk initiatives systems and major risk initiatives Is responsible for an effective system of Reviews the internal audit programme internal controls and reports Approves risk decisions that are beyond delegated authorities Risk Committees Inmarsat Global, Stratos and Segovia Review the risk pro le against risk appetite and make recommendations to management in relation to risk pro le, strategy and key controls Review the suitability of risk methodologies, metrics and policies Assess major risk-related projects Business Operations Implement mitigation strategies Going Concern Statement on Corporate Governance compliance The Directors acknowledge the latest guidance on going The Company is committed to the highest standards of corporate concern.
The Groups business activities, together with the factors governance.
The Board has reviewed and is reporting on the likely to affect its future development, performance and position Companys compliance with the requirements of the Combined are set out in the Chairman and Chief Executives Review of the Code the Code published by the Financial Reporting Council business and its operations.
The financial position of the Group, in July 2003 and reissued in June 2008 for the year ended its cash ows, liquidity position and borrowing facilities are also 31 December 2010.
The Board notes the new UK Corporate described in this review on pages 18 to 28.
In addition, notes 3, Governance Code which will be effective for the Companys next 31 and 32 of the financial statements includes the Groups financial reporting year and will report against it in the 2011 objectives, policies and processes for managing its capital: Annual Report.
its financial risk management objectives: details of its financial instruments and hedging activities: and its exposure to credit risk Throughout the year ended 31 December 2010, the Company and liquidity risk.
has been in compliance with the provisions set out in Section 1 of the Code save as provided below: Despite the current volatility in financial markets and uncertain economic outlook, the Directors believe that the Group has a Andrew Sukawaty acts in the dual role of Chairman and Chief robust and resilient business model, strong free cash ow Executive Of cer.
Mr Sukawaty was appointed Chairman in generation and is compliant with all its financial covenants.
December 2003 and was asked by the Board to take on the In making their assessment of going concern, the Directors additional responsibilities of Chief Executive Of cer in March considered the Board-approved budget, the 15 month rolling 2004.
The Board believes that Mr Sukawatys wide experience of forecast, the cash ow forecast and the most recent Long Range the telecommunications industry in an executive capacity means Financial Plan.
In addition, the Directors considered the maturity that he is extremely well quali ed to lead the Company in the pro le of existing debt facilities, other liabilities as well as actual joint role of Chairman and Chief Executive Of cer.
As noted and forecast covenant calculations.
Furthermore, the forecasts elsewhere in this report, the Board remains committed to splitting and covenant calculations were stress tested by applying a set of the two roles and will make an announcement at the appropriate downside scenarios.
After making enquiries, the Directors have a time during 2011. reasonable expectation that the Group and the Company have adequate resources to continue in operational existence for the foreseeable future.
Accordingly, Inmarsat continues to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the consolidated financial statements.
46 INMARSAT PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2010
