38 IHG Annual Report and Financial Statements 2010 The Board of Directors David Webster David Kappler # Non-Executive Chairman Senior Independent Non-Executive Director Chairman of the Nomination Committee Chairman of the Audit Committee Appointed Deputy Chairman and Senior Independent Director of Appointed a Director and Senior Independent Director in June 2004.
InterContinental Hotels Group on the separation of Six Continents PLC A Non-Executive Director of Shire plc.
A qualified accountant and in April 2003.
Appointed Non-Executive Chairman on 1 January 2004. formerly Chief Financial Officer of Cadbury Schweppes plc and Also Non-Executive Chairman of Makinson Cowell Limited, a capital Non-Executive Chairman of Premier Foods plc.
Also served as a markets advisory firm, a Non-Executive Director of Amadeus IT Non-Executive Director of Camelot Group plc and HMV Group plc.
Holding SA, a transaction processing and technology solutions A member of the Trilantic Europe Advisory Council.
Age 63. company for the travel and tourism industry, a member of the Graham Allan Appeals Committee of the Panel on Takeovers and Mergers and a Non-Executive Director Director of Temple Bar Investment Trust PLC.
Formerly Chairman Appointed a Director in January 2010.
Became Chief Executive Officer of Safeway plc and a Non-Executive Director of Reed Elsevier PLC.
Restaurants International YRI, a subsidiary of Age 66.
Brands, Inc. in 2010 after serving as President since 2003.
Andrew Cosslett Previously Executive Vice President and Chief Operating Officer Chief Executive of YRI and Managing Director of YRI in Europe.
Has over 19 years Appointed Chief Executive in February 2005, joining the Group experience in brand management, marketing, franchising and retail from Cadbury Schweppes plc where he was most recently development.
President, Europe, Middle East & Africa.
During his career at Ralph Kugler Cadbury Schweppes he held a variety of senior regional management Non-Executive Director and marketing roles in the UK and Asia Pacific.
Also has over Chairman of the Remuneration Committee 11 years experience in brand marketing with Unilever.
A member Appointed a Director in April 2003.
Also Chairman of Byotrol plc, of the Executive Committee of the World Travel & Tourism Council a hygiene technology company, a Non-Executive Director of and a member of the Presidents Committee of the CBI.
Discovery Group Holdings Ltd, a PR services company, Board Richard Solomons Adviser at Mars, Incorporated, the global consumer business, Chief Financial Officer and Head of Commercial Development a Non-Executive Director of Spotless Holding Sas, a consumer Qualified as a chartered accountant in 1985, followed by seven years products business, and Senior Adviser to 3i plc.
Previously Director on in investment banking, based in London and New York.
Joined the the boards of Unilever PLC and Unilever N. V. until May 2008, with his Group in 1992 and held a variety of senior finance and operational last role as Global President, Unilever Home and Personal Care.
Appointed Finance Director of the Hotels business in Jennifer Laing October 2002 in anticipation of the separation of Six Continents PLC Non-Executive Director in April 2003.
Responsible for corporate and regional finance, Chairman of the Corporate Responsibility Committee Group financial control, strategy, investor relations, tax, treasury, Appointed a Director in August 2005.
Was Associate Dean, commercial development and procurement.
External Relations at London Business School, until 2007.
A Fellow James Abrahamson of the Marketing Society and of the Institute of Practitioners in President, The Americas Advertising, has over 30 years experience in advertising including Appointed a Director in August 2010.
Has over 32 years 16 years with Saatchi & Saatchi.
Also a Non-Executive Director of experience in hotel operations, branding, development and Hudson Highland Group, Inc. a US human resources company.
Joined the Group as an Executive Committee Age 63. member with responsibility for the Americas region in January Jonathan Linen 2009 from Global Hyatt Corporation, where he served as Head of Non-Executive Director Development, The Americas.
Previously Senior Vice President, Hilton Hotels Corporation for 12 years.
Responsible for the Appointed a Director in December 2005.
Was formerly Vice Chairman business development and performance of all the hotel of the American Express Company, having held a range of senior brands and properties in the Americas region.
Age 55. positions throughout his career of over 35 years with American Express.
Brands, Inc. Kirk Kinsell and Modern Bank, N. A. a US private banking company.
Also serves President, EMEA on a number of US Councils and advisory boards.
Appointed a Director in August 2010, retaining his responsibility Ying Yeh for the EMEA region, which he had held as an Executive Committee Non-Executive Director member since September 2007.
Has over 28 years experience in Appointed a Director in December 2007.
Vice President and the hospitality industry, including senior franchise positions with Chairman, Greater China Region, Nalco Company, a water Holiday Inn Corporation and ITT Sheraton, prior to joining the Group treatment and process improvement company.
Previously in 2002 as Senior Vice President, Chief Development Officer for the Chairman and President, North Asia Region, President, Americas region.
Responsible for the business development and Business Development, Asia Pacific Region and Vice President, performance of all the hotel brands and properties in the EMEA Eastman Kodak Company.
Also a Non-Executive Director of region.
Was, for 15 years, a diplomat with the US Foreign Service in Hong Kong and Beijing until 1997.
