THE BOARD, SENIOR MANAGEMENT AND GROUP FINANCIAL PARENT COMPANY OVERVIEW BUSINESS REVIEW THEIR RESPONSIBILITIES STATEMENTS FINANCIAL STATEMENTS USEFUL INFORMATION The Board of Directors and Other members of the Executive Committee 39 Other members of the Executive Committee Tom Conophy The Board of Directors and members of the Executive Vice President and Chief Information Officer Executive Committee together comprise the IHG Senior Has over 30 years experience in the IT industry, including Leadership Team.
management and development of new technology solutions within While the Directors have certain specific legal and the travel and hospitality business.
Joined the Group in February regulatory duties and responsibilities, they work with and 2006 from Starwood Hotels & Resorts International where he held rely on the detailed knowledge and experience of the the position of Executive Vice President & Chief Technology Officer.
Executive Committee members to secure the effective Responsible for global technology, including IT systems and running of the business in support of IHGs core purpose information management throughout the Group.
Age 50. to create Great Hotels Guests Love, and its Vision to Tracy Robbins become one of the worlds great companies.
Executive Vice President, Human Resources & Group Operations Support Has over 25 years experience in line and HR roles in service A Non-Executive Director and a member industries.
Joined the Group in December 2005 from of the Nomination Committee Compass Group PLC, a world leading food service company, where A member of the Executive Committee she was Group Human Resources Leadership & Development # An independent Non-Executive Director and a member Director.
Previously Group HR Director for Forte Hotels Group.
of the Audit, Remuneration and Nomination Committees Has global responsibility for talent management, leadership development, reward strategy, organisational capability and An independent Non-Executive Director and a member operations support.
Age 47. of the Audit, Nomination and Corporate Responsibility Committees Tom Seddon An independent Non-Executive Director and a member Executive Vice President and Chief Marketing Officer of the Audit, Remuneration, Nomination and Corporate Has over 18 years experience in sales and marketing in the Responsibility Committees hospitality industry, including with IHGs predecessor parent An independent Non-Executive Director and a member companies from 1994 to 2004.
Rejoined the Group in November of the Remuneration and Nomination Committees 2007, from restaurant business SUBWAY where he was responsible for worldwide sales and marketing activities.
Has Not a main Board Director responsibility for worldwide brand management, reservations, e-commerce, global sales, relationship and distribution marketing, and loyalty programmes.
George Turner Executive Vice President, General Counsel and Company Secretary Solicitor, qualified to private practice in 1995.
After 12 years with Imperial Chemical Industries PLC, where he was most recently Deputy Company Secretary, he joined the Group in September 2008.
Appointed Executive Vice President, General Counsel and Company Secretary in January 2009.
Responsible for corporate governance, risk management, insurance, data privacy, internal audit, company secretariat, legal and corporate responsibility & public affairs.
