32 International Power Annual Report 2010 Key performance indicators Performance indicators enable us to manage the business and to measure the delivery of our strategic objective: the growth in shareholder value.
Financial KPIs Non-financial KPIs Key performance indicators Our financial KPIs address two key aspects of the Our non-financial KPIs address other key We use a range of performance indicators, business: its profitability and its cash generation performance aspects of the business: safety, both financial and non-financial, to manage environmental and operational performance the business and to measure the delivery of our strategic objective, which is growth Profit from operations PFO Accident frequency rate AFR in shareholder value through the efficient Earnings per share EPS Reportable environmental incidents operation, financing, and trading of output from our portfolio, whilst maintaining the Free cash flow Technical availability highest levels of safety and environmental performance.
Financial KPIs are presented excluding exceptional items and specific IAS 39 mark to market movements.
The most important of these measures are considered key performance The explanations and results of these KPIs follow.
indicators KPIs and their targets are determined annually during the business Financial KPIs planning process.
The KPIs are used Year ended 31 December by management to compare actual 2010 2009 2008 2007 2006 restated restated restated restated performance during the year, and the latest monthly forecasts, against the PFO 995m 1,148m 1,036m 886m 758m annual budgeted targets.
Our KPIs for EPS 29.1p 32.4p 32.1p 26.3p 21.1p 2010, both financial and non-financial, Free cash flow 708m 791m 513m 653m 456m are set out here.
The comparatives have been restated to reflect the Groups adoption of IFRIC 12 Service Concession Arrangements, following its endorsement by the European Union.
PFO and EPS, excluding exceptional Presenting the Groups segmental results, items and specific IAS 39 mark to market total PFO, and EPS, before exceptional movements, are appropriate indicators items and specific IAS 39 mark to market of performance, as these measures: movements, is consistent with the way management measured performance exclude significant items which, by in the Groups budgets, forecasts and virtue of their size or incidence, could management accounts on a day-to-day potentially distort year-on-year basis during 2010. comparisons The financial KPIs are calculated from data allow a better understanding of the included within the consolidated financial financial information presented, and statements.
On pages 39 and 40, the specifically the Groups underlying results of our financial KPIs, which are business performance, by excluding fair presented excluding exceptional items value movements on economic hedges and specific IAS 39 mark to market assist shareholders and analysts movements, are also reconciled to the who, for the reasons set out above, results presented including exceptional have expressed a preference for the items and specific IAS 39 mark to market reporting of results without the inclusion movements.
of the effects of exceptional items and Pages 41 and 56 for related information specific IAS 39 mark to market movements Business overview 33 Profit from operations Free cash flow Profit from operations PFO is a measure of the operating Power generation is a capital-intensive profitability of the Group.
It excludes the business and hence it requires the assets 2010 995m impact of all non-operating costs from within the Group to generate sufficient subsidiaries, financing costs and income cash flow to repay the initial investment 2009 1,148m tax expense, and therefore provides a in those assets, to provide returns for 2008 1,036m comprehensive measure of operational shareholders and to provide funds for 2007 886m performance.
We define free cash flow as net cash flow from 2006 758m PFO, excluding exceptional items operating activities after all pre-exceptional and specific IAS 39 mark to market operating costs, maintenance capital movements, has grown at an average expenditure, interest and tax i. e. cash compound growth rate of 7% over the flows relating to exceptional items are last four years reflecting strong financial excluded from free cash flow.
The results for the current and prior year are also We consider this measure of cash flow Earnings per share presented in the consolidated income to be a key indicator of performance as statement.
it measures the cash generated from the underlying business performance 2010 29.1p For 2010 this KPI was also used as one of continuing operating activities.
This of the measures to evaluate Regional 2009 32.4p is consistent with the way management Directors performance when quantifying 2008 32.1p measured performance in the Groups their annual bonuses more information budgets, forecasts and management 2007 26.3p can be found in the Directors accounts on a day-to-day basis during remuneration report.
For 2010 this KPI was also used Directors remuneration report pages 92 to 110 as one of the measures to evaluate Directors performance when quantifying Earnings per share their annual bonuses.
EPS is a measure of the overall profitability Directors remuneration report pages 92 to 110 of the Group and shareholder returns.
It is defined as the profit in pence attributable Free cash flow has grown at an average Free cash flow to each Ordinary Share in the Company, compound growth rate of 12% over the based on the consolidated profit for the last four years reflecting both an increase year, after deducting tax and nonin the size of the Group and strong 2010 708m controlling interests.
Growth in EPS operational and financial performance 2009 791m over time is indicative of the ability of over the period.
The results for the current 2008 513m the Group to add value.
and prior year are also presented in the consolidated statement of cash flows.
2007 653m EPS, excluding exceptional items and specific IAS 39 mark to market Consolidated statement of cash flows page 118 2006 456m movements, has grown at an average compound growth rate of 8% over the last four years.
The calculation of this years result is presented in note 10 to the consolidated financial statements.
Note 10 to the consolidated financial statements pages 139 to 140 For 2010, this KPI was also used as the basis of one of the measures to evaluate Directors performance when quantifying their annual bonuses and as a performance condition in the Company long-term incentive plans.
Directors remuneration report pages 92 to 110 34 International Power Annual Report 2010 Key performance indicators Non-financial KPIs Accident frequency rate Year ended 31 December 2010 2009 2008 2007 2006 2010 0.08 1 AFR 0.08 0.10 0.09 0.12 0.16 2009 0.10 1 2 Reportable environmental incidents 4 15 3 9 14 2008 0.09 3 Technical availability 90.1% 91.9% 89.1% 90.0% 89.6% 2007 0.12 Notes 2006 0.16 1 Data on AFR and reportable environmental incidents is provided for those assets where we have operational control.
In addition, note that the European Wind Portfolio is currently excluded from this reporting.
2 Reportable environmental incidents are incidents where the reporting of an exceedance of emissions limits to the relevant authority resulted in a requirement to review existing operating practices.
3 Technical availability is calculated on a gross MW basis.
Accident frequency rate Reportable environmental Reportable environmental Health and safety is of vital importance to incidents incidents our business.
It is important to provide all Our power plants are issued with personnel at our sites with a safe place to environmental licences by the relevant 2010 4 work, and any accident is disruptive to the statutory authorities.
Environmental 2009 15 running of the business.
Our AFR reporting licences require that any significant standard for 2010 was defined as the environmental incident is reported.
2008 3 number of lost time accidents LTAs We have a policy of complying with all 2007 9 divided by the number of hours worked, environmental regulations, and during 2006 14 multiplied by 100,000.
2010 we measured our ability to comply by recording the number of reportable We define a LTA as a person being absent environmental incidents at plants where from work for one or more subsequent we have operational control.
Such working days or shifts excluding the day incidents may include events such as the or shift when the accident occurred due to failure of equipment or processes which injury or ill health sustained at work.
This is have the potential to cause significant a much tighter definition than the usual legal adverse environmental effects, as well as requirement of three days absence from actual breaches of limits specified in the work.
We have also included contractors permits.
For International Power, in recent excluding those working under engineering, years these breaches have predominantly procurement and construction EPC related to releases to the atmosphere contracts in our accident statistics, for sites or water discharges.
where we have operational control, which is not common practice.
This approach In 2010 there were four reportable to reporting has helped us to improve our environmental incidents, significantly understanding and management of health lower than last year and predominantly and safety at our sites.
associated with relatively minor events, such as minor leaks and spillages of The majority of the injuries sustained materials.
Only three of these incidents during 2010 were relatively minor and were determined to be a breach of resulted from slips, trips and falls, or permit conditions, and none have led incorrect lifting and handling.
In 2010 the AFR for employees and contractors combined was 0.08.
This can be compared with 0.10 for 2009.
Although, this remains a very low AFR, we do not tolerate unsafe behaviour our overriding target is zero LTAs.
In 2010 the CEO and all Regional Directors had a common personal, non-financial objective, relating to health, safety and the environment HS&E.
Business overview 35 Technical availability Technical availability Technical availability measures when a plant is available for dispatch.
Each of 2010 90.1% our plants will generally be unavailable during some periods in the year due to 2009 91.9% a combination of planned outages for 2008 89.1% maintenance and unplanned outages.
2007 90.0% An important aspect of our business is 2006 89.6% ensuring that our merchant power trading and power purchase agreements PPAs are closely aligned to our operational activities, and availability planning is a key factor in this regard.
The year-on-year variance in the profile of planned outages influences the technical availability.
Technical availability is calculated by first determining the potential maximum amount of electricity that could be generated in the year if all our plants, including 100% of joint ventures and associates, were operated at full output for the entire year.
We then deduct from this maximum amount the electricity that could not be produced due to planned and unplanned outages at the plants throughout the year.
This number is then expressed as a percentage of the potential maximum electricity that could be generated, where all these quantities are calculated in terms of electrical energy GWh.
This calculation is performed using data submitted by individual plants directly into the corporate reporting system.
In 2010 we achieved technical availability of 90.1%, a slight decrease from the 91.9% achieved in 2009.
36 International Power Annual Report 2010 Key performance indicators Financial KPIs Non-financial KPIs Future KPIs EBITDA AFR Financial KPIs Following the completion of the Current operating income Significant technical environmental Combination in February 2011 and the non-compliance adoption of new accounting policies and Adjusted current operating income Technical availability presentational formats by the Group, the Board of the enlarged International Free cash flow Power has decided to use the following financial KPIs for future reporting.
Current operating income Free cash flow Like EBITDA, current operating income Power generation is a capital-intensive EBITDA EBITDA is an abbreviation for earnings excludes those items that are inherently business and hence it requires the assets difficult to predict due to their unusual, within the Group to generate sufficient before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortisation.
It is a measure of income irregular or non-recurring nature.
For cash flow to repay the initial investment example, such items relate to asset in those assets, to provide returns for which excludes significant non-cash items, such as depreciation, amortisation, impairments and disposals, restructuring shareholders and to provide funds for costs and mark-to-market on commodity future investment opportunities.
Our new certain movements in provisions and charges for share-based payments.
contracts, other than trading instruments, measure of free cash flow includes cash presented in income from operating flow from operating activities less amounts It also excludes those items that are inherently difficult to predict due to their activities.
The measure includes paid in respect of interest on net debt and depreciation, amortisation and provisions maintenance capital expenditure.
Certain unusual, irregular or non-recurring nature.
For example, such items relate to asset and charges related to share-based items included in the foregoing, which payments.
It includes the proportionate are inherently difficult to predict due to impairments and disposals, restructuring costs and mark-to-market on commodity share of current operating income of joint their unusual, irregular or non-recurring ventures but it excludes the share of net nature, will be excluded.
Cash flow from contracts, other than trading instruments.
EBITDA will also include the proportionate income of associates.
operating activities will be presented in the consolidated statement of cash flows.
share of joint ventures EBITDA.
Adjusted current operating income Adjusted current operating income is similar to current operating income, but it also includes the share of net income of associates.
This measure is similar to PFO before exceptional items and specific IAS 39 mark to market movements, although joint ventures are proportionately consolidated in this KPI.
Business overview 37 Non-financial KPIs Significant technical Following the Combination, the Board environmental non-compliance of the enlarged International Power has Significant technical environmental decided to use the following non-financial non-compliance has been adopted as a KPIs for future reporting to ensure measure of regulatory compliance, in place consistency across the Group.
It is defined as higher than permitted emission Accident frequency rate or pollution levels, or a lack of precautions The AFR remains a KPI for the Group, which could potentially result in a risk to however the definition has been adjusted the environment, and for which the budget slightly.
The AFR is now defined as the for recovery exceeds E150,000 equivalent.
number of LTAs as defined previously This definition excludes the more minor on page 34 divided by the number events previously included as reportable of employee hours worked, multiplied by environmental incidents, such as the late 1,000,000 rather than 100,000 therefore filing of reports, and short-term emissions the effect of the increased multiplier will be spikes associated with plant start-up to increase the reported figure by a factor operations.
In addition, going forward the AFR will no longer include contractors.
Technical availability Technical availability will continue to be used as an indicator of technical performance.
The definition remains unchanged from that on page 35.
