10 International Power Annual Report 2010 Strategy and Group overview In February 2011 International Power completed the Combination with GDF SUEZ Energy International, which offers significant benefits reflecting the excellent geographic and operational fit between the businesses.
The enlarged International Power is a global leader in independent power generation, with significant projects under construction and further attractive opportunities in high growth markets.
International Power has 70,196MW of gross capacity 41,550MW net in operation and projects under construction which will deliver 17,249MW gross 6,826MW net of additional capacity by 2013. International Power has strong positions in all of its major regional markets Latin America, North America, UK-Europe, the Middle East, Turkey and Africa, Asia and Australia and benefits from enhanced exposure to fast growing markets.
Business overview 12 International Power Annual Report 2010 Strategy and Group overview Geographic footprint GW net ownership uK europe 2.1 6.9 north america 6.7 6.4 asia 2.1 1.6 middle east, turkey and latin america africa 6.1 3.8 2.9 australia 3.0 Power generation GDF SUEZ Energy International International Power GDF SUEZ Energy Total installed capacity International 70.2GW gross 41.6GW net gas activities Notes: As at 31 December 2010, for the combined business.
LNG terminal Total installed capacity gross MW: this represents the total installed capacity of the power plant i. e. capacity is measured at the power station boundary after the deduction of works power.
Gas terminal distribution Net capacity ownership: this is the gross MW multiplied by International Powers ownership percentage.
This portfolio approach also extends A portfolio approach to our operational capabilities.
We are We manage our business through a able to operate a range of power plant portfolio management approach, which technologies, including thermal, hydro, involves maintaining a balance in the pumped storage and renewables.
These portfolio in terms of geographical spread, technologies produce electricity using fuel diversity, technology and contract different fuel types that include gas, oil, type.
This approach gives us access to coal and renewable sources such as wind, multiple opportunities to create value water and sun.
This multi-technology whilst mitigating the risks associated with expertise allows us to capture overexposure to any particular market, opportunities that are best suited fuel, technology or contract type.
to the market in question.
Business overview 13 International Power capacity in operation Geography Fuel Contract 6% 4% 7% 2% 15% 6% 9% 9% 4% 40% 16% 31% 16% 50% 63% 22% Latin America Gas Short-term uncontracted North America Coal Long-term contracted UK-Europe Renewable Pumped storage Middle East, Turkey and Africa Hydro Wind Asia Oil Australia Pumped storage Notes: As at 31 December 2010, for the combined business, on a net capacity ownership basis.
As electricity is critical for any economy, International Power maintains a A key objective of the portfolio approach governments carefully decide whether or balanced presence in both types of is to maximise value through knowledge not they wish to liberalise this key sector.
market, providing the business with a sharing across the business.
As our Several governments have retained full stable platform of long-term contracted energy operations are primarily local control of the sector while others have earnings and cash flow, overlaid by activities, local knowledge and focus fully liberalised both the production merchant generation which offers a are essential.
However, local operations and supply of electricity.
Trading and greater potential for superior returns can benefit immensely from being part commercial skills required for operating when market conditions are favourable.
To capture in liberalised merchant or non-liberalised We also ensure that lessons learned in the value offered by this local-global contracted markets are very different any particular market are shared across combination is a key focus for the and we have both.
The , contracted In addition to operations in power markets typically offer opportunities to sell generation, the enlarged International power to government bodies via long-term Power seeks to create industrial synergies power purchase agreements PPAs that through investing in closely linked offer stable returns.
Assets in the merchant businesses such as LNG terminals, gas markets are subject to the forces of supply distribution and energy retail largely for and demand, and these markets are commercial and industrial customers.
Although different, both these markets offer attractive risk reward environments for investments.
14 International Power Annual Report 2010 Strategy and Group overview Generation capacity growth committed projects under construction 2011 461 1,716 2,177 2012 363 1,432 1,795 2013 293 2,404 2,697 2014 157 157 MW net ownership International Power MW net ownership GDF SUEZ Energy International Note: As at 31 December 2010, for the combined business, on a net capacity ownership basis.
Strong growth prospects The enlarged Group has 17,249MW gross Our long-term contracted markets in 6,826MW net of power generating Latin America, the Middle East, Turkey Growth is a key strategic objective for International Power, and we have clear capacity, currently under construction and Africa, and Asia continue to offer worldwide.
In Latin America, 5,759MW significant short and medium-term investment criteria to ensure that our acquisitions and new-build projects deliver gross 2,774MW net is expected to enter growth opportunities.
We are continuing commercial operation in the next four to actively evaluate a number of new value for our shareholders.
We are well placed to grow our international portfolio years, the majority of which is located greenfield projects across these markets.
in Brazil and comprises two large hydro In addition, we have further growth and our enlarged geographic footprint, in-depth market knowledge and strong projects Jirau and Estreito.
In Europe potential in merchant markets through the Group is constructing two gas-fired carefully timed investments.
Our customer relationships continue to present us with multiple growth opportunities.
plants, Elecgas in Portugal and T-Power overarching criterion, irrespective of in Belgium, although the latter will be the market structure in which we operate, The combined business also benefits from a strong development pipeline of divested during 2011 as a condition of is that our investments create value for achieving clearance for the Combination our shareholders.
future projects, and International Powers increased financial strength will allow from the European Commission.
Six gas-fired plants, totalling 6,452MW it to support an enhanced development strategy.
gross 1,884MW net are currently under construction in the Middle East, including the 2,730MW Ras Laffan C project in Qatar and the 1,234MW Al Dur project in Bahrain.
International Power also has 3,460MW gross 1,483MW net under construction in Asia, which mainly consists of gas and coal-fired plants.
Business overview 15 International Power capacity under construction Geography Fuel Contract 4% 1% 5% 22% 41% 34% 51% 28% 1% 4% 10% 94% 5% Latin America Gas Short-term uncontracted North America Coal Long-term contracted UK-Europe Renewable Wind Middle East, Turkey and Africa Hydro Asia Oil Note: As at 31 December 2010, for the combined business, on a net capacity ownership basis.
Maximise the return Strengthened financial Maximising the value from our portfolio position of our existing portfolio We optimise operations as described International Power has a sound Our specific strategies for value above and we leverage our investments, financial position together with the strong enhancement in each country and for particularly by using non-recourse finance committed financial support of GDF SUEZ, each individual plant are tailored to local at the project company level.
We may sell which will provide a package of loans requirements, but generally we seek businesses if this generates a higher rate and facilities in excess of 3.1 billion to achieve the following: of return for our shareholders.
on investment grade interest rates, to the enlarged International Power.
The Optimise the operations Combination significantly strengthens of our power plants International Powers capital structure We optimise the operation of our power and credit ratios and underpins the plants through several means including: Groups growth ambitions.
This managing all of our sites to high standards strengthened credit profile of the of safety and operating performance: combined business has enabled managing our business on a portfolio International Power to obtain an basis: closely co-ordinating plant investment grade credit rating.
operations with trading to maximise As a result, the Group benefits from the value of our output: standardising significantly improved access to management reporting for all investments: capital, at an attractive cost.
and investing in improved plant efficiency.
16 International Power Annual Report 2010 Strategy and Group overview Our role in the energy value chain Fuel procurement Fuel distribution Power generation portfolio financing Trading long-term Retail industrial Acquisitions asset management power contract expertise and commercial plant operations Construction management Greenfield development Fuel Greenfield development and Core capabilities In our longer-term PPA markets, our detailed construction management International Powers high quality asset knowledge of fuel markets has enabled us We have excellent experience of portfolio, together with the capabilities to put in place fuel procurement contracts developing large capital-intensive of our teams around the world, forms which as far as possible mirror the PPA infrastructure projects from selecting a strong combination for performance terms and mitigate any risks.
In merchant the appropriate site, securing multiple optimisation, effective risk management markets, we have extensive experience government stakeholder approvals and and future growth in earnings and of short-term contracting from multiple project managing the entire construction cash flow.
sources and associated logistical expertise programme, right through to successful to match power sales and lock in margins.
International Power has in-depth experience Where practical we have upstream in plant operations and engineering which investments, such as our mine mouth Financing is shared throughout the portfolio.
This power stations, which allow more control Given the very capital-intensive nature not only helps to ensure excellent plant of cost bases and supply risks.
We develop of our business we maintain access to operations, but also in understanding all LNG solutions through our regasification multiple sources of finance, which includes operational and technical issues relating terminals in Chile and the US, therefore the finance package from GDF SUEZ, to the potential acquisition and upgrade contributing to the energy mix and energy non-recourse project finance, corporate of assets or development of new power supply security of these countries.
Our borrowing facilities, capital from our plants.
The Group has the skills to execute extensive international experience leaves partners, and strong free cash flow power projects from inception right us well placed to provide project support generation from our existing portfolio.
through to the delivery of power in the as required to the growing business.
Non-recourse project finance remains key most advanced and complex traded to International Powers financing strategy, markets of the world.
Acquisitions particularly for long-term contracted Our core capabilities for implementing We have demonstrated our ability to plants, as this provides the opportunity our strategy can be categorised into the execute acquisitions at the right time and to raise an appropriate level of debt for following nine areas: to integrate newly acquired businesses individual businesses and represents quickly and seamlessly into the portfolio.
excellent risk mitigation for the Group.
Historically, the Group has delivered a Information on the GDF SUEZ financing package number of successful acquisitions which page 22 have met or exceeded financial and operational performance targets.
Business overview 17 traded position is carefully monitored Asset management All our investments are expected to deliver and managed.
This includes matching fuel purchases with power sales within specific performance targets.
Through regular and robust technical, commercial predefined limits and carrying out only a limited amount of non asset-backed and financial reviews, the regional offices and corporate headquarters together trading.
We forward sell our output when we consider the commercial returns are monitor the performance of each business in the portfolio to ensure that we maximise favourable, but we often retain some uncontracted capacity as mitigation efficiencies.
In addition, we have a global Health, Safety and Environment HS&E against unplanned outages and to benefit from upsides in the short-term market.
Management Committee which co-ordinates the Groups activities and Long-term power contract enables best practice to be adopted at all plants.
This co-ordinated approach helps expertise We have strong commercial skills to us manage operational risk and extract the full portfolio benefits.
structure and negotiate long-term power and water contracts in regulated markets Plant operations such as Asia and the Middle East.
Under these contracts, the majority of our income We have comprehensive power station operational experience and skills.
is delivered from having our plants available, and key risks such as fuel and Through-life engineering and maintenance plans, meticulously implemented, ensure turbine maintenance are very significantly mitigated through long-term hedging and maximum availability and efficiency in the operation of our plants and are key for supply arrangements.
Availability bonuses incentivise us to keep the plant well delivering value in both our merchant and long-term contracted markets.
Effective maintained in order to generate superior returns.
Overall, the contracts provide plant operations are enhanced by an integrated Operations and Engineering visibility and stability of earnings and cash generation over the long-term.
Team across the Group, ensuring information is shared across the portfolio Retail and key operational staff are rotated on a regular basis.
Safe behaviour We are a supplier of gas and electricity principally to commercial and industrial and environmental best practice are cornerstones of International Powers customers, in the UK and the US, where the retail business services customers operations, and we share this across the portfolio to ensure all of our plants across a number of power markets.
In Australia, in addition to commercial and operate to the highest possible safety and environmental standards.
industrial customers, our retail business, Simply Energy also provides energy to Trading residential customers.
We offer a range of energy supply products We operate in a number of merchant markets.
We have the skills necessary including fixed price and flexible options.
We have a strong focus on risk to maximise our returns in these markets, with a practical focus on closely management, both our own and our customers and our knowledge and co-ordinating trading and plant operations to optimise value.
We have Trading and long-term experience in the energy markets enables us to work in partnership Risk Teams in all our merchant markets, co-ordinated by Group trading and risk with businesses to deliver targeted energy solutions.
The retail businesses work functions at the corporate level.
For us, trading predominantly means selling the closely with the merchant generation portfolio to effectively manage energy physical output generated by our plants, which we call asset-backed trading.
Our price risk, while providing another avenue to market for the wholesale portfolio.
traders operate within strict guidelines and adhere to risk policies to ensure our
