6 International Power Annual Report 2010 Statement from Philip Cox Chief Executive Officer of International Power plc 2010 was a pivotal year for the Company, with the announcement of the Combination of International Power with GDF SUEZ Energy International to form a global leader in independent power generation.
America: and a strengthened balance organisation structure, alongside planned The Combination sheet including the provision of a synergies of 165 million per annum at a 2010 was a pivotal year for the 3.1 billion credit facility at investment one-off cost of some 130 million.
We are Company, with the announcement of the grade pricing from GDF SUEZ.
well prepared to operate and manage the Combination of International Power with enlarged Group, having made over 100 In summary, we have high quality assets GDF SUEZ Energy International to form appointments to key positions, drawing on across attractive high growth markets a global leader in independent power the best talent from both organisations.
such as Latin America, Middle East and generation.
The Chairmens statements Asia, together with strong positions in the Of course, change does come with some explain the rationale for the transaction more mature economies of North America, uncertainty for many of our people, and in some detail, so I will concentrate on UK-Europe, and Australia.
All of this is I would like to thank all our employees the main elements that will deliver value backed by a strengthened investment for their professionalism, hard work, and for our shareholders.
There are five main grade capital structure that positions enthusiasm during this period.
All our themes, which together provide a very us very well for the future.
powerful platform for the Company: higher quality earnings from a more diversified Prior to the Combination, our two Although a business combination of this and contracted portfolio: important businesses were very similar in terms of scale clearly requires intense integration expected synergies of 165 million per strategy and business approach namely, planning, we have been determined to annum: a very strong committed growth a common focus on power generation and maintain a sharp focus on operating pipeline of 17GW gross that is already closely linked activities, and a very similar excellence within our existing portfolio.
well underway in terms of construction: view on a range of key operational and I believe our performance in 2010 across further value enhancing growth financial criteria such as plant operations, our regions on key criteria, such as safety opportunities through the combination health and safety, risk profiles, and and plant availability, demonstrates that of our high quality development teams investment returns.
This has enabled us we continue to maintain very high across all our core markets that now to proceed swiftly on detailed integration operating standards.
include the high growth region of Latin plans targeted to deliver an efficient Business overview 7 The Middle East comprises long-term Regional review Delivering value contracted power and desalination plants, There are more details of our regional The strategy for the enlarged Group is and we continue to deliver high operational operational and financial performance to build on the very strong foundations standards which is the key driver of in the regional reviews, but let me give in each of our markets.
Our new-build plant at Fujairah you the highlights.
will remain the core of our activities, but 2,000MW power and 130MIGD water we have highly complementary and value gross came into commercial operation Regional reviews pages 44 to 49 added activities such as LNG terminals on a phased basis in 2010, and made its and selected retail operations particularly first contribution to profits in 2010.
We As expected, North America continued for industrial and commercial customers continue to be very active in business to be dominated by the dual impact of desalinated water, and gas distribution development in the region.
the recession and low gas prices.
These activities allow us to recession continued to impact demand Our Asian portfolio is also principally take a more integrated approach in some and the continuing development of shale long-term contracted, and we have of our markets, driving extra value for our resources maintained gas and power similarly delivered good operational and shareholders.
We remain focused on prices at relatively low levels.
We continue to be the fundamentals for success namely, operated very well in terms of availability active in greenfield developments in the the highest operating, health, safety and and flexibility, and we were able to capture region the 815MW expansion at our environmental performance standards, value whenever the market provided Paiton plant in Indonesia is progressing on top quality business development skills opportunities.
We remain confident in the plan and in January 2011 we announced that can capture maximum value from fundamentals of our markets, and we are that we will build a 375MW extension at our growth opportunities across all our very well positioned to benefit from market Uch plant in Pakistan.
We are very active regions, maintaining a robust capital recovery.
We have also kept a vigilant in pursuing further business development structure reflected by the investment watch on our cost base and efficiency opportunities in all the markets in which grade credit rating achieved through the in order to maximise returns without any we operate in the region, together with Combination, and maintaining financial compromise to our health, safety and new markets, such as Vietnam, that discipline in everything we do.
We have continued offer attractive long-term investment importantly, we will do this alongside to develop and build our Canadian wind opportunities.
being a responsible neighbour in all the portfolio with projects secured by longcommunities in which we operate.
Our Our Australian portfolio predominantly term tariff arrangements.
community programmes are local by operates in merchant markets.
Power Our European portfolio continued to their very nature, and reflect our particular demand in Australia is primarily driven be a major driver of profitability, despite focus on health and education.
by summer air conditioning load, and a tougher commercial conditions in the combination of milder temperatures and International Power and GDF SUEZ Energy UK for power generators due, like North high overall plant availability in the market International form a powerful combination.
America, to lower gas prices and reduced has resulted in some reduction in power I am confident we will deliver excellent demand.
Our long-term contracted plants prices.
Climate change and the value for all shareholders, building on in continental Europe performed well, and introduction of a carbon trading system the foundations of a strong operating our construction projects in Portugal and continues to dominate the political debate portfolio, a significant committed growth Belgium continued to make very good and was an important factor in the programme, sustainable growth in our progress.
Our interest in the latter, namely change in government in Australia in core markets, a robust balance sheet, and the 420MW T-Power plant in Belgium, 2010.
We continue to be very active in this talented, experienced, and enthusiastic will be divested within an agreed timeline, debate which has enormous implications teams across the Group.
as a condition of European Commission for the Australian economy, although approval of the Combination.
At the there is no firm date for the introduction headline level, please also remember that of a carbon trading scheme.
We have an we sold our very profitable Czech business excellent portfolio in the region, together in 2009, which explains approximately with a growing retail business, but we two-thirds of the year-on-year reduction remain cautious on further expansion in philip Cox in profit from operations in Europe.
generation until we have greater clarity on the proposed carbon trading regime.
