GovernanCe 111 Directors report The Directors submit their report and the International Power plc Group and parent company audited financial statements for the year ended 31 December 2010.
Principal activities Dividend Share capital The principal activity of International Following the payment of the 2010 interim The Companys share capital consists of Power plc the Company is to act as a dividend of 4.39 pence per Ordinary Ordinary Shares of 50 pence each, which holding company.
The principal activities Share, paid on 28 October 2010, the rank pari passu with each other in respect of the Group are the generation and sale Directors propose to pay a final dividend of all rights, including dividend, voting and of electricity, and other closely related of 6.52 pence per Ordinary Share in return of capital.
The Company has an activities such as desalination.
respect of the year ended 31 December unclassified share of 1.00 and 21 deferred 2010, making a total dividend for 2010 shares of one penny each, which carry of 10.91 pence 2009: 12.53 pence per no rights.
During the period the Company did not The Company is required to present a fair In addition, following the completion purchase any of its Ordinary Shares.
review of the business and the Group of the Combination a special dividend during the year ended 31 December 2010 Resolutions will be proposed at the 2011 of 92 pence per Ordinary Share was and of the position of the Group at the end Annual General Meeting AGM to renew paid on 25 February 2011. of the financial year, and also a description for a further year the Directors general of the principal risks and uncertainties authority to allot Ordinary Shares: to renew facing the Group known as a Business Charitable and political for a year the partial disapplication of review.
The information that fulfils the donations shareholders statutory pre-emption rights requirements of the Business review can over Ordinary Shares: and to renew the The Group did not make political donations be found in the following sections of the authority to purchase a proportion of the during the period.
As is normal practice Annual Report: Companys Ordinary Shares.
in the US, our North American region Business and financial review operates a Political Action Committee An explanation of these and other Pages 8 to 57 PAC whereby employees in the US can resolutions being proposed at the 2011 contribute money voluntarily, which is then AGM will be provided in the Notice of AGM, Board of Directors used to support political candidates and which will be sent to shareholders during parties.
All contributions to the PAC are April 2011.
Pages 58 to 61 kept separate from the Groups funds and Shares were purchased by the Employee Share the Group makes no financial contribution Ownership Trust, as set out below.
Our people to these funds.
Details of charitable Pages 64 to 67 donations are set out in the Corporate Shares held in trust responsibility section.
Corporate responsibility During the period the Employee Share Ownership Trust purchased 3,301,433 Pages 68 to 83 Research and development Ordinary Shares for the purpose of satisfying employee share awards.
Corporate governance report Research and development is not a core element of the business of the Group.
Pages 84 to 91 As at 31 December 2010 there were For the period under review, the Group 2,210,000 Ordinary Shares held in the did not undertake significant expenditure Directors remuneration report Employee Share Ownership Trust for the on research and development.
purpose of satisfying awards that will be Pages 92 to 110 made under the Restricted Share Plan.
The Group will look to take advantage of which are incorporated in this review technical advances as they arise and will by reference.
continue to seek to develop power stations Employee share schemes in the regions in which the Group operates, No employee share schemes have any making effective use of current and new rights regarding control of the Company.
technology as and when available.
112 International Power Annual Report 2010 Substantial shareholdings Auditor Restrictions and transfers of securities As at the date of this report, the Company A resolution to re-appoint KPMG Audit Plc had been notified of the following direct as auditor of the Company and to Apart from the Relationship Agreement and indirect interests in voting rights equal authorise the Directors to agree the there are no restrictions on the transfer to or exceeding 3% of the Ordinary Share auditors remuneration will be proposed of securities in the Company or on voting capital of the Company held on behalf at the 2011 AGM.
rights except in the circumstances set of the organisations as shown in the out in the Articles of Association of the table below: Amendments to the Company for example, failure to disclose interest in shares and non-payment of calls.
Companys Articles Substantial shareholdings Number of shares of Association GDF SUEZ S. A.
3,554,347,956 Significant agreements Invesco Ltd 167,062,927 Any amendment to the Companys Articles There are no significant agreements of Association requires a special resolution to which the Group is a party which take 75% majority to be passed at a duly held effect, alter or terminate upon a change Going concern meeting of the shareholders.
of control other than the Relationship The Directors are satisfied that the Agreement and the Financing Framework Essential business Company and the Group have adequate Agreement.
resources to continue to operate for arrangements the foreseeable future.
Accordingly, The Board has not identified any person Prompt payment policy the Directors continue to adopt the with whom the Group has contractual or going concern basis for the preparation The Group aims to observe the highest other arrangements which are essential of the financial statements.
Further details standard of business practice as both a to the business of the Group.
are included in the Basis of Preparation buyer and seller of products and services.
contained in note 1f to the Group financial Trade creditor days of the Group at Appointment and statements and note 1a to the parent 31 December 2010 were 17 days.
replacement of directors represents the ratio, expressed in days, between the amounts invoiced to the Pages 120 and 182 for related information The Board has the power to appoint Group in the year by its suppliers and and replace any Director subject to the the amounts due, at year end, to trade Relationship Agreement.
Any Director creditors falling due for payment within Disclosure of information appointed by the Board has to offer him one year.
to the auditor herself for re-election at the Companys next AGM.
The Companys shareholders The Directors who held office at the date may by ordinary resolution simple of approval of this Directors report confirm majority appoint or remove any person that, so far as they are each aware, there as Director.
All Directors offer themselves is no relevant audit information of which for re-election annually.
There is By order of the Board the Companys auditor is unaware: and no agreement in place between the Franois Graux each Director has taken all the steps that Company and any of the Directors Company Secretary he ought to have taken as a Director to 1 March 2011 providing for compensation for loss make himself aware of any relevant audit of office or employment that occurs information and to establish that the because of a takeover bid.
Companys auditor is aware of this information.
