62 International Power Annual Report 2010 Executive Team Jan Flachet Zin Smati Steve Riley CEO and President, Latin America CEO and President, North America CEO and President, UK-Europe Shankar Krishnamoorthy Ranald Spiers Tony Concannon CEO and President, Middle East, CEO and President, Asia CEO and President, Australia Turkey and Africa Penny Chalmers Franois Graux Philip fide Cnudde Executive Vice President, General Counsel and Company Secretary Executive Vice President, Strategy and Communications Business Development Oversight Business overview 63 Chief Executive Officer for GDF SUEZ Franois Graux Executive Team Middle East and North Africa.
Shankar has General Counsel and Jan Flachet over 25 years of experience in the industry.
Company Secretary CEO and President, Latin America Franois Graux is the General Counsel Jan Flachet is responsible for overseeing Ranald Spiers and Company Secretary of International and managing all aspects of performance CEO and President, Asia Power plc.
Prior to this he was General in the Latin America business, including Ranald Spiers is responsible for managing Counsel for GDF SUEZ Energy Europe electricity and gas operations, finance, all aspects of performance in Asia including & International, a position he held from energy sales and business development.
plant operations, finance and the July 2008 until January 2011.
In 1997, Prior to this he was President and Chief development, financing and construction he left private practice to join Tractebel Executive Officer of GDF SUEZ Energy of power assets.
Prior to this he was as Legal Counsel working on generation Latin America.
Jan has worked in the a Director of International Power plc and transmission operations.
In 2000, industry for nearly 30 years.
from May 2008 to February 2011 with he moved to Tractebel Asia Bangkok responsibility for Asia, Middle East and to become Senior Legal Counsel and Zin Smati Africa.
Ranald joined National Power in General Counsel for the Asia-Pacific CEO and President, North America 1993 having previously spent 12 years region.
Franois returned to Brussels Zin Smati is responsible for managing the with the BP Group.
Ranald is a Fellow in 2003 and became General Counsel Groups position within the energy market of the Royal Society of Chemistry FRSC of SUEZ Energy International.
in the US, Canada and Mexico including and a Chartered Chemist.
power generation, natural gas, marketing Philip fide Cnudde and trading and retail energy sales and Tony Concannon Executive Vice President, related services.
Prior to this he was CEO and President, Australia Business Development Oversight President and Chief Executive Officer Tony Concannon is responsible for Philip fide Cnudde is head of Business of GDF SUEZ Energy North America, Inc. managing all aspects of performance in the Development Oversight for International and before joining SUEZ, he held a Australian region including plant operations, Power.
Prior to this he was Executive succession of executive positions with finance, energy trading and business Vice President Business Development international energy companies both development.
Prior to this he was a Director Oversight of GDF SUEZ Energy Europe in the US and the UK.
of International Power plc from January & International.
He began his career in 2004 to February 2011 with responsibility 1985 at Santens Engineering Services Steve Riley for Australia.
Tony is a Chartered Engineer in Oudenaarde, where he held a variety CEO and President, UK-Europe and joined the industry in 1982.
He has of engineering posts, before moving to Steve Riley is responsible for managing all previously worked in a number of business the US in 1989 to become the General aspects of performance in the European areas including power station operations, Manager overseeing the start-up of the region including plant operations, finance, trading and international business Santens American operations.
In 1993, retail sales, energy trading and business development.
Tony was appointed he returned to Belgium to work for development.
Prior to this he was a Chairman of the Energy Supply Association Electrabel as Head of Operations at the Director of International Power from of Australia in December 2008.
Monceau-sur-Sambre power plant and January 2004 to February 2011 with in 1998 he was appointed Head of the responsibility for Europe.
Steve is a Penny Chalmers Internal Audit Department, before moving Chartered Engineer and joined the Executive Vice President, to Tractebel EGI GDF SUEZ Energy Company in 1985 holding senior positions Strategy and Communications International in 2001 to take up the in two UK power stations before being Penny Chalmers is Head of Strategy and position of Head of Business Control, appointed Managing Director, Australia Communications for International Power.
Steve is a Non-Executive Prior to this she was the Director of Global Director of Shanks Group plc, a leading Resources, responsible for Group Human European waste management company.
Resources, Information Technology and Corporate Communications, a position Shankar Krishnamoorthy she held from 2003 to January 2011.
CEO and President, Middle East, Penny joined National Powers business Turkey and Africa development group in 1997, having Shankar Krishnamoorthy is responsible previously spent ten years working in for managing all aspects of the Groups the energy sector for BP plc and BG plc.
business in the Middle East, Turkey and She worked as a business development Africa regions, including plant operations, manager in Asia, focusing on power finance, energy trading and business generation opportunities in Thailand, before development.
Prior to this he was the moving back to Europe with the Company.
