4 International Power Annual Report 2010 Statement from Dirk Beeuwsaert Chairman of International Power plc The Combination offers significant benefits for shareholders, customers, and employees, reflecting the compelling industrial logic of the transaction and the excellent geographic and operational fit between both businesses.
I am delighted to join the Board of independent power producer with 36GW I believe that the Combination offers the enlarged International Power as of gross capacity in operation and strong significant benefits for shareholders, the Chairman of your Company.
positions in three main regions: North customers, and employees, reflecting America, Latin America, and the Middle the compelling industrial logic of Let me start by giving you some East, Asia and Africa.
It has significant the transaction and the excellent background on the GDF SUEZ Group retail interests in the US and the UK, in geographic and operational fit and GDF SUEZ Energy International, the the industrial and commercial sectors, between both businesses.
business with which International Power and major interests in LNG and gas has combined.
The GDF SUEZ Group The combined, enlarged International transportation and distribution across its is a major global player in the energy Power is a world leading independent business.
Similar to International Power it industry with expertise in four key sectors: power company with an active interest has enjoyed a balanced portfolio in terms natural gas, energy efficiency services, in closely linked businesses such as of technology, geographic location, fuel independent power production, and seawater desalination, LNG terminals, mix, and offtake contracts.
GDF SUEZ gas distribution, and energy retail, mainly Energy International has brought to the employed 214,000 people worldwide for industrial and commercial customers.
Combination very attractive growth in 2010, and achieved revenues of Investments in these businesses, that are prospects with its significant pipeline 84.5 billion in 2010. closely connected to power generation, of projects under construction which offer attractive industrial synergies and The GDF SUEZ Energy International includes Estreito and Jirau in Brazil, further growth opportunities.
business, part of one of the six core Astoria 2 in the US, Ras Laffan C, Barka 3 business lines of the GDF SUEZ Group, Sohar 2, and Riyadh in the Middle East, has also been a leading global and Gheco in Thailand.
All references to PFO and EPS in the Chairmans statement exclude exceptional items and specific IAS 39 mark to market movements.
Business overview 5 The combined business will have both Operational excellence remains at the core the operational expertise and the financial of International Power, and in this regard flexibility to capture the significant growth our teams are working hard to make sure opportunities in international energy that we continue to complete construction infrastructure markets in the future.
programmes safely, within budget and International Power will be particularly well on time.
Health, safety and environmental positioned to capture growth opportunities HS&E performance will continue to be in emerging markets, where energy needs at the heart of the business, and I am are strong in the coming years, through the pleased that David Weston has agreed wider geographic footprint of the to chair the HS&E Board Committee to combined business.
This will be further ensure that there continues to be clear enhanced by the operating and financing Board commitment to these vital areas for synergies arising from the Combination, our business.
We are all keen to adopt the and the enlarged business robust financial best practice of each of our businesses to structure and improved access to ensure we operate at world class levels of attractively priced financing.
The Board safety and environmental performance.
will provide the necessary guidance to While continued growth and profitability is ensure that we continue to invest in the a strategic priority, the dividend remains an best projects with stringent financial important focus in providing returns to our investment criteria.
The Board will continue to The new Board is strong and well placed target an EPS payout ratio of 40%, which to deliver on our ambitious growth is consistent with the Companys dividend programme.
It has a good balance of policy prior to the Combination.
We also continuity, new blood and significant, expect to continue to declare an interim relevant experience.
Philip Cox CEO dividend in each year of an amount equal and Mark Williamson CFO, continue to 35% of the previous years full-year as Executive Directors and are joined by dividend.
For 2010, in line with this policy, Guy Richelle as Chief Operating Officer the Board is proposing a final dividend of COO.
Guy was previously running GDF 6.52 pence per share, which, including the SUEZ Energy Internationals business in interim dividend, will take the total for the the Middle East, Asia and Africa.
year to 10.91 pence per share, excluding the special dividend of 92 pence per share I specifically want to thank Sir Neville Simms which was paid in February 2011.
This for his support during this transaction and represents an EPS payout ratio of 37.5%.
I look forward to working with him in his new role of Deputy Chairman and Senior I would like to take the opportunity to thank Independent Director.
teams from both parts of the business who have worked extremely hard to integrate I am also delighted that three senior the two businesses while continuing to executives of GDF SUEZ, Grard run the operating portfolio so effectively.
Mestrallet, Jean-Franois Cirelli and Grard Lamarche have agreed to join The Board is focused on ensuring me as the GDF SUEZ representatives on the successful delivery of the projects the Board.
This is a clear signal of how under construction, continued strong important this business is to GDF SUEZ operational performance, the conversion and a demonstration of their determination of growth opportunities into new projects to create a successful long-term business.
and the delivery of planned synergies from the Combination.
In addition, the new Non-Executive Directors, Bernard Attali, Michael Zaoui and Sir Rob Young bring a combination of experience from the business, finance and diplomatic worlds, which I am sure will be invaluable.
I am also pleased that Dirk Beeuwsaert Tony Isaac and David Weston have agreed to continue serving as Non-Executive Directors on the new Board.
