58 International Power Annual Report 2010 Board of Directors Dirk Beeuwsaert Philip Cox Mark Williamson Guy Richelle Chairman Chief Executive Officer Chief Financial Officer Chief Operating Officer Bernard Attali Anthony Tony Isaac David Weston Sir Rob Young Non-Executive Director Non-Executive Director Non-Executive Director Non-Executive Director Grard Mestrallet Jean-Franois Cirelli Grard Lamarche Non-Executive Director Non-Executive Director Non-Executive Director Business overview 59 Guy Richelle 55 Chairman Chief Operating Officer Dirk Beeuwsaert 63 Guy Richelle was appointed Chief Dirk Beeuwsaert was appointed Chairman Operating Officer of International Power of International Power in February 2011, in February 2011, following the following the Combination of International Combination of International Power and Power and GDF SUEZ Energy International.
He is He is Executive Vice President of GDF responsible for trading and marketing, SUEZ, in charge of Energy Europe and operations, HR and IT.
Prior to this role he International, a position he has held since was Chief Executive Officer and President March 2009.
He began his career in 1971 of Middle East, Asia and Africa for GDF with the Belgian power company Intercom.
He has held various management roles Sir Neville Simms FREng Deputy Chairman and Senior Independent within the GDF SUEZ business and was Non-Executive Director Independent Non-Executive appointed Executive Vice President of Directors SUEZ in charge of the international energy business line in 2003.
Sir Neville Simms FREng 66 Deputy Chairman Executive Directors Sir Neville Simms became a Non-Executive Philip Cox 59 Director of National Power in August 1998 Chief Executive Officer and became Chairman of the demerged Philip Cox joined the Company on 1 May International Power plc from October 2000 2000 as Chief Financial Officer and was to February 2011.
He was then appointed appointed Chief Executive Officer of Deputy Chairman and Senior Independent International Power in December 2003.
He Director following the Combination of is responsible for the overall management International Power and GDF SUEZ Energy of International Power, and implementing International.
He is Deputy Chairman of Michael Zaoui the strategies approved by the Board.
Ashridge Management College, Chairman Non-Executive Director Philip is a Chartered Accountant and prior of the BRE Trust and Chairman of Equiniti to joining the Company he was a Senior Group Limited.
Sir Neville was a NonVice President at Invensys.
He is a Executive Director of the Bank of England Non-Executive Director of Wm Morrison from 1995 to 2002, Chairman of the Supermarkets PLC and Chairman of its Governments Sustainable Procurement Audit Committee, and he is a member of Task Force from 2005 to 2007 and a the Presidents Committee of the CBI.
member of the Presidents Committee of the CBI from 1998 to 2009.
Mark Williamson 53 Chief Financial Officer Mark Williamson joined the Company in September 2000 as Group Financial Controller and was appointed Chief Financial Officer in December 2003.
He works closely with the Chief Executive Officer and Chief Operating Officer in the overall management of the Group and his specific responsibilities include financial control and reporting, tax and risk management.
Mark is a Chartered Accountant with considerable international experience and prior to joining the Company he was the Group Financial Controller at Simon Group plc, the engineering and bulk chemical storage group.
He is a Non-Executive Director of Imperial Tobacco plc and Chairman of its Audit Committee.
60 International Power Annual Report 2010 Board of Directors Bernard Attali 67 David Weston 52 GDF SuEZ appointed Non-Executive Director Non-Executive Director Non-Executive Directors Bernard Attali was appointed a David Weston became a Non-Executive Grard Mestrallet 61 Non-Executive Director of International Director of the Company in August 2009.
Non-Executive Director Power in February 2011 following the He is a member of the Group Management Grard Mestrallet was appointed to the Combination of International Power and Committee of Anglo American plc Board of International Power in February GDF SUEZ Energy International.
He is a where he is Group Director of Business 2011 following the Combination of well known French businessman and has Performance, a position he has held since International Power and GDF SUEZ Energy been a member of a number of boards November 2009, having previously been International.
He has held the position of significant undertakings such as Air Anglos Group Technical Director and of Chairman and Chief Executive Officer France, Eurotunnel SA, BNP, Socit Chief Executive of the Tarmac Group and of GDF SUEZ since SUEZ merged with Gnrale and SNCF.
David is also Gaz fide France in July 2008 prior to which a member of the Kumba Iron Ore Board.
he was Chairman and Chief Executive Anthony Tony Isaac 69 Prior to joining Anglo American in 2006, Officer of SUEZ.
Non-Executive Director David spent 25 years with Shell and held Tony Isaac became a Non-Executive a number of senior management positions Jean-Franois Cirelli 52 Director of the Company in October 2000. including President of Shell Canada Non-Executive Director Following the Combination of International Products, Chief Executive Officer of Shell Jean-Franois Cirelli was appointed Power and GDF SUEZ Energy International Aviation Ltd. and Chairman and Chief to the Board of International Power in in February 2011 he was appointed Executive Officer of Shell Pakistan Ltd. February 2011 following the Combination Chairman of the Audit Committee.
Tony He is a Chartered Engineer.
of International Power and GDF SUEZ is a Fellow of the Chartered Institute of Energy International.
A former Chairman Management Accountants and, before Sir Rob Young 66 and Chief Executive Officer of Gaz fide becoming Chief Executive of The BOC Non-Executive Director France, he was appointed Vice Chairman Group plc, was its Group Finance Director.
Sir Rob Young was appointed a and President of GDF SUEZ in July 2008.
Tony was the Senior Independent Director Non-Executive Director of International until February 2011 and was previously Power in February 2011 following the Grard Lamarche 49 Chairman of the Audit Committee, Combination of International Power Non-Executive Director from demerger in 2000 to March 2008. and GDF SUEZ Energy International.
Grard Lamarche was appointed to the He is the Senior Independent Director Sir Rob spent his career in the Foreign Board of International Power in February of Schlumberger Limited and and Commonwealth Office.
From 1999 2011 following the Combination of Hogg Robinson Group plc.
to 2003, he was British High International Power and GDF SUEZ Energy Commissioner to India.
He has been Executive Vice President, Chief Financial Officer of GDF Michael Zaoui 54 SUEZ since July 2008 prior to which he Non-Executive Director was Senior Executive Vice President and Michael Zaoui was appointed a CFO of the SUEZ Group, responsible for Non-Executive Director of International financial operations, treasury, taxes, Power in February 2011 following the planning, accounting and control.
Combination of International Power and GDF SUEZ Energy International.
He has an investment banking background in European mergers and acquisitions and was Vice Chairman of the Institutional Securities Group of Morgan Stanley until 2008. Business overview 61 Ranald Spiers 55 John Roberts 64 Additional Directors who Executive Director, Middle East Non-Executive Director served during 2010 and Asia John Roberts became a Non-Executive Ranald Spiers was appointed to the Board Director of the Company on 18 May 2006.
Executive Directors in May 2008 and resigned from the Board He was Chairman of the Remuneration in February 2011 following the Committee.
He resigned in February 2011 Tony Concannon 47 Combination of International Power and following the Combination of International Executive Director, Australia GDF SUEZ Energy International.
He was Power and GDF SUEZ Energy International.
Tony Concannon was appointed to the the Executive Director responsible for He was previously Chief Executive of Board in January 2004 and resigned from managing all aspects of performance in United Utilities PLC, a position he held the Board in February 2011 following the the Middle East and Asia regions including for over six years.
Before that, he was Combination of International Power and plant operations, finance and the Chief Executive of Hyder Utilities and GDF SUEZ Energy International.
He was development, financing and construction of Manweb.
He is a Fellow of the Royal the Executive Director responsible for of power and water desalination assets.
Academy of Engineering, the Institution managing all aspects of performance of Engineering and Technology and the in the Australian region including plant Association of Chartered Certified operations, finance, energy trading and Non-Executive Directors Accountants.
John is Chairman of the business development.
Alan Murray 57 Royal Bank of Canada Europe Limited Non-Executive Director and Halite Energy Group Limited.
John Bruce Levy 55 Alan Murray became a Non-Executive is also a Non-Executive Director of Executive Director, North America Director of the Company in July 2007 BlackRock New Energy Investment Trust.
Bruce Levy was appointed to the Board and Chairman of the Audit Committee in June 2005 and resigned in February in April 2008.
He resigned in February Struan Robertson 61 2011 following the Combination of 2011 following the Combination of Non-Executive Director International Power and GDF SUEZ Energy International Power and GDF SUEZ Energy Struan Robertson became a NonInternational.
He was the Executive International.
In 2010 Alan joined the Executive Director of the Company Director responsible for all aspects of Supervisory Board of Heidelberg Cement on 1 October 2004.
He was Chairman performance in North America including AG, having previously been on the of the Health, Safety and Environment plant operations, finance, energy trading companys Managing Board until Committee.
He resigned in February and business development.
Prior to this he was 2011 following the Combination of the Chief Executive of Hanson PLC International Power and GDF SUEZ Energy Steve Riley 49 from April 2002 to October 2007. International.
He was Group Chief Executive Director, Europe Executive of Wates Group Ltd until Steve Riley was appointed to the Board January 2004.
Before that he was in January 2004 and resigned from the Executive Chairman of BP Asia Pacific.
Board in February 2011 following the He is a Non-Executive Director at Forth Combination of International Power and Ports plc and Henderson TR Pacific GDF SUEZ Energy International.
He was Investment Trust plc and he is the the Executive Director responsible for Senior Independent Director of managing all aspects of performance Salamander Energy plc.
in the European region including plant operations, finance, energy trading and business development.
