2 International Power Annual Report 2010 Statement from Sir Neville Simms Chairman of International Power plc, October 2000 February 2011 2010 marked a very important year in the evolution of the Company, as we took the next step to becoming a global leader in independent power generation.
In the last ten years, International Power As expected, due to the economic slow In February 2011 we completed the has grown and developed into a strong Combination whereby GDF SUEZ down and low gas prices, profitability from and successful business, and 2010 our merchant plants in North America was Energy International was transferred marked a very important year in the to International Power in exchange for lower.
However, our contracted plants evolution of the Company, as we took performed well.
Performance in Europe a 70% holding of shares in the new the next step to becoming a global Group and a special dividend of 92 pence was impacted by the sale of the Czech leader in independent power generation.
business and lower earnings in the UK, per share paid to existing International Power shareholders.
The Combination following the benefits the region had gained Before commenting on the merits of the in 2009 from higher contract prices and a has created an enlarged International Combination with GDF SUEZ Energy Power which is now a global leader in stronger financial performance at First International, I would like to give you the Hydro.
PFO in Australia was comparable to independent power generation, with highlights of our operating performance over 70GW of gross capacity in operation 2009 but the Middle East and Asia regions last year.
The Group delivered profit from delivered better results, principally from the and committed projects scheduled to operations PFO of 995 million 2009: deliver 17GW of additional gross capacity commencement of earnings at Fujairah F2, 1,148 million and earnings per share a 2,000MW and 130MIGD gross plant in by 2013.
EPS of 29.1 pence in 2010 2009: the UAE, which reached commercial 32.4 pence.
The reduction in EPS was As you will have read in our previous operation during 2010. mainly due to the sale of the Czech communications and will see through business in November 2009.
Excluding the rest of this report, there are several the impact of the sale, year-on-year compelling reasons why we believe this earnings were up, reflecting a good Combination is highly attractive and value performance across the portfolio.
com All references to PFO and EPS in the Chairmans statement exclude exceptional items and specific IAS 39 mark to market movements.
Business overview 3 For my part, I would like to highlight two I would also like to thank my former Board key aspects that marked the transaction colleagues, who all made important as the right next step for the Company.
The contributions to the success of the Combination has significantly enhanced business and to the decision of the Board International Powers strategic positioning to combine the Company with GDF SUEZ and growth profile.
It has also provided Energy International.
Their challenge, the enlarged Group with much greater support and service to the business has financial strength and improved access been greatly appreciated and valued.
to capital to drive our growth ambitions Finally, I would like to thank all the in both the short and longer-term.
employees, who have continued working I was very encouraged to note that with professionalism and commitment shareholders acknowledged the strength at a time of great change.
Without their of the Combination, when at the General continued contribution the Combination Meeting in December over 99% of the would not have worked out so well.
votes cast were in favour of the transaction.
Following completion in February 2011, I stepped down as Chairman of your Company and was pleased to accept the role of Deputy Chairman and Senior sir neville simms Independent Director.
I very much look forward to working with Dirk Beeuwsaert, your new Chairman and CEO Philip Cox, who along with Mark Williamson, Tony Isaac, and David Weston will join me on the Board alongside the GDF SUEZ appointed Directors and the new Non-Executives appointed to take the Company forward in the next phase of its development.
