Board of Directors 01 02 03 04 05 06 07 08 42 Intertek Annual Report 2010 Directors Report Governance www.
com 01 Vanni Treves 70 05 Gavin Darby 55 Chairman Non-Executive Director Appointed to the Board as Chairman in May 2002.
He is a corporate Appointed to the Board as a Non-Executive Director in September lawyer and was a Partner of a major London firm of Solicitors, 2009.
He spent 10 years with Vodafone PLC until 2010 including roles Macfarlanes, for 30 years, during 12 of which he was Senior Partner.
as CEO for Vodafone Affiliates in the USA, Africa, China and India from 2004 to 2008, and CEO COO of Vodafone UK from 2001 to 2004.
He has been Chairman of three listed companies, Channel Four Multiple Board responsibilities at Vodafone included Verizon Wireless in Television and London Business School and, until recently, of Equitable the USA, Vodacom and Safaricom in Africa, China Mobile as alternate, Life Assurance Society.
He is currently Chairman of the National as well as Vodafone Essar, Bharti Airtel and Indus Towers in India.
College for Leadership and of Korn Ferry Whitehead Mann, a Director Gavins operational and management experience spans the consumer of Amplifon S. p. A. an Italian public company and a Trustee of the goods as well as technology sectors, having served 15 years in senior J Paul Getty Jr Charitable Trust.
executive positions at The Coca-Cola Co including President of Coca-Cola N W Europe, and President of Coca-Cola Central and Eastern 02 Wolfhart Hauser 61 Europe, as well as executive positions at S. C Johnson & Son Ltd UK Chief Executive Officer and Spillers Foods.
Appointed to the Board as Chief Executive Officer in March 2005 after serving as a Non-Executive Director since November 2002.
He was 06 Christopher Knight 64 previously Chief Executive Officer and President of TV Sddeutschland Non-Executive Director AG for four years and Chief Executive Officer of TV Product Services Appointed to the Board as a Non-Executive Director in March 2006. for 10 years.
Starting his career with various research activities he went He was an investment banker for nearly 30 years, for much of that on to establish and lead a broad range of successful international service time with Morgan Grenfell and Deutsche Bank, of which he was a industry businesses.
He has held several non-executive board director managing director until 2001.
He is a Chartered Accountant and has and chairman roles in a variety of technology companies.
He is currently extensive corporate finance experience gained during his banking a Non-Executive Director of Logica plc.
career in London, New York and Hong Kong.
He is Chairman of Brooks Macdonald Group plc.
03 David Allvey 65 Senior Independent Non-Executive Director 07 Lloyd Pitchford 39 Appointed to the Board as a Non-Executive Director in May 2002.
Chief Financial Officer With a career that started in civil engineering and then as a Chartered Accountant he has held positions in major international businesses Appointed to the Board as Chief Financial Officer in April 2010. including Group Finance Director for BAT Industries plc and Barclays Previously, he was the Group Financial Controller for BG Group plc: Bank plc and Chief Operating Officer for Zurich Financial Services.
one of the largest UK publicly listed companies and a global player in He is currently Chairman of Costain Group PLC and Arena Coventry Ltd, the exploration, production, distribution and supply of natural gas and Senior Independent Director of Friends Provident Holdings and William oil.
During his 10 years with the BG Group, Lloyd progressed through Hill PLC and a Non-Executive Director of Thomas Cook Group plc.
various finance roles in corporate and operations, based in the UK and He is a former board member of the UK Accounting Standards Board.
Previously Lloyd worked for seven years in commercial, M&A and finance roles for Mobil Oil Corporation.
He is a Fellow of the Chartered Institute of Management Accountants.
04 Edward Astle 57 Non-Executive Director 08 Debra Rade 57 Appointed to the Board as a Non-Executive Director in September Non-Executive Director 2009.
He is currently Pro-Rector, Enterprise at Imperial College London where he leads major international business development and project Appointed to the Board as a Non-Executive Director in January 2006. opportunities in the UK and internationally for the University.
Edward Between 1989 and 2002, she was an officer of Underwriters was Executive Director of National Grid plc from 2001 to 2008, Laboratories Inc. a global provider of systems certification, product a Managing Director at the BICC Group from 1997 to 1999 and an inspection, testing and certification, and held various positions there, Executive and Regional Director at Cable & Wireless plc from 1989 including Senior Vice President, Chief Administrative Officer and to 1997.
Previously he held senior business strategy positions in the Chief Legal Officer.
Formerly a partner in a large international law firm, UK and France.
she is the managing attorney of Rade Law LLC in Chicago focused on corporate law, and legal issues concerning product testing, safety, certification, standards and regulations.
Additionally, she is the chief executive officer of Rade Consulting LLC providing corporate strategic planning services.
