Other Statutory Information In accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006 Directors interests the Act and UK Listing Authority Disclosure and Transparency Other than employment contracts, none of the Directors of the Rules, the following section describes the matters that are required Company had a personal interest in any business transactions of for inclusion in the Directors Report and were approved by the the Company or its subsidiaries.
The terms of the Directors service Board.
Further details of matters required to be included in the contracts and the Directors interests in the shares and options Directors Report that are incorporated by reference into this of the Company, in respect of which transactions are notifiable report are set out below.
to the Company under the UK Listing Authority Disclosure and Transparency Rule 3.1.
2 are disclosed in the Remuneration Report Directors on pages 54 to 65.
The Directors who held office during the year are set out below.
Vanni Treves Chairman Directors indemnities Wolfhart Hauser Chief Executive Officer The Board believes that it is in the best interests of the Group to Mark Loughead Chief Operating Officer retired on attract and retain the services of the most able and experienced 31 December 2010 directors by offering competitive terms of engagement, including Bill Spencer Chief Financial Officer retired on 31 March 2010 the granting of indemnities on terms consistent with the applicable Lloyd Pitchford Chief Financial Officer appointed on statutory provisions.
Qualifying third-party indemnity provisions as 26 April 2010 defined by section 234 of the Act, were accordingly in force during David Allvey Senior Independent Non-Executive Director the course of the financial year ended 31 December 2010, for the Edward Astle Non-Executive Director benefit of the Directors and, at the date of this report, are in force Gavin Darby Non-Executive Director in relation to certain losses and liabilities which they may incur Christopher Knight Non-Executive Director or have incurred in connection with their duties, powers or office.
Debra Rade Non-Executive Director Principal activities and business review The biographies of the Directors at the date of this report are set The Groups principal activities, business and principal risks and out on page 43. uncertainties are contained in the Business Review, on pages 8 to 41 and the Corporate Governance section, on pages 46 to 53 which The Companys Articles of Association contain provisions relating to the retirement, election and re-election of Directors but in 2011 are incorporated by reference into this report.
for the first time, all Directors will stand for re-election at the AGM.
Dividend Directors powers and Articles of Association The Directors are recommending a final dividend of 18.8p per The Directors are responsible for the management of the business ordinary share 2009: 17.3p making a full year dividend of 28.1p per of the Company and their powers to do so are determined by the ordinary share 2009: 25.5p which will, if approved at the AGM, provisions of the Act and the Companys Articles of Association.
be paid on 17 June 2011 to shareholders on the register at close of The Articles of Association set out the internal regulation of the business on 3 June 2011.
Company and cover such matters as the rights of shareholders, the appointment or removal of Directors and the conduct of the Board Share capital and general meetings.
Copies are available upon request from the The issued share capital of the Company, and details of the Group Company Secretary and are available at the Companys AGM.
movements in the Companys share capital during the year, Further powers are granted by members in general meeting and are shown in note 18 to the financial statements.
those currently in place are set out in detail within the appropriate section of this report.
com The holders of ordinary shares are entitled to receive dividends when Purchase of own shares declared, to receive the Companys report and accounts, to attend Shareholders also approved the authority for the Company to buy and speak at general meetings of the Company, to appoint proxies back up to 10% of its own ordinary shares by market purchase until and exercise voting rights.
A waiver of dividend exists in respect of the conclusion of the AGM to be held this year.
The Directors will 11,834 shares held by the Intertek Group Employee Share Ownership seek to renew this authority for up to 10% of the Companys issued Trust at 31 December 2010.
There are no restrictions on the transfer share capital at the forthcoming AGM.
This power will only be of ordinary shares in the Company.
exercised if the Directors are satisfied that any purchase will increase the earnings per share of the ordinary share capital in issue after The rights attached to shares in the Company are provided by the purchase and accordingly, that the purchase is in the interests the Articles of Association, which may be amended or replaced by of shareholders.
The Directors will also give careful consideration means of a special resolution of the Company in a General Meeting.
to gearing levels of the Company and its general financial position.
The Directors powers are conferred on them by UK legislation and Any shares purchased in this way may be held in treasury which, by the Companys Articles of Association.
the Directors believe, will provide the Company with flexibility in the management of its share capital.
Where treasury shares are used No ordinary shares carry any special rights with regard to control to satisfy share options or awards, they will be classed as new issue of the Company and there are no restrictions on voting rights except shares for the purpose of the 10% limit on the number of shares that a shareholder has no right to vote in respect of a share unless that may be issued over a 10-year period under our relevant share all sums due in respect of that share are fully paid.
arrangements known to the Company by which financial rights carried by any shares in the Company are held by a person other Policy and practice on payment of suppliers than the holders of the shares, nor are there any arrangements The Group does not follow a single standard on payment practice between holders of securities that may result in restrictions on the but has a variety of payment terms with its suppliers.
Payment terms transfer of securities or on voting rights known to the Company.
are agreed at the commencement of business with each supplier All issued shares are fully paid.
and it is the policy of the Group that payment is made accordingly, subject to the terms and conditions being met.
The holding Shares are admitted to trading on the London Stock Exchange and company, Intertek Group plc, does not trade and therefore has may be traded through the CREST system.
Allotment of shares Significant relationships At the AGM held in 2010 the shareholders generally and The Group does not have any contractual or other relationships unconditionally authorised the Directors to allot relevant securities with any single party which are essential to the business of the up to approximately two-thirds of the nominal amount of issued Group and therefore no such relationships have been disclosed.
It is the Directors intention to renew this authority in line with guidance issued by the Association of British Insurers.
The Social and community issues resolution will be set out in the Notice of AGM, which shareholders We encourage our local managers to foster community links will receive in April.
appropriate to the businesses they manage.
Further details are given in our Corporate Social Responsibility Report on pages 31 to 37.
Also at the AGM in 2010 the Directors were empowered by the shareholders to allot equity securities, up to 5% of the Companys issued share capital, for cash under section 570 of the Act.
It is intended that this authority be renewed, up to 5%, at the forthcoming AGM.
Intertek Annual Report 2010 67 Other Statutory Information Material interests in shares The following disclosures of major holdings of voting rights have been made and have not been amended or withdrawn to the Company pursuant to the requirements of the UK Listing Authority Disclosure and Transparency Rule 5: BlackRock Inc. gave notice on 2 December 2010 that they had an indirect interest on 30 November 2010 in 7,965,320 Intertek Group plc ordinary shares, representing 4.99% of the ordinary shares in issue at that date.
Capital Research and Management Company gave notice on 1 November 2010 that they had an indirect interest on 29 October 2010 in 8,064,491 Intertek Group plc ordinary shares, representing 5.06% of the ordinary shares in issue at that date.
Morgan Stanley Investment Management Incorporated gave notice on 30 September 2010 that they had an indirect interest on 29 September 2010 in 7,976,686 Intertek Group plc ordinary shares, representing 5.00% of the ordinary shares in issue at that date.
Lone Pine Capital LLC & Stephen F Mandel Jr gave notice on 28 September 2010 that they had an indirect interest on 24 September 2010 in 6,318,441 Intertek Group plc ordinary shares, representing 3.96% of the ordinary shares in issue at that date.
Legal and General Group plc gave notice on 18 November 2009 that they had a direct interest on 17 November 2009 in 6,340,736 Intertek Group plc ordinary shares, representing 3.99% of the ordinary shares in issue at that date.
Charitable and political donations During 2010 the Group made charitable donations of 103,000 2009: 107,000 to a wide variety of charities, including support to employees in Pakistan who were affected by natural disasters.
At the AGM in 2010 shareholders passed a resolution, on a precautionary basis, to authorise the Company to make donations to EU political organisations and to incur EU political expenditure as such terms are defined in the Act not exceeding 90,000.
During the year the Group did not make any political donations 2009: nil.
It is the Companys policy not, directly or through any subsidiary, to make what are commonly regarded as donations to any political party.
However, at the forthcoming AGM of the Company, shareholders approval will again be sought to authorise the Group to make political donations and or incur political expenditure as such terms are defined in Sections 362 to 379 of the Act.
Further details of this will be contained in the Notice of the AGM.
Auditors The auditors, KPMG Audit Plc, have indicated their willingness to continue in office and a resolution that they be reappointed will be proposed at the forthcoming AGM in accordance with Section 489 of the Act.
