Financial Policies Statement of accounting policies Currency risk The Groups Financial Statements have been prepared in Transaction exposure accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards Currency transaction exposure arises when the divisions IFRSs in issue that are endorsed by the European Commission facerevenue or costs in a currency other than their own.
The Groups accounting Theincidence of this risk varies across the Group and is subject policies under IFRSs are set out in the accounting policies to change.
However, the majority of revenue and costs will section in the Group Financial Statements on pages 55 to 125. usually be in the functional currency of the business undertaking the transaction.
Where this is not the case and the exposure is The Parent Company Financial Statements have been significant, it is the Groups policy for the divisions to hedge prepared in accordance with UK Generally Accepted their exposure.
The Group predominantly uses forward currency Accounting Practice UK GAAP and include details of contracts to manage transaction exposure.
The Group is also subject to exchange risk when making bids, Treasury policy particularly on major contracts, where movements against the The Groups treasury policy is approved by the Board and specific exchange rate assumed within a bid would lead to a seeks to ensure that: change in the anticipated margin on the contract should the bid be successful.
This tender to contract risk is hedged if appropriate financial resources are available for the significant.
maintenance and development of the Groups divisions: the financial risk of currency, interest rate and counterparty Translation exposure credit exposure is understood, measured and managed The majority of the Groups operating capital is employed in appropriately: and overseas locations and is denominated in foreign currencies, the Treasury Department operates as a cost centre and particularly US dollars.
As a consequence, changes in that no speculative transactions are undertaken.
exchange rates affect both net asset values and reported results.
This risk is not hedged directly but, to the extent that Funding, liquidity and treasury management the Group has debt, any debt held in foreign currencies would Operating within the strict controls of the Groups treasury reduce the level of net assets exposed to currency fluctuations.
policy, the Treasury Department manages this financial risk, The interest expense related to such debt would also reduce ensuring that sufficient funding and liquidity are available the level of earnings exposed to exchange rate movements.
tomeet the expected needs of the Group together with a prudent level of headroom to allow for cash flow variability.
Credit risk Inaddition to the free cash flow of the Group, Invensys adopts The Group monitors the identity of the counterparties a flexible approach to liquidity management using a mixture with whom it deposits cash and transacts other financial oflong-term debt facilities and short-term cash deposits.
instruments so as to control exposure to any territory or Corefunding is provided by a bank facility which matures institution.
As far as it is both feasible and practical to do inJuly 2013. so, cash is held centrally by the Treasury Department.
Risk is assessed using ratings from major credit rating agencies.
Interest rate risk The Groups policy is to set the proportion of fixedand Further information on the risks arising from financial floating-rate debt, taking into account several factors instruments is included in Note 22 to the Group Financial including: Statements.
the financial leverage of the Group: the profitability of the Group in relation to the business cycle:and absolute levels of interest rates.
To implement this policy the Group uses fixed-rate borrowings, interest rate swaps, forward rate agreements and currency forwards and swaps, to manage its interest rate exposure as necessary.
As at 31 March 2010 and 31 March 2009, in line with the Group having a net cash position, Invensys had no significant fixedrate borrowings.
| 18 Invensys plc Annual Report and Accounts 2010
