Our Board of Directors Details of the current directors are set out below.
advising on mergers and acquisitions and other activities.
Heretired as a non-executive director of RPC Group plc in Sir Nigel Rudd DL aged 63 June 2009.
Chairman Chairman of Nominating Committee Paul Lester CBE aged 60 Member of Remuneration Committee Non-executive director Appointed a non-executive director and Deputy Chairman in Member of Remuneration Committee January 2009 and became Chairman on 17 July 2009.
SirNigel Appointed a non-executive director on 1 January 2010. is Chairman of BAA Limited and Pendragon PLC.
He is also a MrLester has been Chief Executive of VT Group plc, the non-executive director of Sappi Limited and chairs the advisory support services company, since 2002.
He was previously board of Barclays Private Bank.
He was formerly Chairman of Group Managing Director of Balfour Beatty plc and Chief Alliance Boots plc, Pilkington plc, Williams Holdings plc and Executive of Graseby plc.
He is a non-executive director Kidde plc.
Sir Nigel retired as Deputy Chairman of Barclays of Chloride Group plc and is President of the Society of Bank PLC in April 2009 and as a non-executive director of Maritime Industries.
He is also a member of HM Treasurys BAE Systems plc in December 2009.
He is a Deputy Lieutenant Major Projects Review Group.
of Derbyshire and a Freeman of the City of London.
Michael Parker CBE MBA BSc aged 63 Ulf Henriksson MSc BA Econ aged 47 Senior Independent Director Chief Executive Member of Audit Committee Member of Nominating Committee Member of Nominating Committee Appointed Chief Executive in July 2005.
Mr Henriksson joined Member of Remuneration Committee Invensys plc as Chief Operating Officer in May 2004 and was Appointed a non-executive director in May 2006 and became appointed to the Board in July 2004.
He was appointed a nonthe Senior Independent Director in December 2006.
Mr Parker executive director at Hexagon AB in May 2007.
Formerly an was Group Chief Executive of British Nuclear Fuels Limited executive and senior leader for Eaton Corporation, Honeywell BNFL from 2003 until his retirement in June 2009.
He was International Inc Allied Signal Inc and Volvo Aero Corporation.
President and Chief Executive Officer of The Dow Chemical Company.
Mr Parker is a non-executive director of PVCrystalox Wayne Edmunds MBA aged 54 Solar plc.
He is also Chairman of Liverpools economic Chief Financial Officer development regeneration company, Liverpool Vision, and Appointed a director and Chief Financial Officer on 1 June trustee of the Royal Society for the Prevention of Accidents.
Mr Edmunds was CFO of Invensys Process Systems, having joined the Group from Reuters America, Inc.
He Dr Martin Read MA D. Phil FIET aged 60 previously held senior financial roles in the technology Non-executive director sector, including 17 years with Lucent Technologies, Inc. Chairman of Remuneration Committee Member of Nominating Committee Francesco Caio MBA MSc aged 52 Appointed a non-executive director on 18July 2009 and Non-executive director isChairman of the Remuneration Committee.
Dr Read was Member of Audit Committee formerly Chief Executive of LogicaCMG plc.
He is a nonMember of  executive director of Aegis Group plc and Lloyds of London, Appointed a non-executive director on 18July 2009.
Mr Caio and senior adviser to the Indian company HCL Technologies was formerly Chief Executive of Merloni Eldo S. p. A. and Limited.
He led a UK Government Review on back office and ChiefExecutive of Cable & Wireless plc.
He is Vice Chairman ITefficiency across the public sector which reported in 2009. of Investment Banking Europe with Nomura and is a member DrRead has previously been on the boards of British Airways Plc, of the European Advisory Board of Air Products.
He also Siemens Holdings Plc, Boots Group PLC and Asda Group plc.
actsas an adviser to the Italian and British governments on telecommunication matters.
Pat Zito aged 61 Non-executive director Bay Green FCA aged 66 Member of Audit Committee Non-executive director Member of Nominating Committee Chairman of Audit Committee Appointed a non-executive director in May 2007.
Mr Zito held Member of Nominating Committee senior executive roles within Pilkington plc and subsequently Appointed a non-executive director in January 2005 and Nippon Sheet Glass Company for 33 years.
Before retirement became the Chairman of the Audit Committee in December Mr Zito held the role of President, Worldwide Automotive 2006.
Mr Green is a non-executive director of Axis-Shield plc, Original Equipment and Aftermarket operations of Pilkington where he serves as Chairman of the audit committee, and is a and Nippon Sheet Glass Company.
He was previously a director trustee of Help the Hospices.
He is also a specialist adviser to on the board of Pilkington plc and subsequently Nippon Sheet the Wholesale and Institutional Markets Business Unit of the Glass Company.
Mr Green retired as Vice Chairman of Dresdner Kleinwort in July 2009, where he specialised in | Invensys plc Annual Report and Accounts 2010 07
