Directors Report The directors submit their report and the audited accounts for the The Chairmans Explanatory Letter and Notice of AGM explains the year ended 31 March 2010 as set out on pages 56 to 142 and Boards reasons for and recommendations regarding the re-election page 146. of Mr Henriksson and Mr Zito, and the election of Mr Caio, Mr Lester and Dr Read.
The powers of the directors are determined by UK Principal activities legislation and the Articles of Association of the Company, together The principal activities for the year are contained in the with any specific authorities that may be given to the directors by Business Review on pages 14 to 30.
The principal subsidiaries shareholders from time to time, such as the power to allot shares which contributed to the Groups profit or net assets in the year and the power to make market purchases of the Companys shares.
Further information regarding matters reserved for the Board is set out in the Corporate Governance report on page 31. Business Review The Company is required by the Companies Act 2006 to set out Directors indemnity and insurance in this report a fair review of the business of the Group during the In accordance with its Articles of Association, the Company has financial year ended 31 March 2010 and the position of the Group provided to all the directors an indemnity to the extent permitted at the end of the year.
This review is contained in the Business by the Companies Act 2006 in respect of liabilities incurred as a Review section of the Annual Report and Accounts pages 14 to result of their office, and the Company has taken out an insurance 30, with further commentary on the Groups strategy, performance policy in respect of those liabilities.
Neither the indemnity nor and development in the Chairmans Statement pages 10 and 11 insurance provides cover in the event that the director is proved to and the Chief Executives Statement pages 12 and 13.
The have acted dishonestly or fraudulently.
Business Review includes a description of the principal risks and uncertainties facing the Group pages 28 to 30, a discussion of key Acquisitions and disposals financial performance measures pages 14 to 17, information on No acquisitions or disposals of operations took place during our use of financial instruments and a description of our financial the year.
risk management objectives and policies page 18.
The Business Review contains the information required for a management report Capital structure as set out in the Disclosure and Transparency Rules DTRs.
Under the Companies Act 2006, the requirement for a company to have authorised share capital was abolished with effect from Dividend 1 October 2009.
Therefore at the 2009 AGM the Company The Board has recommended the payment of a final cash dividend amended its Articles of Association so that, amongst other things, for the year of 2.0 pence per share which, subject to approval by its authorised share capital would be removed with effect from shareholders at the AGM on 28 July 2010, will be paid on 6 August 1 October 2009.
As such, references to authorised share capital 2010 to shareholders on the register at 25 June 2010.
With an are no longer required.
interim dividend of 1.0 pence per share paid during the year, the Details of the issued share capital, together with details of total dividends payable in respect of the year ended 31 March movements in the issued share capital of the Company during the 2010 are 3.0 pence per share 2009: 1.5 pence per share.
year, are shown in Note 27 on page 108.
The Company has one class of ordinary shares which carry no right to fixed income.
Each Board of directors share carries the right to one vote at general meetings of the The current directors of the Company and their biographical Company.
There are no specific restrictions on the size of a details are given on page 7.
A statement of their remuneration and holding nor on the transfer of shares, both of which are governed interests in the ordinary shares of the Company are set out in the by the general provisions of the Articles of Association and Remuneration Report on pages 38 to 50.
As previously announced, prevailing legislation.
Paul Lester joined the Board as a non-executive director on 1 January 2010.
The rules governing the appointment and retirement The Company operates an employee benefit trust to hold of directors are contained in the Companys Articles of Association.
shares until employees become entitled to them under the At the 2010 AGM, Ulf Henriksson and Pat Zito will retire by rotation Companys share incentive plans.
The trust has an independent and, being eligible, will offer themselves for re-election.
Francesco trustee which waives its rights to vote on the shareholding.
Details Caio, Paul Lester and Dr Martin Read, whowere appointed during of employee share schemes and shares held by the Invensys No.
2 the year, will retire and offer themselves for election.
Employee Benefit Trust are set out in Notes 27 and 29 on pages 108 and 111 respectively.
Shares acquired through the Companys employee share plans rank pari passu with other shares in issue and have no special rights, save that certain share awards involve retention periods after vesting.
Further, non-executive directors use a proportion of their fees to purchase shares in the Company which may not normally be transferred during a directors period of office.
| Invensys plc Annual Report and Accounts 2010 51 Directors Report continued At the 2009 AGM the directors were authorised to issue relevant Employee policy and development securities up to an aggregate nominal amount of 26.9 million Consistent with the Invensys Value of Meritocracy, Invensys has approximately one third of the issued ordinary share capital as at active policies of equal opportunity ranging from selection and 19May 2009.
In addition, the directors were authorised to allot an recruitment to training and development which meet the needs extra third of the issued share capital in respect of a fully preof its operations around the world.
If necessary, reasonable emptive rights issue.
Renewal was also sought for the directors adjustments will be made for the benefit of disabled employees.
to allot relevant securities and to allot equity securities for cash Disabled people are given full and fair consideration for up to a maximum aggregate nominal amount of 4.0 million ona employment and subsequent training including, if needed, pre-emptive basis.
The directors did not use this authority during retraining for alternative work where employees have become the year under review, other than to issue shares to satisfy awards temporarily or permanently disabled, career development and under the Companys share incentive plans.
The directors will seek promotion on the basis of their aptitudes and abilities.
to renew allotment authorities at the 2010 AGM in line with revised The Group recognises the need to consult and systematically guidelines issued by the Association of British Insurers.
provide information on matters of concern to employees.
To satisfy that need, the Group provides employees with published Substantial shareholders financial and economic information through its consultative At the date of this Report, the Company has been notified, in procedures.
Invensys encourages employees involvement in the accordance with the DTRs, of the following interests in the Companys performance through the Invensys Savings Related ordinary share capital of the Company: Share Option Scheme.
Invensys also encourages the involvement of professional and managerial level employees in the Groups Name % interest in issued share capital performance through the Invensys Performance Management Ameriprise 4.565% indirect interest System, which reinforces the links between the Groups business 0.16% direct interest goals, the employees contribution and his her remuneration.
0.01% nominal interest Elaboration on these topics and further information concerning BlackRock 7.87% indirect interest employees is set out in the Corporate Social Responsibility report, 0.49% nominal interest which begins on page 24.
Legal & General 5.03% direct interest Charitable and political contributions Prudential 9.978% direct interest During the year Group donations to charities and community 0.082% indirect interest causes worldwide were 0.2 million 2009: 0.2 million, with UK charities receiving nil 2009: nil.
The Board is of the view that it Schroders 4.985% indirect interest is not appropriate for the Company to make charitable donations Standard Life Investments 4.984% direct interest given that the Company only resumed the payment of dividends 3.098% indirect interest last year.
However, many of the Groups subsidiaries are influential companies and important employers in their own countries or The percentage interests stated are as disclosed at the date on localities, and it is therefore believed to be in the best interests of which the interests were notified in accordance with DTR 5. the Group for those companies community involvement to be maintained at reasonable levels.
No donations were made to Supplier payment policy political parties or organisations or independent election It is the policy of the Group that subsidiary companies should candidates 2009: nil.
develop long-term relationships with suppliers and establish terms of trade consistent with established practice in their country of operation, and to ensure that suppliers are aware of the terms of payment and that such terms are followed.
The Company is a holding company and has no trade creditors.
| 52 Invensys plc Annual Report and Accounts 2010 Research and development Auditor The Group carries out research and development in support of In accordance with section 418 2 of the Companies Act 2006, itsactivities.
During the year, expenditure on the research and each of the directors at the date of approval of this report confirms development of new products and processes amounted to that, so far as he is aware, there is no relevant audit information of 130million 2009: 114 million.
which the Companys auditor is unaware, and that the director has taken all the steps that he ought to have taken as a director in Significant agreements order to make himself aware of, and to establish that the auditor The Company is required to disclose any contractual or other is aware of, any relevant audit information.
Ernst & Young LLP has arrangements which it considers are essential to its business.
expressed willingness to continue in office as auditor and, in Invensys critical relationships are with its major customers and accordance with the recommendation of the Audit Committee, itssuppliers of services, components and raw materials, as resolutions proposing its reappointment and to authorise the discussed in the Business Review on pages 14 to 30.
Whilst the directors to determine its remuneration will be proposed at the lossof or disruption to certain of these arrangements could 2010 AGM.
temporarily affect the operations of the Group, none is considered to be essential.
Annual General Meeting The AGM of the Company will be held on Wednesday, 28 July The Company is also required to disclose any significant 2010 at 11.00am at the Park Plaza Victoria London, 239 Vauxhall agreements that take effect, alter or terminate on a change of Bridge Road, London SW1V 1EQ.
The Chairmans Explanatory control of the Company.
Pursuant to section 992 of the Companies Letter and Notice of AGM gives full details of the meeting and the Act 2006, the directors disclose that in the event of a change of resolutions to be proposed.
control in the Company: i the banking facility described in Note 21, totalling 400 million at 31 March 2010, could cease to be Post balance sheet event available to the Group: ii a Master Service Agreement dated On 21 April 2010, Invensys acquired 100% of the share capital 15 May 2007, made with Genpact International, Inc for the of Skelta Software, a privately held software company provision of outsourced business services in relation to certain headquartered in Bangalore, India, for a cash consideration finance and related functions, would become terminable at the of 6.4 million.
The gross assets acquired were approximately option of theCompany: and a Master Service Agreement dated 2 million.
3 July 2009, made with Cognizant Technology Solutions U. S. Corporation for the provision of certain development functions to By order of the Board the Invensys Operations Management division, would become terminable at the option of the Company.
For legal and practical reasons, the rules of the various employee share plans operated by the Company set out the consequences Victoria Hull of a change of control of the Company.
The Remuneration Chief Legal Officer and Company Secretary Committee approved changes to Ulf Henrikssons service contract 23 May 2010 in the event of a change of control and Wayne Edmunds service contract includes similar provisions.
In the event of a material adverse change to their title, responsibilities or status following a change of control of the Company, they are entitled to terminate their employment and receive a payment equal to the termination payment set out in the Remuneration Report on page 46.
| Invensys plc Annual Report and Accounts 2010 53
