Our Divisions Invensys Operations Management Enterprise Control System Invensys Operations Management is a leading global We are combining all our technologies into a single Enterprise technology, software and consulting business that creates and Control System ECS.
This industry-first system integrates applies advanced technologies to enable the safe and efficient allaspects of plant operations, spanning distributed control, operation of industrial and commercial operations such as oil safety, decision support, execution and visibility, in much the refineries, fossil fuel and nuclear power plants, petrochemical same way that Enterprise Resource Planning ERP platforms works and other manufacturing sites.
have done for back office systems.
Our InFusion ECS, based on our world-leading Wonderware operations management Invensys Operations Management is the product of the ongoing software, leverages an open architecture to seamlessly integrate integration of several related businesses into a single division.
the Invensys Operations Management portfolio, aswell as thirdDuring the past 100 years, our businesses have grown a large party offerings provided by our vast ecosystem of partners.
Our customers are principally large global industrial companies How do we generate revenue?
with complex processes and activities.
Our revenue can be broken down as follows: 65% base control and safety: 18% advanced applications: and 17% equipment.
In a user-friendly way and in real time, our products and solutions Our Enterprise Control System offering is embedded within measure variables, control processes to maintain a set value, both our control and safety and advanced applications sales.
empower our customers to make the best decisions at the right time, and optimise our customers operations.
At the same What is our strategy?
time we maintain our absolute commitment to safety.
Invensys Operations Managements strategy is to expand its Our products and solutions can be broadly divided into the customer base, to broaden the geographic profile of the division following categories: by focussing on high-growth economies, and to focus on high-margin and faster-growing segments of the market such Equipment as advanced applications and our Enterprise Control System.
Invensys Operations Management sells a broad range of The development of world-class technology and, increasingly, equipment used in industrial plants, including measurement the provision of broader system-wide solutions based on our and instrumentation products from our leading Foxboro open architecture platform remain core to our strategy.
brand and our Eurotherm recorders and controllers.
Our ecosystem of technology and distribution partners Control and safety increases our ability to develop, scale and deliver value-adding We have a top three position in the worlds installed base of technology to our customers.
distributed control systems DCS based on the strength of our core Foxboro product brand.
Our Triconex system is the Support existing customers worlds leading safety system and is used extensively in nuclear Continuing to ensure that our existing customers receive power stations, petrochemical plants and oil refineries.
The outstanding service and solutions will be an important source Triconex system will automatically take over the plant in the of future revenue.
There will be significant opportunities to event of a problem and bring it back quickly to a safe state.
replace or upgrade controls and safety systems, and to provide advanced applications and Enterprise Control System solutions.
Advanced applications We have an advanced applications business which enables the Expand geographically safe and efficient operation of sophisticated manufacturing and 57% of Invensys Operations Managements revenue is sourced infrastructure operations.
This business uses industry-leading from Western Europe and North America.
Invensys Operations software technology and engineering solutions to help our Management is targeting a greater proportion of revenue from customers to improve their performance.
Our SimSci-Esscor the faster-growing economies of Asia Pacific, the Middle East simulation software allows existing and new operators to and South America.
practice dealing with different scenarios without affecting the plant, and our Avantis asset management software monitors equipment in a plant to enable predictive maintenance and replacement to prevent unexpected downtime.
A key factor ofmany of our advanced applications is that they can operate within plants that use our competitors core systems.
| 04 Invensys plc Annual Report and Accounts 2010 Increase customer base Our core strengths lie in the breadth and sophistication of A key strategy is to secure new greenfield contracts that our technology and our record for commissioning and delivery expand our installed base and provide opportunities to sell of projects.
Currently 70% of Invensys Operations Management sales derive from the oil and gas, petrochemicals, How do we generate revenue?
speciality chemicals, power, and general industries sectors.
Rail control is a specialist market within the rail product Our aim is to expand the reach of the division into a broader business as a whole and is a higher-margin segment compared range of industries.
with rolling stock and infrastructure.
In the majority of cases, the business is project-based and involves long-term contracts Realise synergies within Invensys spread over a number of years.
In 2010, the division generated It is a strategic aim of the Group to capitalise on the revenue of 700 million.
Invensys Rails revenue can be broken technologies within Invensys Operations Management down as follows: 51% mainline engineering and contracting: to broaden our rail capability further.
As an example, our 29% mass transit engineering and contracting: and 20% Wonderware technology is increasingly being deployed in products.
passenger information systems and other non-safety critical systems for rail networks.
Invensys Rail has established a leadership position through Acquisitions sustained investment in the research and development of In the last three years, Invensys Operations Management has state-of-the-art technology solutions and a commitment to the acquired three technology companies.
We will continue to highest standards of project execution.
This dual approach make bolt-on acquisitions to deliver unique technologies that remains at the heart of our strategy.
At the same time we will increase the breadth of our offerings, particularly in the area seek toincrease our exposure outside of our core markets.
of advanced applications and applications supporting our Enterprise Control System.
Expand geographically Our four core markets of the UK, Iberia, North America and Invensys Rail Australia account for 90% of the divisions revenue.
Over the Invensys Rail is a multinational technology leader, providing coming years we expect to grow or maintain market share state-of-the-art software-based signalling, communication and within our core markets and, central to our strategy, to increase control systems that enable the safe and efficient operation of significantly the contribution from other, faster-growing trains in mainline and mass transit networks across the world.
Attractive growth markets include high population countries such as Brazil and India.
44% of our order book at During the past 100 years, our businesses have grown a large 31 March 2010 related to projects outside our core markets.
installed base in over 30 countries.
Our systems and solutions enable our customers to control Technology development rail networks safely, increasing capacity at the same time as Increasingly, the success of Invensys Rail will be judged on the lowering their cost of ownership.
Our customers include train operational value we provide to our customers by managing operators, civil developers, infrastructure owners and the entire rail system driving up capacity and reducing national railways.
journey times, energy usage and operational costs, while maintaining an absolute commitment to safety.
We continue to We operate in a highly regional rail industry, where different invest in state-of-the-art technology and spent approximately geographies frequently have their own operational and 7% of thedivisions revenue on research and development signalling requirements.
Within our core markets of the UK, during the year.
Iberia, North America and Australia we are the major supplier of rail signalling systems.
In recent years, we have successfully Realise synergies within Invensys expanded our business into new markets including South We will continue to leverage Invensys Operations Managements America and Asia Pacific.
Examples to date include asset management Our broad systems offering ranges from highly complex fortrains and track, and the use of Wonderware technology for integrated control centres that supervise and control complete control room displays and passenger information systems.
railways, to leading-edge systems for Communication Based Oursystems are in use on networks including the London Train Control CBTC and European Rail Traffic Management Underground and the Beijing Metro.
System ERTMS that automate train operation and protection, to the latest generation interlockings that ensure safe running Acquisitions across a network.
We also provide a complete range of In the last three years, Invensys Rail has acquired one technology trackside products, including crossings, point machines, company and will continue to make bolt-on acquisitions that relaysand track circuits.
deliver unique technologies and or improved market access.
| Invensys plc Annual Report and Accounts 2010 05 Our Divisions continued Invensys Controls How do we generate revenue?
Invensys Controls is a leading global provider of control Invensys Controls revenue is generated from sales of devices for products in residential homes and commercial components and aftermarket replacements.
We supply the applications, with strong positions in the markets it serves.
midto high-end of the home appliance market, ensuring that our innovation and engineering deliver solutions for our Invensys Controls has been providing customers with leading customers.
We have successfully restructured our cost base technology and engineering since the early 1900s.
to become more efficient, which will provide operational Our products measure variables including temperature and gearing as the global economy recovers.
pressure, and control the operation and optimisation of the performance of our customers appliances, and thereby What is our strategy?
empower our customers to impress consumers.
Invensys Controls has established a world leadership position through sustained product engineering investment and a Invensys Controls customers are principally comprised of commitment to the highest standards of delivery performance global residential and commercial appliance manufacturers, and quality.
but also include wholesalers and distributors of HVACR controls and services.
Our focus on excellent customer relationships, innovative products and delivery performance will enable us to avoid Appliance product commoditisation and will further deepen our We design, engineer and manufacture components and relationships with our customers going forward.
systems that control the operation of kitchen and other appliances including cooking, refrigeration, laundry and Support existing customers dishwashing in both the commercial and residential sectors.
Invensys Controls principal customers operate in the competitive global appliance market.
We help these customers We help our customers to delight consumers by enhancing to maintain competitive advantage in the delivery of marketthefeatures of their appliances while also exceeding the leading appliances.
energy-saving standards set by the regulating agencies and reducing the raw material content of their products.
Expand geographically 20% of Invensys Controls revenue is generated in Asia Pacific, Commercial South America, Africa and the Middle East.
These regions We develop products used in commercial refrigeration, cooking, areset to continue to experience above-average GDP growth, heating, ventilation, air conditioning, water heating and which is expected to drive increased demand for more transportation.
We are a leading designer and manufacturer sophisticated appliances.
These fast-growing geographies ofproducts that control and sense temperature and humidity will be a focus for Invensys Controls.
To help meet expected in residential and light commercial applications.
demand, we have established four manufacturing sites in South America and a further three in Asia Pacific.
Aftermarket In the aftermarket segment, we distribute a vast array of Broaden addressable market residential products and replacement products for OEM Invensys Controls plans to expand its addressable market by equipment, encompassing thermostats, valves, zone controls, continuing to provide a cutting-edge product range.
Working timers, electronic components and ambient controls that closely with our customers, we seek to deliver solutions and improve air quality.
devices tailored to address specific needs.
Our successful Our close relationship with our customers ensures that we are restructuring and productivity programme has enabled us to able to apply our leading technologies to meet the exacting price competitively by creating scale, increasing our efficiency standards of todays consumers.
| 06 Invensys plc Annual Report and Accounts 2010
