Invensys Rail Invensys Rail is a multinational technology leader, Markets providing state-of-the-art software-based signalling, Across the world, the market for rail control systems remained communication andcontrol systems that enable the strong during the year, with spending driven by the realisation operation of trains inmainline and mass transit networks by many countries and cities that improvements in mainline across the world.
Our aim is to deliver higher capacity and suburban rail and mass transit infrastructure are key to safely, andin many cases reduced travel times.
At the same time, they recognise the importance of rail as an environmentally sustainable and Rail control is anadvanced technology, high added efficient means of transport for both passengers and freight.
value market within the global rail market, accounting for approximately 8% of annual expenditure on Although there was some slowdown in order inflow in the UK rail-related products.
earlier in the year, the situation improved in the second half with a number of large contract awards from Network Rail.
We Year ended 31 March % % have submitted our tender for the major resignalling contract change total for four London Underground lines, namely the Circle, District, 2010 2009 at CER change Hammersmith and City, and Metropolitan lines, and we expect Orders m 817 968 20% 16% the final outcome to be announced in late autumn.
Revenue m 700 636 5% 10% The Iberian market remained satisfactory, as we continue to Operating profit m 141 134 1% 5% carry out signalling mainly for the new high-speed line network Operating margin % 20.1% 21.1% in Spain.
However, it is expected that the effect of the recession Operating cash flow m 98 128 26% 23% upon the Spanish economy could lead to a reduction in Operating cash conversion % 70% 96% future orders.
Employees at year end nos 3,857 3,960 The North American market for onboard equipment was affected by reduced levels of freight traffic but the crossings market remained robust.
We also gained our first major US Revenue by sector signalling contract for several years.
Looking further out, we Mainline engineering are seeing significant potential from the introduction of and contracting 51% Positive Train Control PTC protection systems and the Mass transit engineering building of new high-speed lines.
and contracting 29% Products 20% Outside our core markets, we are seeing increasing demand in many countries, particularly South America and Asia, arising from the need to improve transport infrastructure to enable economic development.
Looking forward, we expect the global rail control market to remain robust, with satisfactory levels of expenditure in our Revenue by destination core markets and significant investment by other countries and UK 31% cities around the world on mainline, suburban and mass transit Rest of Europe 36% rail infrastructure.
North America 16% Asia Pacic 15% South America 2% | Invensys plc Annual Report and Accounts 2010 21 Invensys Rail continued Developments Performance Our leading technologies and excellent commissioning record We continued to build our order book last year and, although are reflected in our success in gaining significant contracts for order intake during the year was 817 million 2009: 968 new and replacement signalling in both our core and new million, down 20% at CER due to the greater incidence of large export markets.
These contracts will support good revenue orders last year, the book to bill ratio remained over 100%.
growth in the division next year, with revenue from new The order book at 31 March 2010 was 1.3 billion, with around markets rising from 10% in 2010 to around 20% in 2011.
44% represented by contracts outside our core markets.
Invensys Rail, Brazilian engineering company Montagens e Revenue was up 5% at CER at 700 million 2009: 636 million, Projetos Especiais MPE and Spanish telecoms specialists with good growth in North America and Spain offset by a 9% Infoglobal signed a milestone 255 million contract to reduction in the UK due to order delays.
upgrade the signalling and automatic train control on lines Operating profit rose 1% at CER to 141 million 2009: 8,10 and 11 of So Paulos rapidly developing Metro system.
134million, and operating margin remained strong at 20.1% Invensys Rail will install its Sirius Communication Based 2009: 21.1%.
Margins benefitted from favourable contract TrainControl CBTC system on all three lines and associated commissionings in Spain and reduced costs in North America rolling stock, along with WESTRACE interlockings, point following the consolidation of manufacturing facilities, offset machines and LED signals, totalling a 60% share by increased spending on research and development, sales approximately 140 million within the consortium.
and marketing, and bid tendering costs.
This additional In the United States, we are delivering a project for the spending, together with the evolving geographic mix of our PortAuthority of New York and New Jersey to design, business, is likely to produce a small decline in future operating manufacture and install a new computerised signalling margins from the 20.1% achieved last year.
system to upgrade and modernise the current PATH rail system.
Invensys Rails share of the contract is expected Operating cash flow was 98 million 2009: 128 million, to be43million.
The Automatic Train Control ATC andcash conversion was 70% 2009: 96% as a result of some system being adopted and installed by the Port Authority delays in large progress payments in the UK and Spain.
meets therequirements for PTC set by the Federal Railroad Administration.
Invensys Rail and New Zealands rail infrastructure manager ONTRACK will install the countrys first European Rail Traffic Management System ERTMS in a contract worth 34million as part of the Auckland Metropolitan Network Train Control and Resignalling Project.
The 30-month contract will see usinstall ERTMS Level 1 train control systems as well as providing comprehensive training for ONTRACK staff to maintain trackside and on-train systems.
Invensys Rail will play a key role in a major enhancement ofMalaysias rail network by delivering the new signalling system for the Seremban to Gemas route double tracking project.
This will be another application of our WESTRACE electronic interlockings and other advanced signalling and control technologies.
The signalling contract, which is worth approximately 26million, will also see a train control system installed to link with state owned railway KTMBs existing train control centre at Kuala Lumpur Sentral.
We have also continued our excellent commissioning record with the implementation of a new mass transit train control system on the Victoria Line in London and the successful completion of work on the East London Line.
| 22 Invensys plc Annual Report and Accounts 2010
