Our board of directors n n n n n Jock GreenArmytage Tim Faithfull Chairman Non-Executive Director Age 65, was appointed a non-executive director in June Age 66, was appointed a non-executive director in 1996 and became Non-Executive Chairman in January February 2005 and became the Senior Independent 2004.
He is Chairman of the nominations committee.
Director following the annual general meeting on He is Chairman of JZ International Limited and Star 13 May 2009.
He is Chairman of the remuneration Capital Partners Limited and a director of REA committee.
He is a non-executive director of Canadian Holdings PLC and several other companies.
He will Pacific Railway, TransAlta Corporation, and Canadian retire as chairman and director of AMEC following the Natural Resources Limited, and a director of Shell annual general meeting on 5 May 2011.
He was President and Chief Executive of Shell Canada Limited from 1999 to 2003. n Samir Brikho n n n n Chief Executive Simon Thompson Age 52, was appointed Chief Executive in October 2006.
Non-Executive Director He was previously a member of the ABB Executive Age 51, was appointed a non-executive director in Committee, heading the Power Systems division and January 2009.
He was previously an executive director Chairman of ABB Lummus Global, ABBs international of Anglo American plc, Chairman of the Tarmac Group projects and services business.
Samir is member of and held positions with S G Warburg and N M the Advisory Board of Stena AB.
He is Chairman of Rothschild.
He is currently Non-Executive Director Offshore Europe 2011, a member of the steering of Newmont Mining Corporation US and Sandvik committee of the UK-Korea Forum for the Future, a AB Sweden.
director of UK-Japan 21st Century Group and a UK Business Ambassador.
n n n n Neil Carson Non-Executive Director Ian McHoul Age 53, was appointed a non-executive director on Chief Financial Officer 31 August 2010.
He has been Chief Executive of Age 51, was appointed Chief Financial Officer in Johnson Matthey Plc, the FTSE100 speciality chemical September 2008.
He was previously Group Finance company, since 2004, a company he joined in 1980 after Director of Scottish and Newcastle plc and is a completing an engineering degree, and he has held a non-executive director and Chairman of the audit number of senior management positions in both the committee of Premier Foods plc.
He is currently a member of the advisory board of the Cambridge Programme for Sustainability Learning.
Neil Bruce Executive Director Age 50, is AMECs Chief Operating Officer, has over n n n n Colin Day 30 years experience in Energy & Process industries, Non-Executive Director and joined AMEC in 1997.
Neil was construction and Age 56, was appointed a non-executive director on field development director with Arco British prior to 14 October 2010.
He is Chairman of the audit joining AMEC.
He is a chartered marine architect, committee.
He is currently an Executive Director and and has a MBA from Newcastle Business School.
Chief Financial Officer of Reckitt Benckiser Group plc He is Chairman of UKTI Oil and Gas advisory group, but will stand down from this position on 31 March prior and a Trustee of Engineers Against Poverty.
to his appointment as Executive Director and CEO of Filtrona plc on 1 April 2011.
He is also a non-executive director of WPP Group plc.
A Fellow of the Association of Chartered Certified Accountants, he has an MBA from Cranfield School of Management, UK.
n n n n Key to principal committee membership: Audit Remuneration Nominations Compliance and ethics 38 AMEC plc annual report and accounts 2010
