Our strategy for growth Vision 2015 Since late 2006, AMECs focus has been on improving Our Vision 2015 goal is to achieve earnings per share margins and creating a stronger, more sustainable of greater than 100 pence in 2015, more than double business, positioned across the energy and power the starting point in 2009. markets.
Our Vision 2015, announced in December 2009, builds on this solid base.
During 2010 significant 2010 achievements OO progress has been made towards our long-term goals.
We have identified a number of areas of focus which, AMECs vision is to be the leading supplier of high-value combined, will enable us to achieve our Vision 2015 consultancy, engineering and project management EPS target.
services to the worlds oil and gas, minerals and metals, clean energy, water and environmental sectors.
Our customers We want our customers to recognise our engineering, The company is now focused on growth, which we project management and consultancy expertise believe can be achieved through the skills of our people and to trust us to deliver their projects successfully.
and the way in which they deliver successful projects Such a reputation does not come overnight, but is a for our customers: the strength of the customer key cornerstone of future growth.
Our history relationships this engenders: the markets in which we demonstrates the importance of the long-term are positioned: and the strength of our balance sheet.
relationships we have built with many of our customers.
Only by understanding their business, Each of the sectors in which AMEC operates is forecast their objectives and their values can we identify how to grow between now and 2015, supported by longer best we can use our expertise to help them deliver.
These are examined in more detail on page 8 and by sector in the relevant 2010 achievements included: section of the Business and Financial review.
OO Added new customers including: Xcite Energy Resources, Bluewater Services UK Ltd and Sectors and divisions Market growth Maersk FPSOs Oil & Gas OO New global agreement to support BP for their 1,3 Conventional Oil & Gas 8-10% onshore facilities developments around the world.
1,3 Unconventional Oil & Gas 5-7% This further strengthens an existing relationship, with 1,3 Minerals & Metals 6-8% AMEC having been one of three global providers of Clean Energy BP's equivalent global offshore services since 2008 2,3 Nuclear 5-7% OO Won 'tier one' position to support EDF's architect 2,3 Renewables Bioprocess 8-10% engineer operations on their UK nuclear new build 2,3 Power 3-5% programme 2,3 Transmission & Distribution T&D 4-6% OO Bolstered our position in the Government Services Environment and Water sector when an AMEC-led joint venture was 3 Water 5-6% amongst those selected for five-year, US$4 billion 3 framework contract for design and construction Transportation Infrastructure 4-5% 3 work to support US Defense Policy review initiative in Commercial Industrial 3-6% the Pacific region 3 Government Services 3-5% OO Further details on these and many other contract Key: 1 Natural Resources: see pages 17 to 22. wins can be found on pages 17, 23 and 28.
2 Power & Process: see pages 23 to 27.
3 Earth & Environmental: see pages 28 to 30.
OO Received a number of awards, details of which are AMEC estimates of market growth potential in our accessible markets contained in the 2010 Sustainability report CAGR 2010 2015 based on a mid-cycle assumption.
6 AMEC plc annual report and accounts 2010 Introduction Strategy Risk Performance Governance Financials Customers People Growth The AMEC Way Sustainability Financial Our people and water.
We saw this capability expansion as coming Our success lies in the success of our employees and from a combination of acquisition and organic growth.
the way in which they deliver to our customers, as we In 2010 we made progress in many of these areas do not own significant plant and equipment or and continued to plan the further implementation of proprietary technology.
It is vital that we recruit, develop and retain the best people, ensuring they are engaged with AMEC and 2010 achievements included: OO committed to the companys success.
We want to The acquisition of the UK-based environmental and provide a safe working environment and encourage engineering consultancy Entec Holdings Limited in our people to take this same thinking home and into March strengthened AMECs capabilities in the water their communities AMECs Beyond Zero approach.
and energy sectors OO Revenue from the provision of water services grew 2010 achievements included: by 46 per cent year on year.
The sector now accounts OO Some 60 development programmes involving for 3 per cent of AMECs revenues over 500 people were run by the newly launched OO New contracts in the renewable sector included the AMEC Academy provision of engineering, procurement and OO More than 7,000 people have used the career paths construction services for INEOS Bios first tool to help them develop their career within AMEC commercial-scale advanced bio-energy facility OO Over 13,000 participants in third global survey: OO In November, and as a result of our reputation in response rate up six percentage points compared surface mining, AMEC was commissioned by Oyu with 2009 Tolgoi LLC to undertake the feasibility study for Lift 1 OO Employee engagement at 68 per cent: still strong, of the underground Hugo North block cave operation though down five percentage points compared of its copper and gold mining project in Mongolia with 2009 OO In December, we announced the creation of a OO A further 1,170 people attended AMEC's First Step strategic partnership with S2V Consulting Pty of Safety Leadership training in 2010 Australia, a specialist front-end consulting company.
As a result, we can now offer our customers OO 50 occupational health risk reviews were completed in-house subsea and field development services.
and the employee assistance programmes were extended to all UK staff Vision 2015 identifies opportunities to further build our OO Around one-third of our people participate in AMEC presence in our established geographies, particularly share ownership schemes.
the UK and North America, as well as to expand in the Middle East, Australasia and South America.
See also the Key Performance Indicators on page 14.
2010 achievements included: Further details on each of these items can be found OO The acquisition of Entec also significantly in the 2010 sustainability report amec.
com aboutus strengthened Earth & Environmentals position in sustainability.
The division has historically been largely North American based Achieving growth To achieve our Vision 2015 strategy, we need not OO The GRD Minproc business in Australia, acquired in only to build on our existing market positions but November 2009, has been integrated as planned also to enhance our capabilities and expand our during 2010.
Combined with the existing business geographic coverage.
and subsequent acquisitions of Currie & Brown Australia Limited, BurmanGriffiths, S2V Consulting In late 2009, we said we had identified specific areas in and, in 2011, Zektingroup, AMEC now has c. 1,300 which we wanted to expand our service offering: people, including joint ventures, working in Australia.
subsea engineering, underground mining, renewables AMEC plc annual report and accounts 2010 7 Our strategy for growth Vision 2015 continued We believe that each of the sectors in which we operate 2010 achievements OO is growing see table on page 6.
By careful positioning A total of 85 million was spent on acquisitions and by rigorous attention to customer relationships during the year and project delivery, we see opportunities to outperform OO The dividend declared and proposed increased by the general market.
50 per cent to 26.5 pence OO The tax charge for continuing businesses before 2010 achievements amortisation, impairment and exceptional items and Underlying revenue growth in 2010 was 8 per cent, including joint venture tax reduced from 27.5 per with growth in each of the three divisions.
Delivering the AMEC Way Even the best of employees will struggle to deliver high Global market trends quality work if they are not provided with the right tools AMEC has considerable experience and capability in and support.
the worlds main energy sectors.
The group is well placed to respond to the increasing demand for clean Our Operational Excellence programme has delivered energy, and the need to improve the efficiency significant improvements, by providing a framework for of mature assets and add flexibility across the the implementation of best practice and continuous whole sector.
For example, in engineering and project management, tools, processes and quality assurance Each of the areas in which AMEC operates is systems have been standardised, so improving forecast to grow over the long term, supported by flexibility and increasing the quality of the output.
AMEC is carefully and deliberately positioned across sectors so as to benefit The AMEC Way is now how we work together across whatever the relative weighting in the energy mix.
the company to deliver successful projects for our customers, supporting our 2010 achievements and our The International Energy Agencys World Energy future growth.
"Outlook 2010 acknowledges that the medium term is hard to predict because of the uncertain economic 2010 achievements outlook but suggests it will be the response of OO ""One AMEC"" approach reinforced by the governments to the challenges of climate change and appointments of Neil Bruce as Chief Operating energy security that will shape the future of energy Officer and the business unit leaders to the Group in the long term."
Management Team If there is no change in government policy their Current OO The successful integration of acquisitions made Policies scenario, they believe world primary energy in 2009 and 2010, including GRD Minproc and demand will increase by 1.4 per cent per annum over Entec Holdings Limited.
If governments take Improving financial metrics action New Policies scenario, the growth is predicted Vision 2015 also looks at financial metrics, recognising to slow to 1.2 per cent per annum, with a greater that AMEC needs a more efficient capital structure and proportion of the whole coming from nuclear and that the tax rate can be reduced without prejudicing renewables.
This shift to low carbon solutions is AMECs position as a responsible corporate citizen.
expected to be greatest in OECD countries, though 8 AMEC plc annual report and accounts 2010 Introduction Strategy Risk Performance Governance Financials fossil fuels will remain the dominant energy source 2011 outlook in both scenarios.
Indeed, even in the New Policies The priority in 2011 will be to deliver growth while scenario, oil demand increases from 84 million maintaining margins at around 9 per cent.
This will barrels per day mb d in 2009 to 99 mb d in 2035. be achieved by continuing to deliver to customers and invest in employees.
Regardless of individual market fluctuations, political events and the ever-changing global Although the pace of economic recovery is uncertain, economy, population growth continues.
The worlds 2011 is expected to be another year of gradual population is estimated to increase from around recovery.
There is a long-term requirement for 6.7 billion in 2008 to 8.5 billion in 2035.
People need industry investment in AMECs core markets and energy and as the population grows and urbanisation this is expected to drive an increase in demand for increases, the demand for energy and commodities AMEC services.
AMECs balance sheet remains exceptionally strong The balance and mix of energy type may change both with operating cash flow set to continue to grow.
locally and globally but the pressure for more is an Management remains focused on the delivery of ever-upward trend.
Vision 2015, which includes maximising shareholder returns via further selective value-enhancing This growth in the markets in which AMEC operates acquisitions.
If over the course of the next twelve will inevitably put further pressure on the availability months major transactions are not forthcoming and of suitably qualified engineers, consultants and the balance sheet remains strong, consideration will project managers.
Continuing to attract and retain be given to using the existing buyback authority or those with experience in successfully delivering considering other one-off returns of capital.
complex projects will remain important as we look to satisfy our Vision 2015 growth aspirations.
We will continue to supplement our external resourcing activities with internal development activities.
These are discussed in more detail on page 7 and in our sustainability report.
They include: OO AMEC Academy: improving the technical and managerial skills of our people OO Increasing the existing resource pool: graduate and trainee recruitment and development programmes OO Improving the future supply pool: educating schoolchildren about careers in engineering OO Accessing the best skills anywhere: using our global mobility programmes.
Further details on market trends, where applicable, can be found by sector in the performance section.
AMEC plc annual report and accounts 2010 9
