Introduction Strategy Risk Performance Governance Financials Report of the directors The directors present their annual report and accounts Share capital for the year ended 31 December 2010.
The issued share capital of the company as at 31 December 2010, movements during the year and the Principal activities and business review rights attaching to the shares are set out in note 22 Principal activities of the group can be found on on pages 95 to 98 and the rights and obligations pages 16 to 30 and are incorporated by reference attaching to the shares are more fully set out in the in this report.
articles of association of the company.
Each share carries the right to one vote at general meetings of the Information fulfilling the requirements of the business company and no right to a fixed income.
There are no review is contained in the business and financial review restrictions on voting rights.
This includes details of AMECs development and performance during the year, the During the year ended 31 December 2010, 1,000,000 principal business acquisitions and disposals, AMECs shares representing 0.30% of the total called up share position at the year end and the outlook for the future.
capital of the company were purchased at a total cost All these matters are incorporated by reference of 8,172,098 and 468,814 shares were utilised in in this report.
satisfying awards made under the UK and International SAYE share option plans.
As at 31 December 2010, Key events 6,658,059 shares remained in treasury, all of which Key events are also included in the business and have been allocated to the groups SAYE scheme financial review on pages 16 to 35. awards to date.
Given the likelihood of further share scheme awards in 2011 and in the future, AMEC Statement of Compliance with the intends to purchase in the market sufficient shares to Provisions of the Combined Code meet the needs of the schemes in anticipation of future As its shares are listed on the London Stock Exchange, payouts.
The purchases will be made throughout the in accordance with the requirements of the UKLA year outside close periods and any shares purchased Listing Rules, AMEC confirms that throughout the year will be held as treasury shares.
ended 31 December 2010, and up to the date of this report, it was compliant with the provisions of the A resolution will be proposed at the annual general Combined Code, in particular with the Main Principles meeting to extend the authority of the directors to set out in section 1 thereof.
AMEC also confirms that it make market purchases of up to 10 per cent of the intends to comply with the requirements of the UK companys shares within prescribed limits.
Authority was granted to the directors at the 2010 Dividends annual general meeting to allot shares or grant rights The directors are recommending a final ordinary to subscribe for or to convert any security to shares up dividend in respect of the year ended 31 December to a nominal amount of 55,330,800 Section 551 2010 of 19.2 pence per share.
This final dividend will be Amount of which up to 8,299,620 could be allotted payable on 1 July 2011 to shareholders on the register for cash other than in connection with a pre-emptive at the close of business on 27 May 2011.
An interim offer Section 561 Amount.
Resolutions will be dividend for the year ended 31 December 2010 of proposed at the forthcoming annual general meeting 7.3 pence per share was paid on 4 January 2011. to extend this authority to May 2012.
The revised Section 551 Amount will be 54,891,707 and the revised Dividends paid during 2010 comprised an interim Section 561 amount will be 8,316,925. dividend of 6.1 pence per share, and a final dividend of 11.6 pence per share both in respect of the year ended The directors have no present intention of issuing any 31 December 2009. shares other than in respect of the exercise of share options.
No issue will be made which will effectively alter the control of the company without the prior approval of shareholders in general meeting.
AMEC plc annual report and accounts 2010 39 Report of the directors continued Substantial interests has been made.
In the event that his successor has not On the basis of notifications received pursuant to been identified by the time of the forthcoming annual general meeting, Mr Green-Armytage has agreed to the FSA Disclosure and Transparency Rules DTR 5 and other notifications received by AMEC from remain as Chairman until such time as his successor is appointed.
shareholders, the company has been notified of shareholdings of three per cent or more of the voting Although not required by the companys articles, in the rights of the company as at 3 March 2011 as follows: interests of good corporate governance all the other directors, other than the Chairman, will retire and offer themselves for re-election at the forthcoming annual Number Per cent general meeting.
As noted above, the Chairman BlackRock, Inc 36,551,646 11.03 intends to stand down at the forthcoming annual general meeting but has agreed to remain as Legal & General Assurance 13,197,514 3.98 Chairman in the event that his successor has not been The shareholding percentages have been adjusted appointed at that time.
from those notified to reflect the current issued share The beneficial interests in the share capital of the capital net of treasury shares.
company of the directors holding office as at There are no shareholdings which carry special rights 31 December 2010 were as follows: relating to control of the company.
As at As at 31 December 31 December 2010 2009 Directors J M Green-Armytage 15,000 15,000 Details of the directors of the company as at the date of S Y Brikho 890,729 1,137,416 this report, together with membership of the principal board committees, are set out on page 38.
P J Byrom T W Faithfull 10,000 10,000 Ms M O Hesse stood down as a non-executive director I P McHoul 82,794 73,658 on 13 May 2010 at the end of a nine year term of office.
N A Bruce 74,267 72,697 Mr P J Byrom stood down as a non-executive director S R Thompson 4,744 4,744 on 9 February 2011 after having completed a six year N A P Carson n a term of office.
C R Day n a 10,000 Messrs N A P Carson and C R Day were appointed to the board as non-executive directors on 31 August and Except for interests under share option schemes, 14 October 2010 respectively.
Neither has an the Performance Share Plan and the Transformation employment contract with the Company.
In accordance Incentive Plan, details of which are contained in the with article 81 of the articles of association of the directors remuneration report on pages 48 to 58, company, Messrs Carson and Day will retire from office no director as at 31 December 2010 had any other at the forthcoming annual general meeting and offer interests, beneficial or otherwise, in the share capital themselves for election.
See page 38 for further of the company or any of its subsidiaries.
On 4 January 2011, Mr Bruce acquired 335 shares Mr J M Green-Armytage intends to stand down as under the dividend re-investment plan DRIP scheme, Chairman and director of the company at the forthcoming in lieu of the interim dividend paid on that date.
Mr Green-Armytage joined 10 January 2011, Messrs Bruce and McHoul acquired the AMEC board in 1996 as a non-executive director 122 and 192 shares respectively in lieu of the interim and was appointed Chairman in 2004.
The recruitment dividend paid on 4 January 2011.
On 1 March 2011, Mr process to identify his successor is well under way and Brikho exercised options in respect of 1,624 shares further announcements will be made when a decision arising on the maturity of the Savings Related Share 40 AMEC plc annual report and accounts 2010 Introduction Strategy Risk Performance Governance Financials Options granted on 1 March 2008 at an option price of to shareholders, clients and the wider community.
There were no other changes in the A regular survey of employee opinion is conducted directors interests in the share capital of the company and AMEC is committed to sharing and acting on the between 31 December 2010 and 3 March 2011. outcomes see page 7.
AMEC provides a wide range of mechanisms for employees to share knowledge, to be No director was materially interested in any contract kept informed of developments within AMEC and to of significance to AMECs businesses.
raise issues and discuss matters of concern.
Respect for cultural diversity and commitment to As at the date of this report, individual indemnities have been provided to the directors, under which the equal opportunities are included among AMECs Guiding Principles, which are incorporated into company has agreed to indemnify the directors to the extent permitted by law in respect of all liabilities to management policies and processes worldwide.
AMEC policy is to recruit from the widest labour market, to third parties arising out of, or in connection with, the execution of their powers, duties and responsibilities determine the careers of all employees solely on merit and to make judgements about employees without as directors of the company, any of its associated companies or any other company that the director bias or prejudice.
serves as a director at the request of the company.
As part of AMECs equal opportunities policy, Equivalent indemnities remain in force for the benefit procedures are in place that are designed to provide for of those directors who stood down during the year fair consideration and selection of disabled applicants, ended 31 December 2010.
These indemnities are to ensure they are properly trained to perform safely Qualifying Third Party Indemnity Provisions as defined and effectively, and to provide career opportunities that in Sections 232-234 of the Companies Act 2006 and allow them to fulfil their potential.
When an employee copies are available for inspection at the registered becomes disabled in the course of their employment, office of the company during business hours on any AMEC will actively seek to retain them wherever weekday except public holidays.
possible by making adjustments to their work content and environment or by retraining them to undertake Employees new roles.
In 2010 AMEC employed on average 21,907 people worldwide including agency staff.
AMEC operates a savings related share option plan that allows employees to participate in AMECs share AMEC gives high priority to the development of its price growth.
This is open to employees in all major employees to ensure that it has the necessary skills countries of operation who meet a minimum service and behaviours to deliver its strategic business qualification.
Offers to participate are currently being objectives and to provide for management succession.
Processes are in place across the group for the regular and consistent review of employee performance, Corporate governance development and management succession.
Common The board is responsible for AMECs systems of training needs are delivered through the AMEC internal control and for their review.
These reviews Academy see page 7 for further information.
cover the effectiveness and adequacy of financial, operational, compliance and risk management It is of key importance to AMEC that it engages with systems and are undertaken at least annually, in employees to ensure they understand the direction in compliance with the requirements of the Combined which the company is going, are committed to AMECs Code.
These systems can only provide reasonable values, and are empowered to propose and make assurance against material misstatement or loss, as changes to improve how AMEC operates.
AMEC they are designed to manage rather than eliminate the employees embody its knowledge, brand and reputation failure to achieve business objectives.
and it is through their activities, day by day, that AMEC delivers on its business objectives and commitments AMEC plc annual report and accounts 2010 41 Report of the directors continued The board and its committees have a continuous Printed copies of both the Combined Code on process for identifying, evaluating and managing Corporate Governance and the UK Corporate significant risks faced by AMEC, including strategy, Governance Code applicable for financial years major projects to be undertaken, significant commencing on or after 29 June 2010 can be obtained acquisitions and disposals, as well as entry into and exit free of charge from the Financial Reporting Council from different markets.
Where appropriate, business FRC Publications, by email customerservices@cch.
decisions are reached following a structured and co. uk or telephone 44 0 20 8247 1264 or online at documented review of potential opportunities and frcpublications.
threats, taking steps designed to manage or mitigate AMEC Mandatory Procedures and any risk exposure.
Principal business risks are set Delegated Authorities out in the risk section on pages 10 to 13 and are AMECs businesses are managed on a decentralised incorporated into this report by reference.
While the board has retained reserve powers, The threats and opportunities associated with major the day-to-day management has been passed to tender submissions are reviewed by the tender review the business leaders within defined authority limits.
committee and as part of Operational Excellence, a set The management philosophy is to empower the of AMEC contracting principles were introduced in business leaders to take the actions necessary to order to provide greater control over operational deliver the companys operational business objectives activities.
Under these principles, specified key within the defined Mandatory Procedures and contractual risks are required to be referred to the Delegated Authorities, which set out the standards tender review committee, representing an ongoing AMEC employees and agency staff are to achieve reinforcement of corporate governance in this area.
The board regularly reviews these procedures and delegated authorities to take account of AMEC uses a risk management process which is the changing requirements of the business, changes in incorporated into the AMEC Mandatory Procedures governance requirements and overall risk appetite.
The process involves the identification of risks at the gross and current level by projects and This framework provides for an effective control businesses.
The risks are recorded in risk registers to structure and there continues to be a clear link between enable the net positions to be proactively managed.
the levels of risk associated with tenders and the Regular risk review meetings comprising delegated authority limits.
representatives from the businesses and functions AMEC has interests in a number of joint ventures discuss business and functional risks.
The highest and joint arrangements.
Controls within these entities risks in terms of probability and impact are then may not be reviewed as part of AMECs formal elevated to the AMEC plc risk register.
The plans for corporate governance process because of the joint mitigation of such risks are also reviewed.
AMECs risk management responsibilities but are reviewed by the committee considers all such risk issues relating to joint venture boards and as part of AMECs normal AMEC plc and issues risk reports and makes internal audit process.
Details of significant joint recommendations to the board, including ventures can be found on page 114. recommendations on risk appetite.
Dialogue with institutional shareholders The risk management and internal control processes Mr Green-Armytage, Chairman, wrote to all major are complemented by an annual control risk selfshareholders in April 2010 reminding them that he assessment exercise carried out by the principal and the senior independent director, Mr Faithfull, businesses.
This covers major risks, particularly safety, were available for meetings or telephone calls with health and environment, legal, commercial and them if required.
The Chairman attends preliminary contractual, financial, information technology and results presentations.
The results are reviewed by the board, through both the audit and risk committees, and as part of the ongoing internal audit process.
42 AMEC plc annual report and accounts 2010 Introduction Strategy Risk Performance Governance Financials The Chairman and Mr Faithfull are also available to accounts, approval of the business plan, budget and attend, if requested, one-on-one meetings with major financial policies, review of operating results, risk shareholders.
The Chairman had a number of such management strategy, assessment of risk appetite, meetings with major shareholders during 2010 and ensuring the effectiveness of governance practices, Mr Faithfull also communicated with and met major succession planning and significant capital shareholders in his capacity as chairman of the expenditure.
The board is supplied with appropriate remuneration committee.
information in a timely manner, which enables it to discharge its duties.
An in-depth annual perception study of investors views, prepared by an independent third party, is In addition to matters reserved for the board, certain presented to all board members, who also receive items are considered at every scheduled board meeting.
unedited feedback reports following shareholder These include health, safety and environmental matters meetings or events together with all material brokers and updates on the financial status of the company, research notes on the company.
The board A review of the effectiveness of the board was carried out throughout the year by the Chairman involving The board comprises the Chairman, three executive directors and four independent non-executive directors.
discussions with directors and with the board as a whole.
Issues were considered regularly by the board The company does not combine the role of Chairman as part of a continuous review of its effectiveness.
The Chairman is responsible for There have been a material number of changes in the leadership of the board and for ensuring its board membership over the past year and the effectiveness in all aspects of its activities.
The Chief appointment of a new Chairman will shortly be Executive is responsible for running the group and concluded.
While the board has had two externally implementing board strategy and policy.
This ensures facilitated reviews of board effectiveness since the a clear division of responsibilities at the head of the appointment of the current Chairman in 2004, it has company, so that no individual has unfettered powers been decided that an external review will not be of decision.
The independent non-executive directors undertaken until 2012, in order to allow time for the review the relationship between the Chairman and integration of the Chairman and the recently appointed Chief Executive each year to ensure that the board members.
The independent non-executive directors met The non-executive directors are all considered to be privately both with and without the Chairman present independent by the board and their external and also with both the Chairman and Chief Executive commitments are reviewed to ensure that they are able together to consider management performance and to commit sufficient time to meet what is expected of succession issues.
A formal process exists for the them.
They are not employed by the company in any directors to take independent professional advice and capacity, nor have they been in the past.
Mr Faithfull receive appropriate training in the course of their has acted as the boards senior independent director duties, at the companys expense, organised by the since 13 May 2009.
The Company Secretary is responsible for ensuring Potential conflicts of interest are considered at that board procedures are followed and all directors the start of each board meeting and there is an have access to his advice and services.
effective procedure in place to deal with any conflicts, should they arise, in accordance with AMECs articles The board has a schedule of matters reserved for its of association.
approval covering areas such as company strategy, the appointment of key executives, approval of group AMEC plc annual report and accounts 2010 43 Report of the directors continued Board committees that resulted in the appointment of Ernst & Young Under AMECs Management and Policy Framework, LLP as auditors of the company.
This process the board has formally delegated specific included an in-depth review to benchmark the responsibilities to various board committees, all of current level of service, fees and value being which have written terms of reference.
delivered and to make appropriate recommendations to the board.
The remit of each committee is set out below.
The quorum is three directors, save for the audit and In 2010, the review of the effectiveness of the remuneration committees where the quorum is two external auditors was carried out on behalf of the directors.
Full details of the constitution and remit of committee by the head of internal audit.
the audit, nominations, remuneration and compliance The audit committee also monitors the and ethics committees can be found at amec.
com implementation of the policy on the engagement aboutus culture corporategovernance.
of the external auditor to supply non-audit services.
The committees chaired by non-executive directors are This policy follows the guidelines set out by the as follows: Institute of Chartered Accountants in England and Wales and clearly defines what work can and OO Audit committee Chaired by Mr Day, who cannot be performed by any group companys succeeded Mr Byrom in February 2011, its statutory auditor.
It also sets out the necessary membership comprises all the independent approval process for those non-audit services non-executive directors.
Mr Day has significant that are acceptable.
relevant competence in auditing and accounting see biography on page 38.
All non-statutory audit or non-compliance tax services provided by the auditor are reported to The audit committee monitors the integrity of the audit committee.
During 2010, the fees paid AMECs financial statements, including the annual to the companys auditor, Ernst & Young LLP and its and interim results, the related report and accounts associates for non-audit work were 0.6 million and Stock Exchange announcements and any other 2009: 0.6 million paid to KPMG Audit Plc, which formal announcements in connection with the comprised 0.5 million relating to taxation and companys financial performance, and recommends 0.1 million for other work 2009: 0.6 million their approval to the board.
It also reviews the companys internal financial All additional Ernst & Young fees were approved in controls and, in conjunction with the risk committee, accordance with AMECs policy covering non-audit the internal control and risk management systems.
As a result of the application of this policy and additional discussions with them, the directors It oversees AMECs relations with the external do not believe that Ernst & Youngs independence auditors, including considering and making has been compromised because of their additional recommendations on their appointment, work on behalf of the company.
re-appointment, removal, remuneration and terms of engagement.
It assesses the qualifications, The audit committee reviews the Head of Internal expertise, effectiveness and independence of the Audits regular reports and carries out an annual external auditors at least annually and discusses assessment of the internal audit functions the nature and scope of the audit, together with any effectiveness.
In 2010, this exercise was carried out issues arising from the audit process.
It also reviews on behalf of the committee by the Head of Internal the auditors management letter, managements Audit.
No material changes were identified as being responses thereto and the audit representation necessary as a result of this exercise.
letters prior to consideration by the board.
In 2010, the committee participated in a rigorous exercise 44 AMEC plc annual report and accounts 2010 Introduction Strategy Risk Performance Governance Financials The audit committee has unrestricted access to It considers and determines the individual company documents and meets with the internal remuneration packages and contracts for the Chief and external auditors, and any other relevant Executive Officer, other executive directors and the member of staff, without the executive directors Company Secretary on appointment and reviews being present, as necessary.
The head of internal these as required and agrees the performance audit formally reports to the committee chairman.
targets of the executive directors and the levels of bonus paid to them under the bonus and long-term Given the number of changes in the membership incentive schemes.
It also agrees with the board the of the audit committee since the beginning of 2010, remuneration structure, including annual bonus, for including the recent appointment Mr Day as its other designated executives.
chairman, it has been decided to defer the planned formal review of the committees effectiveness It agrees the terms to be offered to a proposed new until 2012.
Chairman and reviews these terms as required.
OO Nominations committee chaired by the It approves the structure, performance targets, Chairman, it leads the process for identifying and participation and level of awards for any executive makes recommendations to the board concerning share-based incentive scheme.
the appointment of any new director or the Company OO Compliance and ethics committee Chaired by Secretary and, in the case of non-executive directors Mr Thompson and comprising all the independent and the Chairman, the extension of existing non-executive directors, it upholds AMECs core appointments.
It also makes recommendations to the values of honesty, integrity and respect and reviews board on the appointments to the board committees.
and monitors compliance with all relevant The committee also reviews board succession legislation, regulation and current best practice planning, in conjunction with reports from the Chief regarding such matters as the prevention of bribery Executive and Group Human Resources Director on and corruption and conflicts of interest.
It also senior management succession planning, so as to considers reviews and approves AMECs Code of ensure that an appropriate balance of skills is Business Conduct at least annually to ensure that maintained both within AMEC and on the board.
it addresses the above issues.
During 2010, the committee, with the assistance of It considers and reviews the scope and planning external search consultants, conducted or oversaw of all compliance activity within AMEC and reviews the rigorous recruitment processes that led to the the extent and effectiveness of AMECs internal appointments of the two new non-executive training and external reporting of compliance and directors and commenced the process that will ethics matters.
lead to the appointment of a new chairman.
In the event of an actual or suspected material breach OO Remuneration committee Chaired by Mr Faithfull of AMECs Code of Business Conduct or any relevant and attended by three other independent nonlegislation, a member of the committee will take executive directors, it sets, and reviews the overall responsibility for and manage any investigation into remuneration policy framework for the Chairman, the relevant matters.
The committee may use internal the executive directors and the Company Secretary resources and is also authorised to employ external and other designated executives, including a risk consultants to carry out any such investigation.
assessment of the policy, in conjunction with the audit committee, relating to such matters as financial performance setting and measurement for both bonus and long-term incentives.
AMEC plc annual report and accounts 2010 45 Report of the directors continued The following table is a record of the directors attendance at board and principal board committee meetings during the year ended 31 December 2010.
Compliance AMEC plc Audit Remu neration Nomi nations and ethics Committee board committee committee committee committee Number of meetings 10 4 5 1 2 J M Green-Armytage 10 1 1 S Y Brikho 10 1 I P McHoul 10 N A Bruce 10 M O Hesse up to 13 May 3 1 1 1 P J Byrom 9 4 1 2 T W Faithfull 10 3 4 1 2 S R Thompson 9 4 5 1 2 N A P Carson from 31 August 4 1 2 C R Day from 14 October 3 Board committees continued Creditor payment policy OO Charities committee Makes commitments Individual group businesses are responsible for and donations in support of charitable, agreeing terms and conditions under which educational and cultural causes.
transactions with their suppliers are conducted.
It is AMEC policy that payments to suppliers are OO Share transaction committee Considers generally made in accordance with these terms and requests from relevant employees to deal in conditions, provided that the supplier complies with AMEC plc shares.
all of its obligations in this regard.
The committees chaired by executive directors are as follows: The company had 41 days purchases outstanding as at 31 December 2010 2009: 42 days based on OO Corporate transactions committee the average daily amount invoiced by suppliers OO during the year.
Risk committee OO Tender review committee Donations OO Total donations worldwide amounted to 553,000 Pensions and retirement benefits committee for the year ended 31 December 2010 2009: OO Share allotment committee 540,000.
Of these, donations to UK charities Going concern amounted to 295,000 for the year ended The directors, having made enquiries, consider that 31 December 2010 2009 313,000. the group has adequate resources to operate for the AMECs policy is not to make political donations and foreseeable future and, therefore, it is appropriate to none were made during 2010.
continue to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the accounts.
Further details of this review can be found on page 66.
46 46 AMEC pl AMEC plc c annual r annual repor eport and ac t and acc counts 2010 ounts 2010 Introduction Strategy Risk Performance Governance Financials Disclosure of information to auditors The directors who held office at the date of approval of this directors report confirm that, so far as they are each aware, there is no relevant audit information of which the companys auditor is unaware: and each director has taken all the steps that he ought to have taken as a director to make himself aware of any relevant audit information and to establish that the companys auditor is aware of that information.
The above statement is made in accordance with section 418 of the Companies Act 2006.
Auditors Ernst & Young LLP were appointed as AMECs auditors at the 2010 annual general meeting and a resolution will be proposed at the annual general meeting for their re-appointment as auditor of the company.
Annual general meeting special business Resolutions are being proposed at the annual general meeting to be held on 5 May 2011 to authorise the company to make market purchases of shares in the company within prescribed limits, to authorise the directors to allot shares in the company for a further period of one year and to allot a proportion of those shares for cash.
A resolution is also being proposed to amend the rules of the AMEC Performance Share Plan 2002, further details of which are included in the notice of meeting.
A resolution relating to the calling of general meetings, other than annual general meetings, on 14 days notice will also again be proposed at the meeting.
By order of the board Michael Blacker Company Secretary, 3 March 2011 Note On 15 March 2011, Eleanor Evans was appointed as General Counsel and Company Secretary in place of Michael Blacker, who is retiring at the end of March 2011.
AMEC plc annual report and accounts 2010 47
