Introduction Strategy Risk Performance Governance Financials Natural Resources Description of business 1 Change Underlying million 2010 2009 % % Principal activities: Oil & Gas services, Unconventional Oil & Gas and Minerals & Metals.
Total life of asset Revenue 1,520.5 1,300.9 17 6 services ranging from engineering design through to EBITA 174.7 154.3 13 4 asset support and decommissioning.
74 per cent of EBITA margin % 11.5 11.9 -40bps 2010 revenues generated by asset development capex Order book bn 1.81 1.71 6 services, with the remainder in asset support opex.
Average number Activities are concentrated mainly in the upstream 2 of employees 9,729 9,577 2 sector over 90 per cent of 2010 revenues, with the balance being in midstream and downstream.
1 Growth measured against 2009 as restated for material acquisitions and movements in material currencies.
2 Full time equivalents, including agency staff.
Principal locations: AMEC has operations in mature markets and frontier regions, with major offices in Aberdeen, London, Great Yarmouth, Darlington UK : Atyrau Kazakhstan : Baku Azerbaijan : Calgary, Toronto, Saskatoon, Chevron: front-end engineering and design FEED for Vancouver Canada : Houston, TX US : Kuala Mafumerira Sul project, offshore Angola: South Hook Lumpur Malaysia : Kuwait City Kuwait : Perth, LNG Terminal Co: three-year engineering, design Brisbane Australia : Shanghai China : Santiago services contract, South Wales, UK: Providence Chile : Belo Horizonte Brazil : Lima Peru : Resources Plc: conceptual study for Ulysses salt Singapore: Johannesburg South Africa.
cavern gas storage, offshore eastern Ireland.
Revenue split: By geography: 20 per cent UK Europe: Mining Northgate Minerals Corporation: EPCm for 59 per cent Americas: 21 per cent Rest of World.
Young-Davidson Gold Project, Canada: Terrane Metals Corp: EPCm services for Mt.
Milligan copper-gold Revenue split by sector: project in joint venture with Fluor, Canada: PanAust Limited: detailed engineering and procurement services for Ban Houayxai gold and silver project, Laos.
19% Oil & Gas In the North Sea Maersk FPSOs: FEED for Unconventional Oil 45% & Gas modifications to the Curlew floating production storage 36% Minerals & Metals and offloading vessel: Bluewater: engineering and maintenance services for two FPSO vessels: Shell: three-year contract extension for Shell ONEgas joint venture contract: ConocoPhillips: detailed engineering, procurement, hook-up and commissioning Judy Customers include: Apache, Azerbaijan International platform and Jasmine facilities: Apache: design and Oil Company AIOC, BG, BP, Britannia Operator implementation of brownfield modifications to Forties Limited, Chevron, ConocoPhillips, ExxonMobil, Fairfield Alpha platform.
Energy, INPEX, Kinross, KOC, KPO, Ma'aden Phosphate, Maersk, Northgate, PotashCorp, QUIP SA, Shell, Teck Resources.
Significant new contracts in 2010 included: BP: one of two global providers of engineering and project management services EPMS for BP's global onshore facilities developments: BP: five-year Master Services Agreement plus first contract, Azerbaijan: Notes Engineering Procurement and Construction EPC Engineering Procurement and Construction management EPCm Programme Management Consultancy PMC AMEC plc annual report and accounts 2010 17 Natural Resources continued Business overview Oil & Gas The Natural Resources division, comprising Oil & Gas, AMEC offers a wide range of capex and opex services Unconventional Oil & Gas and Minerals & Metals to an increasingly broad range of customers, which businesses, provides services to an increasingly broad includes International Oil Companies IOCs, National range of customers around the world.
The business Oil Companies NOCs and independent operators in has strong, long-term relationships with customers Europe, Americas, Middle East and Africa, the Caspian, and is today recognised as a world leader in the South East Asia and China.
It does not operate in early provision of engineering, project management and cycle exploration or drilling, but is involved in every part asset support services, with particular expertise in of the project delivery phase.
large and complex projects in growth regions and in extending the life of assets in the mid-late stages of Services Facilities their life cycle.
OO OO Asset optimisation Offshore fixed platforms OO The business portfolio is well balanced by geography, Brownfield OO by end market, and in terms of the nature of services engineering and Offshore floating provided.
This minimises exposure to any one specific project management production units demand cycle.
The majority of the divisions OO OO Construction Onshore booster engineering and project management staff have skills management stations, gathering which are transferable between market sectors.
centres, tank OO Consultancy farms, gas-oil AMEC is differentiated in its ability to offer customers OO Decommissioning and separation plants services and tools including training and development, cessation of OO and a sustainable approach to business in frontier Onshore oil and production regions.
Through the Earth & Environmental division, gas fields OO Design engineering AMEC is able to offer specialist environmental services OO Pipelines at every stage of the project life cycle.
In the initial OO Duty holder stages, AMEC advises clients on how to minimise OO Facilities engineering the environmental impacts of a development.
OO Front-end For operating facilities, AMEC has developed software engineering that monitors existing assets and identifies areas to reduce both energy and emissions.
OO Hook up and commissioning The business is focused on the provision of services to OO Installation a balanced portfolio of customers.
Contract types are varied, both by region and by nature of service, ranging OO Operations and from capex multiplier contracts with rewards to maintenance support reimbursable opex contracts with performance OO Production incentives.
The revenue profile of the division spans operations short-term less than 12 months consultancy services, to long-term five years or more engineering asset Oil and gas services contracts are cost reimbursable support contracts.
EBITA margins range from 7.3 per or cost plus and increasingly performance-based: cent on average in 2010 2009: 8.8 per cent for opex no lump-sum fabrication is performed.
Being servicesservices to 12.9 per cent on average for capex contracts based, capital employed reflects mainly current 2009:13.3 per cent.
18 AMEC plc annual report and accounts 2010 Introduction Strategy Risk Performance Governance Financials Revenues in 2010 were generated primarily from next, 'define', phase of the Clair Ridge project: and activities with IOCs, with some 15 per cent of AMECs appointment as one of two strategic partners conventional oil and gas revenue from NOCs.
to provide Engineering and Project Management Services for BPs onshore facilities developments Demand for AMECs services is linked to the level around the world.
of spending on new production facilities, and on operations, maintenance, extending the life and Historically, AMEC has not had a major presence in increasing production from existing infrastructure.
the Gulf of Mexico: the region generated less than 10 million of revenues in 2009 and AMEC saw no The centres of excellence in Aberdeen and London UK : direct impact on its business from the Macondo oil Calgary Canada : Houston, TX US : and Kuala Lumpur spill.
The global deepwater segment remains a core Malaysia are supported by a growing network of focus of AMEC's Vision 2015. engineering centres around the world.
Recent strategic investment and joint ventures in Qatar, Australia, South Markets Africa, China and South America provide improved The International Energy Agency IEA latest World access to customers in those regions.
Energy Outlook forecasts primary oil demand in their New Policies Scenario to increase from 84.0mb d in AMEC has global experience of delivering large and 2009 to 89.2mb d in 2015 and 99.0mb d by 2035. complex projects, with capabilities in deepwater and A decline in OECD countries is expected, offset by hostile conditions including Arctic environments and growth elsewhere, particularly in China and India.
It has developed a strong Satisfying this demand will require an average annual position in frontier regions including the Caspian, development of nine billion barrels of new discoveries South East Asia and West Africa.
The IEA forecasts an upstream oil and gas capital spending requirement between In the opex arena, AMEC is a leading international 2010 and 2035 of about $440 billion per annum.
asset support provider, servicing more than 200 facilities daily.
It is the market leader in UK North Sea In the near term, the Deutsche Bank Wood Mackenzie brownfield services and is also a provider of duty annual survey of global capex forecasts growth of six holder services and more integrated solutions to new per cent across 2010 to 2012 and expects US$440 billion entrant operators in the region.
of Engineering and Construction capex in 2011 of which NOCs represent 40 per cent.
By 2013, they expect that AMEC provides independent business consultancy levels of spend should surpass the 2008 peak.
services through Rider Hunt International RHi, a leading project services consultancy.
The acquisitions There is a continued trend of resources being more of Currie & Brown Australia Pty Ltd in January 2010 difficult to extract, and AMECs experience of Arctic, and BurmanGriffiths in November 2010 both now deepwater and complex projects gives the group a trading as Aquenta strengthened these capabilities good position.
At the same time, environmental as well as AMECs Australian presence.
A strategic pressures have increased and this is another area partnership with S2V Consulting, also in Australia, where AMEC can demonstrate a strong track record was announced in December and expands AMECs in helping its customers.
service offering to include subsea and field development services.
The mature oil and gas sector has ageing infrastructure and increasingly depleting reserves During 2010, there has been a resurgence of which AMEC is well positioned to service, both in brownfield activity in the North Sea, with AMEC terms of asset support services, performance and winning or extending a number of contracts.
efficiency improvements, and decommissioning and The strategic relationship with BP has been further cessation of production.
strengthened by recent awards, including: the five-year master services agreement in Azerbaijan: work on the AMEC plc annual report and accounts 2010 19 Natural Resources continued Opex activity is set to grow in part because globally sands projects are thought to be profitable at oil prices the number of complex facilities continues to increase.
These facilities are at different, and ever increasing, Two main extraction techniques are used in the oil stages of maturity and therefore require a growing sands: surface mining, which currently accounts for amount of maintenance input.
More importantly, around one half of production, and in-situ, which is AMEC is increasingly providing more sophisticated expected to increase its share of the market over the solutions which adapt existing facilities to handle new next 10 years.
In-situ methods, used to extract deeper reservoirs, for example by using tie-backs.
reserves, utilise steam injected into reservoirs to With leading market positions in mature markets mobilise the oil.
Of the total 170 billion barrels of and frontier regions, early life cycle visibility, a balanced established Canadian oil sands reserves, around portfolio of services and a carefully selected yet 20 per cent is recoverable by mining.
diversified customer base, AMEC is well positioned AMEC is aware of the environmental concerns raised by to grow.
activities in the oil sands.
The full capability of the Earth AMEC estimates that its accessible markets will grow & Environmental division see page 29 for specific by between 8 and 10 per cent per annum in the period services can be used to ensure that customers meet to 2015. and, where possible, exceed local legislation, providing them with solutions to environmental challenges.
Unconventional Oil & Gas AMEC's oil sands activity in 2011 is expected to be AMEC is the market leader in the provision of project below 2010's record levels, due to the phasing of work management and engineering services to the on the Kearl project.
The overall market remains upstream surface mining Canadian oil sands sector.
strong and AMEC estimates that its accessible markets From helping to build the worlds first oil sands plant in will grow by between five and seven per cent per 1967 to the worlds largest plant in 1978, AMECs annum in the period to 2015. operations have matured along with the industry, with participation in most recent oil sands developments.
Minerals & Metals In this sector, AMEC provides environmental consulting, AMEC offers mining consultancy including ore resource FEED, engineering, selective EPC, EPCm, project estimation, mine planning and feasibility studies, design management and PMC services.
Historically the focus and project and construction management services to has been on mineable oil sands, though the acquisition global mining customers producing commodities of BDR in 2008 brought in-situ expertise.
This positions including potash, gold, diamonds, base metals, coal, iron AMEC for the anticipated shift as the new technology is ore and uranium.
The business operates from strategic increasingly being used, and on larger projects.
mining locations including Perth and Brisbane Australia : Belo Horizonte Brazil : Saskatoon, Toronto In particular during 2010, AMEC has continued to work and Vancouver Canada : Johannesburg South Africa : on the Kearl oil sands project in Canada, for Imperial Santiago Chile and Lima Peru.
This project has involved AMEC employees from all three divisions and across offices, working The business is a recognised leader in environments together to meet the needs of our customer.
where projects have significant logistical challenges associated with remote location and difficult access.
Markets AMEC occupies a top-tier position in international According to the IEA World Energy Outlook 2010, consulting and a leading position in the North and production from Canadian oil sands will increase from South American EPCm markets, where it has 1.5mb d in 2009 to 2.8mb d by 2020 under the New provided services for many of the worlds leading Policies scenario.
The capital required to achieve this mining companies.
increase is estimated at around US $11 billion per annum.
The same report suggests that most new oil 20 AMEC plc annual report and accounts 2010 Introduction Strategy Risk Performance Governance Financials The acquisition of GRD Minproc in November 2009 Vision 2015 strategy added world class technical capabilities in a number of The Vision 2015 strategy for Natural Resources key commodities, including copper, gold, nickel, reinforced its well embedded customer-focused uranium and iron.
It also delivered critical mass in philosophy.
Going forward, we will continue to expand Australasia and enhanced AMECs presence in Africa our geographical coverage and our capabilities to and South America.
Integration is now well advanced support our customers requirements.
and the acquired business started to contribute to As shown in more detail on page 17, in 2010 we: profits in the second half of 2010.
Recent contract wins included the appointment as study managers and OO Increased our scope of work with existing customers process plant consultants for Crazy Horse Resources such as BP and added a number of new customers on the Taysan Copper Gold project in the Philippines.
OO Were commissioned to undertake a feasibility study AMECs historic focus has been largely on surface on an underground mine in Mongolia mining.
In line with Vision 2015, this expertise has now OO Created a strategic partnership with S2V Consulting also been applied to underground mining, starting which means we can now offer in-house subsea and with the award of a feasibility study for Lift 1 of the field development services underground Hugo North block cave operation of Oyu OO Expanded our position in Australia and enhanced Tolgoi LLCs copper and gold mining project in Mongolia.
our business consulting offering with the acquisition Markets of Currie & Brown Australia Limited and The underlying drivers supporting continued growth in Burman Griffiths.
Since the year end, we have also acquired Zektingroup, an Australian-based specialist engineering consultancy Following the financial crisis in 2008, increased caution and qedi, a UK-based project delivery company.
Zektin from mining companies manifested itself in reduced provides front-end engineering design FEED and expansionary capacity.
The Deutsche Bank DB note of engineering services to the oil and gas market, in 11 January 2011 A bold 2011 for the miners suggests particular coal seam methane CSM, and the that although global growth in 2011 will be lower than  market, which includes the 2010, this will require still more output from a bioprocess, biotechnology and pharmaceuticals sectors.
commodity supply chain which is already stretched and Qedi has 350 people focused on delivering completion under-capitalised.
Hence they expect strong and commissioning services for major projects in the oil commodity price performance in 2011 and beyond.
China has been the major driver of commodity demand AMEC continues to see acquisition opportunities in over the last couple of years.
DB expects a modest Natural Resources end markets which would further reduction in Chinese GDP growth rates to 2012 but still improve its competitive position.
is forecasting solid growth in Chinese commodity demand off an ever-increasing base.
O Further details on Vision 2015 can be found on page 6 and at amec.
AMEC has long sought to mitigate the impact of economic volatility by positioning itself to support a diverse range of commodities and service markets.
AMEC estimates that its accessible markets will grow by between six and eight per cent per annum in the period to 2015.
AMEC plc annual report and accounts 2010 21 Natural Resources continued Financial performance Overall revenue in the Natural Resources division improved 17 per cent to 1,520.5 million through a mix of organic growth, acquisitions and positive currency movements.
The division saw good performance, particularly in Canadian oil sands, as work progressed on the initial development of Imperial Oils Kearl project.
Minerals & Metals also performed well on the back of improving commodities markets and North Sea activity picked up in the latter part of the year.
Improvements in EBITA 174.7 million, up 13 per cent were driven by revenue growth, the favourable impact of currency movements and acquisitions.
The EBITA margin of 11.5 per cent was down 40 basis points, affected by the first years trading from GRD Minproc, as well as continuing customer pricing pressures.
As anticipated, GRD is now trading profitably.
Capex activities increased to 74 per cent of total divisional revenues, and opex activities represented 26 per cent 2009: capex 65 per cent: opex 35 per cent.
Margins in capex and opex declined to 12.9 per cent and 7.3 per cent respectively 2009: capex 13.3 per cent: opex 8.8 per cent.
Natural Resources order book at 31 December 2010 was up six per cent at 1.8 billion, with North Sea brownfield and mining activity driving the increase.
Capex activity represents 42 per cent of the order book 2009: 55 per cent, with opex up at 58 per cent 2009: 45 per cent.
AMECs oil sands activity in 2011 is expected to be below 2010 record levels, due to the phasing of work on Imperial Oils Kearl project.
This short term decline is expected to be offset by an increase in mining and North Sea activity.
Although AMEC has ceased operations in Libya and safely evacuated all expatriate staff, the impact on the group will be insignificant.
O Major agreements or contracts during 2010 are shown on page 17.
O Further details on these, and other contract awards, may be found at amec.
22 AMEC plc annual report and accounts 2010
