Introduction Strategy Risk Performance Governance Financials Power & Process Description of business 1 Change Underlying million 2010 2009 % % Principal activities: Total life of asset services provided, particularly in the areas of clean energy Revenue 884.4 788.1 12 10 and carbon efficiency, in Europe and the Americas.
EBITA 75.3 55.4 36 32 EBITA margin % 8.5 7.0 150bps 40 per cent of 2010 revenues generated by capex services with the rest in opex.
Order book bn 1.05 1.17 -10 Average number Principal locations: AMEC has operations in mature 2 of employees 7,507 7,061 6 markets and frontier regions, with major offices in 1 Growth measured against 2009 as restated for material Atlanta, GA, Greenville, SC US : Darlington, Knutsford acquisitions and movements in material currencies.
UK : Santiago Chile : Toronto and Vancouver Canada.
2 Full time equivalents, including agency staff.
Revenue split: 60 per cent UK Europe: 40 per cent Americas.
in Ontario, Canada: EnergySource LLC: engineering Revenue split by sector: services for a 49-megawatt, $350 million geothermal power generating facility at Salton Sea, California, US: National Grid: FEED for carbon capture and Nuclear 15% storage CCS project at Longannet power station in Renewables 29% Bioprocess Fife, Scotland, UK: INEOS New Planet BioEnergy: 27% Power delivery of the first commercial-scale advanced Transmission bio-energy facility using the INEOS Bio technology, 29% & Distribution Florida, US: EDF Energy: extension of Hill Top Farm gas storage facility, to include the design, installation and commissioning of the filtration and compression facilities, after-cooling, fide-hydration, metering and Customers include: AIM Harrow, AWE, BC Hydro, utility equipment, UK.
Bruce Power, Dominion Power, EDF Energy, ExxonMobil, INEOS, Kruger Chatham, Magnox, Business overview Milford Energy, National Grid, NDA, Ontario Power The Power & Process division provides a balanced Generation, PCA Valdosta, SABIC, Sellafield Limited, portfolio of consulting, EPC Engineering, Procurement, Shell, Southern Company, Scottish Power, Construction and asset support services across the life Wales and West Utilities.
cycle of projects and investments to a broad range of public, private and utility customers principally located Significant new contracts in 2010 included: in the UK, Europe and Americas.
EDF Energy: major 11-year contract to support the architect engineer operation for the proposed Over the last four years the business mix has been delivery of four new EPR European Pressurised deliberately migrated towards higher value services Water Reactor nuclear reactors at Hinkley Point and and projects which provide an attractive mix of risk Sizewell, UK: Sellafield Limited: two-year contract and return.
Contract types and lives vary by region for the early phase project definition, design and cost and nature of service, from cost reimbursable to programme of the Highly Active Effluent Facility target price.
Lump sum contracts make up some project, UK: CEZ: five-year contract for the 18 per cent of the divisions revenue.
management of radioactive waste at their nuclear power plant in Dukovany, Czech Republic: Kruger Energy: engineering, procurement, construction contract for the Chatham Wind Power project, AMEC plc annual report and accounts 2010 23 Power & Process continued As in Natural Resources, the majority of the divisions Principal activities include: engineering and project management staff have skills OO Providing pre-licensing and architect and owner which are transferable between market sectors.
engineer services ensuring support for project Vision 2015 has established a clear strategic focus on construction management on new build clean energy and carbon efficiency, with the intent to programmes worldwide.
During 2010, AMEC was grow existing markets and selectively pursue growth appointed by EDF to support its architect engineer into new markets and geographies.
operations on its UK nuclear new build programme OO Supporting major reactor re-start programmes Nuclear such as Bruce Power in Ontario, Canada AMECs nuclear capability has been developed over OO Providing key technical and project management 50 years.
AMEC is experienced in supporting the full services to support the continued operation, life cycle of nuclear energy, with expertise covering a enhancement and life time extension of existing large range of nuclear technologies.
reactor fleets Principal offices are in Knutsford UK and Toronto OO Managing UK decommissioning and waste Canada with locations in Eastern Europe and management programmes.
Importantly, AMEC South Africa and some 2,000 employees in this sector.
holds a key position within Nuclear Management Customers include major utilities, governments, Partners NMP for the management of the national regulators and other significant stakeholders.
Sellafield complex on behalf of the NDA OO Providing project management, engineering Services are provided across the full asset life cycle, and safety assurance services to nuclear from new build to reactor support including life time decommissioning programmes across Europe extension and finally to nuclear decommissioning and waste management.
These services include OO Providing licensing and regulatory support for programme management, major project management, the complete asset life cycle from engineering, engineering, outage management, safety design and through commissioning and operation assessment, research and development, radiochemical to decommissioning analysis, radiological, environmental and other OO Active in research and naval reactor plant specialist technical services.
programmes and the UKs strategic deterrent programme.
AMECs nuclear business remains technology independent and its experience ranges across all four Markets generations of nuclear technology.
The nuclear industry has been experiencing a worldwide renaissance which is driven by: The business works with its customers in long-term relationships based on partnering to support their OO Increasing worldwide energy demand major assets, and has significant experience in OO Need for reduced greenhouse gas emissions and effectively managing complex stakeholder environmentally clean technology to replace an aged relationships across the industry, governments, asset base and help minimise climate change regulators, supply chain and communities.
OO Security of supply concerns, as it is less subject to economic or political uncertainty.
24 AMEC plc annual report and accounts 2010 Introduction Strategy Risk Performance Governance Financials The longevity of the nuclear market is a key attribute for Carbon Capture and Storage CCS and marine and AMEC is positioning itself to be a major player in energy in the UK to wind EPC and construction its current and target regions for the long term.
Globally, there are currently some 30 countries with AMEC is able to draw on its considerable experience nuclear power and a further 20 countries considering and expertise in areas such as the power and pulp it.
Worldwide electricity production from nuclear power and paper sectors to assist its customers in is projected to climb from 2,731 TWh in 2008 to 4,900 implementing new technologies.
AMEC estimates the global market AMEC has considerable expertise and experience for its services in nuclear to be around 59 billion in wood handling, storage and conveyance, boiler currently, growing to greater than 95 billion by 2020. technologies and co-firing of biomass in industrial boilers within the conventional power sector which The UK Government is supporting the replacement is readily transferable to biomass.
of the existing UK fleet of nuclear power stations.
Over at least the next 11 years, AMEC will be actively Biofuels are driven by clean fuels legislation.
AMEC is supporting EDFs nuclear new build programme.
a leader in the development of cellulosic ethanol, and has contributed to high-profile demonstration plants.
With its role at Sellafield and history at Dounreay, Power & Process is a major player in UK The pulp and paper sector covers grades of printing decommissioning, a sector valued at 73 billion UK and writing paper, tissue, boxboard, container board, Nuclear Decommissioning Authority figures.
AMEC is a market leader in the Americas as a full-service provider.
In Canada, nuclear power is used to generate approximately 15 per cent of electricity requirements.
Contracts worked on during 2010 included the Refurbishment projects which are either in progress Chatham Wind Power project in Canada for Kruger or have been announced amount to some Cdn$9 billion, Energy, the first commercial scale advance bio-enegry of which Cdn$6 billion is in Ontario and the balance facility for INEOS New Planet BioEnergy in Florida, US split between New Brunswick and Quebec.
A further and FEED work for National Grid for a carbon capture nine plants are potentially planned by 2020. and storage project at Longannet Power Station in Scotland, UK.
Other key geographies for AMEC include Central and Eastern Europe and South Africa.
Markets The renewables sector is driven by the requirement AMEC estimates that its accessible markets will grow to meet national and international emissions control by between five and seven per cent per annum in the and pollution control legislation, and incentive period to 2015. mechanisms including short-term stimulus packages and improving technology.
Renewables Bioprocess Under the IEA new policies scenario, overall This sector has a strong North American focus, renewables are projected to increase from 19 per cent in part due to the clean air legislation and tax incentives of the global electricity generation mix in 2009 to 24 per provided to encourage growth.
AMEC provides consulting, engineering, construction In absolute terms, this is equivalent to an increase from management and selected EPC EPCm services to 3,772 TWh to nearly 11,200 TWh by 2035.
To achieve customers including power utilities, financial this, an investment of some US$5.7 trillion is forecast, institutions, government agencies, technology of which over US$1.8 trillion is invested in wind, developers, OEMs original Equipment Manufacturers US$1.4 trillion in solar and US$688 billion in biomass.
Projects may range from consultancy support during technology development AMEC plc annual report and accounts 2010 25 Power & Process continued BPs Energy Outlook 2010 expects renewables Transmission & Distribution T&D including biofuels to be the fastest growing sector in This sector covers power transmission and distribution the fuel mix, growing by 8.2 per cent per annum from for medium, high, and extra high voltage transmission 2010 to 2030. lines and cables, substations and interconnectors.
It also includes gas transmission and distribution, encompassing AMECs activities in high pressure gas AMEC estimates that its accessible markets will grow import terminals, storage and transmission, and low by between 8 and 10 per cent per annum in the period pressure gas distribution.
AMEC provides consulting and feasibility studies Power through to detailed engineering, project management, This sector comprises generation of electricity programme management, construction, EPCm and from conventional sources other than nuclear, commissioning services.
and also air quality control systems AQCS for emissions control work.
Major customers are T&D system owners with which AMEC has had long-standing relationships.
The majority of services are performed for regulated They include National Grid including involvement in utilities and independent power producers, primarily the Electricity Alliance West and in the M1 Gas Alliance, in Europe and the Americas.
The services provided both in the UK, EDF and Wales and West Utilities.
include consultancy and feasibility studies, engineering, EPCm and construction.
During 2010, AMEC won a new contract worth over 60 million for the extension of the Hill Top Farm gas During 2010, work on EDF Energys new 1,300MW storage facility in the UK for EDF.
AMEC will design, Combined Cycle Gas Turbine CCGT power station install and commission the filtration and compression at West Burton, UK has continued.
facilities, after-cooling, fide-hydration, metering and utility equipment.
Markets Over 400 GW of operational coal, gas, and oilfired Markets capacity is more than 40 years old and a further The sector is characterised by medium-term, 585 GW is between 30 and 40 years old.
This means sustainable growth which will be resistant to major that around one third of the installed fossil fuel capacity cyclical swings.
in 2008 will reach the end of its operational life in the OO next 10 to 15 years, with the effect disproportionately Increasing global power demand creates the weighted towards OECD countries.
The IEA suggests requirement for increased interconnection that nearly 35 per cent of the US$9.6 trillion of OO Shifts in supply and demand points, with the worldwide investment to 2035 will be needed to transition to low carbon generation and renewable replace existing plants.
energy in remote locations, drive system configuration changes Investment in conventional power in North America OO and the UK is expected to remain stable, T&D networks in AMEC current and future while environmental projects such as flue gas territories require major asset renewal to desulphurisation and selective catalytic reduction replace life-expired assets following many years are expected to grow, as emission targets increase.
AMEC estimates that its accessible markets will Gas investment will continue to grow in the short term, grow by between three and five per cent per annum driven primarily by the issues of security of supply and in the period to 2015. the need to increase storage capacity in Europe and North America.
26 AMEC plc annual report and accounts 2010 Introduction Strategy Risk Performance Governance Financials IEA World Economic Outlook 2010 supports this EBITA increased 36 per cent, to 75.3 million requirement for investment in T&D infrastructure, 2009: 55.4 million, benefiting from improvements identifying US$1.2 trillion of investment being required in operational efficiency.
The major Sellafield joint in the OECD countries alone between 2010 and 2020. venture contract contributed 16 million in 2010 2009: 15 million.
The overall EBITA margin improved AMEC estimates that its accessible markets will grow by 150 basis points, to 8.5 per cent.
by between four and six per cent per annum in the period to 2015.
The order book at 31 December was 1.05 billion 31 December 2009: 1.17 billion, down on the previous year, due to adjustments made relating to Vision 2015 strategy National Grid in the US, where the scope of future work The Power & Process divisions Vision 2015 strategy is on the infrastructure replacement programme has to focus on clean energy and carbon efficiency as a been reduced.
This was offset in part by increased sustainable platform for future growth post economic activity in the Renewables and Nuclear sectors.
The group will maintain a balanced portfolio Capex activity represents 57 per cent of the order of services focusing on both EBIT growth through book 2009: 39 per cent, with opex at 43 per cent higher value services and volume growth from project 2009: 61 per cent.
The tier one Sellafield delivery services.
A technology neutral position will be decommissioning contract, as an equity accounted maintained with the group positioned as expert partner joint venture, is not included in these figures.
of choice, aligned with technology providers as required to access clients, sector and market opportunities.
Good progress continues to be made on the resolution of the older contracts which, as previously referenced, Key achievements in 2010 included growth in do not meet the revised criteria of low-risk services underlying revenue of 10 per cent, achieved through with high value add.
a focus on higher value services.
Confirmation of the tier one role with EDF on the UK nuclear new build In 2011 continued growth is expected to result from programme provides a strong base for future growth ongoing customer focus and the growing market for in the nuclear sector and the award of several leading AMECs consultancy, engineering and project edge contracts in renewables bioprocess provides management services in the clean energy arena.
recognition of AMECs expertise in this area.
O Major agreements or contracts during 2010 are O Further details on Vision 2015 can be found on shown on page 23. page 6 and at amec.
O Further details on these, and other contract awards, Financial performance 2010 may be found at amec.
The Power & Process division achieved a strong set of results in 2010, reflecting the extensive measures taken to refocus the business model and core services over the last four years.
Revenue was up 12 per cent, to 884.4 million in 2010 2009: 788.1 million driven by a strong performance in the UK nuclear sector as well as the ramping up of a power project in the UK.
AMEC plc annual report and accounts 2010 27
