Our group management team Samir Brikho Keith Bradford Chief Executive Group Human Resources Director Samir Brikho was appointed Chief Executive in 2006.
Keith Bradford is Group Human Resources Director In addition to being Chair of Offshore Europe 2011, and is also responsible for sustainability.
He was he is a director of the United Kingdom-Japan 21st previously Senior Vice President of HR Global Century Group.
He also chaired the World Economic Operations at GlaxoSmithKline.
He will leave AMEC Forum's Engineering and Construction Board in 2009 on 1 May 2011 for family reasons and is succeeded by and, from May 2008 to May 2010, held the position of William Serle, currently HR Operations Director.
Chair of UK Energy Excellence, a strategy board tasked by the UK Government with demonstrating the UKs Franois-Philippe Champagne world-leading position in energy.
In February 2010 Strategic Development Director Samir was appointed a UK Business Ambassador by Franois-Philippe Champagne is Strategic the Prime Minister.
He was previously a member of the Development Director, with responsibility for mergers Group Executive Committee of ABB Ltd. Switzerland and acquisitions activity and strategy.
He is a nonand Chairman of ABB Lummus Global.
executive director of TakingItGlobal, a non-profit organisation and was selected by the World Economic Ian McHoul Forum as a Young Global Leader 2009.
He joined Chief Financial Officer AMEC in 2008.
Ian McHoul joined AMEC and was appointed Chief Financial Officer in September 2008.
A Chartered Tony Cruddas Accountant, he was previously Group Finance Director President, Growth Regions of Scottish and Newcastle plc.
Tony Cruddas is President, Growth Regions and is responsible for the oversight and direction of business Neil Bruce in China, Commonwealth of Independent States, Middle East and North Africa, Australia and South East Chief Operating Officer Asia.
A Chartered Engineer and European Engineer, Neil Bruce became Chief Operating Officer for AMEC in he was previously Director of Global Upstream Projects August 2010, having been Chief Operating Officer for for AMEC Oil & Gas, having joined AMEC in 2001. the Natural Resources division since 2006, and Power & Process since December 2009.
He was appointed as an executive director for AMEC plc in January 2009.
Eleanor Evans Since March 2009 he has been Chairman of the UK Oil General Counsel and Company Secretary elect & Gas advisory board of UK Trade & Investment.
He is Eleanor Evans will join AMEC on 15 March 2011. an Honorary Professor at Aberdeen Business School at She was previously Chief Legal Officer and Company the Robert Gordon University.
He was previously Secretary at Cobham PLC.
Managing Director of AMEC Oil and Gas, having joined AMEC in 1997.
Timothy Gelbar President, Power & Process Americas Tim Gelbar has been President of Power & Process Michael Blacker General Counsel and Company Secretary Americas since 2006.
He has more than 30 years of experience leading and managing engineering and As General Counsel, Michael Blacker is responsible for construction operations in the power, process and the provision of legal and risk management services industrial markets.
He is on the Advisory Board of the across the organisation.
Michael has been with AMEC Construction Industry Institute CII, and is a member since 1997 and will retire at the end of March 2011. of the Construction Users Roundtable CURT.
36 AMEC plc annual report and accounts 2010 Introduction Strategy Risk Performance Governance Financials Dr Hisham Mahmoud Mike Saunders President, Earth & Environmental President, Power & Process Europe Dr Hisham Mahmoud joined AMEC in October 2010 Mike Saunders joined AMEC in 2007 to head up its as President, Earth & Environmental.
Prior to joining global nuclear business.
He was previously Senior Vice AMEC, Dr Hisham Mahmoud worked for URS President of the Global Nuclear Fuel business at Corporation and its predecessor companies for the Westinghouse Electric Company.
He has more than 30 last 19 years, most recently as East Midwest Group years' experience in the nuclear power industry having General Manager, Infrastructure and Environment.
held a number of senior positions including managing Dr Mahmoud has a Bachelor of Science degree in nuclear licensed sites in the UK, Europe and the US.
He Civil Engineering from the University of Qatar and a is a member of the board of the Sellafield parent Masters and a PhD, both in Civil Engineering, from company Nuclear Management Partners and sits on Arizona State University in the US, and is a registered the board of the National Skills Academy for Nuclear professional engineer in multiple US states.
and the Governments Nuclear Development Forum.
Simon Naylor Sue Scholes President Natural Resources Americas Director of Communications Simon Naylor has been President of the Natural Sue Scholes has been Director of Communications Resources Americas business since 2007 and has led since joining AMEC in 2007.
She was previously Head of the growth and successful development of positions in Investor Relations at Brambles Industries plc.
Sue is a the core market sectors of Mining, Oil & Gas and Oil Chartered Management Accountant and sits on the Sands.
Since joining AMEC in 1993 he has worked Investor Relations Societys Education Committee.
across the project life cycle: from consulting to engineering and project management and his experience includes project development, asset support, strategy, customer relationship management and operations leadership.
John Pearson Managing Director, Natural Resources Europe and West Africa John Pearson was appointed to his current role in 2007.
He joined AMEC from Chevron in 1990 and has worked in a variety of engineering and project management roles in Aberdeen, San Francisco, Baku and London.
He is currently Chairman of the Offshore Contractors Association and a board member of Oil & Gas UK.
Everything we do is about servicing our customers, delivering excellent work for our customers, developing long-term relationships with our customers and securing repeat work from our customers.
Neil Bruce Chief Operating Officer AMEC plc annual report and accounts 2010 37
