ITE Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2010 34 Governance Our Directors Iain Paterson Russell Taylor Michael Hartley Malcolm Wall Edward Strachan Neil England Neil Jones Operating performance Overview and Divisional summary Governance Financial statements ITE Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2010 35 Iain Paterson 63 Michael Hartley 61 Malcolm Wall 54 Non-executive Chairman Non-executive Director Non-executive Director Iain Paterson was appointed a Director and Audit, Remuneration & Nomination Audit, Remuneration & Nomination Non-executive Chairman of the Company in Committees Committees May 2002.
He has 40 years of international Michael Hartley was appointed a NonMalcolm Wall was appointed as a Nonmanagement experience at a senior level, executive Director of the Company on 21 executive Director of the ITE Group in most particularly in the oil industry.
He October 2003 and is currently Chairman May 2006 and is currently Chairman of was a Board Member and International of the Audit Committee and Senior the Remuneration committee.
He has Director of Enterprise Oil plc.
He brings extensive enjoyed a highly successful career in the he spent 14 years at British Petroleum International management experience media sector and brings senior level board plc.
He is currently a Non-executive to the Board, having spent 16 years experience and extensive knowledge Director of Mol Nyrt the Hungarian with Coats Viyella plc, for the last three of the B2B market and the exhibitions energy company and Chairman of two years as Chief Executive of the Viyella business.
Mr Wall left Virgin Media where private companies, AnTech Limited and division.
He has worked extensively in he was Chief Executive of Content in April Plebble Loyalty Limited.
He is a member Asia, Australasia and Africa.
Previous posts include a ten year of the Advisory Committee for Oman Oil was until recently Chairman of Dawson spell with United Business Media during Company Exploration and Production.
International plc and is currently Chairman which, as Chief Operating Officer, he had of privately owned recruitment business direct responsibility for the professional Russell Taylor 52 Hartley Resourcing Limited.
He holds an media business unit that included B2B Chief Executive Officer MBA from Manchester Business School.
publications and the exhibition business.
Russell Taylor was appointed Chief He is currently a Non-executive Director Executive in May 2008 having joined ITE Neil Jones 44 of Creston plc and Harlequin FC Ltd. in March 2003 as Finance Director.
He has Finance Director extensive experience of all sectors of the Neil Jones was appointed as Finance exhibition industry, having earlier in his Director in November 2008.
He has held career spent seven years at Earls Court senior financial positions within the Olympia Group, as Group Finance Director exhibitions industry for over 10 years.
and subsequently Managing Director He was formerly Finance Director at of Earls Court & Olympia Halls.
He is a Tarsus Group plc, which specialises in qualified Chartered Accountant, having the organisation of trade exhibitions in trained at Touche Ross & Co, where he Europe, America, UAE and Asia.
Prior to became a Manager in the Corporate Finance that, he was European Finance Director Department.
He holds a BA in Economics.
for Advanstar Communications, one of the largest US media groups.
Neil is a Neil England 56 member of the Institute of Chartered Non-executive Director Accountants of England and Wales, Audit, Remuneration & Nomination qualifying with Price Waterhouse in 1990.
Committees Neil England was appointed a NonEdward Strachan 46 executive Director of the Company in Executive Director March 2008.
He has a breadth of sales and Edward Strachan joined ITE in 1993 marketing experience and an extensive when he launched ITEs local business in knowledge of ITEs key geographic Kazakhstan.
Since then he has opened and markets.
He was formerly Vice President managed ITEs operations in St Petersburg, for Mars Incorporated with responsibility Turkey, Kazakhstan, Uzbekistan and for all the CIS countries and he built a Azerbaijan and currently lives abroad in market-leading business there.
He became a main Board Director recently, he was Group Commercial in July 2003 and brings to the Board his Director on the main board of Gallaher extensive experience of the exhibition Group Plc.
He is currently Non-executive industry in Russia and the CIS regions.
Chairman of the Eastern European Trust Plc, an emerging market trust investing in Eastern Europe: Non-executive Chairman of Silverstone Holdings Limited and is Senior Independent Director of Wincanton Plc.
