26 ITV plc Report and accounts 2010 Key Performance Indicators ITV has redefined its Key Performance Indicators KPI to align performance and accountability to the Transformation Plan.
ITVs KPI include core financial performance indicators and strategic performance indicators.
While these KPI will be the key measures of success over the next five years, we will keep them under review to ensure that they remain the most appropriate measures in line with our strategy.
Core financial performance 2010 2009 EBITA before 408m 202m exceptional items Earnings before interest, tax and amortisation EBITA before exceptional items has increased EBITA before exceptional items more during the year to 408 million mainly due to accurately reflects the business performance a 205 million increase in television advertising of the Group in a consistent manner and in line revenues and the continued positive impact with how the business is managed and of cost savings, which were partially offset by measured on a day-to-day basis.
increased transmission and schedule costs in the year.
2010 2009 Adjusted earnings per share 6.4p 1.8p Adjusted earnings per share represent the Adjusted earnings per share has increased to 6.4 adjusted profit for the year attributable to pence reflecting the significant improvement in equity shareholders.
It more accurately reflects trading and EBITA before exceptional items, the the business performance of the Group in a reduction in adjusted financing costs as a result consistent manner and in line with how the of the repurchase of debt and the reduction in business is managed and measured on a the adjusted tax rate due to the utilisation of day-to-day basis.
Adjusted profit is defined as profit for the year attributable to equity shareholders before exceptional items, impairment of intangible assets, amortisation of intangible assets acquired through business combinations, financing cost adjustments see page 32 and prior period and other tax adjustments.
2010 2009 Profit to cash conversion 127% 171% Profit to cash conversion represents the A profit to cash conversion ratio of over 100% proportion of EBITA before exceptional items has been achieved for the second successive converted into a measure of adjusted cash flow year.
This shows that ITV has maintained a defined as cash generated from operations strong focus on working capital, in particular before exceptional items less cash related to the stock balances.
The high conversion rates over acquisition of property, plant and equipment the past two years have been key factors in the and intangible assets see page 35.
Profit to cash conversion been restated to include cash related to the in 2011 will be lower than 2010 since stock has acquisition of intangible assets.
been reduced to more normalised levels and capital expenditure will be higher.
It remains ITVs aim to keep this profit to cash conversion as high as possible, and in excess of 90% on a rolling three-year basis.
27 Overview Strategy & operations Performance & financials Responsibility Governance Financial statements Strategic performance indicators KPI description Performance 2010 2009 ITV Family Share of Viewing SOV ITV Family SOV 22.9% 23.1% ITV Family Share of Viewing SOV is ITVs share ITV Family SOV has declined by 1% in the year.
of the total viewing audience over the year achieved by ITVs family of channels compared The movement in SOV can be split between to the entire television market, including the viewing performance on each platform and the BBC Family.
ITV aims to at least maintain the change in usage of each of these platforms ITV Family SOV.
during the year platform mix.
Removing the impact of the change in platform mix, 2009s SOV adjusted for the 2010 platform mix was 22.8%.
Adjusted SOV therefore actually slightly improved during the year.
ITV Family Share of Commercial Impacts ITV Family SOCI 39.8% 40.0% SOCI ITV Family SOCI was broadly flat year-on-year.
This is the share of total UK television commercial ITV1s SOCI was down 4% year-on-year, but this impacts which is delivered by ITVs family of was largely offset by the strength in the ITV channels.
An impact is one viewer watching one digital channels, particularly ITV3.
SOCI is the trading currency in the television advertising market.
ITV aims to maximise its SOCI.
ITV Family Share of Broadcast SOB ITV Family SOB 45.1% 44.7% ITVs UK television advertising market share is known as its Share of Broadcast SOB.
In 2010, ITV NAR gained market share increasing To maximise revenues from ITVs free-to-air its SOB to 45.1% of the total UK television business, ITV aims to continue to maximise market.
This was due to strong performances its SOB and to outperform the UK television by both the sales team and on screen as ITV advertising market.
continues to deliver the big audiences and brands that are most demanded by advertisers.
Non-NAR revenues Non-NAR revenues 829m 850m Non-NAR revenues includes all ITV revenues, The reduction in non-NAR revenues in 2010 both internal and external, except net advertising by 21 million to 829 million is due to a revenues NAR.
Growing non-NAR revenues is 43 million reduction in total revenue in ITV key to the Transformation Plan as we aim to Studios, partially offset by smaller increases in rebalance the business away from its reliance Broadcasting & Online non-NAR revenues.
com unique users 10.2m 8.7m Average monthly unique users are a measure of the number of individual users visiting itv.
Unique users are up 17% year-on-year, but Online remains subscale compared to our Broadcasting business.
com video views 234m 215m Video views are a measure of the total number Video views are up 9% year-on-year.
An of videos viewed on itv.
It increasing proportion is long form views which includes long and short form video views.
are more valuable to ITV: this now constitutes 55% of total video views with 129 million long form video views in 2010.
Percentage of ITV1 output from ITV Studios Percentage of 53% 50% ITV1 output from This represents the proportion of the total ITV Studios original commissions spend on ITV1 transmitted in the year, delivered by ITV The percentage of ITV1 output from ITV Studios.
In order to grow the content business, Studios has increased in the year.
This has been ITV Studios needs to increase its supply of high driven by the delivery of daytime and factual potential programmes to the ITV Network.
Going forward ITV aims to deliver Once they have been made famous in the UK, more entertainment and drama programming.
they can then be sold around the world.
However, it should be noted that ITV1s spend on original commissions has declined in the year by 32 million since sport costs increased due to the football World Cup.
