40 ITV plc Report and accounts 2010 Responsibility As a broadcaster and producer, ITVs activities can impact the lives of millions of people 41 Overview Strategy & operations Performance & financials Responsibility Governance Financial statements The leadership team has undergone Responsibility development reviews, incorporating As a broadcaster and producer, ITVs psychometric tests and coaching support.
activities can impact the lives of millions The output of this has resulted in improved of people: our employees, our viewers clarity on the make up of our leadership and online users, UK and international team and the identification of strengths broadcasters, suppliers and the community and capability gaps.
ITV has begun to and environment in which we operate.
address these gaps by means of a four We have a responsibility to all these people stage leadership development programme to behave in a responsible manner.
This programme average weekly reach alone is 42.7 million has begun to create a network of leaders people.
This is 75% of the UK population with a common frame of reference on how and as such ITV is in a unique position with we lead at ITV.
Next year, we will continue the potential to have a significant impact to roll out the Leading Transformation on the way the world is viewed from live programme to our leadership team with General Election debates to the latest a focus on strengthening the network, pop sensation.
leading change and managing sustainable commercial relationships.
Our people Key to our business transformation is the Our people are fundamental to our business creation of a high performance culture and to the delivery of the Transformation and we have established a programme Plan.
Therefore, attracting and retaining to upskill all our managers in performance talent is critical to our success.
Our focus management with practical sessions over the last nine months has been on facilitated by credible leaders in the business.
fixing the business and making it fit for This is in support of our end of year purpose.
This has involved not only making performance reviews.
The launch of the sure we have the best leadership team but performance management cycle will enable the right people across the whole organisation managers to drive performance throughout and building their engagement and the year and ensure we focus and build commitment to the Transformation Plan.
capability around clear and effective objective setting, personal development ITV has launched a new bespoke and succession as well as performance.
engagement survey which enables us to gain an accurate picture of morale We continue to be inclusive in our approach and engagement at team level as well as to training and development and this year business area level.
Employee engagement over 1,800 of our colleagues have benefited has improved from 65% to 75%.
However, from a formal training course.
We have run there is still work to be done and ITV will new programmes to develop middle and work with managers to improve employee senior managers as well as establishing engagement.
The new survey approach monthly development master classes provides the leadership team with better open to all colleagues.
information to increase employee engagement and commitment and to target improvements on how ITV can become a better place to work.
People development In 2010, ITV has started to deliver against an ambitious people development agenda, in support of our business transformation.
ITV has launched a new People development is important across bespoke engagement the business.
The initial focus has been on assessing and further developing the survey which enables leadership capability of our 120 leaders, who will then help their own teams to develop.
us to gain an accurate picture of morale and engagement at team level as well as business area level 42 ITV plc Report and accounts 2010 Responsibility continued Benefits and incentives ITV is an active participant in the major A key element of the Transformation Plan is national and industry specific diversity to make ITV a great place to work.
Throughout the year it has to create an environment of one ITV, a achieved successes in finding and single, dynamic organisation.
We aim to developing new diverse talent as well as establish a performance driven culture that delivering specific employee engagement recognises employees for their personal initiatives to work towards a workforce achievements and contribution towards that fully reflects the audience it serves.
The table on page 45 gives further information on ITVs workplace profile.
In 2010 ITV launched Relish, a new benefits package, which is available to all employees Communication and provides valuable cost savings to both Effective, open, two-way internal the Company and employees.
A new communication is vital to making option for 2011, gives all employees the ITV a great place to work and to the opportunity to access private healthcare successful delivery of our five-year cover for themselves and their dependants.
The introduction of Relish has been well Employees receive regular updates on received with over 50% of eligible our Transformation Plan through a number employees participating.
Everyone had the opportunity to hear our strategy directly In January 2011, ITVs annual pay review awarded all eligible employees earning from the Management Board at companywide roadshows.
Bi-monthly breakfast under 60,000 a 3% increase, as well as an additional one-off award to the value of meetings are held for the senior leadership team and information from these are 300.
Part of this one-off award was made in ITV shares to give all employees a stake cascaded down through teams across the Company.
The Company intranet the in the business.
Watercooler has been re-launched and As part of the shift towards ensuring now provides a number of social media performance is at the heart of our business, functions where colleagues can give the 2011 pay award for eligible employees feedback and ask questions right across earning 60,000 or above is linked to their the Company.
This is the first step towards our goal of creating a strong Health and safety link between performance and reward for The health and safety H&S of employees, all ITV employees.
contractors and visitors at ITV is always a high priority.
A management system has Diversity been developed by the internal H&S team Our Diversity and Equality strategy aims to meet the specific risk profile of the to ensure equality of opportunity to all business and is supported by a employees irrespective of gender, marital comprehensive training programme.
status, race, origin, nationality, religious H&S is communicated throughout the belief, disability, age or sexual orientation.
organisation by a network of local ITV is recognised as a positive employer committees, who report to the ITV H&S and holds the two-tick disability symbol to Steering Group.
The table on page 45 gives demonstrate its commitment in recruiting further information on ITVs H&S statistics.
and retaining individuals with disabilities.
Effective, open, two-way internal communication is vital to making ITV a great place to work and to the successful delivery of our five-year Transformation Plan 43 Overview Strategy & operations Performance & financials Responsibility Governance Financial statements ITV Studios supply programming to Customers broadcasters and commissioners worldwide.
Our key customers are our viewers, our The business works closely with its partners advertisers and other broadcasters.
to produce and supply the highest quality content, which is commercially appealing To understand ITV viewers and their and rewarding.
expectations of us more fully, throughout 2010 we continued to commission an independent research company to recruit Suppliers and survey our Vision Panel.
The panel is ITV conducts business with a large variety representative of 8,000 adult television of suppliers and believes that its terms are viewers along with a smaller independent considered fair and reasonable.
To ensure panel, My Digital Life, to obtain feedback ITV trades responsibly, environmental and from the online market.
This enables ITV health and safety questionnaires are to measure audience reaction to our completed on all transactions.
programmes and content on a daily basis and to achieve an in-depth understanding The procurement team is organised in a of viewer reaction and preferences.
It also way that supports the business in choosing allows ITV to ask regular questions about and managing the correct supplier.
Specific the family of digital channels, using the focus has been in the areas of technology, panel to test new ideas and to find out production, property and site, travel and peoples views on broader media issues.
An internal review was ITV also undertakes qualitative research, undertaken in 2010 which has led to the using focus groups to obtain feedback on appointment of two new Commercial a range of programming.
This will develop the All ITV programmes must focus on the commercial management of All ITV programmes must comply with our key technology suppliers and partners.
the Ofcom Broadcasting Code in relation to comply with the Ofcom their content and scheduling.
ITV observes ITV has a variety of suppliers who are key to Broadcasting Code in the 9.00 pm watershed, and alerts viewers the business.
A number of the Companys to material that may cause offence relation to their content major suppliers are involved in the immediately before relevant programming.
broadcast of ITVs family of channels and and scheduling ITV has detailed compliance processes and include Arqiva, Technicolor, SES Astra and an in-house compliance team that provides BT.
Other key suppliers include those who support and advice for programme makers provide the technology for outside broadcast and commissioners before and during such as SIS.
In 2010, ITV signed a five-year production, and reviews programmes outsourcing contract with Accenture for before broadcast.
ITV maintains a responsive them to provide ITV with technology complaints handling service via ITVs Viewer operations and support services.
Services team, and viewers can also raise Key suppliers of programming and any concerns about programmes directly broadcasting programme rights include with Ofcom.
In 2010, 1,145 ITV programmes ITN, who provides ITVs national news were complained about to Ofcom, compared programmes, Fremantle who produce to 797 in 2009, and Ofcom adjudications Britains Got Talent and The X Factor for found six breaches compared to 13 in 2009.
ITV1, the Football Association, The Rugby Our relationship with advertisers is key Football Union and NBC Universal Studios.
ITV has ITV work closely with all key suppliers and restructured its Commercial and Online seek to appropriately manage any risks division as we forge ahead with our strategic arising from these arrangements, for plan.
The Commercial department will have example by signing long-term contracts a renewed focus on our customers and in areas such as programme supply, or by clients giving more opportunities for working with more than one supplier in advertisers to promote their brands across areas where we do not wish to become a number of platforms.
This will ensure that reliant on a single partner.
they rely on us even more to help them stand out in an increasingly competitive market as well as to deliver a better return on investment.
44 ITV plc Report and accounts 2010 Responsibility continued Community Environment ITV is proud to play a wider social role and In 2010, ITV continued to focus on the we actively engage our viewers across the careful management of environmental country on issues that affect their lives and matters across all areas of the organisation.
have an impact on the community in which Our environmental management they live.
Both on and off-screen, ITVs programme is built around a broad range network and regional teams aim to take of activities, although the focus for 2010 part in important initiatives that encourage was heavily influenced by the need individuals to seek to improve their lives, to comply with the new Carbon Reduction support community projects or promote Commitment Energy Efficiency integration of minority groups within Scheme CRC.
ITV continued to measure and monitor its In 2010, ITV continued to be an active carbon footprint and environmental impact partner in the cross-industry and during 2010.
We are currently working on government campaign to improve the new ways to identify opportunities to nations health and fitness.
As a founding improve our performance.
The changes member of the Business4Life movement, to our property portfolio during the year, ITV continued to support the Change4Life coupled with the ongoing focus on resource campaign both onscreen and online.
management, has led to a reduction in the Through network and regional programming size of the carbon footprint of certain parts viewers are encouraged to achieve a of the business and an improving situation ITV engages in healthier lifestyle.
Campaigns include the with regard to water consumption.
ITV Feelgood Factor Award and the launch Diversity and Disability Procedures to ensure new environmental of ITVs Walk4Life Day in September.
regulatory requirements are identified, initiatives including In 2010 ITV regional news programmes understood and proactively managed were our award-winning across the UK helped give away 3.5 million put in place during 2009.
These procedures of lottery funding in the Peoples Millions allowed us to promptly fulfil the complex in-house signing facility, competition.
Around 75 community registration requirements of the CRC.
SignPost, which provides projects received awards of up to 50,000 Having met the obligations we are currently from the Big Lottery Fund.
Now in its sixth reviewing our operation and property online signing services, year, the Peoples Millions competition portfolio to identify any areas of opportunity within regional news programmes has for reducing our energy consumption.
news, information, helped give away more than 25 million Our cross business CRC working group has entertainment and with hundreds of good causes benefiting identified a number of organisational as a result.
education in and priorities for the coming year.
These include Young people and their views on what the building of carbon skills into the about sign language needs fixing in our communities is the focus business and preparing for the purchase for another regional news initiative called of carbon in April 2012.
In partnership with the Public Our innovative waste management Service Broadcasting Trust and funded by continued to deliver strong results, the Nationwide Foundation and by V encouraging waste reduction and the the youth volunteering charity.
The total mass of volunteers with the support of mentors waste produced by ITV during 2010 shows from the Trust make a film about their a reduction of more than 15% when projects which were transmitted on ITV compared with the same figure for 2009.
terms of recycling, 60% of waste produced ITV engages in diversity and disability was sent to recycling which is slightly lower initiatives including our award-winning than 2009 but in excess of our target of in-house signing facility, SignPost, which 50%.
In order to ensure the best possible provides online signing services, news, results, both for the business and in terms information, entertainment and education of environmental protection, ITV is in and about sign language.
In 2010, undertaking a programme of verification SignPost won four more awards including audits which will be reported next year.
an RTS Best Online Production and a UK IT Industry Medal.
As a member of various diversity organisations, such as Stonewall, Cultural Diversity Network and Employers Forum on Disability, we look to support underrepresented groups and local communities.
This is achieved by offering services and facilities in-kind for events and lend our name to endorse key projects.
45 Overview Strategy & operations Performance & financials Responsibility Governance Financial statements It is the Companys policy not to make Donations cash contributions to any political party.
ITV supports a range of charities.
In 2010, However, within the normal activities of ITV produced and broadcast Socceraid the Groups national and regional news which raised in excess of 2.8 million for gathering operations there are occasions UNICEF: whilst viewers of This Mornings when activity may fall within the wide Xmas Appeal supported the childrens definition of political expenditure contained cancer charity CLIC Sargent with donations in the Companies Act 2006.
Shareholder of 400,000. authority for such expenditure was given at the Annual General Meeting in 2010 and The Company made contributions to a similar resolution will be proposed at the charities and equivalent organisations 2011 Annual General Meeting.
During the amounting to 1.5 million 2009: 2 million year the Group made no payments falling in cash and 5.7 million 2009: 10 million within the definition of political expenditure in kind, totalling 7.2 million 2009: 12 2009: nil.
In kind donations include a Pro Bono Bank initiative which, through a novel arrangement with the Solicitors Regulation Corporate Responsibility Authority, enables ITV in-house lawyers to ITV recognises the importance of Corporate provide free legal advice to charities.
Full details on ITVs Corporate details will be set out in our Corporate Responsibility objectives and activities will Responsibility report.
be set out in the separate Corporate Responsibility report available on the Companys website, www.
com In 2010, ITV continued to focus on the careful management of environmental matters The tables below provide a summary of performance against key Corporate Responsibility performance indicators: across all areas of the organisation 1 Protecting the environment 2010 2009 2 CO2 emissions from business travel tonnes 5,774 6,831 2 Total CO2 emissions tonnes 44,427 46,383 Total waste tonnes 1,800 2,195 Total waste recycled 60% 65% 3 3 Total water use m 87,000 86,656 Workplace profile % 2010 2009 Female employees 49.9 48.2 4 Ethnic minority employees 9.7 9.1 5 Employees with a disability 2.7 3.1 Employees aged over 50 15 12.9 6 Health and safety 2010 2009 Accidents requiring more than three days-off work 5 6 Major accidents 2 5 Fatal accidents 0 0 Access services for ITV1 % of programmes 2010 2009 Subtitling 98.2 94.5 Audio description 21.5 17.3 Signing 6.4 5.6 1 UK only, including landlord managed sites, assistance with data compilation by Mason Hardy Ltd. 2 Calculated in accordance with the WRI WBCSD Greenhouse Gas Protocol methodology.
3 Our reported water position represents an estimate pending final data unavailable at the time of reporting.
4 Percentage of those who disclosed their ethnicity.
5 Percentage of those who disclosed their disability.
