04 ITV plc Report and accounts 2010 A strategy for the future by Adam Crozier Chief Executive Transforming ITV There is a great deal to do to transform ITV and there are no quick fixes.
ITV has launched a three phase strategy to transform the business over the next five years focusing on our four strategic priorities...
Create a lean, creatively dynamic and fit-for-purpose organisation 1 Go to pages 0609 Maximise audience and revenue share from existing free-to-air broadcast business 2 Go to pages 1015 Drive new revenue streams by exploiting our content across multiple platforms, free and pay 3 Go to pages 1619 Build a strong international content business Go to pages 2023 4 05 Overview Strategy & operations Performance & financials Responsibility Governance Financial statements Overview of results ITV has seen its core proposition of While this is a strong We are pleased to report a significantly free-to-air broadcasting steadily eroded.
financial performance improved financial performance in 2010 ITV1s share of viewing and commercial with total external revenues up 10% at impacts has gradually declined over many for 2010, it does not 2,064 million.
This was largely driven years.
We have been weak on technology by the stronger than expected UK television and our digital and platform strategy was disguise the major advertising market and ITVs outperformance underdeveloped.
Our Online operations challenges that ITV of that market.
are subscale and until Q4 2010 we had no access to the pay TV market which is needs to face up to The growth in advertising and ITVs worth over 5 billion.
continued focus on cost reduction fed through to substantially increased profits ITV Studios creative content pipeline had with adjusted earnings per share at 6.4 pence depleted over time with no major new 2009: 1.8 pence.
The decisive action taken entertainment programme format created on cash management has led to a significant since 2006.
This impacted our ability to reduction in our net debt position down sell programmes both in the UK and from 612 million at the end of 2009 to internationally.
ITV Studios share of ITV 188 million at the end of 2010. commissions has been falling for a number of years and a fragmented approach to Whilst the recovery in the television rights ownership and management advertising market is helpful, it shows hindered our ability to exploit our content.
2010 2015 how volatile the market is and our results We were slow to exploit our programme show how ITV remains overly reliant on Phase 1: and channel brands outside of the advertising revenue.
Our Online revenues Fix traditional broadcast arena.
grew but remain subscale compared to Transformation Plan our Broadcasting business and ITV Studios Phase 2: revenues declined emphasising the need Adapting to this new media environment Strengthen requires urgent change to ITVs strategy, for creative renewal.
and grow management, culture and organisation.
We face major ongoing challenges Phase 3: We have started to address the challenges to rebalance the business and to ensure Accelerate we face but there are no quick fixes.
that in the long run we are fit to compete, which is why we have embarked on the We launched a three-phase strategy in five-year Transformation Plan to August 2010, to transform ITV over the next fundamentally change the Company.
Phase 1 is to Fix the Company so we are ready to compete: Phase 2 is to ITVs significant challenges Strengthen and grow the business, investing The global media environment continues on solid foundations and building platforms to change dramatically.
Audiences have for growth, and Phase 3s focus is to fragmented and free-to-air broadcasters Accelerate, driving performance and value.
have lost viewing share with the rapid rise of digital and pay TV.
The boom in video The Transformation Plan has four strategic viewing via the internet, and other video priorities which are covered over the on demand services, has also contributed following pages.
In order to execute and to a vast increase in consumer choice and deliver the plan, eight separate workstreams seen advertising revenues diverted away have been set up which map to the four from television.
Each workstream is sponsored under pressure to reduce risk and buy by a member of the Management Board.
Our eight workstreams map proven formats.
The winners from this We have set up a Transformation office, to our four strategic priorities trend have been format owners, headed by Simon Pitts, Director of Strategy particularly US studios.
& Transformation, to coordinate and help Alignment and simplicity drive forward each workstream.
ITV has not responded to the changing Great place to work environment.
In part this is because its We are less than 12 months into our organisational ineffectiveness and five-year plan and have made some real entrenched legacy culture limited our progress in driving change throughout the ability to respond to the challenges of a organisation, but we are only at the start News review changing market place.
The first phase of of the journey.
New regulatory deal our Transformation Plan is therefore to fix the business which remains our initial priority.
Online and On Demand Pay TV Total value creation New creative process 06 ITV plc Report and accounts 2010 Transforming ITV energise The new Management Board is now in place and is committed to delivering the Transformation Plan.
From left: Andrew Garard Legal, Andy Doyle HR, Simon Pitts Strategy & Transformation, Mary Fagan Communications, Ian Griffiths Finance, Adam Crozier CEO, Fru Hazlitt Commercial & Online, Peter Fincham Broadcasting, Kevin Lygo Studios, Paul Dale Technology & Platforms 07 Overview Strategy & operations Performance & financials Responsibility Governance Financial statements Create a lean, creatively 1 2 dynamic and 3 4 fit-for-purpose organisation What do we want to achieve?
The very best out of our leadership, people, culture and creativity.
08 ITV plc Report and accounts 2010 Transforming ITV Attracting creative talent is crucial to the success of our business How are we going to achieve it?
Our new top team will measure our success by It does not stop with the leadership team.
In order to turn ITV into a lean, delivery and execution Throughout the organisation we need to creatively dynamic and fit-forrecruit the best people, implementing purpose organisation a relentless appropriate development programmes, pursuit of improvement needs to with incentives around delivering our strategy.
This will enable us to drive through be undertaken at all levels of the the cultural change necessary to become a business.
Key to this strategy is performance driven organisation, operating the continued strengthening of transparently with no silos.
the creative talent of the business.
It is vital that Broadcasting & Online and ITV To be a top class organisation requires Studios work closely together.
This will help top class people.
This will be achieved by us to develop an integrated creative process ensuring that we have the best possible with a focus on long-running returnable leadership team who are able to operate franchises and the ability for Total Value in a seamless and agile manner, adapting brand exploitation extracting revenues quickly to change when needed.
from a brand across a variety of platforms and merchandise.
09 Overview Strategy & operations Performance & financials Responsibility Governance Financial statements What progress have we made?
We continue to take steps to make the We have made some significant business fit for purpose.
We are starting changes within the leadership to identify where improvements in ITVs of ITV.
technological and management systems and processes can be made, but they will The new Management Board is now in place take time to implement and for the with a number of new appointments: Kevin benefits to be realised.
In December, Lygo was appointed Managing Director of we announced that, subject to planning ITV Studios: Fru Hazlitt joined as Managing permission, we will move the Companys Director of ITV Commercial & Online: Paul Manchester base to MediaCityUK in Salford Dale was recruited as Chief Technology Officer: Quays and build a bespoke production Mary Fagan is Group Communication & centre for Coronation Street.
The move is Corporate Affairs Director and Simon Pitts expected to complete in 2012 13.
There is has been internally promoted to become expected to be a significant increase in Director of Strategy & Transformation.
capital expenditure in 2011 associated Six out of the ten members of the with the new Manchester base and our Management Board are new and we now investment in technology.
have the right skills from inside and outside the industry to deliver the strategy.
During 2010 targeted cost efficiencies of 40 million were delivered.
In 2011 we will To complement this we have put in place continue to focus on costs to ensure we new internal board structures for each have the appropriate cost base across division to facilitate change and speed up the business and have identified a further decision making within the business.
15 million of savings that are largely It is imperative that cultural change is non-personnel related.
However, there are driven throughout the business.
Outside increased costs associated with a number of the Management Board, there have of the decisions we have made, such as also been significant people changes and increased transmission costs as a result around a third of the wider leadership team of launching ITV1 1 and the digital HD have changed.
We have embarked on a channels on Sky.
development programme for the leadership While important progress is being made in team that will help drive changes down to Phase 1 of the Transformation Plan towards all levels of the business.
To facilitate this creating a lean, creatively dynamic and we held a number of employee roadshows fit-for-purpose organisation, there is still around the country in 2010.
All ITV a great deal to do to fix the business.
employees were invited in order to share the new strategy and give them an opportunity to feed back their thoughts and concerns.
Employee engagement measured in 2010 has improved from 65% in 2009 to 75%, a positive result but there is still some way to go.
The new creative process is now in place We have embarked on a between Broadcasting & Online and ITV development programme Studios and while it will take time to see the results of this onscreen, progress is being for the top leadership made ITV Studios share of ITV1 Network spend on original commissions has team which will help drive increased from 50% in 2009 to 53% in 2010. changes down to all levels of the business 10 ITV plc Report and accounts 2010 Transforming ITV 1 Maximise audience 2 3 and revenue 4 share from our existing freeto-air broadcast business What do we want to achieve?
Hold ITV Family viewing share by platform Strengthen the channel family A new approach to commissioning Outperform the market in ad sales Regulatory relief 11 Overview Strategy & operations Performance & financials Responsibility Governance Financial statements focus Our focus will be on how we spend our programme budget more efficiently to at least maintain our share of viewing.
Below: Downton Abbey 12 ITV plc Report and accounts 2010 Transforming ITV How are we going to achieve it?
A new approach to commissioning will play A key component in achieving our a major part in achieving this.
We recognise objective of maximising audience television is a long-term business and we share from our existing free-to-air need to move away from short-term slot broadcast business is to hold ITVs filling into building long-running returnable franchises and brands.
Commissioners will viewing share across our family lead integrated business teams including of channels.
Research and Development, Commercial In an increasingly fragmented market we Finance and Marketing.
Commissioning must invest in quality programming and decisions will be based on a wider range of refresh the schedules to strengthen all factors than has been the case in the past.
There will be emphasis on a Total Value The Lakes achieved good audiences, especially approach and a broader commercial input Our focus will be on how we spend our for factual programming, with its best episode to key commissioning decisions.
programme budget more efficiently to drawing an average audience of 4.9 million at least maintain our share of viewing.
In order to maximise revenues from the We have announced ITV1s network existing free-to-air broadcast business, and programme budget will remain at around to continue to outperform the television 800 million in 2011.
This is a small reduction advertising market, we need to focus on on the budget of 820 million in 2010, but delivering maximum value for our clients.
this amount included the cost of the football We must offer creative and collaborative World Cup.
The key for us is investment in advertiser friendly solutions across our long-running returnable series, which also family of channels and platforms and offer a travel well internationally, particularly in schedule that delivers what advertisers want.
Our pursuit of greater regulatory relief will continue but we must focus on the factors that are within our control as significant regulatory change could well take time In an increasingly to deliver.
fragmented market we must invest in quality programming and refresh the schedules to strengthen all of our channels Historic first Election debate attracted an audience of 9.7 million 13 Overview Strategy & operations Performance & financials Responsibility Governance Financial statements In 2010, ITV outperformed the television advertising market by 1% What progress have we made?
The share of viewing for the family was ITV remains highly dependent on down 1%, with ITV1s share of viewing down the television advertising market by 4% and the Family of digital channels up and therefore we must ensure that by 11%.
ITV Familys share of commercial we maximise our viewing and our impacts SOCI in 2010 was broadly flat compared to the previous year at 39.8%.
Whilst in 2010 ITV1 adult SOCI was down In 2010 ITV outperformed the television 4%, in the key demographics of ABC1 adults advertising market by 1%, with the ITV and 16-34 year-old adults, ITV1s SOCI Family of channels share of total television actually increased resulting in a significantly advertising revenues increasing from 44.7% improved audience profile for advertisers.
ITVs strongest performance This has resulted in an aggregate Contract year-on-year was in June, due to the Rights Renewal CRR ratchet of over 99%.
increased demand for advertising on ITV1 As this ratchet is used as a basis for 2011 around the Football World Cup.
negotiations, it gives us confidence in our ability to outperform the television Whilst we need to outperform our X Factor achieved its best rating episode ever advertising market again this year.
competitors, we also need to balance for the series final with 19.8 million viewers unpredictable linear television advertising Other programme successes in 2010 with other revenue streams across multiple included broadcasting five out of the platforms.
Despite significant growth in the top ten new dramas, including DCI Banks, television advertising market in 2010, it is The Little House and Downton Abbey.
DCI Banks launched with an average audience still only back to 2006 levels.
We have The X Factor achieved its best rating episode of 6.8 million restructured the sales team and appointed ever for the series final with 19.8 million a new Director of Television Sales, Kelly viewers.
The Im A Celebrity Get Me Out Williams, and Director of Multiplatform and of Here!
final attracted its highest audience Partnerships, Simon Daglish.
Coronation Street celebrated the right team in place to deliver creative its 50th anniversary with the live episode and commercial advertiser solutions not and in the same week it achieved its only in television but across all our platforms.
best episode ratings since February 2004.
The 2010 Football World Cup performed We had some very strong programmes well for ITV1 with the England vs. Algeria in 2010, for example X Factor, Britains Got match achieving the highest peak audience Talent, Coronation Street, Emmerdale and of the year with 21.3 million and a 71% Downton Abbey, the best performing new viewing share.
ITV also aired the historic first drama on any channel in the year.
However, Election debate, attracting an audience the schedule as a whole was not consistent of 9.7 million.
However, certain slots in throughout the year and we remain reliant the schedule have been disappointing.
on a number of very successful key shows.
Daybreak has not performed as we would have hoped and the 9pm slot, particularly on a Friday, remains a challenge for ITV.
In January 2011 we launched ITV1 1, a one hour time shifted version of our flagship channel, which followed the launch of ITV1 HD in 2010.
This has given our viewers more choice and flexibility with their viewing.
So far in 2011 ITV1 1 has accounted for 2.5% of ITV1 impacts, which we expect to grow in time.
14 ITV plc Report and accounts 2010 Transforming ITV Football World Cup 2010 performed well with the England vs. Algeria match achieving a 71% viewing share What progress have we made?
continued The digital channels have performed very In October Ofcom completed its review We have now agreed well, particularly ITV3 which saw its SOCI of ITVs licence payments and concluded increase by 24%.
ITV2 and ITV4 also that Channel 3 payments should be cut our vision for ITV1 out to increased their SOCI by 3% and 17% to almost zero, in recognition of the cost 2013 and will work with respectively but further investment is of delivering public service obligations such planned to give them a clearer brand as news and current affairs.
In December independent producers identity.
This strong performance helped Ofcom confirmed the new rules on product and ITV Studios to to hold ITV Family SOCI virtually flat despite placement that came into effect on the decline in ITV1 SOCI.
The new rules contain deliver it restrictions on the type of products that Recognising that television is a long-term can be placed and in which programmes business, we need to determine the vision they can be placed.
These restrictions of our schedule several years in advance will impact our ability to exploit this new while maintaining some flexibility.
Fincham and his team have now agreed During 2010 the House of Lords began a our vision for ITV1 out to 2013 and will work with independent producers and ITV review of the CRR mechanism and concluded in February 2011 that the CRR rules on the Studios to deliver it.
In 2010 we announced a three-year deal for the X Factor and sale of advertising are overly detrimental to ITV and should be abolished.
It also concluded Britains Got Talent with Syco and Fremantle Media, which secures two of our that the number of advertising minutes per hour should be harmonised down to an most popular programmes until 2013.
We have also secured the rights to the Rugby average of seven minutes per hour on all The Only Way is Essex peaked on ITV2 with commercial channels, subject to further World Cup for 2011 and 2015.
Our approach 11% share of 16-34 Adults to the provision of news on ITV is also research by Ofcom.
We are encouraged by the House of Our strategy is not dependent on regulatory Lords recommendations and that the relief, but we have made some progress in Government appears to be increasingly this area and we will continue to push for pro deregulation.
During the year Ofcom relaxed certain airtime sales rules relating to the requirement of commercial broadcasters to sell all of their advertising inventory as well as the bundling of airtime sales packages across several channels.
While we operate under CRR, these have limited impact on ITV.
15 Overview Strategy & operations Performance & financials Responsibility Governance Financial statements ITV2s Celebrity Juice attracted a peak audience Coronation Street celebrated of 1.9 million its 50th anniversary with the live episode and its best audience since February 2004 16 ITV plc Report and accounts 2010 Transforming ITV improve We need to transform itv.
com into a site which has a richer and deeper relationship with our viewers and can be the engine for our growth in new, connected platforms.
17 Overview Strategy & operations Performance & financials Responsibility Governance Financial statements 1 2 Drive new revenue streams 3 by exploiting 4 our content across multiple platforms, free and pay What do we want to achieve?
Enter pay TV Transform itv.
com Own customer relationships on connected platforms Total Value approach to brand exploitation Build addressable advertising capabilities 18 ITV plc Report and accounts 2010 Transforming ITV Develop new revenue streams through building our programme brands and platform offerings How are we going to achieve it?
We will continue to support and grow We need to develop a channel the Freeview and Freesat platforms where portfolio that is more balanced ITV channels perform strongly.
Part of our between pay and free television, platform strategy will also be the launch of driving forward sponsorship and YouView, the next generation of Freeview.
This will allow viewers to navigate seamlessly product placement and developing between their favourite Freeview channels new revenue streams through and the most popular on demand content building our programme brands on ITV Player and the BBC iPlayer, and platform offerings.
com needs to be transformed.
Growing revenues from the SDN business, Navigation and the viewing experience will which operates one of the six digital be improved to cultivate a richer, deeper terrestrial multiplex licences in the UK that relationship between ITV and its viewers.
make up Freeview, also remains a focus.
In addition, we will maximise the reach In the past we have not exploited the full of our video on demand service, ITV Player, value of our programming.
With our new making the service available on new Total Value approach to programme platforms.
We will also undertake pay trials commissioning and brand exploitation, we on itv.
com and are developing a payment intend to maximise the lifetime revenues mechanism to enable us to do this.
As explained earlier we have restructured the sales team to ensure we have the right team in place to offer creative advertising solutions and drive revenues across all our platforms.
Corrie Nation ITV Live iPhone app 19 Overview Strategy & operations Performance & financials Responsibility Governance Financial statements What progress have we made?
With regards to platforms we have In August we announced our first Operationally we have successfully incorporated YouView as a move into pay television, with the seven-way joint venture in September.
made progress but digital channels ITV2, 3 and 4 HD Though the project will not launch to Online continues to be launching behind the Sky paywall consumers until early 2012, the focus is on getting the final proposition right for in autumn 2010. subscale compared to viewers and advertisers.
ITVs part-owned This is a three-year deal and is profitable for our Broadcasting business platforms, Freeview and Freesat, have ITV from the outset, but it is only a small also performed well and are now used first step into pay television and it does not by 11 million UK homes as their primary enable us to own the customer relationship source of television.
Developing a pay strategy for the At the end of 2010 we launched ITV Player future is a key part of our eight workstreams on the PS3, and we are now working on and we have resourced it accordingly.
plans to launch ITV Player on Freesat and Online revenues, excluding Friends Reunited, YouView.
Meanwhile SDN continues to grow increased in 2010 by 17% to 28 million.
its revenues, and in 2010 it agreed three While this is a good performance it is off a new contracts, including the multiple very low base and Online continues to be videostream contract with Channel 5. subscale compared to our Broadcasting We have agreed the initial key brands business.
Operationally Online has made that will be the focus of our Total Value progress with unique users averaging exploitation, including Coronation Street, 10.2 million per month in 2010, up 17% This Morning and Dancing on Ice.
These are year-on-year, and more valuable long form not the only brands where we will look to viewing making up an increasing proportion create more value, but we will develop our of it.
Video views totalled 234 million approach on these brands and then roll-out which was up 9% year-on-year.
Long form more fully where appropriate across our video views were up 79% year-on-year to large catalogue.
For example, we have 129 million, now making up 55% of the already agreed a joint two-year broadcast total video views on itv.
deal and a five-year commercial deal with However, itv.
com is still not currently Alan Titchmarsh for his daytime chat show fit-for-purpose with a poor navigation and and peak programming, as well as a content experience.
At the end of 2010 Robin merchandising deal.
Pembrooke joined ITV as Managing Director of Online and On Demand, and with his senior team now in place, work has started on improving the site.
The Online vision for 2011 has been agreed, as has the necessary investment required.
ITV Player launched on PS3 20 ITV plc Report and accounts 2010 Transforming ITV 1 2 3 Build a strong international 4 content business What do we want to achieve?
Transform internal creative capability Focus on high value returnable series on and off ITV Acquire attractive third party content Make our shows in more countries Build international distribution scale 21 Overview Strategy & operations Performance & financials Responsibility Governance Financial statements extend Extending our production and distribution network internationally.
Above: Dancing on Ice 22 ITV plc Report and accounts 2010 Transforming ITV How are we going to achieve it?
The key to the success of the content Transforming the internal business is developing, or having a significant creative capability of the business, stake in, the intellectual property rights for to ensure we have the very best the content that we show on our screens team in place, lies at the heart of and sell to other broadcasters.
We must own the rights to programmes and formats our goal to build ITV into a strong so that we can exploit the long tail value of international content business.
In the shorter term we may look to We need creative leadership with the ability acquire rights to distribute internationally to attract talent throughout the division.
with our own content to help drive revenues Come Dine With Me is produced in 28 countries We will develop a mixed model to recruit and while we develop our own pipeline.
around the world manage on and off-screen talent including To have the strongest possible international partnerships.
content business we need to be making As we build the right team and develop and distributing our programmes in as the internal creative processes, we will focus many territories as possible.
The UK is core on developing high value returnable series to this but we need an effective distribution for both the ITV channels and third-party and production network and access to ideas broadcasters, in the UK and internationally.
Over the We will concentrate on developing ideas next five years we will increase our number that work not only in the UK but also of production bases to ensure we have a internationally to exploit fully all possible presence in key global territories.
Entertainment and drama enter new markets organically, as we did in The Chase, an ITV Studios game show, formats travel best internationally and ITV France in early 2010 for less than 1 million performed strongly in daytime in 2010, has strength in these areas, for example or we may invest or partner.
In addition peaking at 2.5 million viewers Im A Celebrity, Dancing on Ice and Lewis.
to developed markets we will also look for Factual entertainment series also travel well growth in developing markets.
and we have seen success with programmes such as Four Weddings, Coach Trip and Come Dine With Me.
Im A Celebrity... Get Me Out of Here!
has been sold in six territories to date We will focus on developing high value returnable series for both the ITV channels and third-party broadcasters in the UK and internationally 23 Overview Strategy & operations Performance & financials Responsibility Governance Financial statements Researching the creative pipeline is key for ITV going forward What progress have we made?
We announced that we will be moving the We now have a new creative Companys Manchester base to MediaCityUK leadership team in place following in Salford Quays in 2012 and that we will be the appointment of Kevin Lygo as building a high-tech production and studio Managing Director of ITV Studios, centre for Coronation Street at Trafford Wharf, adjacent to the main MediaCityUK Denise ODonoghue as Managing site.
The total cost of this is expected to Director ITV Studios UK and Maria be less than 35 million and once we have Kyriacou as Managing Director of vacated the current Manchester site we ITV Studios Global Entertainment.
will look to maximise its value.
Four Weddings which we produce for Living in However, we still need to rebuild the creative We already have some great examples of the UK, is broadcast in 15 countries talent team to ensure that we have the formats which we are exploiting in multiple right people across the business and this territories.
Come Dine With Me, which we process is underway.
make for Channel 4 in the UK, is produced in 28 countries, with ITV producing the In 2010 total ITV Studios external revenues versions in six of these, and Four Weddings and profits were down.
The market was that we make for Living in the UK is tough with broadcasters fide-risking, but broadcast in 15 countries, and produced or ITVs ability to sell programmes was also co-produced by ITV in eight.
We have also impacted by its depleted pipeline.
Internal recently agreed a US production deal for revenues were broadly flat, but ITV Studios one of our key daytime programmes, share of ITV1 network spend increased Coach Trip, which we produce in UK for Channel 4, Jeremy Kyle, and we have sold a number from 50% to 53%.
has recently been commissioned in France of other shows to Latin America.
Our creative pipeline needs strengthening Following the opening of our Spanish office as we have not created an international in 2009 we opened an office in France in entertainment hit since Dancing on Ice in early 2010.
Both of these territories won 2006.
This is obviously inhibiting our ability their first commissions in 2010, May the to sell both in the UK and internationally.
Best House Win in Spain and Coach Trip However, a number of ITV Studios dramas in France.
We now have production bases will be on ITV1 in 2011, including Vera and in seven countries.
Marchlands, and new entertainment pilots are being considered by the ITV Network.
While this is promising, it is only a start and refreshing the creative pipeline is key for ITV going forward.
As a result we have significantly increased the development budget for 2011.
We need to maintain the ongoing success of our soaps and other popular long running programmes.
In 2010 we invested in new HD studios in Leeds which secured the future of the production of Emmerdale there.
24 ITV plc Report and accounts 2010 2011 and beyond As we enter 2011, ITV is in a much stronger position financially which enables us to invest in the business and make the right decisions for the long-term future of ITV We are less than 12 months into our Our capital expenditure will more than double in 2011 to approximately 80 million five-year Transformation Plan and are already making significant progress.
as we upgrade technology across the business and invest in future-proofing our However, there is still a great deal to do and many challenges we must confront Soaps, in particular the new site for to ensure that in the long-term we are Coronation Street.
While we are making fit to compete.
significant investments in the business we will still maintain our focus on cost Over the next 12 months we need to management to ensure we have the right maintain and build on the momentum cost across the organisation.
We have of change that we have created.
identified 15 million of cost savings that will be delivered in 2011.
While you will see rapid progress across Jason Manford joins ITV with fresh entertainment show Comedy Rocks all our four priorities our focus will be on Creating a lean, creatively dynamic transforming itv.
com, on strengthening and fit-for-purpose organisation our creative talent and creative pipeline We will continue to recruit the right creative and improving our technology.
We expect talent across the organisation.
There is a to invest 25 million of our three-year new creative process between Broadcasting 75 million investment fund in 2011 and ITV Studios, with these businesses 7 million in Online, 12 million in Content working more closely together.
We are and 6 million for Digital channels in our creating a high performance culture development fund.
that aligns incentives throughout the Company to reward creative and commercial performance.
Maximise audience and revenue share from our existing free-to-air broadcast business In 2011 we aim to again outperform the television advertising market and to maintain Britains Got Talent returns with a new judging panel the ITV Family share of viewing.
To do this we must improve the consistency of the schedule across the year.
We are launching many new programmes, including dramas Marchlands, Vera and Monroe as well as the new documentary strand Perspectives and authored factual series featuring Caroline Quentin and Martin Clunes.
25 Overview Strategy & operations Performance & financials Responsibility Governance Financial statements New ITV Studios drama Marchlands launched on ITV1 with an average audience of 7.8 million Some of our most successful programmes Outlook We expect to invest We have a great deal still to do and we will return in 2011 including the X Factor, Britains Got Talent, Im A Celebrity and measure the success of the Transformation 25 million of our Plan by both delivery and execution.
Downton Abbey as well as Coronation three-year 75 million Street and Emmerdale.
Top sporting events We have developed a new set of key such as the Rugby World Cup, Champions performance indicators that align our investment fund in 2011 League, the FA Cup and Euro 2012 qualifiers performance and accountability to the 7 million in Online, are also on ITV this year.
12 million in Content Drive new revenue streams by exploiting As we enter 2011, ITV is in a much stronger our content across multiple platforms, position financially which enables us to and 6 million for free and pay invest in the business and make the right To help drive new revenue streams a decisions for the long-term future of ITV.
Digital channels multiplatform commissioning structure The television advertising market has will be put in place.
We are developing our performed strongly so far in 2011.
In Q1 ITV product placement offerings and will launch net advertising revenue NAR is expected Total Value exploitation across a number of to be up 12% and initial forecasts for April key brands.
We will deliver an improved and are for NAR to be up between 8% and 12%.
com and start to undertake However, the comparatives we face are pay trials online.
YouView will commence becoming increasingly tough.
The outlook consumer trials in late 2011 and is planned into the rest of 2011 remains uncertain to be fully launched in early 2012.
All these and we are cautious about the broader initiatives will take time to make an impact economic outlook and its impact on our and we are unlikely to receive the benefits market.
We will maintain our focus on cash until 2012. and costs in 2011 and on delivering the Brenda Blethyn OBE stars in Vera, a new Build a strong international Transformation Plan to secure the longmurder mystery content business term stability of the Company.
Building a strong international content business remains a key priority and we will increase investment in programme development and pilots to create returnable commercial franchises.
We are rebuilding the senior talent team and are looking at new ways of working with talent and production Adam Crozier Chief Executive companies as well as considering the potential for partnerships and investments across the international ITV network.
ITV has secured the rights to the Rugby World Cup 2011 and 2015
