Directors report Directors report The Directors present their report and audited financial statements Share capital and control for the 52 weeks to 20 March 2010.
The following information is given pursuant to Section 992 of the 2006 Companies Act.
Principal activities The Companys principal activities are grocery, related retailing and Except as described below in relation to the Companys employee financial services.
share schemes, there are no restrictions on the voting rights attaching to the Companys ordinary shares or the transfer of securities in the Business review Company: no person holds securities in the Company carrying special The Business Review sets out a comprehensive review of the rights with regard to control of the Company: and the Company is not development and performance of the business for the 52 weeks aware of any agreements between holders of securities that may result ended 20 March 2010 and future developments.
The Business Review in restrictions in the transfer of securities or voting rights.
Further is set out on pages 1 to 23 of this report.
All the information detailed details on the rights, restrictions and obligations attaching to the share in these pages is incorporated by reference into this report and is capital of the Company, including voting rights, are contained in the deemed to form part of this report.
The Articles of Association may only be changed with the agreement of shareholders.
Corporate governance statement The corporate governance statement as required by the Disclosure Shares acquired through the Companys employee share plans rank and Transparency Rules 7.2.
1 is set out on pages 29 to 32 and is pari passu with shares in issue and have no special rights.
Where, under incorporated by reference into this report.
the Companys All Employee Share Ownership Plan, participants are beneficial owners of the shares but the trustee is the registered owner, Dividends the voting rights are normally exercised by the registered owner at the The Directors recommend the payment of a final dividend of 10.2 direction of the participants.
The J Sainsbury Employee Benefit Trusts pence per share 2009: 9.6 pence, making a total dividend for the waive their right to vote and to dividends on the shares they hold which year of 14.2 pence per share 2009: 13.2 pence, an increase of 7.6 per are unallocated.
Some of the Companys employee share plans include cent over the previous year.
Subject to shareholders approving this restrictions on transfer of shares while the shares are held within the plan.
recommendation at the Annual General Meeting AGM, the dividend will be paid on 16 July 2010 to shareholders on the register At the AGM held in July 2009, the Company was authorised by at the close of business on 21 May 2010. shareholders to purchase its own shares, within certain limits and as permitted by the Articles of Association.
The Company made no Changes to the Board purchases of its own shares during the year and no shares were David Tyler was appointed a Director of the Company on 1 October acquired by forfeiture or surrender or made subject to a lien or charge.
2009 and became Chairman on 1 November 2009 following the resignation of Philip Hampton.
All of the Companys employee share plans contain provisions relating to a change of control.
On a change of control, options and awards Re-election of Directors granted to employees under the Companys share plans may vest and In accordance with the Articles of Association, David Tyler, who was become exercisable, subject to the satisfaction of any applicable appointed to the Board since the last AGM, will retire and seek performance conditions at that time.
Val Gooding and Justin King will also retire by rotation and seek re-election.
Full biographical details of all of the The Company is not party to any significant agreements that would current Directors are set out on pages 24 and 25. take effect, alter or terminate upon a change of control following a takeover bid.
Annual General Meeting The AGM will be held on Wednesday, 14 July 2010 at The Queen Ordinary shares Elizabeth II Conference Centre, Broad Sanctuary, Westminster, Details of the changes to the ordinary issued share capital during the London SW1P 3EE at 11.00am.
The Chairmans letter and the Notice year are shown on page 75.
At the date of this report, 1,861,173,065 4 pence have been issued, are fully paid up and of Meeting accompany this report, together with notes explaining ordinary shares of 28 7 the business to be transacted at the meeting.
are listed on the London Stock Exchange.
At the meeting, resolutions will be proposed to declare a final On 17 June 2009, the Company announced plans to raise additional capital via a placing of new shares and an offering of convertible bonds.
dividend, to receive the Annual Report and Financial Statements and approve the Remuneration Report, to elect Directors and to Both parts were successfully received by the market raising 432 million in total.
A total of 78,111,544 new ordinary shares were placed at a re-appoint  LLP as auditors.
In addition, shareholders will be asked to renew both the general authority of price of 310 pence per share, raising gross proceeds of approximately 242 million.
The new ordinary shares that were issued represented the Directors to issue shares and to authorise the Directors to issue shares without applying the statutory pre-emption rights.
Following approximately 4.4 per cent of Sainsburys issued ordinary share capital prior to the placing.
The convertible bond offering raised 190 million the placing of new shares and offering of convertible bonds by the Company in 2009, the authority to issue shares without applying and the bonds may be converted into ordinary shares at the option of the holder by the fifth anniversary of their issue in 2014 at an initial the statutory pre-emption rights will be limited to 2.5 per cent of the total issued ordinary share capital of the Company in order to adhere conversion price of 418.50 pence per ordinary share.
The proceeds of the capital raising will be used to accelerate Sainsburys growth strategy.
to the provisions in the Pre-emption Groups Statement of Principles.
Major interests in shares Shareholders will be asked to authorise the Company to make market purchases of its own shares.
No such purchase has been As at 12 May 2010, the Company had been notified by the following investors of their interests in 3 per cent or more of the Companys made during the last financial year.
Shareholders will also be asked to renew the Directors authority to operate the J Sainsbury All shares.
These interests were notified to the Company pursuant to Disclosure and Transparency Rule 5: Employee Share Ownership Plan for a further ten years, adopt new Articles of Association to reflect changes introduced by the Companies Shareholders Rights Regulations in August 2009 and % of voting rights authorise the Directors to hold general meetings at 14 clear days Judith Portrait a trustee of various notice where this flexibility is merited by the business of the meeting settlements, including charitable trusts 4.09 and is thought to be in the interests of shareholders as a whole.
Legal and General Group plc 3.99 A resolution to renew the authority to make political donations as Lord Sainsbury of Turville 5.85 defined by Part 14 of 2006 Companies Act, will also be proposed.
Qatar Holdings LLC 25.99 Innotech Advisers Limited, an investment company 100 per cent owned by Lord Sainsbury of Turville, holds 92,000,000 shares in J Sainsbury plc.
Annual Report and Financial Statements 2010 J Sainsbury plc 27 Directors report continued Directors interests Donations The beneficial interests of the Directors and their families in the Sainsburys is committed to making a positive difference to the shares of the Company are shown in the Remuneration Report on communities in which we operate.
We support many charitable page 42.
The Companys Register of Directors interests contains organisations and community projects through either donating full details of Directors interests, shareholdings and options over cash, making in-kind donations or through colleague volunteering.
ordinary shares of the Company.
During the year Sainsburys colleagues, customers and suppliers During the year, no Director had any material interest in any raised 15.7 million 2009: 17.4 million for charities through events contract of significance to the Groups business.
supported by the Company, including Sport Relief.
Cash and in-kind donations totalled 1.9 million 2009: 5.7 million.
The amount of Directors indemnities in-kind donations, principally food donations to Fareshare, reduced The Directors are entitled to be indemnified by the Company to the this year but we remain Fareshares largest corporate partner.
extent permitted by law and the Companys Articles of Association in respect of all losses arising out of or in connection with the execution The Company made no political donations in 2010 2009: nil.
of their powers, duties and responsibilities.
The Company has executed deeds of indemnity for the benefit of each Director in respect Post balance sheet events of liabilities which may attach to them in their capacity as Directors of There are no post balance sheet events.
The Company purchased and maintained Directors and Officers liability insurance throughout 2009 10, which has been Financial risk management renewed for 2010 11.
Neither the indemnities nor the insurance provide The financial risk management and policies of the Group are cover in the event that the Director is proved to have acted fraudulently.
disclosed in note 28 on pages 81 to 85 to the financial statements.
Market value of properties Going concern The Directors believe that the aggregate open market value of Group The Groups business activities, together with the factors likely to properties exceeds the net book value as set out in note 11 on page 64 affect its future development, performance and position are set out to the financial statements.
in the Business Review on pages 1 to 23.
The financial position of the Group, its cash flows and liquidity are highlighted in the Financial Essential contracts Review on pages 16 to 21.
The Group manages its financing by Sainsburys has contractual and other arrangements with numerous diversifying funding sources, configuring core borrowings with longthird parties in support of its business activities.
None of the term maturities and maintaining sufficient standby liquidity.
Full arrangements is individually considered to be essential to the details of the Groups financing arrangements can be found in note 20 business of Sainsburys.
on pages 70 and 71 to the financial statements.
In addition, notes 28 and 29 on pages 81 to 90 to the financial statements include the Policy on payment of creditors Groups objectives, policies and processes for managing its capital: The policy of the Company and its principal operating companies is its financial risk management objectives: details of its financial to agree terms of payment prior to commencing trade with a supplier instruments and hedging activities: and its exposures to credit and to abide by those terms on the timely submission of satisfactory risk and liquidity risk.
The Company is a holding company and therefore has no trade creditors.
Statements on the operating companies payment The debt refinancing in March 2006 removed the Groups reliance on of suppliers are contained in their financial statements.
unsecured credit markets for medium and long-term finance and the Groups first significant re-financing exposure is not until 2018.
Corporate responsibility Sainsburys has a strong record in its commitment to corporate As a consequence, the Directors believe that the Group is well placed responsibility, which is an everyday part of how the Company does to manage its business risks successfully despite the current business.
Details of the Companys principal corporate responsibility challenging economic outlook.
The Directors have a reasonable initiatives and activities are set out on pages 11 to 15.
The Companys expectation that the Company has sufficient resources to continue Corporate Responsibility Report, which will be published in June 2010 in operation for the foreseeable future.
co. uk crreport2010, provides a comprehensive to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the financial statements statement on corporate responsibility and describes the Companys which are shown on pages 45 to 102. policies and activities in relation to its five corporate responsibility principles: Best for Food and Health, Sourcing with Integrity, Respect Disclosure of information to auditors for Our Environment, Making a Positive Difference to Our Community Each of the Directors has confirmed that, so far as he she is aware, and A Great Place to Work.
there is no relevant audit information of which the auditors are unaware.
Each Director has taken all steps that he she ought to have As part of A Great Place to Work the Company has well-developed taken as a Director in order to make himself herself aware of any policies for fair and equal treatment of all colleagues, employment relevant audit information and to establish that the auditors are of disadvantaged persons and colleague participation.
It is our policy aware of that information.
that people with disabilities be given full and fair consideration for all vacancies.
For those colleagues who become disabled during their Auditors  LLP have expressed their willingness to be employment, we endeavour to adjust their working environment, where possible, allowing them to maximise their potential whilst reappointed as auditors of the Company.
Upon the recommendation of the Audit Committee, resolutions to reappoint them as auditors remaining with the Company.
and to authorise the Directors to determine their remuneration will be proposed at the AGM.
Under the banner of You Can, the Company also actively works with a number of organisations which seek to promote inclusion By order of the Board within the workplace.
These include Local Employment Partnerships, The Employers Forum on Disability Gold member, the Shaw Trust, Tim Fallowfield Company Secretary, 12 May 2010 Remploy and Mencap.
The Company has also focused on the broader skills agenda and has set ambitious targets for enabling colleagues to achieve nationally recognised qualifications.
The Companys quarterly, interim and annual results are presented to all senior management and are communicated to all colleagues.
Colleagues have always been encouraged to hold shares in the Company.
28 J Sainsbury plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2010 Directors report
