DIRECTORS, OFFICERS AND ADVISERS Tim Martin Chairman, aged 55 Registered office Wetherspoon House Founded the business in 1979, having previously studied law at Nottingham University and Central Park qualified as a barrister.
Reeds Crescent Watford John Hutson Chief Executive Officer, aged 45 WD24 4QL Joined the company in 1991 and was appointed to the board in 1996.
He is a graduate of Exeter University and previously worked with Allied Domecq.
Company number 1709784 Keith Down Finance Director and Company Secretary, aged 45 Registrars Joined the company and was appointed to the board in 2008, having previously worked Computershare Investor Services plc for Tesco plc.
He is a graduate of Leicester University and qualified as a PO Box 82 chartered accountant in 1991.
The Pavilions Bridgwater Road Paul Harbottle Chief Operating Officer, aged 42 Bristol Joined the company in 2003 and was appointed to the board in 2008.
BS99 7NH He is a graduate of Reading University and previously worked for the National Freight Consortium and Rank Hovis McDougall.
Independent auditors  LLP Su Cacioppo Personnel and Legal Director, aged 43 Chartered accountants and statutory auditors Joined the company in 1991 and was appointed to the board in 2008.
She is a graduate of South Bank University and London Guildhall University Solicitors and previously worked for Courage Ltd and Allied Leisure.
Macfarlanes Su worked in several operational roles in J D Wetherspoon, before being appointed as personnel director in 1999 and personnel and legal director in 2006.
Bankers Abbey National Treasury Services plc John Herring Senior Non-Executive Director, aged 52 Bank of Tokyo-Mitsubishi UFJ Appointed to the board in 1997 and is chairman of the audit and nomination committees Barclays Bank plc and a member of the remuneration committee.
He is a chartered accountant and a BNP Paribas non-executive director of Workplace Systems plc, EAT Limited and several other Crdit Industriel et Commercial private companies.
HSBC Bank plc Lloyds TSB Bank plc Elizabeth McMeikan Non-Executive Director, aged 48 Mediobanca International Luxembourg SA The Royal Bank of Scotland plc Appointed to the board in 2005 and is a member of the audit, remuneration Scotiabank Europe plc and nomination committees.
Elizabeth is a graduate of Cambridge University.
Svenska Handelsbanken AB She is a non-executive director of Direct Wines Ltd and Fresca Group Ltd and chairs Network Rails independent Membership Selection Panel.
Elizabeth previously worked Financial advisers for Tesco plc for 12 years in a wide variety of commercial and operational roles, Investec Securities both in the UK and overseas.
She was a Civil Service Commissioner from 2005 2010.
Stockbrokers Debra van Gene Non-Executive Director, aged 55 Investec Securities Appointed to the board in March 2006 and is the remuneration committee chair and a member of the audit and nomination committees.
Debra is a graduate of Oxford University.
She spent 17 years in the advertising industry, ending as deputy managing director of Butterfield Day Devito Hockney.
Since then, she has worked in the executive search industry.
She was a partner at Heidrick and Struggles and now runs her own company, Debra van Gene Associates Ltd, of which she is managing director.
Sir Richard Beckett Non-Executive Director, aged 66 Appointed to the board in 2009 and is a member of the audit, remuneration and nomination committees.
Sir Richard was called to the bar in 1965 and took silk in 1987.
He was one of the pre-eminent practitioners in regulatory and licensing matters.
He has recently become a non-executive director of Mercantile Investment Trust plc.
Management board The management board comprises John Hutson, Keith Down, Su Cacioppo, Paul Harbottle and the following: Name Age Job title Length of service David Capstick 49 IT and Property Director 11 years Kirk Davis 39 Deputy Finance Director 2 years Martin Geoghegan 41 Operations Director 15 years Rebecca Payton 39 Marketing and Catering Director 11 years 52 J D WETHERSPOON PLC
