DIRECTORS REPORT for the 52 weeks ended 25 July 2010 The directors present their report and audited accounts Interest in contracts for the 52 weeks ended 25 July 2010.
No director has any material interest in any contractual agreement, other than an employment contract, Principal activities, business review and subsisting during or at the end of the year, which is or future developments may be significant to the Company.
The principal activities of the Company are the development and management of public houses.
Details Companys shareholders of progress and future developments are given on pages Details of the Companys shareholders, including those 3 to 7. beneficial interests notified to the Company as accounting for over 3% of the issued share capital, are given on Results and dividends page 69.
The profit on ordinary activities for the year, after taxation, was 40,778,000 or 29.3p per share.
Takeover directive disclosures The Company has an authorised share capital comprising As announced in our interim statement on 11 March 2010, 500 million ordinary shares of 2p each.
As at 25 July the board declared a final dividend of 12.0p, along with 2010, total issued share capital comprised 139,125,205 a special dividend of 7.0p, both of which were paid on fully paid-up shares of 2p each.
The rights to these shares 1 April 2010. are set out in the Companys articles of association.
There are no restrictions on the transfer of these shares or their Return of capital attached voting rights.
At the annual general meeting of the Company, held on 4 November 2009, the Company was given authority Details of significant shareholdings are set out on page 69. to make market purchases of up to 20,832,203 of its own shares.
During the year to 25 July 2010, no shares No person holds shares with specific rights with respect to were purchased.
Land The Company operates an employee share incentive plan.
In the opinion of the directors, the market value of However, no specific rights with respect to the control of land and buildings is not significantly different from the Company are attached to these shares.
In addition, the book value.
the Company operates a deferred bonus scheme, whereby, should a takeover occur, all shares held in trust Principal risks and uncertainties would be transferred to the employee immediately.
A review of the Companys principal risks and uncertainties has been included in the finance review The Company is not aware of any agreements among on page 9.
A further discussion of the risks and holders of securities known to the Company which may uncertainties facing the Company is included in section 2 result in restrictions on the transfer of securities or on pages 45 and 46. voting rights.
The financial and non-financial key performance All appointments to the board are recommended by the indicators KPIs nominations committee and are made in accordance with A review of the business using financial and non-financial the provisions of the articles of association.
KPIs, has been included in the finance review on pages 8 and 9.
The Company has the power to issue and buy back shares as a result of resolutions passed at the annual general Significant contractual or other arrangements meeting in 2009.
It is the Companys intention to repeat The only contractual arrangement regarded by the these powers: the resolutions approving them are found in Company as essential to its business is that with DHL the notice of the annual general meeting for 2010. which provides logistic services at the Companys distribution centre in Daventry.
In the event of a change of control, the Company is obliged to notify its main bank lenders.
The lenders shall Directors not be obliged to fund any new borrowing requests: The directors listed on page 52 served throughout the facilities will lapse 10 days after the change of control, financial year and up to the date of signing the financial if the terms on which they can continue have not been statements.
Tim Martin, Keith Down and John Herring agreed on.
Any borrowings, including accrued interest, retire by rotation.
Details of the terms under which the will become immediately repayable upon such lapse.
directors, who were in office during the year, serve and their remuneration, together with their interests in the There are no significant agreements to which the shares of the Company, are given in the directors Company is party which may be subject to change of remuneration report on pages 57 to 64. control provisions.
Third-party indemnity insurance, against the liabilities There are no agreements among the Companys directors or of directors and officers of the Company, was in place employees which provide for compensation for loss of office throughout the year, in respect of their duties as directors or employment which occurs because of a takeover bid.
and officers of the Company.
ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2010 53 DIRECTORS REPORT Statement of directors responsibilities in respect of Statement of disclosure of information to auditors the annual report, the directors remuneration In accordance with Section 418 of the Companies Act report and the financial statements 2006, the directors report that, so far as they are aware, all relevant audit information has been disclosed to the The directors are responsible for preparing the annual Companys auditors.
The directors have taken all of the report, the directors remuneration report and the steps which they ought to have taken as directors, in financial statements, in accordance with applicable law order to establish that the Companys auditors are aware and International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs of that information.
Independent auditors Company law requires the directors to prepare financial The Companys auditors,  LLP, statements for each financial year.
Under that law, the have indicated their willingness to continue in office, and directors have elected to prepare the Companys financial a resolution that they be reappointed will be proposed at statements in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the the annual general meeting.
Under Company law, the directors must not approve the financial statements, unless they are satisfied that Going concern they give a true and fair view of the state of affairs of the The directors have made enquiries into the adequacy of Company and of the profit or loss of the Company for the Companys financial resources, through a review of the period.
In preparing these financial statements, the the Companys budget and medium-term financial plan, directors are required to: including capital expenditure plans and cash flow forecasts: they have satisfied themselves that the select suitable accounting policies and then Company will continue in operational existence for the apply them consistently.
For this reason, they continue to make judgements and estimates which are reasonable adopt the going-concern basis in preparing the and prudent.
state whether applicable IFRSs as adopted by the EU have been followed, subject to any material departures Employment policies disclosed and explained in the financial statements.
Only through the skill and commitment of the Companys prepare the financial statements on the going-concern employees will its objectives be met.
All staff are basis, unless it is inappropriate to presume that the encouraged to make a real commitment to the Company will continue in business.
Companys success and to progress to more senior roles as they, themselves, develop.
The directors are responsible for keeping adequate accounting records which are sufficient to show and A heavy emphasis is placed on training programmes explain the Companys transactions and disclose, with for all levels of staff: this highlights the importance reasonable accuracy, the financial position of the placed by the Company on providing a high level of Company, at any time, to enable them to ensure that the service to its customers.
financial statements and the directors remuneration report comply with the Companies Act 2006 and Article 4 In selecting, training and promoting staff, the Company of the IAS Regulations.
They are also responsible for has to take account of the physically demanding nature safeguarding the assets of the Company and hence for of much of its work.
The Company is committed to taking reasonable steps for the prevention and detection equality of opportunity and to the elimination of of fraud and other irregularities.
The Company aims to create and maintain a working environment, terms and The directors are responsible for the maintenance and conditions of employment and personnel and integrity of the corporate and financial information management practices which ensure that no individual included on the Companys Web site.
Legislation in the receives less favourable treatment on the grounds of his United Kingdom governing the preparation and or her race, religion, nationality, ethnic origin, age, dissemination of financial statements may differ from that disability, gender, sexual orientation or marital status.
Employees who become disabled will be retained, where possible, and retrained, where necessary.
The work carried out by the auditors does not involve consideration of these matters: accordingly, the auditors The Company has established a range of policies, accept no responsibility for any changes which may have covering issues such as diversity, employees well-being occurred to the financial statements since they were and equal opportunities, aimed at ensuring that all initially presented on the Companys Web site.
It is stated employees are treated fairly and consistently.
clearly on the Web site that information published on the Internet is accessible in many countries and that Internal communications seek to ensure that staff are well legislation in the United Kingdom, governing the informed about the Companys progress, through the use of preparation and dissemination of financial information, regular newsletters and briefings at staff meetings, at which may differ from that in other jurisdictions.
employees views are discussed and taken into account.
All staff are eligible to participate in bonus schemes related to profitability and or service standards.
54 J D WETHERSPOON PLC DIRECTORS REPORT Policy on payment of suppliers evaluation, the directors performance continues to be The Company agrees on terms and conditions with all effective and demonstrates commitment to their suppliers before business takes place and has a policy of respective roles, including time commitments for board paying agreed invoices in accordance with the terms of and committee meetings.
The board is therefore of the payment.
Trade creditors at the year end represented 56 opinion that Mr Martin, Mr Down and Mr Herring 2009: 55 days purchases.
should be re-elected at the annual general meeting.
Political and charitable contributions Resolution 6: Re-appointment of The Company supports CLIC Sargent caring for children  LLP as auditors with cancer and has helped to raise 890,660 in the Resolution 6, set out in the notice of annual general current year.
The Company has not made any political meeting, proposes that  LLP be donations in the year.
Further information about charitable reappointed as the Companys auditors and authorises contributions is disclosed in the corporate social the directors to determine their remuneration.
responsibility report on pages 48 to 51.
Resolution 7: Authority to allot Business at the annual general meeting The Companies Act 2006 prevents directors of a public On pages 71 and 72 is a notice convening the annual Company from allotting unissued shares, other than general meeting of the Company for 4 November 2010, pursuant to an employee share scheme, without the at which shareholders will be asked, as items of special authority of shareholders in general meeting.
In certain business, to give power to the directors to allot shares, circumstances, this could be unduly restrictive.
The to give power to the directors to disapply the pre-emption general authority previously given to the directors to allot requirements of section 561 of the Companies Act 2006, relevant securities will expire at the end of the annual to give power to the directors to make market purchases general meeting convened for 4 November 2010. of ordinary shares in the capital of the Company, subject to certain conditions, and to retain the ability to hold Accordingly, resolution 7 in the notice of annual general general meetings on 14 clear days notice.
The notice meeting will be proposed as an ordinary resolution to also sets out details of the ordinary business to be authorise the directors pursuant to section 551 of the conducted at the annual general meeting.
Set out Companies Act 2006 to allot ordinary shares in the below is an explanation of the effect and purpose of capital of the Company: the resolutions proposed.
A up to an aggregate nominal amount of 918,226, Resolution 1: Receive and adopt the audited accounts representing approximately 33.3% of the nominal value The directors recommend that the Company adopt the of the ordinary shares currently in issue.
reports of the directors and the auditors and the audited accounts of the Company for the year ended 25 July 2010.
B up to a further aggregate nominal amount of 918,226, representing approximately 33.3% of the Resolution 2: Approval of the directors nominal value of the ordinary shares currently in issue, remuneration report provided that they are offered by way of a rights issue in Resolution 2 in the notice of annual general meeting, favour of ordinary shareholders.
which will be proposed as an ordinary resolution, asks shareholders to approve the directors remuneration The Company does not currently hold any shares report, set out on pages 57 to 64. in treasury.
Resolutions 35: Re-election of Mr Martin, Mr Down The authority unless previously varied, revoked or and Mr Herring as directors renewed will expire on the earlier of 15 months from the The Companys articles of association require one-third of date of passing the resolution and the conclusion of the the directors to retire from office at each annual general next annual general meeting of the Company.
In addition, any director who has, at the annual general meeting, been in office for more than three years The Association of British Insurers has revised its since his or her last appointment or re-appointment should guidelines on share allotments, following a report of the also retire and may offer him or herself for re-election.
Based on the new guidelines, the limit on the directors authority to allot shares under Brief biographical details of each of the directors standing section 551 of the Companies Act 2006 may be increased for re-election may be found on page 52 and on the from one-third to two-thirds of the Companys issued Companys Web site.
The re-election resolutions are set share capital.
The new guidelines provide that the out as resolutions 3, 4 and 5 in the notice of annual amount of any authority above one-third must be applied general meeting.
to fully pre-emptive rights issues only and should be valid for one year only.
If the Company makes an allotment Mr Martin, Mr Down and Mr Herring all have extensive pursuant to such additional authority, the ABI will expect experience of the Company or in business generally, that all directors will stand for re-election at the next allowing them, subject to their re-election to the board, annual general meeting following the decision to make to contribute to the Companys development.
The the allotment in question.
chairman confirms that, following performance ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2010 55 DIRECTORS REPORT The directors will exercise such authority to allot shares Resolution 10: 14 days notice for general meetings only when satisfied that it is in the interests of the Changes made to the Companies Act 2006 by the Company to do so.
They have no present intention, Shareholders Rights Regulations increase the notice however, of exercising the authority, except in connection period required for general meetings of the Company with the issue of shares under the Companys share to 21 clear days, unless shareholders approve a shorter option schemes.
notice period, which cannot, however, be less than 14 clear days.
The Resolution 8: Disapplication of pre-emption rights approval will be effective until the Companys next annual The provisions of section 561 of the Companies Act 2006 general meeting, when it is intended that a similar which confer on shareholders rights of pre-emption in resolution will be proposed.
respect of the allotment of equity securities which are, or are to be, paid up in cash, other than by way of allotment Note that the changes to the Companies Act 2006 mean to employees under an employees share scheme apply to that, in order to be able to call a general meeting on less the unissued ordinary shares of the Company to the than 21 clear days notice, the Company must make a extent that they are not disapplied, pursuant to sections means of electronic voting available to all shareholders 570 and 573 of the Companies Act 2006. for that meeting.
The current disapplication of these statutory pre-emption The shorter notice period would not be used as a matter rights will expire at the end of the annual general of routine for such meetings, but only where the flexibility meeting convened for 4 November 2010.
Accordingly, is merited by the business of the meeting and is thought resolution 8, as set out in the notice of annual general to be to the advantage of shareholders as a whole.
meeting, will be proposed as a special resolution to permit directors to allot shares without the application of Annual general meetings will continue to be held on at these statutory pre-emption rights: first, in relation to least 21 clear days notice.
offers of equity securities by way of rights issue, open offer or similar arrangements save that, in the case of an Recommendation allotment pursuant to the authority in paragraph B of The directors believe that the resolutions which are to be resolution 7, such allotment shall be by way of rights proposed at the annual general meeting are in the best issue only : second, in relation to the allotment of equity interests of the Company and its shareholders as a whole securities for cash, up to a maximum aggregate nominal and recommend all shareholders to vote in favour of amount of 139,125 representing approximately 5% of them, as each of the directors intends to do in respect of the nominal value of the ordinary shares of the Company his or her own beneficial holding.
The authority unless previously varied, revoked or renewed will expire on the earlier of 15 months from the By order of the board date of passing the resolution and the conclusion of the next annual general meeting of the Company.
Keith Down Company Secretary Resolution 9: Purchase of ordinary shares 10 September 2010 In common with many other listed companies, the Company proposes, once again, to seek an authority from shareholders to permit the Company to purchase its own shares.
Accordingly, resolution 9 will be proposed as a special resolution to authorise the Company to make market purchases of up to 20,854,868 shares, just under 15% of the Companys current issued ordinary share capital, at prices not less than the nominal value of an ordinary share and not exceeding 105% of the average of the middle-market quotations for an ordinary share for the five business days before each purchase exclusive of expenses.
The authority will last until the earlier of 15 months from the date of passing the resolution and the conclusion of the next annual general meeting of the Company.
The directors envisage that purchases would be made only after considering the effects on earnings per share and the benefits for shareholders generally.
As at 25 July 2010, there were outstanding options over 127,406 ordinary shares, representing 0.09% of the Companys issued ordinary share capital.
If the authority under resolution 9 were to be exercised in full, this would increase to 0.11%.
