JKX Oil & Gas pl JKX Oil & Gas pl JKX Oil & Gas plc Annual Report & Accounts 2010 c Annual Report & Accounts 2010 c Annual Report & Accounts 2010 03 333 The lack of success of both recent REST OF WORLD Golitza wells was disappointing, but JKX and its co-venturers believe Bulgaria they can integrate the information from these wells with the 3D seismic JKX 40% and operator operates to high-grade further exploration two onshore exploration permits, targets within the Avren Formation.
B Golitza and B1 Golitza, covering a total of 3,355sq.
The licences include the Slovakia area of the Kamchia Trough, an In 2008, the Company farmed-in for onshore extension of the Tertiary a 25% interest in the Svidnik, age western Black Sea Basin, which Medzilaborce and Snina exploration is now the subject of renewed licences, covering a total area of deepwater exploration activity.
km in the Carpathian Fold The 2009 seismic data acquisition of Belt in north east Slovakia.
km 3D was completed in the Acquisition of 346km of 2D seismic Kamchia Trough, south of the town data in 2008 2009 provided basic of Varna.
The initial interpretation regional information in the two revealed several prospects and a eastern licences, as well as infill two well drilling campaign began in data in the western Svidnik licence.
In 2010, a further 150km of 2D The Staro Oryahovo South R-01 seismic data were acquired to firm exploration well was drilled to a up leads identified in the 2008 2009 total depth of 1,875m.
A structure has been were encountered during drilling confirmed in the vicinity of the of the target Avren Formation Smilno discovery well in the Svidnik submarine fan sandstones, but licence, and plans are being made subsequent log analysis for drilling an exploration well, demonstrated that the target was possibly in the latter part of 2011. water wet.
The well was plugged Further regional seismic data and abandoned.
acquisition is planned for the third quarter of 2011.
The Shkorpilovtci South West R-01 exploration well was drilled to a total depth of 837m and was plugged and abandoned.
Significant gas shows were observed during drilling of both the primary target Avren Formation channel sand complex and the underlying secondary target Dvoynitca Formation sandstones.
However, wireline data in the Avren Formation indicated poor reservoir permeability, and consequently a well test was not performed.
The well appeared to have encountered a channel margin in this location and the shallow depth to the primary target precluded a geological sidetrack.
The highly laminated underlying secondary reservoir was determined to be water wet.
