52 Directors Reports Directors report The Directors submit their report and the audited Sir Ian Prosser is proposed for election as Chairman to accounts for the year ended 31st December 2010. replace Lord Fraser and Lord Oxford is proposed for re-election given they have both served on the Board for Results and dividends more than nine years.
[The Board has conducted a The result for the year is a profit before tax of $20.8m rigorous review and concluded that Rt Hon Lord Fraser 2009: $119.3m.
The profit for the year after tax is of Carmyllie QC and Lord Oxford remain independent].
Following payment of the interim As was reported in the 2009 Report and Accounts, in the dividend, details of which are set out in note 24 of the spirit of the principles of Corporate Governance accounts, the Directors recommend a final dividend of contained in the Combined Code of Corporate 2.6p per share for the year ended 31st December 2010 to Governance appended to the Listing Rules of the be paid on 24th June 2011 to shareholders on the Financial Services Authority, the Board believes it register on 6th May 2011.
This payment will bring the appropriate to seek annual re-election of all Nontotal dividend in respect of 2010 to 5.0p per share.
Executive Directors who serve on the Board for more A review of major financial developments during the than nine years.
year is contained in the Financial Review.
Nigel Moore, Martin Miller and Peter Dixon retire on rotation in accordance with the Articles of Association Going concern and are seeking re-election.
The Directors have reviewed the Groups forecast cashflows for the next twelve months and through to the Included in Special Business there are three special end of 2012.
Capital and operating costs are based on resolutions: approved budgets in the case of 2011 and current 1 Purchase of own shares: The Directors recommend development plans in the case of 2012.
Having that the Company seeks authorisation at the Annual considered the review, and the Groups ability to change General Meeting to renew the authority for the the timing and scale of capital expenditure if required, Company to make on-market purchases of ordinary and to draw up to $15m on a credit facility in Ukraine, shares in the capital of the Company, such authority the Directors have a reasonable expectation that the to expire on the earlier of 15 months from the date of Company and Group have adequate resources to the passing of the resolution and the conclusion of continue for the foreseeable future.
The going concern the next Annual General Meeting if sooner.
basis for the accounts has therefore continued to be adopted.
The minimum price payable per share under the proposed authority in this resolution is the nominal Activities amount of each share currently 10p and the The principal activities of the Group are oil and gas maximum price exclusive of expenses is 5% above exploration, appraisal development and production, the average market price per share for the five conducted through subsidiary undertakings.
business days immediately preceding any purchase.
If granted, the authority will allow the Company to Business Review take advantage, if appropriate, of stock market Details of the Companys 2010 operations are included in conditions to purchase its own shares.
In assessing the Chairmans statement, the Chief Executives whether to purchase the Companys own shares, the statement and Operational Review.
Directors will take into account all relevant factors including the effect on earnings per share and assets A review of financial performance is included on pages per share ratios and other benefits to Shareholders.
34 to 37 and the key performance indicators for the Any shares purchased would be held as treasury business included on pages 8 and 9 and incorporated by shares.
2 The Directors be empowered pursuant to section Annual General Meeting 570 of the Act to allot equity securities for cash as if The Annual General Meeting of the Company will be held section 561 1 of the Act did not apply to the at 11.00am on 7th June 2011 at the premises of the allotment up to an aggregate nominal value of Institute of Directors, 116123 Pall Mall, London SW1Y 860,352 such power to expire on the date falling 5ED.
15 months from the date of passing of the resolution unless previously revoked, varied or extended by the The business for the meeting includes 10 resolutions as Company in General Meeting.
Ordinary Business and 3 special resolutions proposed as Special Business.
3 To allow a general meeting other than an annual general meeting to be called on not less than 14 Included as Ordinary Business are resolutions to elect a clear days notice.
new Chairman and re-elect four Directors.
After twelve years of distinguished service, Lord Fraser announced his intention in March 2010 to step down, and JKX Oil & Gas pl JKX Oil & Gas pl JKX Oil & Gas plc Annual Report & Accounts 2010 c Annual Report & Accounts 2010 c Annual Report & Accounts 2010 05 533 Exploration and production interests Treasury Shares In the opinion of the Directors, the Groups exploration In 2010 the Company did not purchase in the market any and production interests have a value in excess of the of its own ordinary 10p shares, to be held as Treasury balance sheet figure.
Expenditure for the year is detailed Shares.
At 31st December 2010, 402,771 shares in note 5 to the financial statements.
continued to be held as Treasury Shares representing 0.23% of the shares then in issue.
Political and charitable contributions The Group made charitable contributions of $684,000 Directors and their interests most of which was for local educational, health and The Directors and their interests at the year end in the village infrastructure initiatives in Ukraine and Russia.
shares of the Company, all beneficially held, were as The Group did not make any political contributions.
Details of Directors remuneration and share options are Financial Instruments shown in the Remuneration Report on pages 60 to 68.
The Groups financial risk management objectives and There were no contracts existing during or at the end of policies are discussed in the Financial Review on pages the year in which a Director was, or is, materially 37 to 41 and in note 8 of the accounts.
Disabled employees Significant contracts and transparency directive The Group gives full consideration to applications for information employment from disabled persons where the The Group does not have any contracts which on their requirements of the job can be adequately fulfilled by own are essential to the business nor does it have any such persons.
significant agreements that would affect, alter or Should an existing employee become disabled, it is in the terminate upon a change of control of the Company Groups policy wherever practicable to provide continuing following a takeover bid.
There are no significant employment under normal terms and conditions and to restrictions on the transfer of securities.
provide training and career development and promotion.
The share capital structure is listed in note 11 in the notes to the financial statements and the significant Shares in JKX Oil & Gas plc holdings are listed below.
Details of movements in share capital during the year are set out in note 11 to the financial statements.
Dr P Davies interest is partly indirect with 1,975,000 ordinary shares registered in the name of Investec Trust ITCL2513 and held in trust, the beneficiary of which is the family of Dr P Davies.
Of the remaining ordinary shares 1,000 are held by Mr D Davies, the son of Dr P Davies with the balance held directly by Dr P Davies.
54 Directors Reports Substantial shareholders At 31st March 2011, the Company had received notification from the following institutions of interests in excess of 3% of the total number of voting rights of the Company see below.
Substantial shareholders Number % of total of shares voting rights Ralkon Commercial Ltd 46,432,027 27.05% Glengary Overseas Ltd 19,656,344 11.45% Interneft Ltd 11,368,460 6.62% Aberforth Partners 9,977,849 5.81% JSC Naftogaz of Ukraine 9,957,214 5.80% Blackrock Investment Management UK 7,318,052 4.26% Standard Life Investments 5,186,780 3.02% Environment The Group is aware of its responsibilities to protect the environment and will ensure that its operations at least meet statutory requirements and regulations, and are carried out with minimal environmental impact.
Refer to the Corporate Responsibility report on page 48 for a more detailed description of the Companys approach and initiatives and targets with respect to the environment.
Corporate governance The Companys statement on corporate governance can be found in the corporate governance report on pages 55 to 59 of the annual report.
The corporate governance report forms part of this Directors reports and is incorporated into it by cross reference.
Post balance sheet events Post balance sheet events are discussed in note 30 to the accounts.
Creditor payment policy and practice It is the Companys policy that payments to suppliers are made in accordance with those terms and conditions agreed between the Company and its suppliers, providing that all trading terms and conditions have been complied with.
The Company has no trade creditors.
By order of the Board B J Burrows Secretary 19th April 2011
