50 Directors Reports The Directors Sir Ian Prosser Paul Davies Chairman 67 Chief Executive Officer 61 Sir Ian was Chairman and Chief Executive Dr Paul Davies joined of Bass plc and the Board on 30th latterly Chairman January 1998.
He has of InterContinental been active in the Hotels until 2003.
He oil and gas industry was formerly Nonsince 1976 and was Executive Deputy the co-founder of Chairman of BP the JP Kenny Group plc, having joined of Companies which as a Non-Executive traded internationally Director in 1997, in oil and gas and was also Senior engineering, oil and Independent Director gas exploration and of GlaxoSmithKline, production, subsea a Non-Executive of survey and inspection, The Boots Company and shipping.
He has Bruce Burrows Finance Director 52 and of Lloyds TSB.
extensive experience He is Chairman of The of business in the Bruce Burrows was appointed Finance Director on Navy Army & Air Force former Soviet Union 31st December 1997.
He joined JKX from Ernst & Institutes, Chairman of and was a founder of Young where he held positions in the Wellington BP Pension Trustees JP Kenny Exploration New Zealand and London offices.
He holds a BSc Ltd and a Non- & Production Ltd, the Honours degree from Canterbury University New Executive Director of forerunner of JKX Oil Zealand, a Diploma in Accounting from Victoria Sara Lee Corporation.
He holds University New Zealand and is a member of the an Honours degree Institute of Chartered Accountants of New Zealand.
in Civil Engineering Bruce is also Company Secretary.
and PhD in structural mechanics from Bruce is a Non-Executive Director of European University College Goldfields, a TSX and AIM listed mining company.
Martin Miller Technical Director 63 Martin Miller joined JKX in 1994 as Chief Geologist and has held a number of senior positions in the Company, including directing JKXs Georgian operations.
Most recently, he has assumed responsibility for JKXs ventures in Russia and Ukraine.
He is a Chartered Engineer and has over 30 years of experience in the oil and gas industry, including senior positions with Mobil and BP.
JKX Oil & Gas pl JKX Oil & Gas pl JKX Oil & Gas plc Annual Report & Accounts 2010 c Annual Report & Accounts 2010 c Annual Report & Accounts 2010 0 51 51 Peter Dixon Lord Oxford Non-Executive Director 58 Dipesh Shah Commercial Director Non-Executive 56 Earl of Oxford & Asquith, considered by the Board Director 57 to be the senior independent Non-Executive Peter Dixon joined Director, joined the Foreign Office in 1980 and Dipesh Shah joined the Board on 1st July was the Counsellor at the British Embassy in Kiev the Board with over 2007 with 27 years of from 1992 until his resignation in 1997 to pursue 30 years experience broad experience in private business interests.
He is a member of the of the oil and gas the upstream oil and Remuneration and Nominations Committees.
He was Chief gas industry in the UK, Executive of several Middle East, Africa businesses in BP and and the former Soviet a member of the BP Union.
He also served as Peter graduated in Chief Executive of the Physics and Geology UK Atomic Energy from Sunderland Authority, Chairman University and spent of Viridian Group 15 years working plc, Chairman of HG in geophysical and Capital Renewable management roles Power Partners within the SSL and LLP, and as a NonSchlumberger group Executive Director of companies.
Nigel Moore Michel-Marc Delcommune Babcock International Since joining JKX Non-Executive Non-Executive Director 63 Group plc and Lloyds in 1995, Peter has Director 67 of London.
Mr. Shah occupied a number of Michel-Marc Delcommune spent over 25 years is currently a Nonsenior positions within Nigel Moore is a Nonwith PetroFina Group where he held a number Executive Director at the group including Executive Director of prominent positions.
In 1999 Mr Delcommune Thames Water and Asset Manager and Chairman of the joined MOL Group.
He was MOL Groups Chief Kemble Water Group Ukraine, Group audit committee of Financial Officer and went on to serve as Group of Companies, The Commercial Executive Hochschild Mining Chief Strategy Officer between 2004 and 2006.
He Crown Estate, and the and General Director plc, Vitec Group plc retired from executive duties in 2006 but remains EU Marguerite Fund of Poltava Petroleum and Ascent Resources as Senior Adviser to MOLs Executive Chairman and for Energy, Climate Company.
He is also Nonis a Non-Executive Director of TVK, a MOL Group Change and Transport: Executive Chairman of petrochemical company listed on the Budapest Trustee of the British TEG Group plc.
He is also Non-Executive Youth Opera: Governor Director of Slovnaft, a refining company listed on of Merchant Taylors He was formally the Bratislava Stock Exchange.
Mr Delcommune School, and Chairman a London based is a graduate of chemical engineering from the of ANHD International partner of Ernst University of Liege and holds an MBA from Cornell.
Advisory Services Ltd. & Young where he He is a member of the Audit Committee and joined He is a graduate of the was responsible for the Remuneration Committee on 1st March 2010.
Universities of London the Ernst & Young and Warwick and of operations in Russia the Harvard Business and Eastern Europe School management for several years.
Mr Nigel is chairman of Shah was awarded the Audit Committee an OBE in the 2007 and a member of New Year Honours the Remuneration List.
He is Chairman and Nomination of the Remuneration Committees.
Committee and a member of the Audit Committee.
