30 Operational review HUNGARY Within our Hungarian portfolio all production currently comes from the Hajdunanas area of the Hernad Nyirseg licences.
The Hajdunanas area is shown graphically below, with a N S cross section.
Oil Gas Reservoir Reservoir Hernad eld Middle Upper All measurements are in Kilometres.
Miocene Miocene Gas Reservoir 0 1 2 3 4 Kiev Moscow JKX Oil & Gas pl JKX Oil & Gas pl JKX Oil & Gas plc Annual Report & Accounts 2010 c Annual Report & Accounts 2010 c Annual Report & Accounts 2010 0 31 31 Kiev fractured volcanoclastic sequence.
Hernad Hungary update Gas quality is excellent and requires minimal processing before export.
Completed: The Gorbehaza discovery well Gh-1 Our operations progressed well in the Nyirseg licence has been tied with production increasing in in the Hajdunanas facility.
Hajdunanas supported by the tie-in of the Gorbehaza-1 Following the successful workover discovery.
Gas has been tested of the Hn-2 well and recompletion Poltava in the Tizsavasvari-6 and of the Gh-1 well in the fourth Nyekpuszta-2 exploration wells.
quarter of 2010, current gross production is approximately Planned: 7 MMcfd of gas and 180 bcpd.
Together with the field operator, 2 LICENCE AREA 5,410 km we are planning a 20% increase The field operator, HHE, and JKX in production at Hajdunanas are planning a 20% increase in Remaining reserves during the second quarter of the as at 31st December 2010 production in the second quarter year.
Further appraisal of the of the year.
Proved Probable Prov Prob Tizsavasvari-6 and Oil 0.0 0.2 0.2 The local gas market remains Nyekpuszta-2 exploration wells MMbbl strong with 2011 realisations to are scheduled for 2011.
Bcf Oil Gas 0.2 1.0 1.2 Hajdunanas Reserves MMboe No changes have been made to the Hajdunanas reserves in 2010.
The effects of the minor water influx, JKX holds 50% equity in the now successfully shut-off, are being northern Pannonian Basin Hernad evaluated.
licences in a joint venture with the operator, Hungarian Horizon Further Hernad exploration activity Energy HHE.
The Hernad I The Tiszavasvari-6 well was drilled licence covers 2,903sq.
km and in the second quarter of 2010 and the Hernad II licence covers tested during January 2011.
The Pannonian Basin well encountered a 300m gross comprises numerous sub-basins reservoir interval with excellent developed across Hungary, 0 gas shows in the deeper Slovenia and Romania.
It is secondary target below 2,580m.
Koshekhablskoye prospective for gas and oil, and Three reservoir intervals were exploration risk can be reduced by 1 Elizavetovskoye tested with a maximum rate of the use of seismic data attributes 1.5 MMcfd being recorded.
The amplitude versus offset or AVO Novo-Nikolaevskoye Complex Hernad Maikop 2 well has been suspended in and calibrated well log data.
Budapest anticipation of a possible reservoir The post-rift sequence contains Turkeve Veszto stimulation programme.
channelised and lobe turbidite 3 sand reservoirs in combined A larger tilted fault block structure structural stratigraphic traps.
THE THE with amplitude supported Lower BLACK SEA BLACK SEA 4 Miocene age pro-delta shales Pannonian reservoir intervals lies provide the source for the gas updip from the first structure and and condensates.
is estimated to contain an initial gas in place of between 50 and Hajdunanas 150 BCF.
Appraisal drilling is The Hajdunanas Field was scheduled for the second quarter discovered in May 2008 with of 2011. successful gas tests from three Additional amplitude supported levels in well Hn-1.
The discovery exploration targets in Upper was confirmed by a second well Pannonian shallow water sands Hn-2 which encountered a thicker have been identified to the sequence of Pannonian sands.
The north-east of the Hajdunanas Gas reservoirs include two Pannonian Facility.
Permitting is underway for sand intervals and a Miocene Tbilisi 32 Operational review Hungary continued a test of a three way dip and fault 175C, the Nyekpuszta-2 appraisal closed structure with a TD of well was successfully drilled to approximately 800m.
The well low risk but small additional encountered a gross hydrocarbon prospects would be fide-risked column of 85m and was fracture by a successful well.
Despite flow rates being constrained The Tiszatarjan-1 exploration well, by the abrasion due to returning approximately 12km from the proppant, the rates were initially Hajdunanas field, remains steady at 2.0 MMcfd and 600 bpd oil suspended as an oil discovery, condensate with a FWHP of pending a forward programme 4,500 psi.
However, this rate was of formation stimulation.
not sustained through the two A further 300sq.
km 3D seismic month test period.
After a one data acquisition is planned for the month final shut-in, reservoir Jaszsag area in the south of the pressure built back to original levels.
Hernad II licence during the first The slow build up indicates a low half of 2011. permeability connection of the main reservoir volume to the fracced interval.
It has been concluded that Nyirseg this potentially very large 200Bcf structure will require additional JKX farmed-in for a 33.3% interest appraisal drilling and formation in 120sq.
km of the adjacent Nyirseg stimulation.
licence operated by PetroHungaria in late 2008.
JKX and HHE continue the evaluation of the prospect specific JKX subsequently increased its and regional structural model in the holding to 50%, as did HHE, by light of the extended test results buying out the minority partners.
The first well Gorbehaza-1 tested A further well is planned for the 3.74 MMcfd of gas and 20 bcpd third quarter of 2011. and has been tied into the In addition to the testing and Hajdunanas gas production facility completion of the Nyekpuszta-2 some 2.5km away.
well, activity under consideration for First gas was achieved in August 2011 includes evaluation of a similar 2010. prospect within the Veszto Licence in which JKX has an option to The offset Gorbehaza-5 well, participate.
drilled in early 2010, was water bearing and has been completed as a potential water disposal well Turkeve Acreage for the Hajdunanas facility.
JKX has entered into an agreement with HHE to farm-in to the drilling of Veszto up to seven wells located in the Turkeve area of north east Hungary.
In March 2009, JKX farmed-in for a Under the terms of the agreement, 25% interest in a 15.6sq.
km area of JKX funds 66.67% of drilling and the Veszto exploration licence held completion costs to earn 50% of by HHE in the eastern Pannonian future mining plots formed to Basin.
A 3D seismic survey covering develop discoveries, and also funds the entire 219sq.
km licence has 75% of pipeline connection costs.
been completed and interpreted with There has been one encouraging two prospects identified.
result out of the five wells drilled to Following abandonment of the date and a tie-back to existing Nyekpuszta-1 well because of facilities is planned for the second unexpected high pressures quarter.
The remaining two wells 12,000psi and temperatures will also be drilled in the second quarter.
