JKX Oil & Gas pl JKX Oil & Gas pl JKX Oil & Gas plc Annual Report & Accounts 2010 c Annual Report & Accounts 2010 c Annual Report & Accounts 2010 0 49 49 Employment Community We want to be recognised as a We are an integral part of the We uphold and promote human Company where talented people of communities in which we operate rights within our sphere of influence all disciplines, from managers and and are determined to play our which includes, but is not limited to, engineers to on-site operatives, part through financial donations as employees, contractors, local can do their best work.
All our communities, suppliers, and operations are managed with local business partners.
We also actively At the year-end, the total number of interests in mind, thereby engage with key stakeholders to employees was 751.
In Russia, YGE increasing public confidence in the address the rights of the employs 155 people, although this integrity of our assets and communities surrounding our number is expected to increase to underlining our commitment to operations.
In the Ukraine, we employ HSEC performance.
578 personnel in the Poltava Office Charitable donations and and at the production site.
The In 2009 we introduced a structured volunteering London office has a staff of 18.
The system for stakeholder dialogue and Each operation has a limited budget number of contractors and supply in 2010 we made further progress, for good causes and we handle chain vendors can vary from time to engaging with stakeholders in key charitable donations at a local level.
time and can peak at approximately operational locations.
The outcome In 2010 our operations budget was 600 support and associated of events such as the Town Hall $329,000.
meetings in Koshekhablskoye and the Group amounted to: Ukraine Maikop, in Russia, has influenced As we operate across a number of $99,000: Russia $188,000: the way in which we now manage different countries, cultures and UK $30,000: and Georgia $3,000.
environments, we have a Subject to management approval, decentralised management In practical terms, our community staff may be given additional time off structure, with employment policies support frequently involves using in order to join in certain charitydesigned to suit the needs of the Companys plant and machinery related activities.
However, each as well as manpower to provide company complies with certain key much-needed assistance.
For principles, including: example, our plant and equipment was used to clear snow in Providing safe and healthy working Koshekhablskoye.
Creating an open, challenging, Human Rights rewarding and participative JKX supports and respects the environment through selection, protection of internationally development and training, the recognised human rights in our full talents, skills and abilities areas of operation.
The policy is of all employees.
applicable to all our operations.
Communicating the fullest possible understanding of the goals, directions and performance of the business.
Providing compensation and benefits which reflect good current local practices and which reward collective and individual abilities and personal performance.
Providing a working environment, development opportunities and incentives to promote team effort and commitment to the performance of JKX and subsidiary companies.
Our Group-wide values of Integrity, Teamwork, Excellence and Respect, are essential in helping to guide our employees in the way that they behave.
