26 Operational review RUSSIA The Koshekhablskoye field is located in the southern Russian autonomous Republic of Adygea.
The licence covers an area of 32.7sq.
km The field is shown graphically below, with a NW SE cross section.
Oxfordian Cretaceous Gas Koshekhablskoye eld Middle Upper Reservoir Jurassic Jurassic All measurements are in Kilometres.
Callovian Gas Reservoir 0 1 2 3 4 5 6 Kiev Moscow JKX Oil & Gas pl JKX Oil & Gas pl JKX Oil & Gas plc Annual Report & Accounts 2010 c Annual Report & Accounts 2010 c Annual Report & Accounts 2010 0 27 27 Kiev completing the construction of the Koshekhablskoye Russia update processing plant to ensure that construction and commissioning of Completed: the complete facility could be We initiated and in many cases completed for first gas in the completed a range of Autumn of 2011, delayed from our workovers, tests and fishing previous mid-year target.
The GPF plant was Poltava fabricated and shipped, with During the period, YGE: installation well underway Completed the workover, before the year-end.
sidetracking and successful Planned: testing of Well-20 at a final flow First commercial gas production 2 rate of 22.6 MMcfd of gas and LICENCE AREA 32.7 km is scheduled for the Autumn.
"25 bcpd through a 60 64"" choke We aim to have three wells in with a flowing wellhead pressure Remaining reserves production at start-up, with as at 31st December 2010 of 1,510 psi."
further wells being brought Proved Probable Prov Prob Re-entered Well-25 on the north on-stream in 2012.
Oil 0.2 0.1 0.3 flank of the field using the MMbbl Geostream KES-536 rig, and Gas 114.0 153.0 267.0 recovered the remainder of the Bcf tubing.
Drilling of the 260m Oil Gas 19.2 25.6 44.8 sidetrack into the limestone MMboe reservoir kicked-off at 5,490m with a targeted TD of 5,760m.
Completion and testing is JKX completed the purchase of scheduled for the beginning Yuzhgazenergie LLC YGE in of the second quarter.
YGE holds the licence for the redevelopment of Initiated milling and fishing 0 the Koshekhablskoye gas field operations on Well-26 and which is located in the southern suspended operations after 1 Russian autonomous Republic of recovering 314m of fish with Adygea.
The licence covers an area 1,375m remaining.
to return with a smaller rig to complete fishing more The field was discovered in 1972 and 3 Koshekhablskoye economically.
produced a total 89 Bcf of gas before operations were suspended in Completed fishing on Well-15, Elizavetovskoye 4 January 2006.
In June 2006, YGE deep on the east flank of the field, Novo-Nikolaevskoye Complex Hernad Maikop was granted a new 20 year licence and drilled a sidetrack to a depth 5 Budapest to rehabilitate and further appraise of 5,755m with strong gas shows Turkeve and develop the field.
6 Disappointingly, the sidetracked Following the acquisition, well bore did not stay open during the detailed technical and THE THE testing with an obstruction BLACK SEA BLACK SEA environmental re-evaluation by preventing deployment of the JKX concluded that the existing coiled tubing to TD in the open production facility would have to hole section.
Due to the priority be completely replaced because it given to the other wells in the first could meet neither the new gas phase programme, remedial specification required for entry to action which may include a new the Gazprom transit system nor sidetrack to a more geologically the environmental standard for prospective part of the field will emissions to the immediate be undertaken as part of the environment.
second phase of well The focus during 2010 was on recompletions later in 2012. continuing the workover of wells to Recovered tubing from the ensure that the Gas Processing Callovian appraisal Well-09 to a Tbilisi Facility GPF would be brought depth of 5,312m using the on-stream at full capacity and 28 Operational review Russia continued Kremco-900 rig.
Preparations are programme has been revised to reassessed as a licence obligation currently underway to sidetrack ensure that production will meet later this year once the results of the the well through the Callovian the targets for the GPF as Well-25 testing can be incorporated.
sandstone reservoirs to a TD of commissioning begins in the second Callovian reserves are dependent on 5,500m.
Completion and testing of quarter.
The goal is to have three the results from Well-09 and Well-09 is now scheduled for the wells in production at start-up with Well-22, and will be revised in 2012. fourth quarter of the year.
further wells being brought In addition, YGE has received a letter on-stream in the second phase of Commenced fishing operations on of assurance from the Russian workovers in 2012.
Callovian exploration Well-22 authorities confirming that any field using a lightweight A-125 rig.
reserves lying outside the licence Field exploration and appraisal The well has been suspended at boundary could be included in a JKX inherited a YGE obligation to 4,885m awaiting mobilisation of revised licence area provided this drill an exploration well to appraise the Geostream KES-536 rig to did not exceed 125% of the existing the production potential of the deepen the well to 5,570m in the licence.
This permits YGE to underlying Callovian sandstone Callovian sandstone reservoirs.
increase the field reserves by up reservoir.
YGE has subsequently Completion and testing of Well-22 to a further 40% when the licence undertaken a significant amount of is scheduled for the fourth quarter has been formally extended and is exploration and appraisal activity on of the year.
scheduled to occur after first gas this reservoir including: production.
Completed the laying of Acquisition, processing and replacement flowlines for the interpretation of the 3D seismic.
whole field, installation of the export line and the tie-in to the Integration of the maps with a local trunk line.
complete re-evaluation of the well logs and other geological data to Completed the construction and determine reservoir distribution hook up of additional temporary and the potential resources in the field camps to house construction Callovian sandstone.
Acquisition of the shut-in Callovian Fabrication of key components of production Well-09 for early the GPF plant in Sharjah was testing.
completed during the last quarter of 2010 with the final shipment In recognition of YGEs commitment leaving port at the end of to the exploration programme and December, slightly ahead of the high cost of deep drilling, the schedule.
All equipment has now Russian State Geological Institute been off-loaded and cleared responsible for the YGE ongoing through customs in the Russian exploration and appraisal port of Novorossiysk, some 300km programme accepted the Companys from the field, and transported to proposal to deepen an existing dry the site.
Foundations for the Oxfordian appraisal well Well-22 to equipment are in place and the the Callovian reservoir in order to construction teams have begun reduce significantly the overall cost installation.
The testing of the Callovian V unit in Well-09 and the Installation and construction of deepening and evaluation of locally sourced equipment and Callovian zones I-V in Well-22 will be buildings is nearing completion concluded later in 2011. with hook-up and commissioning of the plant scheduled to Russian Reserves commence by the end of the Following the results of the Well-27 first quarter.
test, the production characteristics Right: Since year-end First commercial gas production of the field were revised and 2010 the pace of the is scheduled for autumn 2011. the material balance reserves Gas Processing Facility forecast reassessed.
This resulted construction has The workover programme has in a revision of the P P reserves increased significantly, encountered difficult conditions in to 44.8 MMboe during 2009. as pre-constructed some of the wells, and the The Oxfordian reserves will be components have arrived on-site.
JKX Oil & Gas pl JKX Oil & Gas pl JKX Oil & Gas plc Annual Report & Accounts 2010 c Annual Report & Accounts 2010 c Annual Report & Accounts 2010 0 29 29
