38 Financial review Risks we face and how we manage them The Groups business of oil and The Groups approach to this Risk management is carried out gas exploration and production spectrum of risk is to monitor and by designated individuals under and its chosen area of operation, mitigate identified risks and then policies and procedures central and eastern Europe, actively manage them to the extent approved, reviewed and managed dictates that it is exposed to a possible to minimise potential by the Board of Directors.
adverse effects on the Groups An annual review of the Groups financial performance.
system of internal control is Whats the Definition Probability risk?
The hydrocarbon reservoirs that generate production and cash flow to underpin Reservoir MED the Groups growth may not perform as expected, exposing the Group to lower performance profits and challenges in funding planned development.
Accordingly, forecast reservoir performance is critical in deciding on development options for specific assets, as well as allocation of resources generally across the Group.
The Group operates in a capital intensive business requiring long lead time Capital MED investment decisions.
Deviations in forecasts of timing and quantum of exploration expenditure and development expenditures can expose the Group to funding challenges and to projects which may have diminished or negative economic return.
Such deviations can result from a number of causes, including general economic and industry specific cost inflation, variations in foreign exchange rates, deficient project planning and monitoring of project spend.
The Group is exposed to international oil and gas price movements.
Commodity MED The Group is a price taker and does not enter into hedge agreements unless prices required for borrowing purposes.
Inability to negotiate and manage purchases and contracts can increase costs to Procurement LOW the Group and or cause delays to project completions and operations, negatively and contract impacting production, cash flow and value generation.
management An optimal capital structure should be maintained for the Group to continue Capital LOW maximising returns for shareholders and benefits to other stakeholders.
Failure management to manage the capital structure could reduce stakeholder returns and, in extreme circumstances, impact the Groups ability to operate as a going concern.
JKX Oil & Gas pl JKX Oil & Gas pl JKX Oil & Gas plc Annual Report & Accounts 2010 c Annual Report & Accounts 2010 c Annual Report & Accounts 2010 0 39 39 conducted by the Audit Committee, along with a review at each meeting of the Audit Committee of the Group risk landscape and management.
Probability Potential How we manage it impact As it has evolved, the Group has continued to recruit specialist and industry recognised HIGH personnel and consultants to model, monitor and manage reservoir performance.
Increased levels of local operating experience both within and external to the Group assist in further mitigating this risk.
The Group manages its key activities in Ukraine and Russia via strong local operating companies that have been developed and staffed with skilled personnel.
The interaction between local and London based specialists and third party consultants is key to operational risk management.
The continued intraregional diversification of interests highlighted by Russian and Hungarian development participations has aided in spreading this risk away from the previous very high concentration in Ukraine.
With the increased diversification in assets, the Group has also expanded its UK technical team to ensure knowledge transfer to and between operating companies and the consistent application of the Groups strategic technical methodology.
The Group operates its key interests in Ukraine and Russia via strong local operating companies, who MED interact with London based Group specialists, as well as UK and locally based contracted specialists to maximise project management capability.
For individual capital projects which are material to the Group, Project Management teams are created to oversee planning and implementation.
Recent examples of such teams include those established at the Rudenkovskoye development in Ukraine, and at the Koshekhablskoye workover programme and gas processing facility construction in Russia.
These project management teams report to stakeholder groups comprising senior management and other appropriate project related staff and contractors.
Most of the Groups gas sold in Ukraine and its share of Hungarian gas sales is through market related MED contracts to significant and creditworthy customers.
This is intended to minimise exposure to abrupt price movements, ensuring sales are as closely matched as possible, in terms of timing and volume, to production.
The balance of oil and gas production in Ukraine is sold by way of auctions, conducted with a frequency aimed to achieve as close as practicable the aforementioned matching principle.
The Groups Russian gas production, scheduled to commence in autumn 2011, is intended to be sold on a similar basis to the bulk of Ukranian production, being to large credit worthy customers on contracts at market related prices.
The Group operates policies, procedures and controls intended to regularise procurement within strict LOW levels of delegated authority.
All significant purchases are tendered.
Each operating entity manages a schedule of approved suppliers.
All contracts are constructed specifically or in accordance with templates, targeted at the jurisdictions of supply and delivery, taking account of reviews of both internal lawyers and, where dictated by procedure, by third party legal advisors.
Capital management is monitored by the Finance Director in accordance with policies and procedures HIGH approved by the Board.
It is also assessed and monitored by the Groups financial advisor and by the Board.
In order to maintain or adjust the capital structure, the Group may adjust the amount of dividends paid to shareholders, return capital to shareholders, issue new shares, sell assets, or obtain borrowings from third parties.
Two recent material examples of managing the Groups capital structure have been the February 2010 share placing $58.4m net and the concluding of a $15.0m draw-down facility for PPC in Ukraine with Credit Agricole CIB Ukraine.
40 Financial review Risks we face and how we manage them continued Whats the Definition Probability risk?
The Company operates in a variety of emerging markets where the accounting, Country MED tax and legal environment and the application of laws and regulations are exposure constantly evolving.
New laws can come into effect at times which can conflict with others and, therefore, are subject to varying interpretations and changes which may be applied retrospectively.
This can result in the Group being subject to uncertainties relating to the determination of its tax as well as other liabilities.
Managements interpretation of tax legislation as applied to the transactions and activities of the Group may at times not coincide with that of the tax authorities.
As a result, the tax authorities in the countries of operation may challenge transactions and the Group may be assessed for additional taxes, penalties and fines which could have a material adverse effect on the Groups financial position and results of operations.
The Group operates internationally and is exposed to foreign exchange FX risk Foreign LOW arising from various currency exposures, primarily with respect to Ukrainian Hryvna exchange and the Russian Rouble.
FX risk arises from future commercial transactions, exposure recognised assets liabilities and net investments in foreign operations.
The Groups income and operating cash flows are subject to changes in market Cash ow LOW interest rates.
and interest rate exposure Credit risk arises from cash and cash equivalents and deposits with banks and Credit LOW financial institutions, as well as credit exposures to customers, including outstanding receivables and committed transactions.
Reduction in liquidity and working capital could result in delay or cancellation of Liquidity LOW capital projects.
In extreme circumstances, this could impact day to day operations and the Groups ability to continue as a going concern.
Failure to put in place and operate a rigorous HSEC regime can endanger and Health, safety, LOW negatively affect stakeholders.
Adverse publicity from any poor performance in environment this field could negatively affect the Group.
The Group could be held responsible & community for addressing any contamination damage to current or past licences and relations surrounding areas.
The associated cost could be significant.
The Group operates in a region where title to licences can be challenged by state Production LOW and non-state parties.
If a licence title is challenged, production could be licences suspended or terminated depending on the outcome.
Such challenges may emanate from licence provenance or compliance with licence commitments.
JKX Oil & Gas pl JKX Oil & Gas pl JKX Oil & Gas plc Annual Report & Accounts 2010 c Annual Report & Accounts 2010 c Annual Report & Accounts 2010 0 41 41 Probability Potential How we manage it impact The Board and management recognise the constant need for expert advice to ensure full compliance HIGH with local and international regulations and laws.
Our strategy is to employ skilled local staff in the countries of operation and provide them with ongoing training opportunities.
In addition to such specialist staff employed in the Groups operating entities, the Company has established legal, tax and accounting advisors.
In Ukraine, PPC has at times since 1994 sought clarification of its status regarding a number of production related taxes and has been subject to a number of such taxes.
Specifically, application of production related tax pre 2009 has attracted scrutiny.
This risk is further described in note 21 of the accounts.
On 1st January 2011 a new tax code became effective in Ukraine replacing most of the previous tax laws.
The new tax code has removed uncertainty over the applicability of rental fee payment by PPC from 2011, and accordingly PPC has been liable to and is paying such fees.
By matching, as far as is practicable, receipts and payments in the same currency and by following a LOW range of commercial policies to minimise exposure to the Hryvna denominated sales, which continued to account for more than 90% of Group revenues in 2010.
Interest rates are continually monitored by the Finance Director.
The Treasury sub-committee of the LOW Audit Committee also reviews rates on a regular basis, as well as the Groups strategy with regards to cash deposits.
This strategy, given the current banking environment, is focused on security of deposits through bank selection and monitoring criteria in preference to maximising interest rate return, a strategy which is regularly reviewed.
Credit risk on cash and cash equivalents is managed at a Group level through two Treasury Committees: LOW one comprises management, which meets weekly, while the other is a sub-committee of the Audit Committee.
These Committees evaluate the relative risks of banks and determine the appropriate allocation of Group funds across a range of banks in varying jurisdictions, with the aim of minimising credit risk associated with cash deposits.
Local customers are managed at local level if there is no independent rating, the Group evaluates their financial position, past experience and other factors.
Management does not expect any losses through non-performance by counterparties.
The Company does not have any concentration of credit risk and management does not consider there to be any significant exposure to material loss.
Management monitors rolling forecasts of the Groups liquidity on the basis of expected cash flow to HIGH ensure any remedial action can be taken with as much lead time as possible.
The table on page 36 analyses the Groups financial liabilities into relevant maturity groupings based on the remaining period at the balance sheet to the contractual maturity date.
The Group treats HSEC as a priority and has a London based HSEC manager who reports directly to the HIGH CEO.
In addition, HSEC managers within local operations engender a safe operating environment.
Significant expenditures are incurred to comply with applicable laws and regulations and to the extent reasonable practicable, create social and economic benefit in the surrounding area.
Appropriate insurances are maintained to manage the Groups financial exposure.
The Group conducts rigorous due diligence on licence title as part of any review of prospective interest HIGH acquisitions.
For licences held, the Group ensures compliance with all commitments and where commitment adherence is for whatever reason likely to be out of time or scope, extensions waivers as required are obtained from relevant authorities.
Identification of any such potential infringement of commitments is ensured through rigorous project and company procedures and controls.
