14 John Wood Group PLC Annual Report 2010 Operational review Well Support We provide solutions, products and services to enhance production rates and efficiency from oil & gas reservoirs.
We are among the market leaders in artificial lift using electric submersible pumps ESPs and in surface wellheads and valves.
We also provide electric line and slickline services.
Energy Supporting Energy At a glance Operational review Governance Financial statements go online at www.
com 15 : Right Jim Renfroe, Revenue Group Director, Well Support up 16% To read about our directors turn to pages 36-37.
EBITA up 71% Logging Services Our operational and financial review Our Logging Services business has seen a good increase in activity during 2010 and represented 12% of the divisions revenue.
2010 2009 % $m $m Change The US business, which encompasses slickline and cased hole electric Revenue 947.1 813.7 16.4% wireline services and has a strong position in deepwater pipe recovery EBITA 128.1 75.1 70.6% and completion services in the Gulf of Mexico, performed strongly in EBITA margin 13.5% 9.2% 4.3pts 2010.
Robust drilling activity in the US land unconventional shale and People 3,900 3,500 11% traditional markets more than offset the slowdown offshore.
In addition, we achieved a strong performance in Argentina where we Revenue was 16% higher than 2009 due to the impact of the strong are the leading provider of cased hole electric wireline services.
US rig count on our Pressure Control and Logging Services businesses, together with good ESP activity globally.
Improved volumes in 2010 and the impact of cost-reduction actions taken in 2009 have contributed to significantly increased profitability in EBITA increased by 71%, reflecting higher volumes, the benefit of our the year.
continued focus on operating efficiency, cost discipline and a slightly improved pricing environment.
Outlook All three Well Support businesses are anticipated to perform strongly Electric Submersible Pumps ESPs in 2011 and are well positioned to take advantage of a growing Our ESP business represents around 52% of the divisions revenue.
ESP market in mature oilfield production and the developments in the US continues to perform strongly internationally, typically under longer-term unconventional shale regions.
We believe that the US drilling rig count contracts, in regions including South America, the Middle East and average for 2011 will be above that of 2010 which should result in Africa.
International revenue accounts for 71% of ESPs total revenue.
We also anticipate that some easing of pricing Growth in the USA, where we are a market leader in the sale, operation pressure, and the continued benefit of structural changes made to the and service of ESPs, was driven by strong transactional activity.
Good cost base in 2009, will contribute to further EBITA margin improvement.
revenue growth, together with our continued focus on cost discipline and process efficiency, has resulted in higher margins.
On 14 February 2011 we announced our intention to dispose of our Well Support division for $2.8bn.
Subject to shareholder approval and Pressure Control certain regulatory approvals the disposal is targeted for completion by Pressure Control represents 36% of the divisions revenue and is the the end of the second quarter of 2011. leading surface wellhead provider in the USA serving more than 25% of operating rigs.
The recovery in the US drilling rig count, particularly as a result of an increase in horizontal liquids related drilling in the shale regions, led to a significant increase in revenue in 2010.
Internationally, we continued to develop in the Middle East and Asia Pacific and opened our manufacturing plant in Saudi Arabia.
International business represents 27% of Pressure Control activity.
Overall margins have significantly improved in 2010 as a result of increased volumes, improved supply chain processes, and control of overhead costs.
China X Pressure Control equipment manufacturing & maintenance to support our global client base.
