16 John Wood Group PLC Annual Report 2010 Operational review Gas Turbine Services We are a leading independent provider of services and solutions for clients in the power, oil & gas and renewable energy markets on a worldwide basis.
Our aftermarket Maintenance activities include facility operations & maintenance, repair & overhaul of gas, wind and steam turbines, pumps, compressors and other high-speed rotating equipment.
Our Power Solutions business provides power plant engineering, procurement & construction, and construction management services to the owners of power-generation facilities.
Energy Supporting Energy At a glance Operational review Governance Financial statements go online at www.
com 17 : Right Mark Papworth, Revenue Group Director, Gas Turbine Services down 3% To read about our directors turn to pages 36-37.
EBITA down 30% Our operational and financial review In the oil & gas sector, where we provide Maintenance services in support of turbines used in power generation, gas compression and 2010 2009 % transmission, we made progress in extending our presence in a number $m $m Change of new international markets, including significant contracts in Peru, Revenue 804.9 825.6 2.5% Canada and Iraq.
We also continued to be successful with our services EBITA 46.1 65.7 29.8% in the North Sea managing rotating equipment reliability.
EBITA margin 5.7% 8.0% 2.3%pts People 3,300 3,500 6% Our Maintenance business supporting turbines in the power generation market was affected by soft market conditions, although we saw good performance on some of our longer-term contracts.
We also won several new long-term contracts in a number of different countries, Maintenance revenue, covering the Divisions operations & maintenance, particularly during the latter part of the year, including in Iraq, Oman, and repair & overhaul activities, fell from around $740m to $715m, Germany, Australia and USA, all of which provide significant order principally reflecting lower spending by customers in North America and book for future years.
Power Solutions revenue was flat at around $90m with work performed on recently awarded major contracts contributing around Overall in our Maintenance activities, we continued to focus on building 50% of Power Solutions revenue, on which no profit was recognised our engineering and operational capability and to build up our work due to their early stages of completion.
We are now supporting around 19,000 MW under longer-term contracts 2009: 17,000 MW.
EBITA before exceptional items for 2010 was $46.1m.
Maintenance EBITA fell by $10m with activity impacted by deferrals of spend by In Power Solutions, market confidence began to return during the customers and losses at our Connecticut component repair shop.
course of the year, and we were awarded two major contract awards Power Solutions generated a small loss for the year, reflecting low in the fourth quarter with GWF in North America and Dorad Energy activity levels for much of the year, and the cost of expanding our in Israel.
These two contracts represent a solid backlog to underpin execution capability.
Across the Division, we have continued to seek performance recovery in 2011 and beyond.
cost reductions in both direct and indirect costs wherever possible and this contributed to an improved EBITA performance in the second half Outlook of the year.
We expect to see some recovery in the Maintenance market in 2011, and this greater volume of activity, together with the cost-reduction During the year, we took the decision to close our loss-making measures already implemented, should result in margin improvement.
Connecticut component repair shop and also undertook a restructuring In Power Solutions the award of the GWF and Dorad contracts has of our organisation which resulted in a reduction of more than 10% of resulted in backlog of over $1bn.
We expect this business to represent indirect headcount.
Together, these actions resulted in one-off costs of around 25% of divisional revenue and to begin to deliver an EBITA $21m, of which the cash element is around $11m, and are expected to contribution in 2011, with stronger EBITA contribution in 2012 and 2013 deliver annual cash savings of around $8m.
as the projects progress towards completion.
Overall we expect a strong recovery in GTS EBITA in 2011.
Headcount has reduced to 3,300 at the end of 2010 as compared to 3,500 for 2009 largely as a result of the cost-reduction measures noted above.
UK X Inspection of turbine veins in one of our UK facilities.
