10 John Wood Group PLC Annual Report 2010 Operational review Engineering & Production Facilities Engineering We deliver a wide range of market leading engineering services to the upstream, subsea & pipelines, downstream & industrial and clean energy sectors.
These include conceptual studies, engineering, project and construction management EPCM and control systems upgrades.
Energy Supporting Energy At a glance Operational review Governance Financial statements go online at www.
com 11 : Right Mike Straughen, Revenue Group Director, Engineering up 1% To read about our directors turn to pages 36-37.
EBITA down 16% Engineering Our operational and financial review Upstream engineering represents around 40% of total Engineering revenue.
Activity was lower in 2010: however, increasing bidding 2010 2009 % volumes during the year resulted in a number of project awards in $m $m Change the second half and the higher order book provides much improved Revenue 3,280.2 3,241.9 1.2% visibility into 2011. Notable awards included the Chevron Jack & St EBITA 223.4 266.0 16.0% Malo topsides design in the Gulf of Mexico, the Noble Alen project in EBITA margin 6.8% 8.2% 1.4%pts Equatorial Guinea, Hess Tioga in the USA, Ecopetrol in Colombia and People 21,400 20,800 3% Altagas Gordondale in Canada.
We have also won work in Uganda, Angola and Israel.
Revenue in the year increased by 1%, reflecting a 11% reduction Subsea and pipeline engineering has continued to grow and accounted in Engineering revenue offset by 11% growth in our opex-related for around 40% of Engineering revenue.
Spending on subsea pipelines Production Facilities activities.
Engineering represented 38% of the is robust and we are working on over 20 major subsea projects globally Divisional revenue compared to 43% in 2009.
In Engineering, the impact with awards during the year including Apache Julimar in Australia, of a weak downstream, process and industrial market and delays in Chevron Jack & St Malo in the Gulf of Mexico, Total Egina in Nigeria the progression of projects in our upstream business in the first half of and BG Jordbaer in Norway.
In our onshore pipeline business, we are 2010, was offset to some extent by continued strength in our subsea continuing to broaden our client base and are active on engineering and pipeline activities.
Growth in Production Facilities reflected increased services work for Ecopetrol in Colombia.
We are also supporting demand for our services, predominantly in international markets.
infrastructure developments to link unconventional gas developments to end markets in the USA.
EBITA decreased by 16% in the year, with the margin decreasing from 8.2% to 6.8%.
The margin reduction is due to the change in revenue mix Downstream engineering in the USA has continued to experience a soft towards relatively lower margin Production Facilities work, and reduced market as refining margins have been suppressed and the significant underlying margins in both Engineering and Production Facilities.
activity around compliance with the MSAT 2 environmental legislation Engineering margins fell as a consequence of the lower pricing of work is substantially complete.
Overall, the downstream market looks set to won in 2009 and early 2010, the loss of scale efficiencies as volumes remain weak for some time.
The process and industrial area saw some decreased and reduced utilisation.
In Production Facilities, margins fell slight strengthening in the second half as general economic conditions due to reduced scope on certain North Sea contracts, the slower than in the USA improved.
This sector now accounts for around 20% of anticipated start-up on some contracts in Australia, and lower volumes Engineering revenue.
on certain specialist services in the international market.
Broadening our international presence and extending our services Divisional headcount at the year end, including contractors, stood at remain key elements of our Engineering strategy.
During the year, we around 21,400 an increase of 3% over 2009.
Engineering headcount progressed our geographic expansion into key markets through the was added, from the first quarter low of 6,300, to support increasing acquisition of a controlling interest in Al-Hejailan Consultants in Saudi activity levels and ended the year up 8% on the prior year at 6,900.
Arabia and the subsequent award in 2011 of a general engineering Production Facilities has seen a small increase in the year to 14,500, services GES contract from Saudi Aramco: the establishment of joint largely the result of increased international activity offset by a fall in North ventures with Sime Darby in Malaysia and Kianda in Angola: and we Sea activity.
also broadened our services through an investment in SgurrEnergy, an engineering consultancy specialising in renewable energy projects.
Australia X Review of Engineering drawings for client projects in Western Australia.
12 John Wood Group PLC Annual Report 2010 Operational review Engineering & Production Facilities continued Production Facilities We offer life of field support to producing assets through brownfield engineering and modifications, production enhancement, operations management, training, maintenance management and abandonment services.
com 13 : Right Les Thomas, Group Director, Production Facilities To read about our directors turn to pages 36-37.
Production Facilities Engineering & Production Facilities outlook We have continued to see increased demand for skilled resources in In Engineering, increased forecast global E&P spend, higher bidding operations & maintenance support services as our customers bring new volumes and an improved order book supports our expectation of developments on stream, particularly in international markets.
In line with a continuing recovery in our upstream engineering businesses and our strategy, we have now increased the proportion of revenues from ongoing growth in our subsea and pipeline business.
This will be international markets to 46% 2009: 40%.
partially held back by the continuing subdued demand for our services in the US-based downstream market through 2011.
We anticipate The North Sea remains our largest Production Facilities business we will see some benefit from our international expansion during the representing around 54% of revenue and we have been successful in latter part of 2011 with the start of work on the GES contract in Saudi renewing a number of important contracts including those for Hess, Arabia, and with our joint venture partners Sime Darby in Malaysia and Talisman and Total, which provides continuity for our business.
Overall, increased bidding in the second half of 2010 We also remain active on our duty holder business for Centrica, has resulted in our order book being at the higher end of our typical Ithaca and Premier.
range, representing approximately eight months of forecast revenue.
We expect that scale efficiencies resulting from higher volumes and Baker Energy, acquired in 2009, has now been integrated with our slightly improving utilisation, somewhat offset by lower pricing on orders existing operations, strengthening our US business and expanding our secured in 2010, will lead to an improved EBITA margin in 2011. international operations, especially in Africa.
In the USA we have also seen an increase in demand for our support services to the expanding In Production Facilities, we expect to see good revenue growth in the market in the unconventional shale regions.
In Latin America and the Middle East in 2011 with the start-up of the PDO contract, albeit startCaribbean we have continued to provide support under longer-term up costs will largely offset any contribution to earnings in the first year.
contracts to Chevron and Statoil in Brazil, BP and Ecopetrol in Colombia In other markets, Gulf of Mexico support activities are anticipated to and BP in Trinidad.
perform well, and in Asia Pacific we anticipate a good contribution from work on coal seam methane in Australia and our longer-term support In December our joint venture with CCC in the Middle East secured its contracts.
Our North Sea business is expected to reduce due to the loss first major contract with PDO in Oman for the provision of engineering of some contracts that went to re-tender and a fall in activity on certain and maintenance services.
The contract is initially for seven years and longer-term contracts, offset by increases in project-related work for represents a significant expansion into the growing Middle East market.
Subject to UK merger control clearance, we will see a significant increase in overall activity through our acquisition of PSN, In West Africa we extended our longer-term contracts with Hess and which should add some $1.2bn of revenue on an annualised basis and Marathon in Equatorial Guinea and we secured work in Angola for BP over 8,000 additional people.
Overall we expect margins to be relatively and Chevron.
In addition we have continued to support the Nigeria flat in 2011 as the scale benefits of increased activity will be offset by LNG contract.
start-up costs in certain overseas locations.
We extended our longer-term support contract with Brunei Shell Petroleum in Asia Pacific and negotiated framework agreements with Woodside and ENI.
We also entered into a joint venture with Wagners in Australia, focused on coal seam methane, which secured its first contract with WestSide.
In December we announced the acquisition of PSN, which is subject to clearance by the UK merger control authorities.
It is our intention to merge PSN with Production Facilities to create the global market leader in production facilities support.
This new business, to be called Wood Group PSN, will have the capability to provide comprehensive support services to customers across the global oil & gas market.
USA X Providing commissioning services for an offshore platform prior to service in Trinidad.
