06 John Wood Group PLC Annual Report 2010 At a glance How we measure our performance We use a variety of key performance measures to evaluate the Groups performance.
Our metrics set out below are included in the Groups senior management incentive schemes, alongside specific personal objectives covering strategy, people development and safety measures.
EBITA and EBITA margin Capital efficiency Return on Capital Operating Capital Employed EBITA EBITA margin Employed ROCE to Revenue OCER $344.8m 6.8% 24.8% 16.7% Our objective Our objective We aim to achieve sustainable long-term EBITA To obtain a satisfactory return on capital invested growth and margin improvement.
and to actively manage the level of operating capital required to support revenue.
Relevance Relevance We use EBITA and EBITA margin as key indicators of ROCE is calculated as EBITA divided by average equity plus operating profitability.
They are measures of financial average net debt.
It is a measure which demonstrates our profitability and efficiency, which exclude the impact of efficiency in generating a financial return from the book value accounting charges against acquired intangible assets, of the net assets in the Group.
to provide a better indication of underlying financial performance.
OCER is calculated as Operating Capital Employed property plant and equipment, intangible assets excluding goodwill and intangibles arising on acquisitions, inventories and trade and other receivables less trade and other payables divided by Revenue.
OCER measures our efficiency in generating revenue from the book value of our working capital and other operating assets.
How we performed How we performed EBITA declined by 4% from $358.4m to $344.8m during The Groups ROCE deteriorated from 26.3% to 24.8%.
and the period and EBITA margin fell by 0.5% points from OCER improved from 16.8% to 16.7%.
com 07 : Adjusted diluted EPS Safety total recordable case frequency per million man hours 39.7c 3.1 Our objective Our objective To generate long-term adjusted diluted We are committed to continuous improvement in earnings per share growth.
safety performance across all of our businesses.
Relevance Relevance Adjusted diluted EPS is a widely accepted measure of postThe safety and well-being of our employees lies at the very tax shareholder return.
heart of Wood Groups business principles.
How we performed How we performed Adjusted diluted EPS has reduced from 41.8c to 39.7c.
Improved TRCF from 3.3 cases to 3.1 cases per million man hours.
