30 John Wood Group PLC Annual Report 2010 Corporate social responsibility Shareholders Our Investor Relations team is focused on maintaining open and We seek to ensure that shareholders, analysts effective communication with shareholders and analysts.
and financial media are well informed of our Understanding investor priorities strategy, results and business outlook through We recognise the importance of listening to investors and understanding clear and timely communication.
their priorities, as well as keeping them informed.
We seek investor feedback throughout the year, both informally through the investor Our priorities for 2011 relations team and through investor roadshows and one-to-one sessions Maintaining regular and frequent updates for investors, including involving the Chief Executive and Group Finance Director.
In addition, improved online communication the Groups brokers make an annual presentation to the Board, Consult with shareholders and implement an effective return of cash providing insight into shareholder needs and perceptions.
mechanism for shareholders as a whole During 2010 we staged two investor roadshows.
We held over 150 group and one-to-one meetings with investors through the course of TSR Wood Group and FTSE 250, the year, including attendance at a number of investor conferences.
The over the last 12 months, rebased to 100 senior independent director is available throughout the year to meet with 200 May Interim shareholders on request.
"Management Statement ""IMS"" 2010 first half The AGM provides another valuable opportunity for face-to-face contact 2010 half year results 150 trading update with the Board, allowing shareholders to raise any questions they may have."
The next AGM will be on 11 May 2011 in Aberdeen.
We will continue to publish six formal updates during the course of the 100 2010 full year October year final and interim results, two interim management statements trading update IMS and two trading updates to provide a regular update on the Groups Wood Group 2009 Full year performance and outlook, and we will discuss these updates with the results FTSE 250 Price Index investor community.
50 01-Jan-10 01-Apr-10 01-Jul-10 01-Oct-10 31-Dec-10 Accessing further information The Investors section of our website at www.
com investors The Company has been notified, in accordance with s793 of the provides additional information, including webcasts of shareholder Companies Act 2006 and DTR 5.1.
2R, of the following interests presentations and a facility for electing to receive email alerts when new representing 3% or more of the issued ordinary share capital of the information is published.
Number % of of issued issued Name of Shareholder shares held shares Blackrock 74,394,078 14.0% Trustees of I. C. Woods Childrens Settlements 59,941,473 11.3% Schroder Investments 26,065,805 4.9% Wood Group Employee Share Schemes 20,649,748 3.9% Threadneedle Asset Management Limited 20,483,335 3.9% Sir Ian Wood has interests amounting to more than 3% of the share capital as disclosed on page 54 Redeveloped website During 2010 the website has been completely redeveloped to provide additional information and make it easier to use.
For investors, this includes details of corporate governance arrangements, links to technical papers published by our people, copies of investor presentations and an interactive version of the Annual Report.
Energy Supporting Energy At a glance Operational review Governance Financial statements go online at www.
com 31 : Corporate social responsibility Community Supporting our peoples concerns for their communities We embrace and support the diverse We encourage employees to participate directly in community and communities and cultures in which we work.
charitable initiatives, and our contributions are guided by their passions and concerns.
Caring for our local communities is important to us and we encourage all our people to engage For some 20 years our Employee Community Fund ECF has encouraged in community projects.
UK employees to support a charity or community project donating up to 250 each year to causes nominated by individual employees.
To enable Our priorities for 2011 us to ensure that money is being targeted to the causes that are important Expanding global coverage of donations to employee causes to our employees, we introduced the ECF-1K in 2010.
This gives up to Providing assistance to help young people access further education 1,000 to employees who are able to demonstrate an active commitment to the cause that they are supporting.
Our UK charity committee drawn from across the Group reviews requests for support.
Our key areas for support are health, young people, the elderly, education, arts and the environment.
We also respond to requests for help in 2010, for example, we gave 3,000 to an Aberdeenbased appeal for victims of the floods in Pakistan, and supported the victims of the Haiti earthquake through humanitarian aid charities in the UK and USA.
We also maintain longer-term commitments to several charities.
A selection of 2010 projects In the USA we continued our support of the Alley Theatre schools project to engage school students with the arts: we sponsored the UK tour of the Houston Symphony Orchestra: and Mustang raised over $13,000 completing the Alzheimers Association Memory Walk in Houston.
In Trinidad & Tobago our School Partnership Programme continued, and our social development programmes specifically designed to support young men and women to better themselves were very successful in helping them get back into education and tackling illiteracy issues.
In the UK our community programme includes sponsorship of the North East Scotland final of the national KNEX Challenge, designed to introduce primary school children to engineering.
We are a long-term supporter of the annual Aberdeen International Youth Festival, one of the worlds premier youth arts festivals: and last year added support for Aberdeen Universitys Word Festival celebrating the written word.
Our charitable support also included sponsorship of a fundraising dinner for Epilepsy Scotland and the Juvenile Diabetes Research Foundations Walk to Cure Diabetes.
Activities in Australia included providing volunteers for a residential care home, and building and planting a vegetable garden at a childcare centre run by Mission Australia, one of our long-term charity partners.
In Nigeria we are sponsoring a literacy programme with Bonny Vocation Centre to aid people from Bonny Island to find suitable employment.
Race for the Cure 120 Wood Group employees raised over $8,500 for breast cancer research by taking part in the Komen Race for the Cure in Houston.
