32 John Wood Group PLC Annual Report 2010 Corporate social responsibility Making a difference We aim to increase awareness and promote our goal to minimise our impact on the environment and improve communities around the world for future generations.
KNEX Challenge We sponsor the North East Scotland final of the KNEX Challenge to encourage the next generation of young engineers.
More than 4,000 children aged 8 to 10 from 85 schools took part in the 2010 challenge.
Reforestation In Colombia, employees took part in a reforestation exercise to plant 2 130 trees in a 300m area to help remind employees to take care of their natural resources.
Energy Supporting Energy At a glance Operational review Governance Financial statements go online at www.
com 33 : MS150 A team of around 80 Wood Group riders and volunteers took part in the MS150.
The event is a bike ride over two days which covers 180 miles from Houston to Austin, Texas.
The team raised over $41,000 for the National MS Multiple Sclerosis Society.
Toy Drive In Equatorial Guinea, over 300 children benefited from a Toy Drive where they received presents and enjoyed snacks, sandwiches and milk with Wood Group Equatorial Guinea employees.
Aberdeen beach cleanup The beach clean was organised as part of the UK charity Marine Conservation Societys Adopt a Beach programme.
The aim was to clean up from the north end of Aberdeen Beach and to survey the quantity and types of litter found.
H Australia, Getting lives back on track We helped Mission Australia to build and plant a vegetable garden at their Parmelia Child Care Centre.
Mission Australia helps disadvantaged Australians improve their circumstances.
34 John Wood Group PLC Annual Report 2010 H China We are committed to providing training across the Group to help people develop their skills at all levels.
Energy Supporting Energy Governance go online at www.
com 35 : Governance 36 Board of directors and biographies 38 Report of the directors 39 Corporate governance 45 Directors remuneration report Governance
