04 John Wood Group PLC Annual Report 2010 At a glance Overview of 2010 activities Engineering & Production Facilities We deliver a wide range of market-leading engineering services to During 2010 we the upstream, subsea & pipelines, downstream & industrial and clean operated in three energy sectors.
These include conceptual studies, engineering, project divisions: Engineering and construction management EPCM and control systems upgrades.
& Production Facilities, We provide life of field support to producing assets, through brownfield engineering and modifications, production enhancement, operations Well Support and Gas management including UK duty holder services, training, maintenance Turbine Services management and abandonment services.
% Group Engineering revenue EPCM services and control system upgrades for Upstream topsides for offshore processing facilities including 10% FPSOs, onshore and onshore processing facilities.
EPCM services for subsea developments, offshore Subsea and pipelines and floating LNG, plus EPCM and field service pipelines 10% for onshore pipelines.
EPCM services, operational enhancements and control Downstream system upgrades for refineries including clean fuel and industrial 5% modifications, petrochemical plants, process and industrial, and clean energy facilities.
For more detail on Engineering & Production Facilities performance Production Facilities turn to pages 10-13.
For more detail on Well Supports Brownfield engineering & modifications performance turn to pages 14-15.
UK North Sea Operations & maintenance 22% Production enhancement Start-up and commissioning For more detail on Gas Turbine Services Supply chain management performance turn to pages 16-17.
Human resources management including safety training and competence development programmes International 18% Decommissioning Revenue by region Share of Group revenue Key statistics Engineering & Production Facilities Rest of Group North America Europe 65% Middle East & Africa Asia Pacific share of revenue Central & South America Margin 21,400 people 6.8% up 3% Energy Supporting Energy At a glance Operational review Governance Financial statements go online at www.
com 05 : Well Support Gas Turbine Services We provide solutions, products and services to We are a leading independent provider of services enhance production rates and efficiency from oil & and solutions for clients in the power, oil & gas gas reservoirs.
We are among the market leaders and renewable energy markets on a worldwide in artificial lift using electric submersible pumps basis.
Our aftermarket Maintenance activities ESPs and in surface wellheads and valves.
We include facility operations & maintenance, repair also provide electric line and slickline services.
& overhaul of gas, wind and steam turbines, pumps, compressors and other high-speed On 14 February 2011 we announced our intention rotating equipment.
Our Power Solutions to dispose of our Well Support division for $2.8bn.
business provides power plant engineering, Subject to shareholder approval and certain procurement & construction, and construction regulatory approvals, the disposal is targeted management services to the owners of power for completion by the end of the second quarter generation facilities.
% Group % Group revenue revenue Provide and service ESPs and Electric Repair & overhaul field service, 10% associated systems.
shop-based repair & overhaul, parts Submersible re-engineering and parts supply.
Pumps Term maintenance scheduling, technical solutions and advice.
Manufacture, supply and service of Turbine system solutions retrofits Pressure 7% surface wellheads, valves and wellhead and service for turbine control systems Control systems.
Maintenance 14% Rotating equipment repair and service for compressors, pumps and other rotating equipment.
Reliability & availability optimisation and Cased hole electric line and slickline Logging asset integrity.
2% mechanical operations to gather Services Our power business also provides information and perform operations in power station operations & development and production wells.
Power plant engineering, procurement Power 2% & contract and construction Solutions management.
Equipment solutions provision of gas turbine driven packages for power, compression and pumping.
Revenue by region Share of Group revenue Revenue by region Share of Group revenue Well Support Gas Turbine Services Rest of Group Rest of Group North America North America Europe Europe 19% 16% Middle East & Africa Middle East & Africa Asia Pacific Asia Pacific share of revenue share of revenue Central & South America Central & South America Margin 3,900 people Margin 3,300 people 13.5% up 11% 5.7% down 6%
