BOARD OF DIRECTORS 1234 5 6 7 8 1 Sir John Banham 2 N A P Carson 3 R J MacLeod 4 A M Thomson 5 R J W Walvis 6 Sir Thomas Harris 7 M J Roney 8 D C Thompson 9 L C Pentz 10 W F Sandford 9 10 Sir John Banham DL, MA, HonLLD, HonDSc R J MacLeod Chairman, age 69: joined Johnson Matthey as Chairman designate Group Finance Director, age 46: joined Johnson Matthey as Group in January 2006: appointed Chairman on 1st April 2006.
Currently Finance Director designate in June 2009 and assumed current job the Senior Independent Director of Invesco Ltd and Cyclacel title in September 2009.
Previously he was Group Finance Director Pharmaceuticals Inc.
He was previously a director at McKinsey & of WS Atkins plc and worked in a variety of senior financial roles at Company, the first Controller of the Audit Commission and is a Enterprise Oil plc.
He is currently a non-executive director of former Director General of the Confederation of British Industry.
Previously a director of National Power and National Westminster Bank, and Chairman ofTarmac plc, Kingfisher plc, Geest plc and A M Thomson MA, CA Whitbread PLC.
M, N Age 63: appointed a non-executive director in September 2002.
Currently Chairman of Bodycote International Plc and a nonN A P Carson BSc executive director of Alstom S. A. France.
Until his retirement in Chief Executive, age 53: joined Johnson Matthey in 1980: appointed 2006 he was Finance Director of Smiths Group plc.
MrThomson Division Director, Catalytic Systems in 1997 after having held senior is also President of the Institute of Chartered Accountants of management positions in the Precious Metals Division as well as Scotland.
A, M, N Catalytic Systems in both the UK and the US.
Appointed to the board as Managing Director, Catalysts & Chemicals in August 1999 R J W Walvis and additionally assumed board level responsibility for Precious Metals Age 63: appointed a non-executive director in September 2002.
Appointed Chief Executive in July 2004.
Currently a non-executive director of Associated British Ports Currently a member of the Advisory Board for the Cambridge Holdings Ltd and Balfour Beatty plc and Chairman of the Programme for Sustainability Leadership.
From 31st August 2010 Supervisory Board of Allianz Nederland Group NV.
He was Mr Carson will join the board of AMEC plc as a non-executive previously a non-executive director of British Energy Group plc and director.
Chairman, Global Corporate Centre, Shell International Limited.
Prior to that he held a series of senior management positions within the Royal Dutch Shell Group.
