OTHER STATUTORY INFORMATION Annual General Meeting Shares acquired by employees through the Johnson Matthey employee share schemes rank equally with the other shares in issue The notice of the 2010 Annual General Meeting of the company and have no special rights.
Voting rights in respect of shares held to be held on Wednesday 21st July 2010 at 11.00 am at The through the groups share incentive plans are not exercisable directly Institution of Engineering and Technology The Lecture Theatre, by participants however participants can direct the trustee of the 2 Savoy Place, London WC2R 0BL is contained in the circular plans to exercise voting rights on their behalf.
accompanying this Annual Report, together with an explanation of the resolutions to be considered at the meeting.
Employee Share Schemes At 31st March 2010, 4,383 current and former employees, Dividends representing approximately 49.0% of employees worldwide, were The interim dividend of 11.1 pence per share 2009 11.1 pence was shareholders in Johnson Matthey through the groups employee share paid in February 2010.
The directors recommend a final dividend of schemes.
Through these schemes, current and former employees 27.9 pence per share in respect of the year ended 31st March 2010 held 3,919,782 shares 1.83% of issued share capital, excluding 2009 26.0 pence, making a total for the year of 39.0 pence per share treasury shares.
As at 31st March 2010, 511 current and former 2009 37.1 pence, payable on 3rd August 2010 to shareholders on employees held options over 2,474,307 shares through the the register at the close of business on 11th June 2010. companys executive share option schemes.
A Dividend Reinvestment Plan is in place which allows shareholders to purchase additional shares in the company with their dividend Major Shareholders payment.
Further information and a mandate can be obtained from the As at 1st June 2010, the following information had been disclosed companys registrars, Equiniti, whose details are set out on page 115. to the company under the Financial Services Authoritys Disclosure and Transparency Rules in respect of holdings exceeding the 3% Share Capital notification threshold: On 21st July 2009, the authorised share capital of the company Nature of Total % of total 1 was increased from 291,550,000 to 365,000,000.
As at holding voting rights voting rights 31st March 2010, the companys authorised share capital was BlackRock, Inc.
The issued share capital of the company at 31st March 2010 Prudential plc Direct 14,305,996 6.66 was 214,675,736 ordinary shares of 1.00 each excluding treasury Indirect 126,712 0.06 shares.
As at 31st March 2010, the company held 5,997,877 treasury Vanguard Precious Metals Direct 10,850,000 5.05 shares.
There were no purchases, sales or transfers of treasury & Mining Fund shares during the year ended 31st March 2010.
The company did Lloyds Banking Group plc Indirect 10,490,545 4.89 not allot any shares during the year ended 31st March 2010.
Legal & General Group Plc Direct 8,581,762 3.99 At the 2009 Annual General Meeting, shareholders renewed the 1 Total voting rights attaching to the issued ordinary share capital of the companys authority to make market purchases of up to 21,467,573 company excluding treasury shares at the date of disclosure.
ordinary shares representing 10% of the issued share capital of the company excluding treasury shares as at 31st May 2009.
The company did not make any purchases of its own shares during Directors the year ended 31st March 2010.
Authority to purchase up to The following served as directors during the year ended 31st March 21,467,573 shares remained in place at 31st March 2010.
At the 2010: forthcoming Annual General Meeting the board will again seek Sir John Banham Mr L C Pentz shareholders approval to renew the annual authority for the company to make purchases of its own shares through the market.
Mr N A P Carson Mr M J Roney Sir Thomas Harris Mr W F Sandford Rights and Obligations Attaching to Shares appointed 1st April 2009 appointed 21st July 2009 The holders of ordinary shares are entitled to receive dividends when Dr P N Hawker Mr J N Sheldrick declared, to receive the companys report and accounts, to attend retired 21st July 2009 retired 7th September 2009 and speak at general meetings of the company, to appoint proxies Mr R J MacLeod Mrs D C Thompson and to exercise voting rights.
appointed 22nd June 2009 Mr A M Thomson There are no restrictions on the transfer or limitations on the holding Mr D W Morgan of ordinary shares and no requirements to obtain prior approval to Mr R J W Walvis retired 21st July 2009 any transfers except where the company has exercised its right to suspend their voting rights, withhold a dividend or prohibit their transfer following the failure by the member or any other person appearing to The names and biographical details of all the current directors are be interested in the shares to provide the company with information shown on pages 38 and 39. requested under section 793 of the Companies Act 2006.
The In accordance with the provisions for retirement by rotation in the directors may, in certain circumstances, also refuse to register the companys Articles of Association, Mr M J Roney, Mrs D C Thompson, transfer of a share in certificated form which is not fully paid up, Mr A M Thomson and Mr R J W Walvis will retire by rotation at the where the instrument of transfer does not comply with the requirements forthcoming Annual General Meeting and, being eligible, offer of the Articles of Association, or if entitled to do so under the themselves for re-election.
Also in accordance with the provisions Uncertificated Securities Regulations 2001.
No ordinary shares carry of the companys Articles of Association, Mr W F Sandford will retire any special rights with regard to control of the company and there at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting and, being eligible, offer are no restrictions on voting rights except that a shareholder has no himself for election.
right to vote in respect of a share unless all sums due in respect of that share are fully paid.
There are no known agreements between Details of the constitution of the board and its committees are set holders of securities that may result in restrictions on the transfer out on pages 40 and 41. of securities or on voting rights and no known arrangements under which financial rights carried by securities are held by a person other than the holder of the shares.
Annual Report & Accounts 2010 43 REPORT OF THE DIRECTORS CORPORATE GOVERNANCE OTHER STATUTORY INFORMATION Appointment and Replacement of Directors Under Deed Polls the company has also granted indemnities in favour of each director of its subsidiaries in respect of any liability The Articles of Association provide that the number of directors is that he or she may incur to a third party in relation to the affairs of not subject to any maximum but must not be less than six, unless any group member.
These provisions were in force during the year otherwise determined by the company by ordinary resolution.
Directors ended 31st March 2010 for the benefit of all persons who were may be appointed by an ordinary resolution of the members or by directors of the subsidiaries at any time during the year ended a resolution of the directors.
A director appointed by the directors 31st March 2010 and remain in force for the benefit of all persons must retire at the next following Annual General Meeting and is not who are directors of the subsidiaries as at the date when this report taken into account in determining the directors who are to retire by was approved.
Copies of the Deed Polls and the companys Articles of Association At every Annual General Meeting at least one third of directors must are available for inspection during normal business hours at the retire by rotation.
The directors to retire by rotation must include companys registered office and will be available for inspection at the any director who has not been subject to election or re-election forthcoming Annual General Meeting from 10.00 am on Wednesday at the time of the two preceding Annual General Meetings, and 21st July 2010 until the conclusion of the meeting.
if so required to constitute one third of directors those directors who have been longest in office since their last appointment or Corporate Governance and Remuneration reappointment.
The boards statement on corporate governance matters is given A director may be removed by a special resolution of the company.
on pages 40 to 42 and its report on directors remuneration, which In addition, a director must automatically cease to be a director if includes details of service contracts and the directors interests in i he or she ceases to be a director by virtue of any provision of the the shares of the company, is set out on pages 48 to 56.
Companies Act 2006 or he or she becomes prohibited by law from being a director, or ii he or she becomes bankrupt or makes any Other than service contracts, no director had any interest in any arrangement or composition with his or her creditors generally, or material contract with any group company at any time during the iii he or she is suffering from a mental disorder, or iv he or she resigns year ended 31st March 2010. from his or her office by notice in writing to the company or, in the case of an executive director, his appointment is terminated or Articles of Association expires and the directors resolve that his office be vacated, or The Articles of Association may only be amended by a special v he or she is absent for more than six consecutive months without resolution at a general meeting of the company.
A special resolution permission of the directors from meetings of the directors and the proposing the adoption of new Articles of Association will be proposed directors resolve that his or her office be vacated or vi he or she is at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting.
Further details are set requested in writing, or by electronic form, by all the other directors out in the Notice of the Annual General Meeting.
Articles of Association are available for inspection during normal business hours at the companys registered office and will be Powers of the Directors available for inspection at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting The powers of the directors are determined by the companys from 10.00 am on Wednesday 21st July 2010 until the conclusion Articles of Association, the Companies Act 2006 and any directions of the meeting.
given by the company in general meeting.
The directors have been authorised by the Articles of Association to issue and allot ordinary Change of Control shares and to make market purchases of shares.
These powers are There are no significant agreements to which the company is a party referred to shareholders at the Annual General Meeting for renewal.
that take effect following a change of control of the company but the Any shares purchased may be cancelled or held as treasury shares.
company and its subsidiaries are party to a number of commercial agreements that may allow the counterparties to alter or terminate Directors Conflicts of Interests the agreements on a change of control of the company following a Procedures are in place to ensure compliance with the directors takeover bid.
Other than the matters referred to below, these are not conflict of interest duties set out in the Companies Act 2006.
The deemed by the company to be significant in terms of their potential company has complied with these procedures during the year effect on the group as a whole.
ended 31st March 2010 and the board believes that these procedures The group has a number of loan notes and borrowing facilities which operate effectively.
During the year the board undertook an annual may require prepayment of principal and payment of accrued review of previously approved conflict or potential conflict matters interest and breakage costs if there is change of control of the and agreed that they should continue to be authorised on the terms company.
The group has also entered into a series of financial previously set out.
In each case, the review was undertaken by instruments to hedge its currency, interest rate and metal price directors who were genuinely independent of the conflict matter.
exposures which provide for termination or alteration if a change of No new conflict or potential conflict matters were approved during control of the company materially weakens the creditworthiness of the year.
The authorised conflict or potential conflict matters will the group.
continue to be reviewed by the board on an annual basis.
The company is party to a marketing agreement with a subsidiary of Anglo Platinum Limited, originally entered into in 1992, under which Directors Indemnities the company was appointed as sales and marketing agent for Under Deed Polls the company has granted indemnities in favour refined platinum group metals worldwide excluding the US and the of each director of the company in respect of any liability that he or company agreed to provide certain marketing services.
The she may incur to a third party in relation to the affairs of the company agreement contains provisions under which the counterparty may or any group member.
These provisions were in force during the have the right to terminate the agreement on a change of control year ended 31st March 2010 for the benefit of all persons who of the company.
were directors of the company at any time during the year ended The rules of the companys employee share schemes set out the 31st March 2010 and remain in force for the benefit of all persons consequences of a change of control of the company on who are directors of the company as at the date when this report participants rights under the schemes.
Generally such rights will was approved.
vest and become exercisable on a change of control subject to the satisfaction of relevant performance conditions.
44 - Johnson Matthey OTHER STATUTORY INFORMATION Change of Control continued Charitable Donations The executive directors service contracts each contain a provision During the year ended 31st March 2010 the group donated to the effect that if the contract is terminated by the company within 458,000 2009 495,000 to charitable organisations worldwide, of one year after a change of control of the company, the company will which 298,000 2009 366,000 was in the UK.
pay to the director as liquidated damages an amount equivalent to Further details of contributions made by the group worldwide are one years gross basic salary and other contractual benefits less the given on pages 34 and 35 and in the Sustainability Report which period of any notice given by the company to the director.
There are can be found on the companys website at www.
no other agreements between the company and its directors or employees providing for compensation for loss of office or Political Donations and Expenditure employment whether through resignation, purported redundancy or otherwise on a change of control of the company following a It is the policy of the group not to make political donations.
the year ended 31st March 2010, no donations were made by the company or its subsidiaries to any EU political party, EU political Other than the marketing agreement with a subsidiary of Anglo organisation or to any EU independent election candidate 2009 nil, Platinum Limited referred to above, the group does not have any no EU political expenditure was incurred 2009 nil and no contractual or other arrangements with any persons which the contributions to political parties outside the EU were made within the directors consider are essential to the business of the company.
meaning of Part 14 of the Companies Act 2006 2009 nil.
Disabled Persons Management Report Details of the companys policy relating to the recruitment, The Report of the Directors is the management report for the employment and training of disabled employees can be found purposes of the Financial Services Authoritys Disclosure and on page 32.
Employee Involvement Auditors and Disclosure of Information Information on the action taken by the company during the year In accordance with section 489 of the Companies Act 2006, relating to employee involvement can be found on pages 29 to 37. resolutions are to be proposed at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting for the reappointment of KPMG Audit Plc as auditors of Use of Financial Instruments the company and to authorise the directors to determine their Information on the groups financial risk management objectives and remuneration.
policies and its exposure to price risk, credit risk, liquidity risk and So far as each person serving as a director of the company at the cash flow risk can be found on pages 93 to 97. date this Report of the Directors was approved by the board is aware, there is no relevant audit information of which the companys Branches auditors are unaware.
Each director hereby confirms that he or she has taken all the steps that he or she ought to have taken as a The company and its subsidiaries have established branches in a director in order to make himself or herself aware of any relevant number of different countries in which they operate.
audit information and to establish that the companys auditors are aware of that information.
Policy on Payment of Commercial Debts The Report of the Directors was approved by the Board of Directors The groups policy in relation to the payment of all suppliers set out on 2nd June 2010 and is signed on its behalf by: in its Group Control Manual, which is distributed to all group operations is that payment should be made within the credit terms agreed with the supplier, subject to the supplier having performed its obligations under the relevant contract.
It is not the groups policy to follow any specific code or standard on payment practice in respect of its suppliers.
At 31st March 2010, the companys aggregate level of creditor days amounted to 8 days.
Creditor days are calculated by Simon Farrant dividing the aggregate of the amounts which were outstanding as Company Secretary trade payables at 31st March 2010 by the aggregate of the amounts the company was invoiced by suppliers during the year ended 31st March 2010 and multiplying by 365 to express the ratio as a number of days.
Annual Report & Accounts 2010 45 REPORT OF THE DIRECTORS CORPORATE GOVERNANCE
