BUSINESS REVIEW The boards strategies to achieve these financial objectives are: Group Activities Focus the business on the groups core skills in catalysis, Johnson Matthey is a global speciality chemicals company.
We precious metals, fine chemicals and process technology.
serve our customer base from operations in over 30 countries Position the group in growth markets where our core skills and employ around 9,000 people worldwide.
The group is are applicable.
Catalysis is a key technology in many organised into three global divisions: : developing markets for the 21st century, particularly those Precious Metal Products and Fine Chemicals.
concerned with protecting the environment such as in Environmental Technologies is a global supplier of catalysts emission control, cleaner fuel, more efficient use of and related technologies for applications which benefit the hydrocarbons and the hydrogen economy.
Environmental environment such as pollution control, cleaner fuel, more efficient Technologies Division, which combines our skills in catalysts use of hydrocarbons and the hydrogen economy.
The division and process technology, is well positioned to serve these comprises three businesses: emerging markets.
Catalysis is also important in the manufacture of fine chemicals where Johnson Matthey has Emission ControlTechnologies is a global leader in catalytic a number of strong niche market positions.
Johnson systems for emissions control from vehicles and industrial Mattheys expertise and international strength in precious processes.
metals, particularly platinum group metals, was the starting ProcessTechnologies serves the worlds chemical, oil, gas point for many of our businesses.
The market for platinum and refining industries.
It manufactures catalysts, provides has grown steadily for many decades and demand is specialist services and designs and licenses chemical processes.
expected to grow significantly over the next ten years.
Johnson Matthey Fuel Cells develops and manufactures Differentiate ourselves by using our world class technology.
catalysts and catalysed components for a wide range of We will continue to invest significantly in research and clean energy fuel cell systems.
development to develop new products and manufacturing processes.
Technology is the key driver for most of our Precious Metal Products activities comprise the marketing, businesses and Johnson Matthey has a strong science base distribution, refining and recycling of platinum group metals with technical centres located in all our major markets.
pgms, fabrication of products using precious metals and related materials, pgm and base metal catalysts and pgm chemicals, and Maintain strong relationships with our major customers, the refining of gold and silver.
suppliers, government bodies and other stakeholders by investing resources on joint projects to ensure the group Fine Chemicals is a global supplier of active pharmaceutical is well positioned for future market development.
ingredients, fine chemicals and other speciality chemical products and services to a wide range of chemical and pharmaceutical Continue to invest in Johnson Mattheys employees to industry customers and industrial and academic research ensure they are well trained, motivated and encouraged organisations.
to meet the challenges of the future.
Ensure the business is run in a sustainable way by using resources efficiently, minimising waste in our manufacturing processes and designing new products that help our Strategy and Objectives customers to be more sustainable and competitive.
Johnson Mattheys strategic intent is to achieve consistent growth in earnings by concentrating on the development of high added value products and services in areas where our expertise provides a competitive edge, particularly in catalysis, precious metals, fine chemicals and process technology.
The groups financial objectives are: To continue to achieve consistent and above average growth in underlying earnings per share.
To grow dividends in line with underlying earnings while maintaining dividend cover at about two and a half times to ensure sufficient funds are retained to support organic growth.
Dividend cover may vary from the long term target to enable the group to maintain dividends at a consistent level.
Research Chemicals manufacturing joint venture, Alfa Aesar Synmax, inYantai, To deliver a return on investment above the groups cost China.
We estimate Johnson Mattheys post tax cost of capital is currently about 7.8% 10.8% pre-tax.
In addition we have a long run pre-tax target for the group of 20%.
Annual Report & Accounts 2010 7 REPORT OF THE DIRECTORS BUSINESS REVIEW
