OTHER SENIOR MANAGEMENT Sir Thomas Harris KBE CMG Age 65: appointed a non-executive director on 1st April 2009.
Currently Environmental Technologies Vice Chairman of Standard Chartered Capital Markets Ltd, a nonS M Christley Division Finance Director executive director of Biocompatibles International plc and SC First Bank J F Walker Division Director, Emission ControlTechnologies Korea, a director of IFSL and City UK, and aTrustee of Asia House.
C J Bennett Technology and Business Development Director, Until 2004, he was Director General of Trade & Investment USA Emission ControlTechnologies responsible for British business and technology promotion throughout A M Myers President, Emission ControlTechnologies, North America the United States.
He served previously as British Ambassador to the Republic of Korea in Seoul, Deputy High Commissioner in Lagos, Nigeria D W Prest Managing Director, Emission ControlTechnologies, Europe and Commercial Counsellor in the British Embassy in Washington DC.
J V Zubrickas Managing Director, Emission ControlTechnologies, Asia A, M, N N Whitley Division Director, ProcessTechnologies G L McGregor Division Finance Director, ProcessTechnologies M J Roney A Bordet Business Development Director, ProcessTechnologies Age 55: appointed a non-executive director on 1st June 2007.
Currently Chief Executive of Bunzl plc.
Joined Bunzl plc as a non-executive director J K Dunleavy Managing Director, Refineries and Gas Processing in 2003.
Prior to becoming Chief Executive of Bunzl he was the Chief A C Hurst Managing Director, Tracerco andVertec Executive Officer of Goodyear DunlopTires Europe BV and had an D J Tomlinson President, Davy ProcessTechnology extensive career with the GoodyearTire and Rubber Co holding a A Wright Managing Director, Syngas and Gas to Products number of senior management positions with responsibilities in Latin J C Frost Director, Fuel Cells America, Asia, Eastern Europe, the Middle East and Africa.
A, M, N D C Thompson Precious Metal Products Age 49: appointed a non-executive director on 1st September 2007.
B M OConnell Division Finance Director Currently Chief Executive of Drax Group plc.
Joined the board of Drax Group plc as Chief Executive in 2005.
Prior to joining Drax she was M Bedford Director, Precious Metals Marketing head of the European business of the global power generation firm, C C Howlett General Manager, Noble Metals, Europe InterGen.
First starting her career in banking she has had senior J D Malanga General Manager, Noble Metals, North America management roles in the UK, Asia and Africa.
A, M, N R L P J van der Heijden Managing Director, ColourTechnologies G P Otterman Division Director, Catalysts, Chemicals and Refining L C Pentz BS ChE, MBA Executive Director, , age 55: joined Johnson T Hassan Division Finance Director, Catalysts, Chemicals and Refining Matthey in 1984: appointed Division Director, Process Catalysts and M T Durney President, Catalysts and Chemicals Technologies in 2001 after having held a series of senior management A J McCullough General Manager, Gold, North America positions within Catalysts Division in the US.
Appointed Executive Director, Process Catalysts andTechnologies in August 2003, Executive Director, Emission ControlTechnologies in July 2004 and to his current position Fine Chemicals on 1st April 2009.
Currently a non-executive director of Victrex plc.
N P H Garner Division Director and Head of Corporate Development M Gaffney Division Finance Director W F Sandford BA J B Fowler President, Pharmaceutical Materials and Services Executive Director, Precious Metal Products, age 56: joined Johnson Matthey in 1977: appointed Division Director, Precious Metal Products R M Kilburn Managing Director, Macfarlan Smith in 2001 after holding a series of senior management positions within the B C Singelais President, Global Research Chemicals division.
Appointed Executive Director, Precious Metal Products in July 2009.
Corporate Committees of the Board G J Coates Group Treasurer A Audit Committee M Management Development and Remuneration Committee S Farrant Group Legal Director and Company Secretary N Nomination Committee P C Framp Deputy Director, Group Environment, Health and Safety and Human Resources I D Godwin Director, Investor Relations and Corporate Communications V E Gough Group Reporting Controller B A Murrer Director, Technology Centre S P Robinson Director of Tax F K Sheffy Group Business Development Director I F Stephenson Director, Group Systems, Environment, Health and Safety and Human Resources M V Twigg Chief Scientist Annual Report & Accounts 2010 39 REPORT OF THE DIRECTORS CORPORATE GOVERNANCE
