BUSINESS REVIEW An example of a core science technology area is advanced Research & Development materials synthesis which has wide applications in our catalyst businesses.
Johnson Matthey has a dedicated facility to produce Investment in research and development R&D is an integral a range of advanced materials using a state of the art technique part of Johnson Mattheys growth strategy.
It underpins the called flame spray pyrolysis.
This can be used to produce a wide development of new products and manufacturing processes and array of materials ranging from metals, metal oxides and more enables the group to differentiate itself using its world class complex mixed oxides or catalysts.
Flame spray pyrolysis is a technology.
In 2009 10 Johnson Matthey spent 91.7 million single step process where one or more precursor compounds gross on R&D.
are dissolved in a solvent and sprayed into a flame zone.
The Our group technology centre is a central resource which spray is combusted and the precursor is converted into conducts strategic R&D on behalf of all Johnson Mattheys extremely small metal or metal oxide particles.
It operates across three sites in the UK Sonning is versatile and allows the use of a wide range of precursors, Common, Billingham and Royston and employs around 200 solvents and process conditions, thus providing control over people.
In addition, the groups businesses also have their own particle size and composition.
dedicated R&D and technical centres around the world which focus on the delivery of shorter term business specific projects.
In the group technology centre, R&D activities are broadly Divisional Projects divided into four categories: core science, divisional projects, The group technology centre undertakes a wide range of work sponsored university programmes and collaborative external for and directly funded by Johnson Mattheys divisions.
This combination of internal research and collaboration example is in the area of refining research where we are ensures we have access to the very latest technology and develop working to improve our platinum group metal pgm refining relationships with leading scientists around the world.
By combining creative synthetic chemistry with cutting edge characterisation technology, we are Core Science developing faster and more efficient processes that separate pgms in very high yields.
We are also able to draw on our Some research skills are considered core to the companys international links with academia to build on our understanding technical expertise and are applicable across multiple businesses.
of chemical transformations and to control more precisely the In order to develop these skills the core science group develops chemical behaviour of the precious metals.
As with all divisional fundamental knowledge about the science underpinning many of projects, we are working closely with development teams in Johnson Mattheys technologies, transferring new products and Johnson Mattheys Refining business.
Together we are delivering processes to the divisions as appropriate.
advances in process technology which will lower raw material consumption, minimise energy use and eliminate waste.
We are Group R&D Activities also launching a modelling programme in which powerful simulations track and ultimately predict the behaviour of metals throughout the numerous complex processes within the refinery.
Our range of R&D projects in this area all focus on delivering a streamlined and more sustainable refinery design.
Sponsored University Programmes TECHNOLOGY Developing our knowledge and expertise in advanced analytical TRANSFER TO BUSINESS and characterisation methods are a key component of our R&D programme.
For a number of years we have worked closely with the University of Warwick in the UK to apply solid state nuclear magnetic resonance NMR spectroscopy to industrial R&D issues.
The successful application of this method has led to major improvements in our understanding of the fundamental science of catalyst, glass and ceramic materials.
We are now working to automate the technique which will allow for rapid screening and early identification of novel, highly tailored catalysts.
Collaborative External Projects Divisional projects business funded R&D Core science The continued development of new products or access to new markets requires the company to collaborate with both leading Sponsored university programmes participants in these markets and with academic researchers Collaborative external projects who have an understanding of the latest developments.
To support this, Johnson Matthey participates in a diverse range of UK and US government and European Union EU funded R&D programmes.
Annual Report & Accounts 2010 25 TIME TO MARKET REPORT OF THE DIRECTORS BUSINESS REVIEW
