dRiving FutuRe gRowth continually seeKing to expand ouR FutuRe pipeline We are focused on growth, with a development pipeline in place to increase our production by over 50% in the next seven years.
We have $2.7 billion of funding in place for development.
Our growth plans include two substantial projects at Bozshakol and Aktogay which are long-life, low-risk copper developments, as well as several medium-sized projects.
With our in-house exploration and technical teams, we continue to seek out and acquire attractive and undeveloped natural resources to strengthen our portfolio.
Underground exploration Mine planning team Installing air precipitators existing mines mid-sized project power expansion We are working to maximise output There is a $1 billion expansion extensions and improve efficiency across all of programme at Ekibastuz GRES-1, There are development projects our operations to maintain current which will take this power station at Akbastau, Kosmurun, Shatyrkul, production levels well into the future.
from current capacity of 2,500 MW Zhaisan and Zhomart.
All of the power from include mine extensions, new Ekibastuz GRES-1 is currently sold developments and additional to third parties, however, our 50% processing facilities.
They should share in this plant ensures that we come into production between have sufficient power for all our 2012 and 2015. future copper growth projects.
From 300kt to today Core sample drilling Core sample testing Exploration team bozshakol aktogay Future growth Bozshakol is currently in feasibility Aktogay, with a resource containing We are continually seeking to stage, and is a substantial deposit, nearly 5 MT of copper, is expected expand our future project pipeline.
which should have annual production to have a similar annual output Our dedicated exploration team of around 100 kt of copper and a to Bozshakol.
The deposit is split assesses opportunities around the globally competitive net production between a large sulphide deposit region, where we believe we have cost.
The feasibility study is expected and a smaller oxide deposit.
to be completed by 2012, with first 2011, a feasibility study for the production in 2015. sulphide deposit will be started and an existing feasibility study for the oxide deposit will be updated.
