10 Keller Group plc Continental Europe, Middle East & Asia CEMEA In local currency, revenue was up by approximately 8% whilst Asia operating profit was 30% below the previous year.
Translated An excellent result was delivered by our Asian business, with a into sterling, revenue was 4% higher than the previous year particularly pleasing contribution from India, where revenue and and operating profit was down by 33%.
profit both increased almost three-fold in the year, albeit from a small base.
Good progress was made on extending our product Continental Europe range and building up our capacity in India, where the headcount Overall, our businesses within the more mature Continental at the end of the year stood at over 300, compared with around European markets showed resilience, despite challenging market 150 a year earlier.
We were also able to deploy a substantially conditions and extremely adverse weather in the first few months larger plant and equipment fleet by focusing our investment in this of the year.
region, as well as transferring under-utilised equipment from the Middle East.
Germany was one of the few construction markets in the region to experience growth in 2010, although major public infrastructure One of the largest contracts undertaken by our Indian business projects continued to suffer delays and, in the private sector, last year was for a new fuel refinery at Paradip, in the State of where the available work mainly comprised smaller contracts, Orissa, which is being constructed on reclaimed land and where prices continued to be driven down by intense competition, as we undertook over 500,000 linear metres of vibro replacement was our experience elsewhere on the continent.
Against this over a six-month period.
Mid-year, we also successfully backdrop, our German, and indeed our Austrian, businesses completed a contract for a new petrochemical terminal in held up well, often using the wide range of technologies at their Chennai, with a complete solution comprising both the piling disposal to submit winning alternative design proposals.
For and the foundation slab.
A second contract for the same client example, a redesign of works at Austrias Klagenfurt railway is now well underway.
station resulted in the execution of a packaged solution using sheet piles, jet grouting, anchors and a grouted slab.
In this rapidly developing market, we are targeting those contracts where we have a particular competitive advantage: either our France and Spain saw further deterioration in their markets in design and build capability or advanced techniques and specialist the case of Spain, for the third consecutive year, resulting in total equipment which are not generally available in the local market.
construction expenditure almost halving since the end of 2007.
As in our other high-growth regions, we are concentrating on In both countries, our businesses were subject to restructuring, strengthening our business infrastructure in line with the growth which resulted in around 1.3m of redundancy and other in revenue, to ensure that our best practice approaches to safety, reorganisation costs in the final quarter of last year.
With planned risk control and quality, which our clients value highly, are not public spending cuts, these markets will remain difficult for some compromised as activity levels step up.
time and management will continue to adapt the businesses as necessary.
2010 was a busy year in Singapore for both Keller Singapore and Resource Piling, our October 2009 acquisition.
Good co-operation Our Polish business was once again the best performer in has developed between the two companies, as reflected in an Europe.
It continued to benefit from the countrys programme of upcoming joint venture project to install foundations for a new major road and rail infrastructure upgrades, which accounted for power plant on Jurong Island.
This is a region where Keller has around 65% of its 2010 revenue.
An important contributor was a done much work in the past, including vibro compaction to contract to install vibro stone columns and jet grouting for a new densify reclamation sandfill for roads, tank farms and a hydrogen section of the A4 motorway.
The business also worked on the plant extension.
A deep soil mixing contract to stabilise A1 and A2 motorways, where it provided a range of different excavation slopes for the construction of Singapores Punggol techniques including ground improvement, piling and soil nails, Waterway was another important contributor to the Asian result.
reflecting its ability to offer the full range of ground engineering solutions.
Our Malaysian business also performed well, with the ongoing Ipoh to Padang Besar railway project making up a significant part Middle East of our workload there.
This business was also instrumental in Activity in our Middle Eastern businesses remained fairly subdued.
supporting our new subsidiary in Vietnam, which undertook its However, we continued to trade profitably, despite the delayed first contract, installing stone columns in very soft clay to provide start of several major projects causing us to rely on much smaller a stable platform for a new petrochemical complex at Vung Tau.
contracts than we have become accustomed to in this region in After a successful start, a further package of work was awarded recent years.
During the year, plans were laid for extending our by the same client and is progressing well.
operations into Oman and Qatar, where construction activity is set to ramp up in the coming years.
Brazil Good progress was made in building up our Brazilian business, As well as its operations in the UAE and Saudi Arabia, the Group where we established our credentials with a major ground has small businesses in Egypt and Bahrain.
It is too soon to improvement contract for an international customer.
Since then, predict the impact on our businesses of the current unrest in the Group has set up a joint venture with a local partner in the Rio this region.
fide Janeiro area, where we expect to see ample opportunities in ground improvement as the development of this region accelerates.
In August, a large contract got underway at Porto do Sudeste, one of several major port systems being developed in this region of Brazil.
We are installing around 250,000 linear metres of stone columns to create the foundations for new iron ore storage facilities, with completion expected in the first half of 2011.
With Keller employees from Germany, Austria and Portugal on site, this is a good example of how international co-operation benefits individual companies within the Group.
Keller Group plc 11 Results summary and KPIs Our growth compared with the Return on net operating assets Revenue growth of our markets 2010 11% 2009 13% 2010 400.3m 2010 2009 386.4m Austria over 1 year 10% 0% Definition and method of calculation over 3 years 11% 4% Operating profit expressed as a percentage Operating profit 2 France over 1 year 42% 3% of average net operating assets including goodwill acquired through acquisitions.
over 3 years 45% 9% 2010 22.4m Germany over 1 year 18% 5% 2009 33.6m Staff turnover over 3 years 19% 10% Poland over 1 year 15% 4% Operating margin 2010 15% over 3 years 61% 23% 2009 13% 2010 5.6% Spain over 1 year 25% 14% 2009 8.7% over 3 years 48% 45% Definition and method of calculation The number of managerial, professional and 2010 results are stated before goodwill technical staff leaving the division in the impairment.
2009 period, expressed as a percentage of Austria over 1 year 13% 3% employees in this category.
over 3 years 21% 9% 1 Estimates of real annual growth plus France over 1 year 19% 10% estimated change in construction prices over 3 years 7% 2% published by Euroconstruct in December 2010.
2 Net operating assets excludes net debt, tax Germany over 1 year 12% 0% balances, deferred consideration and net over 3 years 16% 13% defined benefit pension liabilities.
Poland over 1 year 13% 3% over 3 years 121% 48% Spain over 1 year 10% 24% over 3 years 20% 30% Definition and method of calculation Year-on-year sales growth including acquisitions in local currency in Austria, France, Germany, Poland and Spain compared with absolute growth defined as real growth plus estimated price inflation in these major European construction markets 1 in brackets.
As our work occurs at the start of the construction cycle, our revenue is a leading indicator for the construction market, whereas market comparators are based on the lagging indicator construction put in place.
