06 Keller Group plc Our business model Our strengths We will continue to focus on those sectors where the barriers This review of our 2010 performance reflects our key strengths, to entry are highest and where we have capabilities which give the combination of which sets us apart as a business: us a clear competitive advantage: Global Scale International footprint and financial strength bigger and more sophisticated foundation systems, often requiring specialist equipment: Local Focus Excellent service foundations for safetyand quality-critical environments: and Wide Range Flexible and cost effective technologies Broad Base Diverse customer base and end markets bespoke solutions with a high design content.
Co-operation Added value through working together Throughout the world, we expect the growth in specialist ground Shared Values Performance delivered safely and with integrity engineering to exceed the growth in general construction, driven Deep Experience Huge knowledge base over the medium to long term by such trends as: Growth Credentials Organic and acquisition growth record increasing land shortage, driving a need to use brownfield and marginal land: We have a fundamental belief that we can best serve our local climate change, triggering more river and dam flood protection construction markets with a regional structure through which we projects: are fully aligned with our customers.
Overlaying this structure are common goals, shared interests and excellent working the prevalence of very large-scale development projects: relationships which drive the pooling of expertise and resources the need for investment in energy capacity: and and the transfer of technologies.
These things, in turn, create synergies, making Keller Group more than the sum of its parts.
the renewal of outdated road and rail infrastructure.
Our strategy, positioning and market drivers In our developing markets, additional drivers, such as population Our strategy is to extend further our global leadership in specialist growth, urbanisation, rapid industrialisation and increased ground engineering through both organic growth and targeted overseas trade, are expected to sustain high levels of investment acquisitions.
There are three key elements to our strategy: across the whole construction sector over the medium to long term and we continue to strengthen our position in these regions.
expansion into new, higher growth geographic regions: acquisition and development of new technologies and By focusing on what we do best, we are confident that we will methods: and maintain our track record of out-performing our markets over the medium to long term.
transfer of technologies and methods within our current geographic regions.
Our markets and competition Local National International regional in larger countries such as US, Australia Competition Competition Competition Local competition is highly fragmented In Europe, competition is often owned by Few competitors can claim to have a truly comprising many small businesses, often general contractors.
In the US and global capability, strong financial family-owned, with limited equipment Australia, these services are usually credentials and the ability to offer a full capacity and few or single product lines.
competitors tend to be privately owned.
Types of project Types of project Types of project Standard foundations for small to As local markets, plus foundations for Very large scale, requiring capacity or medium structures, where ground larger structures and complex solutions expertise which may not be available inconditions are relatively straightforward.
for more difficult ground conditions.
Often direct foreign investment, where funders or clients choose to use contractors with whom they have worked in other parts of the world.
Kellers advantage in this segment Kellers advantage in this segment Kellers advantage in this segment Our regional structure and agile We have a wide network of subsidiary Largest independent operator with a organisation enables us to compete with companies and branch offices employing global presence.
local players for small-to-medium sized local people with knowledge of: contracts.
Able to follow known customers into new national building codes geographic markets.
local language and business culture We typically undertake around 7,000 contracts each year, of which around Can pool resources and expertise from local ground conditions.
85% have a value of less than 250,000. around the globe.
Keller Group plc 07 Principal risks and uncertainties Risk: Market cycles The main areas of uncertainty facing the Group relate to: tendering and management of contracts, market cycles, 2010 KPIs: acquisitions and people.
These also represent the Groups Our growth compared with the growth of our main construction greatest opportunities and how we manage these risks is markets a key differentiator between Keller and similar businesses.
Increase in revenue from Australia and developing markets: 46% Market cycles See individual KPIs for US, Austria, France, Germany, Poland, Spain, Australia and UK on pages 9, 11, 12 and 13.
Whilst our business will always be subject to economic cycles, market risk is reduced by the diversity of our markets, both in Controls: terms of geography and market segment.
It is also partially offset Strategy of geographic diversification: by opportunities for consolidation in our highly fragmented operations in around 40 countries markets.
Typically, even where we are the clear leader, we still growing presence in Australia and developing markets.
have a relatively small share of the market.
Our ability to exploit Broad customer base.
these opportunities through bolt-on acquisitions is reflected in Services used across all industry segments: infrastructure, our track record of growing sales, and doing so profitably, across industrial, commercial, residential and environmental.
Tendering and management of contracts Risk: Tendering and management of contracts It is in the nature of our business that we continually assess and manage technical, and other operational, risks.
Some of the 2010 KPI: controls we have in place, particularly at the crucial stage of Operating margin: 4.1% tendering of contracts, are set out in the table opposite.
Given the Groups relatively small average contract value less than Controls: 200,000, it is unlikely that any one contract will materially affect Risk-based tender approval process, with clear delegations the results of the Group.
Our ability to manage technical risks will of authority.
generally be reflected in our profitability.
Formal and informal training for staff in the typical risk issues Acquisitions they may face when tendering for jobs, negotiating contracts We recognise the risks associated with acquisitions and our and executing work.
approach to buying businesses aims to manage these to Legal review of unusual or onerous contract terms.
First, we try to get to know a target company, Project staff selected on the basis of their skills, experience often working in joint venture, to understand the operational of a particular type of project and their workload.
and cultural differences and potential synergies.
This is followed by a robust due diligence process, most of which is undertaken Establishment of centres of excellence.
by our own managers, and we then develop a clear integration Pre-job meetings undertaken on site.
plan which takes account of the unique character of the Formal daily reports generated and reviewed for each target company.
Weekly cost reports produced for all projects and reviewed by next level management.
People Periodic reviews of poorly performing contracts to establish The risk of losing, or not being able to attract, good people is key.
lessons learned with the results communicated to all relevant staff.
We pride ourselves in having some of the best professional and skilled people in the industry, who are motivated by our culture and the opportunities for career growth.
Risk: Acquisitions 2010 KPI: Return on net operating assets: 9% Controls: Target companies are usually well known to Keller: and the operational and cultural differences and potential synergies are well understood.
Robust due diligence process, mostly undertaken by own management.
Clear integration plan, reflecting the unique character of the target company.
Risk: People 2010 KPI: Staff turnover rate: 12% Controls: Excellent training and development opportunities.
Good engagement and two-way communications.
Employees treated with dignity and respect.
