Keller Group plc 23 Directors report Company number 2442580 The Directors present their report, together with the audited Directors accounts for the year ended 31 December 2010.
The rules governing the election and re-election of directors may be found in the Corporate Governance Report on page 32. Business review and principal activities The powers of Directors of the Company are as set out in the The Groups principal activity is specialist ground engineering.
In accordance with section 417 of the Companies Act 2006, the The names and biographical details of the Directors who hold Directors are required to produce a business review in this report.
office at the date of this report are given on pages 16 and 17.
The information which fulfils this requirement can be found in the All served throughout the year with the exception of Ms Ruth sections set out below and is incorporated by reference into this Cairnie and Mr Chris Girling, who joined the Board on 1 June report.
A review of: 2010 and 28 February 2011 respectively.
the Groups progress and future prospects, including The interests of the Directors in the share capital of the Company discussion of the Groups markets and competitive are shown in the Remuneration Report on page 29.
Directors environment and the main trends and factors likely to affect the conflicts of interest are discussed in the Corporate Governance future development, performance and position of the Groups Report on page 32. business is given on pages 4 to 15: and environmental matters, employee, social and community The Companys articles of association indemnify the Directors out issues may be found on pages 18 to 22. of the assets of the Company in the event that they suffer any loss or liability in the execution of their duties as Directors, subject to Risks and key performance indicators the provisions of the Companies Act 2006.
The key business risks and uncertainties affecting the Group relate to market cycles: the tendering and management of Retirement and re-election contracts: acquisitions: and people.
These are explained more Mr Justin Atkinson and Mr Gerry Brown will retire by rotation fully on page 7, where the key performance indicators, measuring at the Annual General Meeting and will offer themselves for success in managing these risks, are also shown.
Mr Richard Scholes who has now served for more than nine years on the Board will retire and will not stand for The Group is geographically diverse and is managed as a series re-election.
In addition, Ms Ruth Cairnie and Mr Chris Girling, of local businesses.
In the Boards opinion, the Groups business who have been appointed since the last Annual General Meeting, model helps to balance the risks intrinsic in the business.
will offer themselves for election for the first time.
For example, the Group typically works in around 40 countries, undertaking approximately 7,000 contracts a year, and Share capital and substantial shareholdings accordingly, it is not dependent on any one individual contract The structure of the Companys share capital, including the rights or customer.
and obligations attaching to shares, is given in note 24 to the consolidated financial statements.
The Groups financial risk management objectives and policies are discussed in the Financial Review on page 15.
Details of shares allotted by the Company during the year appear in note 24 to the consolidated financial statements.
Results and dividends The results for the year, showing a profit before taxation of At 28 February 2011, the Company had been notified in 39.6m 2009: 74.7m, are set out on page 38. accordance with the Disclosure and Transparency Rules of the Financial Services Authority of the following interests in its issued The Directors recommend a final dividend of 15.2p per share to ordinary share capital: Percentage be paid on 27 May 2011, to members on the register at the close of the of business on 6 May 2011.
An interim dividend of 7.6p per share Companys was paid on 1 November 2010.
The total dividend for the year of Number of total 22.8p 2009: 21.75p will amount to 15.0m 2009: 14.3m.
Company shares held voting rights BlackRock Inc 7,080,046 11.0% GTCEISU Construccin, S. A.
3,691,985 5.6% Bailie Gifford & Co 3,251,556 5.1% Schroders plc 3,197,991 4.9% Legal & General Group plc 2,603,680 4.0% Aviva plc and its subsidiaries 2,337,236 3.6% Including Financial Instruments with similar economic effect to Qualifying Financial Instruments 24 Keller Group plc Directors report Continued Research and development Political and charitable contributions The Group continues to have in-house design, development and No contributions were made to any political party during the year.
manufacturing facilities, where staff work closely with site Donations made by the Group in the UK for charitable purposes engineers to develop new and more effective methods of solving were 5,000 2009: 70,000 with charitable donations of problems of ground conditions and behaviour.
specialised ground improvement equipment we use is designed and built by us and, where applicable, the development costs are Annual General Meeting included in the cost of the equipment.
The full wording of the resolutions to be tabled at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting is set out in the Notice of Annual General Corporate governance Meeting on page 70.
This is the subject of a separate report on pages 31 to 35 which details the Companys compliance with the June 2008 Combined Disclosure of information to auditors Code.
The Remuneration Report is set out on pages 25 to 30.
The Directors who held office at the date of approval of this Directors Report confirm that, so far as they are each aware, Social responsibility there is no relevant audit information of which the Companys The Groups approach to employee involvement, equal Auditors are unaware: and each Director has taken all the steps opportunities, health and safety and the environment is set out that he or she ought to have taken as a Director to make him or in the Social Responsibility Report on pages 18 to 22. herself aware of any relevant audit information and to establish that the Companys Auditors are aware of that information.
Going concern The Group is in a very sound financial position, having continued Auditors its consistent track record of converting profits into cash.
It has In accordance with section 489 of the Companies Act 2006, significant committed facilities and is operating well within all the a resolution for the reappointment of KPMG Audit Plc as Auditors associated financial covenants.
Accordingly, the Directors have to the Company is to be proposed at the forthcoming Annual a reasonable expectation that the Company has adequate General Meeting.
resources to continue in operational existence for the foreseeable future.
Thus, they continue to adopt the going concern basis in On behalf of the Board preparing the annual financial statements.
Jackie Holman Further information regarding the financial position of the Secretary Company, its cash flows, liquidity position and borrowing facilities 28 February 2011 is given in the Financial Review on pages 14 to 15.
In addition, note 23 to the financial statements describes the Companys objectives, policies and processes for managing its capital: its financial risk management objectives: details of its financial instruments and hedging activities: and its exposures to credit risk and liquidity risk.
Payments to suppliers The Groups policy, in relation to all of its suppliers, is to settle terms of payment when agreeing the terms of the transaction and to abide by those terms, providing that it is satisfied that the supplier has provided the goods or services in accordance with the agreed terms and conditions.
The Group does not follow any code or statement on payment practice.
At 31 December 2010 the Group had 64 days 2009: 58 days purchases outstanding.
