Construction With a good quality order book, largely based upon a wide range of well-established public and private sector framework agreements, our Construction division is robust and well placed to maximise opportunities in areas we believe expenditure will continue, particularly in the energy and infrastructure sectors, mixed-use and retail spend.
We are also successfully expanding our presence in the Middle East and Hong Kong Steve Bowcott, for further opportunities.
Executive director, Construction Construction contract awards Division structure REGiONAl CONTRACTiNG Public Kier Regional sector 74% Kier Eastern Private Kier london sector 26% Kier Wallis 2009: 56% Public, 44% Private Kier Marriott Kier Moss Kier Northern Kier Scotland Key figures Revenue m Kier North East 1,600 Kier Southern 1,400 65% Kier longley of 2010 contracts awarded through 1,200 private and public sector frameworks Kier Western 1,000 800 mAJOR PROJECTS Kier Build 98% 600 of targeted revenue for 2011 secured 400 iNfRASTRuCTuRE & OVERSEAS Kier Construction 200 Civil engineering 0 Mining 07 08 09 10 Overseas Highlights Operating profit m % Operating margin before exceptional items Order books stable at 2.1bn TECHNiCAl SERViCES 2.6 2.6 Kier Technical Services 40 6 5% of awards sourced through 2.3 Kier Engineering Services frameworks 35 1.6 Kier Process & Technology Services H ong Kong: 125m tunnelling contract 30 awarded in joint venture 25 P ower sector: 6bn of opportunities 20 over the next ten years 15 10 5 0 07 08 09 10 KiER GROuP PlC ANNuAl REPORT AND ACCOuNTS 2010 16 21.9 1,411.2 36.6 1,584.5 39.1 1,492.2 36.2 1,417.0 CHiEf EXECuTiVES REViEw CONSTRuCTiON SuPPORT SERViCES PARTNERSHiP HOMES DEVElOPMENTS www.
co. uk construction west Burton power station Kier Construction Pictured left to right: health & safety advisor John Adams and trainee construction engineer Kieran Standing.
Kier Construction has used its in-house design capability at the 100m West Burton project to provide civil engineering works for a 1,300MW combined cycle gas turbine CCGT power station.
This represents the 14th major CCGT power station delivered in the last 14 years.
17 Construction Continued The Construction division encompasses our uK regional contracting, civil engineering and overseas businesses which are highly skilled in the construction of the full range of building projects, together with power, waste, nuclear and infrastructure facilities and rail and mining projects.
Overall revenue for the division was 5% below 1 last years, as expected, at 1,417.0m 2009: 1,492.2m with marginal growth in our uK revenues offset by a decline in revenue from overseas operations, particularly those in Dubai and Romania.
Operating profit declined marginally to 36.2m from 39.1m, at a strong margin, similar to last years, of 2.6% 2009: 2.6%.
The good margin performance was underpinned by excellent cash generation with year-end cash balances at a record 417.8m 2009: 399.7m after deducting tax and intra-group dividends.
Contract awards were marginally higher than last year with 65% arising from our numerous private and public sector frameworks.
These awards have provided us with a secured order book of signed contracts amounting to 1,320m 2009: 1,190m, together with 723m of probable awards, comprising contracts on which we are preferred bidder or are in one-to-one negotiations 2009: 1,055m.
Bottling plant, Glenmorangie, Seventy-four per cent of our awards in the year 2 livingston, value 12.8m were for public sector projects, many of them in Kier Scotland Site manager Ronald Mcinally at Kier the education sector which accounted for 41% of Scotlands project in livingston where awards.
The Contractors Framework for Academies the business is constructing a new bottling complex and office for The has provided us with 19 schemes comprising 42 Glenmorangie Company.
schools with a value of over 800m including the 2.
Greenburn Mine, East Ayrshire first academy on this framework at Milton Keynes, Kier Construction which opened for the new term in September 2009.
Kier Mining owns and operates the Greenburn surface coal mine in East Twenty of the schools are currently on site, most Ayrshire, Scotland.
To date this mine has produced in excess of 3.8m of which are expected to complete during the next tonnes of coal since we began financial year.
The remaining schools, valued at production in 2004.
330m, are at preferred bidder stage and have been given the go-ahead by the education secretary.
We have also successfully secured our place on the second Academies Framework on which we are preferred bidder on one sample scheme and are shortlisted on three with a potential value in excess of 100m.
in health, which represents 7% of our awards during the year to 30 June 2010, the ProCure 21 18 KiER GROuP PlC ANNuAl REPORT AND ACCOuNTS 2010 CHiEf EXECuTiVES REViEw CONSTRuCTiON SuPPORT SERViCES PARTNERSHiP HOMES DEVElOPMENTS www.
Kings Cross railway station roof, london, value 27m Kier Construction Framework has entered its seventh and final year, 2010 has seen an extension to our framework with Construction manager Nick Tindell having provided us with 90 projects over that period united utilities under AMP5, to which approximately pictured inspecting the condition of the steel at Kings Cross station roof valued at around 500m.
Projects with a value of 400m of work has been allocated in the five years where Kier Construction is erecting a 55m have been awarded in the year, including to 2015. in addition, outside the framework, we were bespoke access deck system for client Network Rail.
major A&E schemes at Whipps Cross and lewisham successful in winning Preston uiD which, at 72m, Hospitals.
We were pleased to have recently been is the largest single contract let by united utilities announced as one of six contractors on the new this year.
in rail, the five-year structures framework ProCure 21 health projects framework which could for Network Rail in East Anglia has successfully be worth up to 4.5bn over the next six years.
The Custodial Framework with the Ministry of in total we are active on over 50 frameworks Justice continues to provide good opportunities and across the uK through which clients are still represented around 23% of our awards in the year.
procuring a significant element of their work with a Currently we are involved with 13 projects providing focus on quality and whole life-cycle costs.
386 additional cells in addition to the 1,620 new We have been successful in gaining entry onto cells at HMP Featherstone, a 180m project which the civil engineering, demolition and enabling framecommenced in October 2009.
This framework has works for Crossrail, having won our first project now been extended to 2012. at Whitechapel and we are tendering, in joint in the private sector, retail opportunities are venture, for the forthcoming major tunnelling and beginning to pick up.
We have been awarded five civil engineering work.
Our activities in the nuclear projects for Sainsburys, including a 25m project market are ongoing at Sellafield, Aldermaston and in Newport which is providing both building and civil Chapelcross and our 14th major Combined Cycle engineering work for our teams.
Our other key clients Gas Turbine CCGT power station at West Burton in this sector include Hermes, British land and for EDF Energy EDF is progressing well.
opencast coal mine at Greenburn, East Ayrshire, in the water sector, as part of a joint venture, we have now extracted 3.8m tonnes of coal since we KiER GROuP PlC ANNuAl REPORT AND ACCOuNTS 2010 19 Construction Continued 1 1.
Diamond light Source, Oxfordshire Kier Moss & Kier Facilities Services Kier Moss is at the cutting edge of science with its construction of a began production in 2004 and have recently been book and a healthy pipeline of probable awards hugely significant scientific building to house a beamline at the Diamond awarded planning consent on an adjacent site which which, together, secure around 98% of our targeted light Source synchrotron in increases our reserves and takes coal production revenues for 2011 and 45% of our target for 2012.
Kier Facilities Services will provide mechanical, electrical and to beyond 2016.
Our focus over the short-term is to maximise our building fabric maintenance services.
Overseas we have seen our revenues fall to their opportunities in areas where we believe expenditure lowest level for some considerable time, caused will continue.
Energy is a key sector for us and one by the global economic crisis.
As yet we have seen which we believe will grow significantly over the next no recovery in the market in Dubai: our existing five to ten years.
With our strong track record in this infrastructure contracts have been brought to a sector, having delivered the civil engineering works Construction cash balances successful conclusion with cash receipts, whilst on over 33% of all CCGT power stations built in the delayed, continuing to flow.
Our attention has now uK over the last 19 years, we are in a strong position turned to other areas in the Middle East where we to maintain and even grow our market share.
Our 417.8m are seeing growing opportunities such as Saudi current relationship with EDF, for whom we are 2009: 399.7m Arabia, where we have completed the first year of working at the West Burton CCGT power station, an eight-year phosphate mining contract, and Abu positions us well to help them deliver their planned Dhabi and Qatar.
We are also re-establishing our nuclear programme.
Having been awarded a small Construction secured presence in Hong Kong where we have recently advanced works package we are currently bidding, & probable order books been awarded a 125m tunnelling contract, in joint in joint venture, for a range of contracts for EDF at venture, for one of our long-established clients, the Hinkley, totalling in excess of 1bn.
These projects, Mass Transit Railway Corporation.
together with other nuclear, gas, renewables, coal 2,043m and waste to energy projects could provide us with 2009: 2,245m Construction markets and outlook over 6bn of opportunities over the next ten years.
There is no doubt that cuts to public sector expendiOther key areas include Crossrail, mixed-use ture will have an impact on the construction market opportunities across the Group, utilities, waste and, over the next few years.
We have already witnessed importantly, overseas projects.
the fall-out from the Building Schools for the Future Significantly, we are beginning to see signs of programme, which has affected all contractors recovery in the commercial property market, both involved in the programme, although it has had little through our own Developments business and impact on Kiers order books.
We await the October through our long-standing client base.
Spending Review to assess the impact across our other markets.
However, Kier is in good shape: we enter the new financial year with a strong order 20 KiER GROuP PlC ANNuAl REPORT AND ACCOuNTS 2010 CHiEf EXECuTiVES REViEw CONSTRuCTiON SuPPORT SERViCES PARTNERSHiP HOMES DEVElOPMENTS www.
co. uk construction Key projects in progress 1 4 7 2 5 8 3 6 9 7.
Featherstone Prison, 4. ipswich Hospital, ipswich, Wolverhampton, value 186m value 21m Barnet Kier Eastern Kier london Kier Build Senior section managers Alasdair Subcontractor Tom OBrien pictured The new school building is the on site at ipswich Hospital where seventh First Class Schools building Adam left and Matt Billard pictured on site at Kier Builds 1,620-place Kier Eastern has started work on project to be undertaken by Kier five new mental healthcare wards as london on behalf of the london Featherstone Prison project.
part of a major mental healthcare Borough of Barnet.
St Anthonys School, Rutherglen Kier Partnership Homes is working 5.
Snow Hill, Birmingham, value 66m Kier Scotland with Kier Marriott to create 71 homes Kier Build Subcontractor Andy Mclean to replace the existing 34 flats at Kier Build was appointed by Ballymore is working at Kier Scotlands Welland Court, Nottingham.
Properties to construct this landmark St Anthonys Primary School project, commercial building at the heart which includes the demolition of the 3. lysander House, Tempsford of the Snow Hill development in existing primary school and Kier Engineering Services Birmingham.
construction of a new two-storey, Design engineer Alistair Ringer nine-classroom primary school.
pictured left and senior technician 6.
Brighton Aldridge Community John Freeman from Kier Engineering Academy, Falmer, value 26m 9.
Warren Wood Community School, Services.
The Company is behind Kier longley Gainsborough many of the Groups engineering Construction of the new academy Kier Northern successes, providing innovative school in Falmer comprises a Kier Northern is working on a new design and temporary works two-storey, reinforced concrete, special educational needs primary solutions.
in situ frame clad with green and school in Gainsborough for 96 pupils ballasted roofs.
KiER GROuP PlC ANNuAl REPORT AND ACCOuNTS 2010 21
