financial review Business risks Continued How we manage risk a defined benefit section, and a defined benefit Macro-economic Core to our continued success scheme on behalf of its employees in Kier Sheffield climate is our ability to identify and llP.
The financial statements reflect the pension effectively manage the risks to scheme deficits calculated in accordance with iAS our business.
At 30 June 2010 the net deficit under the Kier Group has well-defined, rigorous Group Pension Scheme the Scheme was 56.6m policies and processes designed 2009: 69.2m.
The market value of the Schemes to identify, mitigate and control assets was 611.2m 2009: 498.4m and the risk.
Risks are specific to each net present value of the liabilities was 689.8m of our businesses and are 2009: 594.5m.
The increase in the liabilities is controlled through the Groups largely the result of a reduction in the discount rate Contract & build risk management processes.
The primary risks that have the During the year we agreed to make an additional potential to adversely impact on special cash contribution to the Scheme amounting our business over the next 12 to 13.2m which was settled through the transfer months are considered to be as of residential land at market value, as confirmed follows below.
land and property by an independent valuation.
This special contridevelopment bution is reflected in the Groups balance sheet as OuR PROCESS acquisition a reduction in inventories together with a reduction We contextualise risk in terms in the gross pension deficit.
As the land was of our goals and objectives transferred at greater than book value profits are included in operating profit for Partnership Homes and Developments for the year.
1. identify in addition to the land contribution during the investment year the Group has contributed 8.0m 2009: 8.0m to the Scheme in respect of additional 2.
Diagnose and qualify deficit funding based on an actuarial valuation as People at 1 July 2007 which was 87% funded.
The triennial valuation, as at 1 April 2010, is currently in progress and is likely to be finalised towards the end of the 3.
Develop action for mitigation current financial year.
We are still assessing the legal & regulatory impact of the announced changes to inflation to be applied to future pension increases in respect of 4.
Reassess post private pension schemes.
The Group is committed mitigation to continuing to support the funding position of the Scheme.
Report and mitigation under the scheme relating to Kier Sheffield llP environmental to Board there was a net deficit of 6.2m at 30 June 2010 2009: 13.4m after taking into account the benefit of 16.0m arising from the change in the inflation information rate which is applied to future pensions for public technology sector pension schemes.
Pension charges of 11.9m before the exceptional credit of 16.0m 2009: 10.4m have been made to the income statement in accordance Pensions with iAS 19.
Retirement With effect from the close of the Companys annual general meeting on 12 November 2010, i will be retiring from my role as Group finance director and leaving the Group after 12 years, nine of which i Counterparty have served on the Board.
My sincere thanks go to all of my colleagues for their friendship and support over the past 12 years, in particular members of the finance and central teams, many of whom i have worked with for much of my time at Kier.
Availability of finance i shall be handing the reins to Haydn Mursell and and bonding facilities wish him well in helping to drive the Group forward.
Deena mattar Reputation Finance Director 44 KiER GROuP PlC ANNuAl REPORT AND ACCOuNTS 2010 Risk mitigation The order books for our Construction and Support Services divisions The Group has created a structure to manage and mitigate risk with the following are dependent upon the level of expenditure in the public sector and the key components: availability of credit for private sector expenditure.
A wide geographic regional network of offices across the uK providing strong integration in local communities, our client base and our supply chain A strong level of framework agreements and partnerships with government, local authorities and the private sector An ability to react to evolving opportunities in the marketplace and to maintain a focus on cost reduction and efficiency.
We also carry out monthly and quarterly reviews of our workload and forecast our overhead levels as a percentage of future work in order to maintain a steady ratio of overhead costs to revenue.
The Group carries out several hundred contracts annually and the risks to The Groups appetite for very long-term, large, competitively tendered construction Contract & build which the Group is exposed are dependent upon the nature of the work, the contracts is limited, driven by the desire to manage risk.
Tenders for contracts are duration of the contract and the legal form of the contract.
subject to approval by the Board, chief executive and finance director or divisional directors depending upon the value and nature of the contract.
Contracts in progress are controlled and managed through the Groups operating structure and procedures, including rigorous and regular review of forecast revenue and costs to complete.
The cost and quality of land is fundamental to the profitability of a housing Site evaluation is a key process and site appraisals are carried out in detail, land and property and property development business.
including using external advice where appropriate.
land and development development acquisitions are subject to approval by the Board, chief executive and finance director or divisional directors depending upon the value of the land.
Developments acquisition in progress are controlled and managed through the Groups operating structure and procedures, including rigorous and regular review of forecast revenue and costs to complete.
in the case of the Property division, development risk is controlled by commencing construction generally when it has either pre-sold or pre-let the development.
The Group recognises there are risks associated with PFi investment.
The Group is selective in the PFi projects for which it bids, primarily concentrating investment on the sectors where we have established construction expertise.
The Group is dependent on members of its senior management team and The Group monitors staff turnover closely and pay and conditions are reviewed People on a flexible, highly skilled and well motivated workforce and believes its regularly against the prevailing market and benchmarked to ensure that we future success will depend, in part, on its ability to attract, develop and remain competitive.
if the Group does not succeed in attracting, developing Succession planning is also key at all levels in the organisation.
and retaining skilled personnel it may not be able to grow as anticipated.
The Group is subject to a number of complex, demanding and evolving tax, The Group monitors and responds to legal and regulatory developments in legal & regulatory legal and regulatory requirements.
A breach of laws and regulations could the areas in which it operates.
it is the Groups policy to require that all of its lead to legal proceedings, investigations or disputes resulting in a disruption subsidiaries, employees, suppliers and subcontractors comply with applicable of business ranging from additional costs incurred on a project to civil laws, regulations and standards.
Training courses are provided, including and or criminal penalties as well as reputational damage to the Group.
e-learning courses, to keep staff fully aware of their responsibilities.
The Groups activities require the continuous monitoring and management Detailed HSE policies and procedures exist to minimise such risks and are Health, safety & of health, safety and environmental risks.
Failure to manage these risks subject to review and monitoring by operating companies and Group.
All operating environmental could cause injury to our employees and subcontractors and could expose companies have a director responsible for HSE although it is recognised that all the Group to significant potential liability and reputational damage.
directors and employees are responsible for health and safety.
See pages 34 & 36 The efficient operation of the Group is increasingly dependent upon the Group iT manages the majority of systems in the Group centrally.
Other iT systems information proper operation, performance and development of its iT systems.
Failure are managed locally by experienced iT personnel.
Significant investments in iT technology to manage or integrate iT systems or to implement successfully changes systems are subject to Board review and approval.
in iT systems could result in a loss of control over critical business information and or systems.
This, in turn, could impact the Groups ability to fulfil its contractual obligations.
The Group is exposed to funding risks arising from changes in longevity, Steps have been taken over time to eradicate our calculated deficit including Pensions inflation and investment assumptions in relation to its defined benefit the closure of the Scheme to new entrants in 2002 and the imposition of a cap schemes.
These changes could result in an additional funding requirement.
on pensionable salary increases, taken in 2009.
Other measures to mitigate liabilities are under continuous review by the Group.
The performance of the Groups pension schemes are regularly monitored by the Group and the Trustees of the pension scheme who, as appropriate, take advice from external consultants.
The Group depends, for its success, on the stability of its customers, joint Considerable efforts are made to assess the financial strength of counterparties Counterparty venture partners, suppliers, funders, bondsmen and insurers.
Failure in before entering into contract and to structure payments so as to mitigate our these counterparties could result in non-collection of amounts owed or financial exposure to them for the duration of our relationship.
Where the Group disruption and delays to contract progress.
is particularly dependent upon the continued financial strength of the providers of key financial services to the Group, we take steps to spread this exposure across a range of counterparties so as to diversify risk.
The Groups long-term business is dependent upon cash resources, Cash forecasts and balances are prepared regularly weekly and daily.
Bank Availability of finance facilities and the ability to provide performance and other bonds as facilities are in place which have been recently renegotiated.
The Group has and bonding facilities necessary.
strong, long-term relationships with its bondsmen and has an in-house team which monitors headroom and advises on bond terms and conditions.
Our ability to tender for new business and our relationship with our range of in order to protect and enhance our reputation we have put in place a robust series Reputation customers, supply chain partners, our employees and other stakeholders of business ethics, sustainability and compliance policies together with a range depends a great deal upon the good reputation that we have established of mechanisms that help deliver the Groups corporate responsibility programme, for the Group and how we are perceived by others.
including health & safety, environmental impact, climate change, employees, customers & supply chain and community engagement.
See pages 35 to 41 KiER GROuP PlC ANNuAl REPORT AND ACCOuNTS 2010 45
