Directors report Introduction Qualifying third party indemnities the directors present their annual report and audited financial the articles of association of the company the Articles entitle the statements as at, and for the year ended, 30 June 2010. directors of the company, to the extent permitted by the companies this directors report should be read in conjunction with the Act 2006 and other applicable legislation together, the companies chairmans statement, the chief executives review, the corporate Acts, to be indemnified out of the assets of the company in the event governance statement and the directors remuneration report, each that they incur certain expenses in connection with the execution of of which is incorporated by reference in and shall be deemed to form their duties as directors.
part of this directors report to the extent required by applicable law in addition, and in common with many other companies, the or regulation.
company has insurance in favour of its directors and officers in respect of certain losses or liabilities to which they may be exposed due to Principal activities their office.
the Groups principal activities during the course of the year were construction, support services, private and affordable housing, and The Combined Code on Corporate Governance developments.
A statement on corporate governance is set out on pages 52 to 55.
A review of the Groups business and progress during the year is included within the chairmans statement on pages 4 to 5 and the Going concern chief executives review on pages 6 to 34. the Group has considerable financial resources, together with long-term contracts with a number of customers and suppliers across its business Results and dividends activities.
As a consequence, the directors believe that the Group is the Group profit for the year after taxation and exceptional items was well placed to manage its business risks effectively.
After making enquiries, the directors have a reasonable expectation An interim dividend of 18.5p per share 2009: 18.0p, amounting that the company and the Group have adequate resources to continue to 6.8m 2009: 6.6m, was paid on 4 May 2010. the directors in operational existence for the foreseeable future.
Accordingly, the propose a final dividend of 39.5p per share 2009: 37.0p per share, directors continue to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the Groups financial statements.
amounting to 14.6m 2009: 13.6m, payable on 26 november 2010 to shareholders on the register of members at the close of business on 24 september 2010.
Charitable and political donations during the year, the Groups donations to charity in the united Kingdom were 97,000 2009: 64,000, principally to local charities serving Directors Biographical details of the directors of the company as at 15 september the communities in which it operates.
the Group has considerable 2010 are shown on page 48.
Mr s Bowcott was appointed as a director involvement in such communities, as described in the corporate of the company with effect from 1 July 2010 and a resolution will be responsibility report on pages 35 to 41. no political donations were made during the year 2009: nil.
proposed at the forthcoming annual general meeting for the election of Mr s Bowcott as a director of the company : all of the other directors shown on such pages were directors of the company throughout the year.
Financial instruments Mr J dodds retired from the Board on 31 March 2010. details of the financial risk management objectives and policies of the Group, together with its exposure to material financial risks, are set out on 12 July 2010, the company announced that Miss d e Mattar intended to leave the Group with effect from the conclusion of the in notes 1 and 25 of the consolidated financial statements.
the company also announced that Mr H J Mursell would join as Group finance director designate and Research and development the Group undertakes research and development activity in creating that Mr H J Mursell was expected to take over from Miss d e Mattar upon her departure.
innovative construction techniques and design integral to the delivery of on 1 september 2010, the company announced that Mr r c Bailey its projects.
the direct spending incurred is not separately identifiable had been appointed as a non-executive director of the company as the investment is usually contained within the relevant project.
At the forthcoming annual general meeting, a resolution will be proposed for the election of Mr r c Bailey Employees as a director of the company.
the companies in the Group are equal opportunities employers.
the Mr s W leathes will retire from the Board with effect from the Group gives consideration to applications for employment made by disabled persons having regard to their particular aptitudes and conclusion of the forthcoming annual general meeting.
Mr s W leathes will not stand for re-election.
abilities and encourages and assists, whenever practicable, the details of directors interests, including interests in the companys recruitment, training, career development and promotion of disabled shares, are disclosed in the directors remuneration report on pages people and the retention of, and appropriate training for, those who become disabled during the course of their employment and who can 56 to 61. be employed in a safe working environment.
Kier Group plc AnnuAl report And Accounts 2010 49 Directors report continued Employees continued Substantial voting rights the Group provides relevant information on matters of concern to At 15 september 2010, the company had been notified of the following employees through newsletters and holds formal and informal meetings interests in the ordinary share capital of the company, pursuant to rule with local management which are also aimed at achieving a common 5.1 of the disclosure and transparency rules: awareness on the part of employees of factors affecting the performance of the Group.
the Group operates the Kier Group plc 2006 sharesave standard life investments limited 12.7% scheme sharesave scheme, which was approved by shareholders on schroders investment Management limited 7.0% 25 november 2006, for all eligible employees and makes available a Blackrock inc 3.9% dealing service to enable employees to buy and sell its shares with a legal & General Group plc 3.8% minimum of formality and on attractive commission terms.
the Group norges Bank investment Management 3.5% also operates an all employee share ownership plan for all employees, which includes a share-matching element.
Securities carrying special rights no person holds securities in the company carrying special rights with Policy and practice on payment of creditors regard to control of the company.
the Group agrees payments with its suppliers and subcontractors on an individual contract basis rather than following a code or standard on Rights under employees share schemes payment practice.
the Groups policy is to abide by these agreed terms As at 30 June 2010, the royal Bank of canada, as trustee of the whenever the relevant Group company is satisfied that the suppliers Kier Group 1999 long-term incentive plan the ltip, which was or subcontractors have provided the goods or services in accordance approved by shareholders on 27 november 1999, held 522,664 shares with the contract terms and conditions.
the aggregate amount owed approximately 1.4% of the issued share capital of the company on to trade creditors by the company at 30 June 2010 was nil 2009: nil.
trust for the benefit of the directors and certain senior managers of subsidiary trading companies within the Group, acting in the Group.
accordance with the above policy, exhibit creditor days averaging 32 At the same date, computershare investor services plc held 2009: 34 in respect of suppliers of invoiced goods and services and 880,711 shares approximately 2.3% of the issued share capital of 17 2009: 16 in respect of certified amounts due to subcontractors.
the company on trust for the benefit of staff and former staff who are these figures exclude amounts not currently due for payment but members of the Groups all employee share ownership plan.
Voting Share capital subject to any terms upon which the relevant shares may have been As at 30 June 2010, the issued share capital of the company comprised issued or are subject and to the Articles, every member present in a single class of ordinary shares of 1 pence each.
person or by proxy at a general meeting and entitled to vote has, upon As at 30 June 2010, 37,477,386 shares were in issue.
during the a show of hands, one vote and, upon a poll, one vote for every share year, 251,083 shares were issued in relation to the scrip dividend held.
in the case of joint holders of a share, the vote of the senior who alternative and 4,434 shares were issued in connection with the tenders a vote, whether in person or by proxy, shall be accepted to the sharesave scheme.
no other shares were issued during the year.
exclusion of the votes of the other joint holders and, for this purpose, details of the companys share capital are set out in note 22 of the seniority shall be determined by the order in which the names stand in consolidated financial statements.
the register in respect of the joint holding.
subject to the provisions of the Articles and the companies Acts, shares may be issued with such rights or restrictions as the company Restrictions on voting rights may by ordinary resolution determine or, if the company has not so no member shall, unless the Board otherwise determines, be entitled determined, as the directors may decide.
to vote at any general meeting in respect of any share held by it unless all calls or other sums then payable by it in respect of that share have Restrictions on transfer of securities in the Company been paid or if that member has been served with a disenfranchisement there are no restrictions on the transfer of securities in the company, notice as defined in the Articles after failure to provide the company with information concerning interests in those shares required to be except: provided under the companies Acts.
that certain restrictions may from time to time be imposed by law or the company is not aware of any agreements between holders of regulation for example, insider trading laws : and securities that may result in restrictions on voting rights.
pursuant to the listing rules of the Financial services Authority the Appointment and replacement of directors listing rules whereby certain employees of the company require the the directors shall be not less than three and not more than 12 in approval of the company to deal in the companys shares.
the company may by ordinary resolution vary the minimum and or maximum number of directors.
the company is not aware of any agreements between holders of directors may be appointed by the company by ordinary resolution securities that may result in restrictions on the transfer of securities or by the Board.
A director appointed by the Board holds office only in the company.
until the next annual general meeting of the company and is then eligible for election.
50 Kier Group plc AnnuAl report And Accounts 2010 Appointment and replacement of directors continued Change of control At every annual general meeting of the company, one-third of the the company has entered into certain agreements that may take effect, directors who are subject to the requirement to retire by rotation alter or terminate upon a change of control of the company following which shall not include any director who was appointed by the a takeover bid.
the significant agreements in this respect are the Board and is standing for election shall retire from office and may Groups main credit facility agreements and certain of its employee offer themselves for re-election by the members.
the directors to share schemes.
retire by rotation shall be those who have been longest in office the Groups main credit facility agreements include a provision since their last election.
the company may by ordinary resolution of such that, in the event of a change of control, the relevant lender may which special notice has been given remove any director before the cancel all or any part of the relevant facility and or declare that all expiry of the directors period of office.
the office of a director shall amounts outstanding under the relevant facility are immediately due be vacated if: i the director becomes bankrupt or the subject of an and payable by the company.
interim receiving order or makes any arrangement or composition outstanding options granted under the sharesave scheme may with creditors generally or applies to the court for an interim order be exercised within a period of six months from a change of control in connection with a voluntary arrangement under the insolvency of the company following a takeover bid taking place or shall lapse Act 1986: ii the director becomes physically or mentally incapable upon the expiry of such a period.
of acting as a director and may remain so for more than three Awards granted under the ltip may vest on a change of control of months: iii the director ceases to be a director by virtue of the company following a takeover bid and the maximum number of the companies Acts or becomes prohibited by law from being a shares in the company to be awarded upon such vesting may become director: iv the director receives written notice from not less than immediately due.
three-quarters of the other directors removing the director from there are no agreements between the company and its directors office: and v in the case of a director who holds executive office, providing for compensation for loss of office that occurs as a result the director ceases to hold such office and the majority of the other of a takeover bid.
directors resolve that relevant directors office be vacated.
Auditors Amendment of Articles in accordance with section 489 of the companies Act 2006, a resolution the Articles may be amended by a special resolution of the companys for the reappointment of the Groups auditors, KpMG Audit plc, will be shareholders.
proposed at the forthcoming annual general meeting.
each director who holds office at the date of approval of this Powers of the directors directors report confirms that, so far as each such director is aware, subject to the Articles, the companies Acts and any directions given there is no relevant audit information of which the auditors are by the company by special resolution, the business of the company unaware: and the directors have taken all the steps that they ought will be managed by the Board, which may exercise all the powers of to have taken as directors to make themselves aware of any relevant the company.
audit information and to establish that the auditors are aware of that information.
Powers in relation to the Company issuing its shares the directors were granted authority at the annual general meeting on Annual general meeting 7 november 2009 to allot shares in the company up to an aggregate the annual general meeting of the company will be held at the Brewery, nominal amount of 124,072. this authority will expire on the date chiswell street, london ec1Y 4sd on 12 november 2010 at 11.00 am.
of this years annual general meeting and a resolution to renew the the notice of annual general meeting accompanies this document.
authority will be proposed at the forthcoming annual general meeting, as explained further in the notice of annual general meeting accompanying this report was approved by the Board on 15 september 2010 and this document.
signed on its behalf by: A special resolution will also be proposed to renew the directors power to make non-pre-emptive issues of shares for cash, as also H E E Raven explained further in the notice of annual general meeting.
company secretary Powers in relation to the Company buying back its shares tempsford Hall the company may only buy back shares if the Articles do not prohibit sandy it from doing so and it has received the requisite authority from Bedfordshire shareholders in general meeting.
Although the Articles do not contain sG19 2Bd any such prohibition, the company did not request any such authority at its last annual general meeting and does not propose to do so at the forthcoming annual general meeting.
Kier Group plc AnnuAl report And Accounts 2010 51
