Developments Our highly experienced Developments team, through the combination of its property development, PFi investment and asset management business streams, offers significant opportunities for us to work with local government and other bodies to tailor innovative property solutions and services to help them maximise their asset values, often by bringing in the resources and expertise of other Group businesses.
Dick Simkin, Executive director, Developments Portfolio of Pfi projects % Commercial property highlights a Education d libraries 30m a 51% 6% cash generated from sale of uK Supreme e Court building d b Police facilities e Other 18% 10% 5.5% c yield from sale of uxbridge development c Health Secured asset management b contract for Chesterfield 15% Committed investment Pfi highlights Solum Regeneration 27.9m 60m 400m in a portfolio of 13 PFi projects PFi Norfolk & Suffolk Police investigation centres total development value construction value.
Financial close achieved 2009: 28.0m Commencement of 20m construction project on first Solum Regeneration project at Epsom station 7.3m sale of two PFi investments generating Seven further schemes in 4.2m of profit the portfolio Preferred bidder on Gloucestershire Twickenham & Walthamstow fire stations to come on stream in 2012 Short-listed on: Woking social housing, Further schemes to be included london Fire, West Yorkshire Police, Avon & Somerset Police Division structure Kier Asset Partnership Services Kier Property Kier Property Developments Kier Ventures Solum Regeneration joint venture with Network Rail Kier Project investment 30 KiER GROuP PlC ANNuAl REPORT AND ACCOuNTS 2010 CHiEf EXECuTiVES REViEw CONSTRuCTiON SuPPORT SERViCES PARTNERSHiP HOMES DEVElOPMENTS www.
co. uk developments Epsom station, Solum Regeneration Kier Property Kier Property was selected by Network Rail to form a joint venture to regenerate a number of railway stations in the south-east of England in a project which has a total development value of 400m.
in April 2010 we secured planning permission at Epsom for a mixed scheme comprising a pre-let hotel, retail and housing on which Kier has now commenced construction, valued at 20m.
3 31 1 Developments Continued Our Developments division comprises Kier Property, which includes office, industrial, retail and mixed-use development both directly and through joint ventures: Kier Project investment KPi our PFi business: and Kier Asset Partnership Services KAPS, which provides a comprehensive suite of asset management services from strategy through to operational property management for local authorities.
Revenue for the year to 30 June 2010 of 53.3m expected in the summer of 2011.
We continue to 2009: 64.7m was 17.6% below last year reflecting make good progress with Solum Regeneration, a low level of development sales mitigated, in part, our joint venture with Network Rail.
in April 2010 by land disposals to the Kier Group Pension Scheme, we secured planning permission at Epsom for a together with revenue arising from our share of mixed scheme comprising a pre-let hotel, retail the Kent BSF project.
Operating profit was 0.3m and housing on which Kier has now commenced 2009: loss of 1.9m and included profits arising construction.
Seven other station sites are included on the land disposals to the Kier Group Pension in the joint venture, of which Walthamstow and Scheme but also reflected bidding costs within Twickenham are expected to be the next developour PFi business, together with an element of cost ments to commence.
The total development value associated with writing off our interest in the Kent of the current portfolio is expected to amount to BSF project following the cancellation of some of around 400m with new sites being added to the our schools.
joint venture: a testament to the strength of the During September 2009 we successfully partnership we have established with Network Rail.
completed the sale of the uK Supreme Court in KPi, our PFi business, we have seen the investment to Prupim, generating in excess of completion, by Kier, of the construction of the three 30m of cash at an exit yield of around 5% on the PFi secondary schools in the initial phase of the post-tax disposal proceeds.
At our former gasworks Kent BSF project, which now means that 11 of our site at uxbridge, remediated by Kier Construction, current 13 investments are operational.
in February we completed a new warehouse for AGS, an inter- 2010 we achieved financial close on the Norfolk national storage and removals company.
Also on and Suffolk Police investigation Centres scheme that site Kier has now completed the construction with a capital value of 60m.
Kier is the contractor of a Driving Test Centre on behalf of the Driving on the scheme with work well advanced on the six Standards Agency which was forward-sold at a yield sites.
Completion of the final facility is expected in of 5.5%.
Our record of securing significant pre-let develin April 2010, a Kier-led consortium was opment opportunities continues.
in December 2009 announced preferred bidder on the 22m Gloucester we signed an agreement for lease with the university Fire project.
Financial close is expected in December of Reading for a 55,000sq ft enterprise centre which 2010. in addition, we are shortlisted in a number of was forward-sold in January 2010.
Kier is carrying bids, including Woking Housing, london Fire, West out the construction, with completion due in early Yorkshire Police and Avon & Somerset Police.
2011. in Southampton we will shortly complete a During the year we continued with our strategy of 175,000sq ft head office for Ordnance Survey.
This selectively disposing of mature PFi investments from will then see the release of the existing 25-acre site our portfolio.
We disposed of two of our investments, from Ordnance Survey to Kier Property for mixed-use Waltham and Tendring Schools, for a combined cash development.
consideration of 7.3m representing a valuation At Newcastle-under-lyme we secured HCA funding discount rate of around 8%.
This sale has resulted for a housing development on one of our brownin an exceptional gain of 4.2m.
Seventy-two units are for social housing Services continues to act as facilities manager on which have been forward-sold to Aspire Housing, both of these contracts.
a Registered Social landlord, with eight units for Our portfolio of PFi projects following these private sale.
Construction, by Kier Partnership disposals now totals 13 including the Gloucester Homes, began in February 2010 with completion Fire project now at preferred bidder stage.
Our 32 KiER GROuP PlC ANNuAl REPORT AND ACCOuNTS 2010 CHiEf EXECuTiVES REViEw CONSTRuCTiON SuPPORT SERViCES PARTNERSHiP HOMES DEVElOPMENTS www.
co. uk developments full equity investment in these schemes stands Key projects in progress at 27.9m 2009: 28.0m of which 16.0m has 1 4 been invested to date.
The directors valuation of our investment of 27.9m at a discount rate of 7.5% is 49.1m.
The KAPS business is specifically focused on assisting local authorities and other public bodies to maximise the benefit from their assets and reduce the operational costs of large property portfolios.
in our partnership with Sheffield City Council significant progress has been made by KAPS during the first 12 months of our contract resulting in over 1m of cost savings for the Council.
in addition to 2 5 the day-to-day delivery of services the team has developed a new Corporate Asset Management Plan which details an effective strategy and action plan for the management of the Councils considerable land and building assets over the next decade.
Developments markets and outlook We are encouraged by interest that is beginning to emerge from investors, particularly from the Far East, who are keen to take advantage of our product range and our approach to development through pre-let, low risk schemes.
We will continue to establish long-term 3 6 partnerships with local authorities and other bodies, such as those established with Network Rail and Sheffield City Council, in order to maximise the value of their property assets.
Given our in-house skills we are well placed to take a leading role in working closely with local government and other bodies to tailor innovative property solutions to meet their requirements.
The well publicised spending cutbacks will require new approaches to the provision of services by local councils and we are providing significant support 1. lower Milehouse lane, 4.
Norfolk & Suffolk Constabularies, Newcastle-under-lyme construction value 60m to proposals which will help them maximise their Kier Property Kier Project investment asset values and achieve significant cost savings.
Kier Property & Kier Partnership Kier Project investment reached Homes are presently developing and financial close in February 2010 on a The announcement of preferred bidder status with constructing 72 social housing homes project to deliver six custody facilities Chesterfield Borough Council to deliver property and eight private houses in Newcastlefor Norfolk & Suffolk Police under-lyme, Staffordshire.
and engineering services in a ten-year partnership serves to endorse this approach.
Sheffield City Council Kier Asset Partnership Services construction value 41.8m our work with Sheffield and Chesterfield Councils Kier Property & Kier Regional KAPS provides a wide range of we have expanded our property development activproperty and FM services on behalf The project at Adanac Park is a prime example of Kier Property dovetailing with of Sheffield City Council, which ities in the north of England, working closely with selected Kier to replace the Councils the Groups relevant services to offer a Construction, Partnership Homes and Support fully integrated package.
The all-Kier functions of corporate property team includes the Construction and management and FM service staff.
Services to maximise opportunities for the Group.
Twickenham More generally we are encouraged by the 3.
Reading university, Solum Regeneration continued level of occupier demand for our sites construction value 18.5m initially eight sites at Enfield, Kier Property & Kier Moss Maidstone East, Epsom, Twickenham, across the country, which reflects well on our Working in partnership with the Walthamstow, Wembley, West strategy of only acquiring well located sites.
university of Reading, Kier Property & Brompton and Guildford have been Kier Moss are presently developing allocated to the Solum Regeneration and constructing a new Science contract and will form the anchor of and Enterprise Centre on the this ten-year venture.
KiER GROuP PlC ANNuAl REPORT AND ACCOuNTS 2010 33 Chief executives review Continued 1 1.
Southfields Embankment, london Health & safety Kier Construction During the year we have focused on health & safety provide further clarity on public sector expenditure Pictured are Danny Cristofoli, project manager left and Willy Twum right, leadership and our Behavioural Safety leadership plans.
Kier, with its established client relationships who is site person in charge SPiC, at Programme is now firmly embedded within the and financial strength, is well placed to attract the Southfields Embankment stabilisation project on the District Construction division.
This programme focuses on construction work through its wide network of local line of the london underground.
encouraging active discussion within the workforce offices and through the numerous frameworks in on safety specific issues and we have recorded in which we are involved in both the public and private excess of 24,000 such conversations this year.
We are encouraged by the prospects we Our focus will now encompass both health and see in markets such as power, utilities and waste.
environmental issues to ensure that we support fully Our construction order books of secure and the Groups sustainability aspirations.
Our health probable contracts are robust, providing 98% of our programme is paying dividends with the current targeted revenue for 2011, much of it won through roadshow addressing noise and vibration issues.
framework agreements, providing confidence that we A long-term programme of health and well-being is can sustain healthy operating margins and strong being developed across the business to ensure that cash flows.
health is an integral part of the Safety, Health and Our Support Services business is benefiting from Environment culture.
well-established client relationships which enable The commitment of our management and our us to understand the needs of local authorities in supply chain partners has ensured that our Accident order to help them to provide services efficiently incidence Rate has improved by 23% from 404 in and effectively.
in our Partnership Homes business June 2009 to 312 in June 2010 against a Health and we are providing mixed-tenure dwellings funded Safety Executive HSE benchmark of 782. through private financing as well as realising value for local authorities through the redevelopment of People council-owned properties.
We also have a private The year to 30 June 2010 has been a busy and residential land bank that continues to provide us with future value.
challenging one for the Group and it is only with the commitment, skill and professionalism of all our Our experienced Developments team is working employees that we have achieved another year of on a number of medium and long-term projects that good profit and cash generation.
i would like to thank will provide the division with development work as well as creating opportunities for other parts of all of our employees at every level throughout our many businesses for their contribution to the continthe Group.
uing success of the Group.
We are expecting 2011 Our integrated business model provides us with to be equally challenging and i am confident that unique opportunities drawing on the strength of our relationships with public and private sector clients.
our teams will rise to the occasion and will deliver another solid performance.
We have a strong balance sheet, a good track record of service delivery and very talented, capable staff, markets & prospects all of which give us confidence for the future.
The current economic climate will continue to pose challenges to our business over the next 12 months Paul Sheffield and the October Spending Review will, we hope, Chief Executive 34 KiER GROuP PlC ANNuAl REPORT AND ACCOuNTS 2010
