King sher plc Annual Report and Accounts Group buying programmes 17 2009 10 Strong performance in direct sourcing Driving supplier performance Growing Group sourcing is one of the seven steps identi ed by We continue to develop our strategic supplier partnerships, with an King sher as key to delivering value for our shareholders.
Buying directly increasing number of international contracts now in place.
We are also from our suppliers gives us greater control of the product sourcing providing further support to our newer and fast-growing businesses process, helping us to maximise quality, value and innovation as well as in their  with international suppliers.
Having a strong direct sourcing network also enables us to capitalise on our international scale by making it easier In October 2009 the King sher Supplier Conference in Paris had as for our retail businesses to create common ranges for our stores.
its theme Re-invent the home, giving our buyers and suppliers the opportunity to share their views on consumer lifestyle and home Last year, the King sher Sourcing Organisation KSO, was further improvement trends.
strengthened with a new buying of ce in Vietnam, which joined the established teams in China, Hong Kong, Poland, Brazil and India.
In Further progress in goods not for resale addition, four new category managers were appointed, with this new King sher also applies the principles of collaboration and leveraging senior-level position having responsibility for driving common ranges and our buying strength in the area of goods not for resale GNFR the buying synergies.
A Global Quality Plan was implemented to ensure the products and services we need to operate on a day-to-day basis.
sustainable development of our direct sourcing activities and dedicated Our largest businesses in the UK and France have generated signi cant IT systems were introduced to manage all quality requirements.
Suppliers cost ef ciencies through bypassing agents and other middlemen to deal were also required to sign up to King shers Code of Conduct.
directly with GNFR suppliers: while at a Group level we have established a network of preferred suppliers who now compete for contracts with Together with the other initiatives highlighted below, these efforts helped our various global retail businesses.
Collaborative buying programmes King sher grow the value of direct shipments to US$794 million at factory have taken place in a number of key areas, including catalogue prices, up from US$696 million the previous year.
paper, mechanical handling equipment, display racking and shopping trolley baskets.
Maximising our buying strength Good progress has been made on the direct sourcing of goods by Ethical sourcing individual King sher businesses in recent years, to the extent that we King sher continues to work with suppliers to improve labour and are now better placed to move towards more cross-Group sourcing.
environmental conditions throughout our supply chain.
The King sher In 2009, three quarters of total KSO spend was with shared suppliers Sourcing Organisation KSO audits the factories of every new supplier supplying two businesses or more.
Castorama France and B&Q UK, against the King sher Code of Conduct for Factory Working Conditions.
our two biggest businesses, worked particularly closely on seasonal Factories of our established suppliers are also audited on a regular and garden furniture ranges, organising joint buying trips to China, basis.
In total we carried out some 541 factory assessments during Hong Kong and India.
Factory manager training, as well as partnership projects such as the greener production programme in Hong Kong, provide further In power tools, a four-way collaboration between Castorama France and guidance and support.
Poland, Hornbach and Kotas resulted in joint buying of 64 products, most notably for King shers own-brand MacAllister.
02 Closer relationships were also forged domestically.
In the UK, B&Q and Screw x established over 100 common products in electrical extension leads and cabling, while in France Castorama and Brico Dpt jointly purchased 3,700 km of composite decking.
These programmes have generated bottom line savings and have also enabled the buying teams to drive technical innovation, particularly in MacAllister power tools.
King shers retail businesses are now working to align their sourcing strategies in key categories such as technical lighting, paint, roof windows, storage, and plumbing and heating.
The target is to achieve a fully aligned range review calendar within the next three years.
In order to accelerate this process, King shers businesses are working closely to build a 02 Jointly sourced shared portfolio of exclusive own-brands with multi-lingual packaging.
garden furniture ranges Pictured here is a rattan garden furniture set which has been jointly sourced by B&Q in the UK and Castorama in France.
It is known as Haiti at B&Q and Cobbo at Castorama.
