King sher plc Annual Report 06 A conversation with and Accounts 2009 10 the executive team Left to right Euan Sutherland Philippe Tible Ian Cheshire Peter Hogsted Kevin OByrne Chief Executive, B&Q Chief Executive, France Group Chief Executive Chief Executive, International Group Finance Director and King sher UK KF7225 AR 09 10 KF7225 AR 09 10 Front.
indd 06 13 4 10 13 4 10 02:12:05 02:12:05 King sher plc Annual Report and Accounts 07 2009 10 My priority right now is the customer and more pro table for us.
We made good progress with our corporate responsibility programmes during the year and are ahead to successfully execute our of our targets in several areas.
Sales of eco products topped 1 billion for the first time, showing that consumer demand is growing.
It also makes sense for our own business to be as ef cient and Weve made a great start sustainable as possible, reducing both our costs and our impact on the environment.
Thats why we have been working with the Carbon Trust but there is a lot more to do.
on ways to reduce our energy usage.
At B&Q UK we have signi cantly cut energy costs and made a CO reduction of 16% since 2006.
2 Ian Cheshire Group Chief Executive Philippe Tible CEO, King sher France You say Delivering Value is on track, is the nish line now in sight?
How were you able to grow pro t in what was the worst After another successful and productive year the target is certainly more French home improvement retail market for many years?
in sight, though much work has yet to be done to secure it.
But as we A lot of hard work from our 20,000 colleagues in France meant our get closer to achieving our target I increasingly see it as the starting line sales outperformed what was the weakest market for many years and from which the real race starts, fide nitely not the nish line.
we were able to deliver the ambitious cost management target I set at the start of the year.
Bene ts from optimising our buying in France also Looking back, 2008 was a pivotal year of change.
A new, stronger and meant that we were able to remain very price competitive in a more more uni ed leadership team was created and we put in place a clear promotional market and maintain our overall gross margin percentage.
In 2009, with the whole organisation engaged behind it, Growing our business in such a dif cult market was testament to the the fruits of that plan helped drive 49% higher earnings per share and strength of having two complementary store brands but one uni ed 761 million of free cash generation.
Thats a great result, especially in strategy for France.
the tough markets we faced and I thank all our 78,000 staff worldwide for working so hard to deliver our goals.
Is there any growth left to go for in France?
Absolutely, whilst France is already King shers highest pro t contributor So where will future growth come from?
and cash generator I remain very excited about the future growth Just to be clear, my priority right now is to successfully execute our potential of King sher France.
Weve made a great start but there is a lot more to do.
Castorama, with its fuller product and service offer and broader consumer appeal, continues to go from strength to strength.
It has consistently grown But the leadership team are increasingly turning their attention to life market share as it gains momentum from its successful modernisation beyond 2012 and laying the foundations today for sustainable future programme.
But the glass is only half full we have over 40% of our growth.
With signi cant growth in consumer spending considered Castorama stores yet to modernise and the potential to open more unlikely, we aim to invest in innovation to create our own opportunities.
For example, we have been broadening our customer offer by introducing new product categories into our existing stores.
The new In Brico Dpt we have a very successful smaller, discount format aimed specialist professional trade offer, TradePoint, which is now being rolled more at the specialist trade end of the market.
With its tradesman out in all of B&Qs bigger stores, is a great example.
And we continue bias it did suffer more last year due to the housing downturn but it to broaden our reach by opening new stores, particularly in France and has protected pro t thanks to the bene ts from recent investment in Eastern Europe where returns are highest.
new systems and logistics and a rm focus on cost ef ciency.
I have no doubt that this business will return to sales growth as the market But as well as broadening the business we need to harvest much improves and we will continue to open more Brico Dpt stores more bene t from our international buying scale.
Our direct sourcing in France.
is growing strongly and we are doing the ground work now on our buying processes to enable more range harmonisation in the future.
Euan Sutherland CEO, B&Q and King sher UK B&Qs retail margin increased from 2.8% to 4.9%.
Where does the sustainability agenda t within Delivering Value?
Are you still con dent that 7% can be achieved?
Everywhere, its simply part and parcel of being a leading business.
Yes, absolutely, and the exciting thing is that most of this is in our hands Helping our customers to have more sustainable homes is a laudable its a self-help recovery, not a market-led recovery.
One of B&Qs great aim given that around a quarter of all carbon emissions come from strengths is its Can do attitude and right now everyone at B&Q is residential housing.
But it makes great business sense as well because working at out to drive ef ciencies through every line of the pro t and our customers are increasingly looking to buy products and services loss account.
A great example is customer self check-outs where in one to make their homes more ef cient and less costly to run.
Thats why year we successfully rolled out these new tills to all stores.
The stores we are increasing the proportion of our eco products and planning did a brilliant job executing such a huge and complex project so well a Group-wide range of energy ef cient products.
By leveraging our and these tills now account for over 40% of all transactions.
Group buying scale we can make these products more affordable for KF7225 AR 09 10 KF7225 AR 09 10 Front.
indd 07 13 4 10 13 4 10 02:12:10 02:12:10 King sher plc Annual Report 08 A conversation with and Accounts 2009 10 the executive team There is also a huge opportunity in sourcing.
Last year our gross margin You are responsible for Group sourcing and innovation whats percentage grew by 1.1 percentage points and it will grow again in 2010 in the pipeline?
as we signi cantly increase our direct sourcing from around the world.
Given my 13 years at IKEA it will not surprise you that I see huge potential We import around 12% of the products we sell and this will double over from driving more range commonality across King sher.
Vronique the next few years.
Laury-Deroubaix did a great job modernising the ranges at Castorama France, where she was commercial director, and she is now helping But what about top line growth?
me drive change across the Group.
The first priority is simply to raise B&Q has much more to offer its customers but we must have the the level of direct global sourcing in each of the individual businesses.
business ring on all cylinders first.
A lot of retail engineering has taken After that, the big prize is to create common, King sher-wide ranges place at B&Q from improving store standards and clearing excess stock to leverage our Group scale.
levels top stocks to reducing the shelf space needed to display ranges.
Trials run over the last 18 months have shown us that we can achieve Kevin OByrne Group Finance Director the same total store sales using only 80-90% of the space in our bigger Last year you said Cash is King and set working capital stores.
This is a fantastic growth opportunity as it means we can reduction as a key priority.
It seems to have gone better than broaden our business and create more top line sales from the spare planned.
space in our 119 bigger stores, and for minimal investment.
And the It did go well and we generated 761 million of cash well ahead additional sales are highly pro table because we are leveraging what of expectations.
We set ambitious internal targets and aligned our is a largely xed cost base in the existing store.
remuneration schemes behind this goal.
This improved cash ow was generated from several sources, improved trading, a more selective The first example of how we will use this new available space is the approach to capital investment and a focus on reducing our net working introduction of a 4,000 square foot specialist trade area called TradePoint.
Thanks to these efforts we were able to repay approximately TradePoint combines Screw xs know how and specialist trade brands 550 million of outstanding bonds and loans early, reducing our ongoing with the convenience of B&Qs store location and long opening hours.
The business reduced stocks by 15 days, whilst Add to this, access to the rest of B&Qs offer with exclusive year round improving on-shelf stock availability for customers, contributing tradesman discounts and I believe we have created something unique to a 315 million reduction in net working capital.
and very attractive for our professional customers.
We will have 118 of these by the end of the summer and we will also trial other new categories, But whats really important is that this increased focus on better the best of which will be rolled out in 2011. free cash ow generation isnt a short lived initiative, its now rmly embedded as an ongoing business priority across King sher.
Peter Hogsted CEO, King sher International Its been a busy year for you in China, are you making headway?
Having improved cash generation are acquisitions, special Yes, we had a lot of work to do in 2009 and all credit to the team that we dividends or share buybacks on the agenda?
ended the year in much better shape.
We delivered exactly what we said Whilst its true that our headline reported financial net debt of we would do: consolidated our store base, improved our working capital 250 million looks low we also take into account our store leases and and reduced costs.
The losses were signi cantly reduced as planned pension scheme when thinking about total debt and appropriate and we were actually cash generative across the year.
We have also balance sheet leverage.
On this broader basis we have gearing of started to downsize our stores and implement a new store format.
There some 50%, putting us at still only the lower end of investment grade.
is much work to do here and I was very pleased that Loc Dubois agreed For this reason the uses you mention above are not really on our to join us as CEO B&Q China to lead the next phase of our plan and radar at the moment.
return the business to pro tability.
Loc spent 15 years in senior roles with Carrefour in China and other Asian markets.
So looking forward we will adopt a prudent and balanced approach to cash.
We will continue to use our cash generation to strengthen Poland seems to go from strength to strength, but is it about our balance sheet, invest in the business and pay our shareholders to run out of steam?
We will, of course, look carefully at any opportunities to The business has done very well to continue to grow its top line and accelerate growth but our hurdle criteria are much tougher these days.
maintain its high operating pro t in what was a slower market in 2009.
However, I believe there is more to come yet from our Polish business.
The market still has a lot of pent up demand for more and better housing and we have many more stores to open before we reach our full store potential.
Importantly, our excellent pro tability is driven by high sales, not high gross margin percentage.
Over time there is opportunity to improve gross margins by introducing centralised distribution, more direct sourcing, broader ranges and Group own brands.
In fact we will be opening our first distribution centre in Poland in 2010 to start tapping this potential.
Poland is a long term growth story for King sher as is Russia, where we are continuing to expand and open new stores.
