King sher plc Annual Report and Accounts 01 2009 10 Progress update from the Group Chief Executive In the fi first full year for the new Group Executive team I am pleased to report a strong improvement in performance.
We made good progress with our seven-point Delivering Value plan to improve returns to shareholders, which we cover in more detail elsewhere in this report.
Profi tability, cash generation and return on capital all grew in the UK & Ireland, France, Poland, Turkey and Spain.
Encouragingly, losses were signifi cantly Ian Cheshire Group Chief Executive reduced in China as our turnaround King sher plc plan progresses.
In generally weak consumer markets our self-help initiatives underpinned our robust performance, driving a higher gross margin, more cost ef ciency and lower working capital.
We have also been busy laying the foundations for our future growth by broadening our product range into new categories, opening new stores and coordinating our buying activities to enable more common sourcing.
We also made good progress with our corporate responsibility agenda and sales of eco products topped 1 billion for the first time.
Our rigorous approach to generating cash returns and tightly managing our capital means we are now able to increase new capital investment to support future growth.
Looking ahead, we remain cautious on the outlook for consumer demand across Europe.
However, we are con dent that our experienced management team, successful international strategy and buying scale mean we will be able to drive continued growth through our own actions.
Recognising our improved pro tability, cash generation and future growth prospects I am delighted that the final dividend payment will be increased, the first dividend growth for our shareholders in five years.
King sher plc is Europes leading home improvement retail group and the third largest in the world, with over 830 stores in eight countries in Europe and Asia.
Its main retail brands are B&Q, Castorama, Brico Dpt and Screw x.
King sher also has a 50% joint venture business in Turkey with Ko Group, and a 21% interest in, and strategic alliance with Hornbach, Germanys leading large format DIY retailer.
