Risks and how we manage them Risk governance Risk management Risk and responsibilities process methodology The Board has overall The key risks are assessed The Risk Committee considers responsibility for risk by the Risk Committee using the following impact areas in management as an integral a bespoke risk methodology assessing risks: part of strategic planning and reviewed by the Legal and regulatory Operations Board The Operations Board made Betting and gaming compliance up of executive directors and At each Board meeting any Financial management senior executives makes changes to key risks are and bookmaking recommendations on the overall identified and all key risks are Reputation approach to risk management reviewed formally by the Board Technology and identifies the key risks.
twice yearly The Operations Board is Data integrity and fraud protection The risk management processes assisted by a Risk Committee are reviewed by the Audit Customers made up of Group and divisional Committee annually Employees senior executives Risk management forms an For each risk identified within The Audit Committee is integral part of the Groups these impact areas the likelihood, responsible for assessing the internal control, planning and consequence, mitigating controls scope and effectiveness of approval process and actions, risk owner and the systems established to forecast residual risk are identified identify, assess, manage and by the Risk Committee monitor risks The overall risk level is quantified Each key risk is assigned and assessed to ensure that the Operations Board appropriate mitigation measures member ownership and future actions have been identified Strategy General business risks include: Achieving the strategy outlined in the Chief Executives Marketplace changes in the economic environment, review will deliver long-term growth for the benefit of all changes in consumer leisure spend.
stakeholders whilst minimising some of the key risks that Financial availability of debt financing and costs Ladbrokes faces.
Failure to achieve the strategy has the of borrowing, taxation, pension fund liability.
potential to affect the business and its performance.
Operational recruitment and retention How strategy is established and the associated risks are of key talent, execution of international expansion.
managed are described in Corporate governance.
Principal risks and uncertainties There are general business risks faced by Ladbrokes that are comparable to those faced by most other businesses.
In addition, there are more specific risks which are either unique to Ladbrokes or apply to the industry it operates in.
The risks outlined here are those principal risks and uncertainties that are material to the Group.
They do not include all those associated with Group activities and are not set out in any order of priority.
Ladbrokes plc Annual Report and Accounts 2010 24 Specic risks that are material to Ladbrokes are: Risks Mitigation Marketplace Competition Ladbrokes faces competition primarily from other land-based Ladbrokes performance and competitive position are bookmakers, online betting exchanges and other online gambling continuously monitored and, where appropriate, changes are operators.
In particular, the online gambling market is instituted, including in relation to marketing, product development, characterised by intense and substantial competition and by yield management, cost control and investment.
Acquisition relatively low barriers to entry for new participants.
In addition, opportunities, with a view to taking advantage of market Ladbrokes faces competition from market participants who consolidation, are continuously evaluated.
benefit from greater liquidity as a result of accepting bets and wagers from jurisdictions in which Ladbrokes does not operate because of legal reasons or otherwise.
Betting and gaming industry Taxes, laws, regulations and licensing Regulatory, legislative and fiscal regimes for betting and gaming Regulatory, legislative and fiscal developments in key markets are in key markets around the world can change, sometimes at short monitored closely see page 21 for further details, allowing notice.
Such changes could benefit or have an adverse effect on Ladbrokes to assess and adapt quickly to changes in the Ladbrokes and additional costs might be incurred in order to environment and minimise risks to the business.
Ladbrokes comply with any new laws or regulations.
engages with its regulators and the relevant trade organisations with regard to the betting and gaming regulatory framework and other issues of shared concern, such as problem gambling.
Increased cost of product Ladbrokes is subject to certain financing arrangements intended Ladbrokes engages with the relevant trade associations and the to support industries from which it profits.
Examples are the principal bodies of sport and event industries with regard to horseracing and the voluntary greyhound racing levies which sports rights payments, including the statutory horseracing levy, respectively support the British horseracing and greyhound animal welfare and other issues.
In addition, Ladbrokes enters into contracts for the distribution of television pictures, audio and other data that are broadcast into Ladbrokes betting shops.
Operational and bookmaking Bookmaking Ladbrokes may experience significant losses as a result Ladbrokes core expertise is risk management and it has of a failure to determine accurately the odds in relation developed the skills and systems to be able to offer a wide range to any particular event and or any failure of its risk of betting opportunities and accept large bets.
There is in place a management processes.
highly experienced trading team and risks are spread across a wide range of events.
A bookmakers odds are determined so as to provide an average return to the bookmaker over a large number of events and therefore, over the long-term, Ladbrokes gross win percentage has remained fairly constant.
Sporting schedules and cancellations There are certain high profile sporting events which attract In addition to gaming machines, Ladbrokes has a number significant betting activity e. g. the Grand National and the FIFA of alternative products to fill gaps in the schedules including Football World Cup.
Cancellation or curtailment of such events, virtual horseracing.
for example due to adverse weather conditions, or the failure of certain sporting teams to qualify for sporting events, can adversely impact Ladbrokes results.
High xed cost base Ladbrokes has a relatively high fixed cost base as a proportion Business re-engineering initiatives have been implemented to of its total costs, consisting primarily of employee and rental reduce the cost base.
Structural contingency plans have been costs associated with its betting shop estate.
This means that put in place and where possible central facilities have been falls in revenue could have a significantly adverse effect on co-located.
The future strategy to increase online revenues will Ladbrokes profitability unless the Group reduces its costs limit the dominance of the fixed costs.
substantially in the short to medium term.
Ladbrokes plc Annual Report and Accounts 2010 25 Business review Risks and how we manage them continued Risks Mitigation Operational and bookmaking Loss of key locations Ladbrokes has a number of key sites, in particular Imperial House Existing business continuity plans and arrangements for offsite at Rayners Lane in London, its head office and main operations data storage, alternate system availability and remote working for centre, and its premises in Europort in Gibraltar from where the key operational and senior management are currently under review online gaming operations are based.
as part of an ongoing process.
Information technology and communications Technology changes The market for online gambling products and services is Ladbrokes has committed considerable resources into characterised by technological developments, new product and upgrading its existing technology, IT infrastructure, service introductions and evolving industry standards.
Failure by communication systems and application systems, as well as Ladbrokes to use leading technologies effectively, develop its developing and acquiring new platforms.
Rigorous testing technological expertise, enhance its products and services and regimes are utilised to ensure a continued high quality of improve the performance, features and reliability of its technology product offerings and services are maintained.
and advanced information systems, could have a material adverse effect on its competitive position.
Technology failure Ladbrokes operations are highly dependent on technology and Ladbrokes has a level of resilience in place which seeks to advanced information systems and there is a risk that such eliminate single points of failure within key technology locations.
technology or systems could fail.
In particular, any damage to, or failure of online systems and servers, electronic point of sale systems and electronic display systems could result in interruptions to financial controls and customer service systems.
Data disclosure Ladbrokes processes sensitive personal customer data including Advanced security systems are deployed to protect transactional name, address, age, bank details and betting and gaming history data.
Sophisticated hardware and security mechanisms are used as part of its business and therefore must comply with strict data to ensure all sensitive and confidential data is fully encrypted.
protection and privacy laws in all jurisdictions in which the Group To provide fail-safe integrity of all data, a series of storage systems operates.
Ladbrokes is exposed to the risk that this data could be are used to replicate all data processed by online services.
In wrongfully appropriated, lost or disclosed, or processed in respect of fraud protection, an extensive programme of data breach of data protection regulation.
This could also result in monitoring is in place with both prevention and detection prosecutions and the loss of the goodwill of its customers and audit controls.
Failure in the supply chain Ladbrokes is dependent on a number of third parties for the Infrastructure suppliers, network and telecommunication suppliers operation of its business.
The withdrawal or removal from the and application service providers are long-term partners in market of one or more of these major third party suppliers, or providing an infrastructure which seeks to ensure the delivery of failure of third party suppliers to comply with contractual sophisticated and high performance transaction processing obligations could adversely affect our operations.
There is continual communication with these suppliers and providers at an operating level and service level agreements have been established to maintain high service levels.
The ongoing review of business continuity plans will include key supplier alternatives and the future strategy is to bring more of the value chain in-house.
Ladbrokes plc Annual Report and Accounts 2010 26
