Regulation UK Regulatory Environment Other European Retail In our core UK market the Government is considering Ireland a number of issues that will impact on the Ladbrokes Legislation was introduced in the 2011 Irish Finance Bill business.
Ladbrokes maintains an ongoing dialogue with to extend betting tax to online operators at the rate of 1% the Government and the Opposition both directly and of turnover.
through trade associations with the aim of achieving Spain balanced regulation and fiscal stability.
A number of regions are pursuing regulation of retail British Gambling Prevalence Study betting and Ladbrokes, through our Sportium joint venture, The results of the British Gambling Prevalence Survey 2010 will be targeting opportunities in Aragon and Navarra.
The survey provides As in Madrid, there will be a focus on corners and selfan update on participation in gambling and the prevalence service betting terminals.
of problem gambling in Great Britain.
Ladbrokes will Opportunities in newly regulating markets continue to play its part in tackling problem gambling Ladbrokes is adopting a focused approach to new market through responsible business practices, working with the opportunities.
Markets are assessed on a case by case Government and key bodies like the Responsible Gambling basis and where the taxation and regulatory frameworks Strategy Board and by donating funds to the Gambling do not represent a realistic probability to deliver value to Research, Education and Treatment Foundation.
shareholders we will not pursue these opportunities.
For The Horserace Betting Levy this reason we have withdrawn from the French market and The Secretary of State for Culture, Olympics, Media and did not pursue digital opportunities in Belgium and Norway.
Sport has determined the 50th Levy Scheme.
The Scheme, The Spanish Government has proposed legislation to which runs from April 2011 to March 2012, will apply at an regulate online gambling.
Ladbrokes will assess the market increased rate of 10.75% on gross profits on British opportunity on the basis of the final approved law, with horseracing.
The threshold below which licensed betting particular regard to taxation levels.
offices pay abated charges was reduced to 50,000 per shop.
Over the long term Ladbrokes believes a commercial replacement for the Levy will bring better outcomes for both racing and betting.
Ladbrokes will continue to engage with the Government on positive solutions for change.
Machine Taxation Reform The Government has confirmed its intention to proceed with reforms to the taxation of gaming machines and proposes to replace both Amusement Machine Licence Duty AMLD and VAT on net takings with a new Machine Games Duty MGD.
MGD will be a tax on the income from the playing ofprize games on machines.
The Government intends to consult on draft legislation with relevant parties in Spring early Summer 2011, with the intention of legislating in the 2012 Finance Bill.
Offshore regulation The previous administration carried out a consultation into the Regulatory Future of Remote Gambling in Great Britain.
This consultation closed in June 2010 and the Government is due to report during 2011 on the consultation findings and proposals for regulating remote gambling operators.
Ladbrokes plc Annual Report and Accounts 2010 21 Business review
