Directors report A review of the Groups activities and future developments, which Auditor and disclosure of information to the auditor fulfils the requirements of the business review, including the Each of the directors in office as of the date of approval of this financial performance during the year, key performance indicators report confirms that, so far as he she is aware, there is no relevant and a description of the principal risks and uncertainties facing the audit information being information needed by the auditor in Group is given on pages 16 to 29 and forms part of this report.
The connection with preparing its report of which the auditor is description of the Groups corporate governance arrangements on unaware and that he she has taken all the steps that he she ought pages 32 to 36 also forms part of this report.
A description of the to have taken as a director in order to make himself herself aware Groups financial risk management objectives and policies and its of any relevant audit information and to establish that the auditor exposure to price, credit liquidity and cash flow risk is contained isaware of that information.
innote 25 to the consolidated financial statements and forms part of this report.
Other matters material to the appreciation of the Share capital Groups position are contained in the Chairmans statement and At 16 February 2011, the Company had been notified of the the Chief Executives review.
following holdings of voting rights attaching to the Companys shares in accordance with the Disclosure and Transparency Rules: Results BlackRock, Inc 5.27%: Deutsche Bank AG 3.74%: Eminence The results for the year are shown in the consolidated Capital, LLC 5.96%: Ignis Investment Services Limited 3.10%: incomestatement.
Legal & General Group PLC 7.58%: and Schroders plc 5.06%.
The Trustee of the Ladbrokes Share Ownership Trust, which is Dividends used in connection with certain of the Companys employee share The directors recommend the payment of a final dividend of ownership plans, waives dividends on shares in the Trust not 3.75 pence on each of the ordinary shares entitled thereto, allocated to plan members.
makinga total of 7.60 pence for the year.
Subject to shareholders approval at the Annual General Meeting to be held on 13 May Further details in respect of the share capital are shown in note 28 to 2011, the final dividend is expected to be paid on 1 June 2011 the consolidated financial statements which forms part of this report.
Branch registration Annual General Meeting The Company is registered as a foreign company in Australia.
This years Annual General Meeting will be held at the Queen Elizabeth II Conference Centre on 13 May 2011 at 11.00am.
Corporate responsibility A report on Corporate Responsibility CR is on the Companys Directors website www.
com and highlights, with which the The directors during the year were those listed on page 31 together following should be considered in conjunction, are given on pages with C Bell, N M H Jones and H E Staunton who each resigned on 27 to 29.
14 May 2010 and J P OReilly who resigned on 5November 2010.
The processes described in the section Internal control and Biographical details of all the directors are on page 31. riskmanagement systems on pages 34 and 35 applied to CR, as Details of directors service contracts, their share interests and didthe practices described on page 32 for ensuring the Board is other details of their remuneration by the Company are contained supplied with appropriate and timely information and for assisting in the Directors remuneration report.
Pursuant to section 175 the directors to update their knowledge.
In addition to business ofthe Companies Act 2006 and the Companys articles of presentations regularly made to the Board at which CR was association, the Board has authorised situations of potential considered as appropriate, the Board conducts an annual CR conflict arising out of J F Jarvis being a non-executive director review and Board members regularly receive CR updates.
CR ofSandown Park and a member of The Jockey Club and S Bailey performance is included in divisional accountability systems and being a director of Trinity Mirror plc.
The Remuneration Committee in determining executive remuneration takes into account CR matters as described in the Directors remuneration report.
The risks and opportunities relating to CR in 2010 primarily revolved around the reputation of the Group and the quality of its brands.
Ladbrokes plc Annual Report and Accounts 2010 37 Governance Governance Directors report continued Of particular importance was the promotion of responsible Supplier payment policy gambling and the protection of children and the vulnerable.
CR The Company agrees payment terms for its business transactions also impacted i the performance of the Groups employees on when goods and services are ordered.
It ensures that suppliers whom the Group relies for the provision of high quality services to are aware of the terms of payment and the relevant terms are customers and ii the health and safety of these employees and included in contracts where appropriate.
Subject to satisfactory the customers they serve.
performance by the supplier, arrangements are adhered to when making payments.
At the year end, the Company had no trade Performance indicators continued to be developed in accordance creditors.
No breaches of CR policies and procedures material to the Group were identified by the Board in 2010.
Going concern The identification and management of CR issues, the CR reporting In assessing the going concern basis, the directors considered framework and accuracy of any associated data has been reviewed theGroups business activities and the financial position of the by the Companys CR adviser, Acona Limited.
Group as described in pages 4 to 29 and the Groups financial risk management objectives and policies as included in note 25 to the Employee policies consolidated financial statements.
The Board values two-way communication between senior The directors consider that the Group has adequate resources to management and employees on all matters affecting the welfare continue in operational existence for the foreseeable future and ofthe business.
As well as regular management roadshows that it is therefore appropriate to adopt the going concern basis andvisits to operating units, conferences and meetings, in preparing its financial statements.
communication is via the intranet and other multimedia formats.
By order of the Board Throughout the Group via the Staff Council, opinion surveys and feedback programmes, employees are encouraged to be involved in the running of the business.
The Companys Annual Report ismade available to employees and, together with regular staff magazines, provides employees with a greater awareness of the M J Noble Groups performance as well as the financial and economic factors Secretary that affect it.
17 February 2011 In addition, those employees who are eligible are also encouragedto become involved in the Groups performance through participation in share schemes.
Throughout the Group, the principles of equal opportunities are recognised in the formulation and development of employment policies.
It is the Companys policy to give full and fair consideration toapplications from people with disabilities, having regard to their particular aptitudes and abilities.
If an employee becomes disabled, the Companys objective is the continued provision of suitable employment, either in the same or an alternative position, with appropriate adjustments being made if necessary.
Employees with disabilities share equally in the opportunities for training, career development and promotion.
Directors indemnities and insurance The Company continues to maintain directors and officers liabilityinsurance.
In accordance with the Companys articles of association, the Company has entered into a deed of indemnity to the extent permitted by law with each of the directors.
Charitable donations During 2010, in addition to donations made to overseas charities, Group companies donated 945,557 to UK charitable organisations for charitable purposes.
Ladbrokes plc Annual Report and Accounts 2010 38
