Interview with Peter Hill The higher speed, power and performance of electronic devices, as well as the universal trend to wireless connectivity, drives an increasing need for our products and solutions.
Peter Hill What have been the key How did Laird meet these What would you say have been challenges for you in the challenges?
We very rapidly restructured our The actions that we took in late Although we have visibility on operations, reduced significantly 2008 and through 2009 benefited customers demands on us we our cost base, and accelerated the us strongly in 2010.
Assisted by dont have visibility on the rest relocation of manufacturing from a recovery in the majority of our of the supply chain.
As everybody higher cost areas to Asia.
markets, underlying profits in 2010 knows, 2009 with the recession were 52% higher than in 2009.
A and the credit crunch resulted in At the same time, however, we specific key achievement has been reduced demand right across the made the strategic decision to the broadening of our customer board.
This covered virtually all maintain spending on technology, base and the increase in customer electronic markets and geographies research and development, which penetration.
but was particularly pronounced in allowed us to broaden successfully North America and Europe.
our customer base and increase our Maintaining our investment in R&D.
This has resulted in a range of new Secondly we are very reliant on our products being introduced, and has customers own forecasts that they We also reorganised our divisional enabled our Corporate Research make to us, because we have to structure to provide increased Laboratory in Bangalore to continue be in a position to supply.
So one focus and to maximise synergies its path of innovation.
challenge for us is that even if we between our businesses.
The recent believe that a downturn is coming, acquisition of Cattron, a leading and if our customers dont appear designer and supplier of wireless Many challenges to, we still have to maintain stock.
controls, systems and aftermarket clearly remain.
What we saw at the end of 2008 services for the global industrial, was a very sudden and very rapid rail and mining markets, furthers However, we will fide-stocking across the whole of our strategy of diversifying our continue to innovate, the electronic supply chain.
customer and market base, and enhanced our ability to provide to seek out new markets On top of this, we had to deal with systems and aftermarket services and investment our major customer making strategic to customers.
It also builds on decisions to alter its sourcing previous acquisitions, providing opportunities, and patterns, which resulted in reduced technology, product development expect to make further demand for our products from that and revenue synergies.
It is proving specific customer.
6 Laird PLC CSR How important is demands and market dynamics.
The fundamentals of our markets sustainability and social remain very attractive.
We will continue to expand the the higher speed, power and It is extremely important.
We are breadth and depth of customer performance of electronic devices, committed to the Electronics relationships, particularly through as well as the universal trend to Industry Citizenship Coalition new product introductions and wireless connectivity, drives an Code of Conduct, which sets out penetration of new market segments.
increasing need for our products performance, compliance, auditing and solutions.
By broadening our and reporting guidelines across five Our strategy is to build long-term technology capabilities over recent areas of social responsibility: labour, relationships with our customers years we are now in a position to health and safety, environmental, and to increase the proportion off er a unique range of components management systems and ethics.
of our revenues from systems and systems, which in turn gives us and after market revenues.
Another access to new, high growth market We are very mindful of our key element of our strategy is our segments.
responsibilities to our work force well-established low cost and their working conditions.
Competition is increasing for However, we will continue to talent and skills at all levels, be that We are not complacent and we innovate, to seek out new markets manufacturing employees, engineers expect increasing pressure on and investment opportunities, and or managers we want to be the labour rates and certainly input expect to make further significant employer of choice.
We are well placed though progress in 2011. to continue to improve our We work with our customers on the manufacturing eff iciencies, including development of new environmentally greater automation and over time friendly products, and our KPIs expect to add capacity in new lower include continuous improvement in cost regions.
Finally, what excites you the most What are your business strategy about the year ahead?
Although the world remains a Our goal is to achieve sustainable turbulent place we see opportunities growth through technology to maintain our growth both leadership, a diversified product, organically and through acquisitions.
customer and market base, and Lairds hallmark has been its ability to reinvent and adapt and we believe through our ability to respond rapidly to changes in our customers we can continue to do this.
