Directors reportfor the year ended 31 December 2010 Laird PLC is a holding company.
The principal activities of its subsidiary undertakings subsidiaries during the year were the design, manufacture and supply of products and services to the electronics industry.
The Chairmans statement, Chief Executives review, Operating review and Finance Directors report should be read in conjunction with this report and where such documents are referred to herein, they are incorporated by reference into this Directors report.
An analysis of revenue, profit, assets and liabilities by segment is shown in note 3 on pages76 to78.
Business review A review of the development and performance of Laird during the year, and its position at the year end, is given in the Chairmans statement on page3, the Chief Executives review on pages4 to5, the Finance Directors report on pages22 to26, the Operating review on pages13 to21, and note 14 to the financial statements.
Information on environmental matters is contained in the Corporate social responsibility report on pages28 to34.
These pages, and the Key Performance Indicators KPIs contained therein, are incorporated into this report by reference.
Definitions of the KPIs are given on pages 10 and 11 and page33.
Results and dividend Lairds loss for the year after taxation was 16.0 million 2009, 3.5 million loss.
Underlying profit before tax was 40.2million 2009, 26.5 million and is analysed in note 14 on page84.
The recommended final dividend is 4.2p per ordinary share to be paid on 3 June 2011 to ordinary shareholders registered as members of the Company at the close of business on 6May 2011, making a total dividend for the year of 6.3p per ordinaryshare.
Risks and uncertainties The management and control of risks within Laird is embedded within basic operating procedures.
These procedures comprise a range of measures including the Laird Operating Rules, monthly reporting, internal and external audits, the risk management framework comprising a strategic level Risk Management Group chaired by the Chief Executive, with operational risk management under the Risk Management Committee, and self-assessment and continuous monitoring bymanagement.
Laird operates globally in varied markets.
Risk is impacted by changing environments and is continually monitored and rated.
The risks and uncertainties outlined overleaf, which are not presented in any order of priority, are those Laird believes to be the principal risks and uncertainties that are or may be faced.
In addition, information on the Laird risk management framework is given on page51.
38 Laird PLC Risk description Potential impact Mitigating activities Strategic & Markets Competition and Laird operates in market sectors which are Protecting our position by maintaining Market Conditions characterised by a high level of competition a broad customer base and between suppliers and which are driven by monitoring the market to support a rapid technological change.
Changes in market swift response to market changes dynamics could have a material adverse eff ect Developing the business into new and on Lairds financial condition and prospects.
highgrowth markets Lairds competitive position may suff er were Maintaining a competitive it unable to respond promptly and eff ectively manufacturing base to technological change and customers and competitors innovations.
Maintaining a robust intellectual property protection programme and Lairds products and solutions include moving to products with a higher IP technologies in which it holds intellectual protected content property rights which may be subject to infringement or misappropriation.
Claims could Using a range of trade secrets, be asserted against Laird that it has infringed confidentiality policies, non-disclosure intellectual property owned by others and and other contractual arrangements to such claims might require Laird to incur legal protect intellectual property rights costs or face legal restrictions on selling certain products.
Developing the skills, experience and performance of employees and their The loss of a major contract or key customer relationships with customers whether through competitive action or any change in strategy or ordering requirements Introducing new products in a from customers could have a material adverse timely manner eff ect on Lairds financial condition and prospects.
Macro Economic and During an economic downturn or delayed Monitoring of economic and political Political Factors recovery, customers may cancel, reduce or indicators postpone anticipated orders, or apply pressure Close control and reduction of costs to prices and margins, any of which may result in lasting changes in terms of trade pricing Operational contingency plans policies, delivery capabilities and market expectations.
Wider political factors may impact on operations or markets.
Acquisitions Laird has made and is likely to make further Undertaking due diligence strategic acquisitions of complementary Implementing business integration businesses, assets and companies with processes the intention of accelerating growth and strengthening and developing its market.
Retention of qualified engineers or If such acquisitions cannot be successfully other technically qualified personnel integrated and the risks managed, Lairds or customers business, financial condition and the results of its operations may be adversely aff ected.
Obtaining warranties and indemnities from vendors where possible Laird PLC 39 Directors report continued for the year ended 31 December 2010 Risk description Potential impact Mitigating activities Operations China Operational Laird faces continued pressure on China labour Processes improvements to increase Concentration costs, particularly with reference to base pay, productivity Labour costs reductions in overtime and increasing social Increased automation costs.
The result of these pressures may lead to reduced profits or other adverse eff ects on the Developing options for relocation of business.
certain manufacturing operations processes to Western China and other areas Supply Chain and Lairds ability to deliver according to market Supplier quality control, vetting and Raw Materials demands depends in large part on obtaining review timely and adequate supplies of components Developing multi-supplier options and raw materials.
where possible Failure in the supply chain could interrupt Supply chain business contingency Lairds product supply, limit sales and increase plans costs.
Processes for raw material stock The raw materials used include commodities management such as copper, beryllium copper, steel, aluminium, silver and zinc all of which may Relationship management with key be subject to price volatility.
This may impact suppliers Lairds operating profits.
Product Risks Lairds reputation and brand value may be Product and operations quality control adversely aff ected due to real or alleged failures processes in its products and solutions Contractual controls to limit liability where possible Proactive customer relationship management Operational Continuity One or more of Lairds main factories or sites Risk management and recovery plans may suff er major disruption such as pandemic, in place at site and business unit level fire, flooding, regulatory action, loss of IT or Business continuity incident similar which may have an adverse eff ect on management processes Lairds activities, especially where multiple manufacturing processes are co-located.
IT security and back-up procedures Any of the above may prevent Laird from fully performing its contractual obligations, Flexing production between sites potentially resulting in reputation damage.
40 Laird PLC Risk description Potential impact Mitigating activities Finance Currency Exposures Laird is subject to various financial and fiscal Use of financial instruments to assist in risks by virtue of its global operations and the management of foreign exchange customer base.
and interest rate risk, principally forward exchange contracts and interest rate swaps Matching local currency income with local currency costs Funding and Debt facilities are provided for limited periods Optimising the mix of fixed and Treasury Risk of time and require renewal periodically.
Such floating rate borrowings renewal could be aff ected by issues related to Centralised treasury function to the credit markets.
monitor and manage the financial risks Debt facilities contain covenants which if of Laird breached could result in the facilities being Placing cash deposits and other financial withdrawn.
instruments with our relationship banks, Volatility in rates aff ects the amount of interest monitoring the level of exposure to each paid on its external borrowings.
bank Financial instruments and cash deposits may be subject to counterparty risk.
Fraud and Bribery The failure of Laird to implement fraud bribery Use of controls policies and avoidance controls eff ectively could result in procedures fraud or theft losses and or alleged bribery Ethics programme which includes an incident, leading to a loss or punitive regulatory ethics hotline actions.
Management and internal audit review Ethics controls training Bribery Act compliance processes Laird PLC 41 Directors report continued for the year ended 31 December 2010 Risk description Potential impact Mitigating activities Corporate Responsibility Environmental and Laird is committed to operating in compliance Environmental, health and safety Health and Safety with all environmental, health and safety laws policies in place and regulations to which it is subject.
However, ISO quality qualifications there may be unforeseen expenditures to cover environmental and health liabilities, to maintain Site controls compliance with current or future laws and regulations or to undertake any necessary Environmental health and safety site remediation.
audits A health and safety incident or accident may Environmental reporting and local result in harm, penalties, claims or prosecution initiatives any of which may have an adverse eff ect on the business and its operations.
Regulatory In common with all global businesses we face Implementation of regulatory and Compliance complex and diff ering regulatory rules in all trade compliance policies and areas of our operations and markets.
A serious procedures breach by Laird could have an adverse eff ect Compliance monitoring and testing upon Lairds business and the results of its programmes operations may be adversely aff ected.
Professional trade compliance corporate function People Laird is highly reliant on the continued service Reward and incentivisation schemes of its senior management, including executive for employees directors and other key personnel.
HR management development The ability of Laird to meet the demands Successful integration of acquisitions of the market and to compete eff ectively and retention of qualified personnel is dependent on the skills, experience and performance of its employees and failure to retain such individuals could have an adverse eff ect upon the business and the results of its operations.
42 Laird PLC Significant contracts Laird has arrangements with its major customers and suppliers whereby regional or global terms of supply are agreed.
However, these arrangements do not amount to contractual obligations to purchase and supply as these are covered by individual purchase orders.
Share capital The Company has only one class of share and the rights attaching to each share are identical.
Details of the rights and obligations attaching to the shares are set out in the Companys Articles of Association which are available on its website.
The Company may refuse to register any transfer of any share which is not a fully paid share.
At a general meeting of the Company, every member has one vote on a show of hands and on a poll one vote for each share held.
Details of the voting procedure are set out in the notice of meeting.
At 31December 2010 the issued share capital of the Company was 266,302,206 ordinary shares of 28.125p each.
Details of the share capital and options outstanding as at 31 December 2010 are shown in note 29 on page99.
At the Annual General Meeting to be held on 6 May 2011, the shareholders will be requested to renew the directors power to allot shares, or grant rights for or to convert any security into shares, in the Company: the disapplication of pre-emption rights and authorise the Company to make purchases of up to 10% of its ordinary shares on the London Stock Exchange.
As at 9 March 2011 no shares have been purchased pursuant to this authority.
Shareholders will be requested to renew these authorities at the Annual General Meeting and details are set out in the notice of meeting.
Directors Re-election of directors The directors as shown on pages36 and 37 were all directors throughout the year to 31 December 2010.
The Companys Articles of Association which require shareholder approval for any amendments, set out the powers of the directors and the regulations for their appointment and removal.
The UK Corporate Governance Code the new Code, which will apply to the Company next year, recommends that all directors of FTSE 350 companies should be subject to annual election by shareholders.
The directors have decided to adopt this provision of the new Code early, on a voluntary basis.
Accordingly, all of the directors of the Company will off er themselves for re-election at the 2011 Annual General Meeting.
Mr N J Keen who has served longer than nine years on the Board fulfilled the criteria for independence as set out in the Combined Code on Corporate Governance at the time of his appointment and the Board is satisfied that MrKeen remains free from any relationship with the executive management of the Company which could materially interfere with the exercise of his independent judgement.
During his Chairmanship, Mr Keen has overseen the restructuring of Laird PLC, which resulted in Laird becoming a focused electronics and technology company.
He has also overseen the strengthening and development of the Board.
The Board believes that MrKeen makes a valuable contribution and wishes him to continue as Chairman because of his wide experience of business, particularly in the high technology area and his long-standing financial experience.
None of the non-executive directors off ering themselves for re-election has a service contract with the Company or any of its subsidiaries.
Biographical details and reasons for reappointment for the non-executive directors are given in the Notice of Annual General Meeting.
Directors interests No director had, in the year to 31 December 2010, a material interest in any third party contract of significance with the Company or any of its subsidiaries.
Directors shareholdings at 31 December 2010 are shown below.
These interests were unchanged at 9 March 2011.
Details of share options are shown in the Directors remuneration report on pages52 to62.
Laird PLC 43 Directors report continued for the year ended 31 December 2010 Ordinary Shares at 31.12.10 1.1.
10 N J Keen 326,890 326,890 P J Hill 300,630 300,630 J C Silver 375,000 375,000 M L Rapp 101,273 101,273 Sir Christopher Hum 4,500 4,500 Professor M J Kelly 2,250 2,250 A J Reading 22,499 22,499 A M Robb 37,500 37,500 Dr W R Spivey 158,233 158,233 Directors Conflicts of Interest With eff ect from 1 October 2008, the Companies Act 2006 allows directors of public companies to authorise conflicts and potential conflicts of interest, where appropriate.
This is subject to only directors who have no interest in the matter taking the decision and having acted in good faith for what they consider to be most likely to promote the Companys success.
The authority for directors to act in situations of conflict and the rules governing their duties in such situations are set out in the Companys Articles of Association.
A register of conflicts or potential conflicts of interest has been prepared and it is available at every Board Meeting.
Directors Indemnities As permitted by the Companies Act 2006, the Company has indemnified the directors in respect of proceedings brought by third parties and such indemnification was in place throughout the year.
In 2005 two of Lairds final salary pension schemes were merged and in 2008 a further three schemes were merged.
The trustees of the schemes, including Mr Keen who is Chairman of the trustees of the surviving scheme, received an indemnity from the Company against any claim or other liability arising out of or in connection with the pension schemes and their agreement to the merger.
Employment policy Laird conducts business in multiple locations and is committed to complying with the relevant legal requirements in each of those regions.
Business unit management are responsible for implementing and communicating the Laird Employment and Human Rights Policy Statement within their own business unit.
Various methods are used throughout Laird as appropriate in each location for tracking morale, motivation, retention rates and training, which are reported regularly to local managementteams.
Laird is committed to providing equal opportunities in terms of recruitment, training and career development for all employees, including those with disabilities.
A copy of Lairds Employment and Human Rights policy statement is available on the Companys website.
Employee participation The Board recognises that the success of the business relies on the skill and dedication of its employees and therefore encourages two-way communication.
Operating subsidiaries encourage consultation at local level and performance and development reviews reinforce the link between business goals, an employees contribution and his her remuneration.
Laird communicates regularly with its employees, including information on key events within Laird, charity and community involvement and employee achievements.
Subsidiaries are encouraged to make all employees aware of the financial and economic factors aff ecting the performance of their companies.
44 Laird PLC Change of control arrangements Four employees of the Company have long-standing agreements which provide compensation, in addition to the contractual notice period, of up to a maximum of two years base salary for loss of employment which occurs as a result of a takeover off er or scheme.
This additional compensation reduces pro rata to zero over the two years following the date of change of control.
No director benefits from these arrangements.
On a change of control, the Companys 5 year bilateral revolving credit facilities may be cancelled by the lenders by not less than 30 days notice to the Company.
Corporate social responsibility In recognition that Lairds businesses and its activities involve a wide community of stakeholders including investors, employees, customers, suppliers and local communities, the Board reviews the significance of social, environmental and ethical matters which may aff ect Laird.
A Corporate social responsibility report providing further detail can be found on pages28 to34.
Health and safety at work Laird is committed to providing a safe working environment for its employees and continuous improvement is sought by the setting of objectives and targets based on relevant national and international health and safety standards and monitoring performance against these.
In addition Laird maintains a proactive communications strategy amongst all employees to promote and develop good health and safety practices.
Further information is shown in the Corporate social responsibility report on pages28 to34.
Research and development Investing in research and development programmes fosters product innovation and manufacturing improvements within Laird.
Expenditure in 2010 on research and development amounted to 42.2 million 2009, 42.8 million, of which 9.5 million has been capitalised 2009, 11.1 million.
Laird continues to develop its technology capabilities, with research and development expenditure during the year running at 7.4% of sales 2009, 8.1%.
Basis of preparation of the accounts As set out in the statement of directors responsibilities on page63, the accounts have been prepared on a going concern basis.
A statement on going concern relating to a business requires judgement at a point in time about future events which by their nature are inherently uncertain.
The directors have considered the ability of Laird to maintain committed loan finance, meet existing debt covenants and the impact of foreign currency exposures, as discussed in the Finance Directors report on pages22 to26.
The directors have a reasonable expectation that the Company and the Group have adequate resources to continue in operational existence for the foreseeable future.
For this reason, they continue to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the accounts.
Financial assets and liabilities An analysis of debt is given in note 22 to the financial statements.
An analysis of financial instruments at carrying value and fair value is given in note 28 to the financial statements.
Financial instruments and related disclosures together with a discussion of financial risk management objectives and exposures to credit and liquidity risk are in accordance with IFRS 7.
Supplier payment policy Laird requires its subsidiaries to negotiate clear and satisfactory arrangements for the payment of suppliers, as part of the overall terms and conditions of the supply, and to make payment accordingly.
At the year end Laird had two UK operating subsidiaries and they had 52 days of purchases outstanding.
Auditors It is recommended that Ernst & Young LLP be reappointed asauditor.
Shareholders At 31 December 2010 there were 3,592 shareholders.
Laird PLC 45 Directors report continued for the year ended 31 December 2010 Substantial equity interests The Disclosure and Transparency Rules DTRs issued by the Financial Services Authority require notifications relating to control over exercising voting rights attached to shares.
Categories of notifiable interests include direct interests holdings of shares with voting rights attached, indirect interests those with access to voting rights and financial instruments which give the holder the formal entitlement to acquire shares with voting rights attached.
Notification must be made of each category, and also the aggregate of combined holdings, which exceed or fall below the notifiable threshold.
The requirements of the DTRs specify that notifications of holdings of over 3% only have to be made when a full percentage point increase or decrease occurs.
The Company has only one class of shares, and does not hold treasury shares, so the total number of voting rights under the DTRs is equivalent to the number of shares inissue.
As at 8 March 2011 the Company had received the notifications of control of 3% or more over the Companys total voting rights and capital in issue as set out below.
Percentage Number of of voting Shares rights Aviva Plc and its subsidiaries 21,746,103 8.17 Artemis Investment Management Limited 18,213,313 6.84 FIL Limited Fidelity 14,055,942 5.27 Mondrian Investment Partners Limited 13,875,833 5.21 Old Mutual Asset Managers UK Ltd 13,248,406 4.97 Ameriprise Financial Inc and its Group 13,230,231 4.97 Standard Life Investments Ltd 12,778,117 4.79 Charitable donations In the year to 31 December 2010, the Company gave 5,460 to UK charities 2009, 9,200.
Disclosure of information to the Auditor As at the date of this report, as far as each director is aware, there is no relevant audit information of which the Companys auditor is unaware.
Each director has taken such steps as he should have taken as a director in order to make himself aware of any relevant audit information and to establish that the Companys auditor is aware of that information.
By Order of the Board A M Downie Secretary 9 March 2011 Registered off ice 100 Pall Mall, London SW1Y 5NQ Registered in England No.
