Board of Directors Nigel Keen Peter Hill, CBE Chairman.
director in 1993 and Chairman in 2000.
Chairman Appointed Managing Director in 2001 and of the Nominations Committee and a member Chief Executive in 2002.
Previously held senior of the Remuneration Committee.
Chairman of management positions with Invensys plc and Oxford Instruments plc, Deltex Medical Group plc BTR plc.
Appointed as a non-executive director and BIOQUELL PLC and Axis-Shield plc until 2010. of Cookson Group plc on 1 February 2010.
Non-executive director of Meggitt plc from 2004 until 31 March 2010.
Chairman of the Audit Committee and a member of the Remuneration Committee.
Previously Finance Director of Pilkington plc and P&O Steam Navigation Co. Non-executive Chairman of Tata Steel Europe Limited and non-executive director of Tata Steel Limited, Kesa Electricals plc, JaguarLandRover Limited and PayPoint plc.
Anthony Reading, MBE Non-executive director.
Chairman of the Remuneration Committee and a member of the Audit and Nominations Committees.
Previously an executive director of Tomkins plc and Chairman and Chief Executive of Tomkins Corp. USA and a non-executive director of Spectris plc until May 2010.
Non-executive director of Taylor Wimpey plc and e2v technologies plc.
36 Laird PLC Jonathan Silver Martin Rapp Finance Director.
Joined Laird in 1986 Managing Director.
Joined Laird in and appointed to the Board as Finance Director 1996 as General Manager of Lairds EMI shielding in 1994.
Previously Group Treasurer and business, becoming President of APM, Inc in 1997.
Non-executive Appointed Chief Executive of Laird Technologies, director of INVESCO Income Growth Trust plc.
Previously held management positions with Monsanto.
Sir Christopher Hum, KCMG Non-executive director.
A member of the Remuneration and Nominations Committees.
Master of Gonville and Caius College, Cambridge.
Formerly HM Ambassador to the Peoples Republic of China, having previously served as HM Ambassador, Warsaw, as Assistant Under Secretary of State for North Asia and the Pacific, and earlier as Head of the Hong Kong Department of the Foreign and Commonwealth Off ice.
Prof. Michael Kelly, FRS, FREng Dr William Spivey Non-executive director.
A member of the on 1 September 2002.
A member of the Remuneration Committee.
Currently Prince Remuneration and Audit Committees.
Formerly Philip Professor of Technology at the University President and CEO of Luminent, Inc. having of Cambridge.
Formerly Chief Scientific Advisor previously held senior management positions to the Department for Communities and Local with AT&T Corporation and Lucent Technologies.
Previously Cambridge Executive Non-executive director and Independent Lead Director for the Cambridge-MIT Institute and Director of Novellus Systems and non-executive Head of the School of Electronics, Computing director of the Raytheon Company and Cascade and Mathematics at the University of Surrey.
