Operating review: Wireless Systems division We design and supply a range of customised, high speci cation wireless antennae, machine-to-machine M2M wireless modules which can include micro processors and embedded software, and software enabled wireless control systems.
We are also a leading global supplier of customised, high performance antennae and products to the global mobile phone handset and handheld device manufacturers.
As part of the new divisional structure, infrastructure, datacom, security and Wireless Systems division Year ended 2010 m 2009 we combined our handset antennae asset management sectors, 6% from 31 December H1 H2 Year m into our Wireless Systems division, to sales of wireless M2M modules and Revenue 124.9 137.4 262.3 249.9 5% better obtain product and technology 2% from industrial control systems.
The figures have been Return on sales 3.8% 7.4% 5.7% 4.6% stated accordingly.
Our handset antennae systems product line has been successful 2010 Revenue by Market Segment We design and supply a range in diversifying its customer base of customised, high specification and in shipping higher volumes of wireless antennae, machine-toantennae units.
Our new generation machine M2M wireless modules of three dimensional laser directed which can include micro-processors structure antennae went into full and embedded software, and commercial production during the software enabled wireless control year, and we made further progress systems, for the infrastructure, in the development of a unique IT Datacom automotive, rail, transportation, full metal cover antennae, that Transportation Automotive municipal, industrial, mining, uses the external cover of a phone Handset instrumentation, datacom, security, as an antenna, increasing external Industrial Instrumentation retail and asset management markets.
design options for the customer and Other We are also a leading global supplier improving antenna performance.
of customised, high performance 2010 Revenue by Product Segment antennae and products to the global However, design changes by mobile phone handset and handheld customers, the eff ect of programme device manufacturers, enhancing mix and customer price-downs connectivity, performance and resulted in a further decline in average physical functionality.
These eff ects more than off set the higher volumes, with the Divisional revenues increased by 5% result that handset antennae revenue in 2010 to 262.3 million 2009, 249.9 declined by 20% year on year.
Telematics We saw excellent growth in our Infrastructure other antennae 50% of the divisions revenues in 2010 telematics product line, as a result Wireless M2M modules were to the mobile handset market, of a recovery in underlying demand, Industrial controls with telematics antennae into the a broadening of the customer base, automotive market representing and market share gains.
13% of revenues were from the this segment grew 55% year on year.
16 Laird PLC Our commercial wireless module handset antennae product lines.
We expect some further reduction sales, predominantly into the industrial This involves further headcount in average selling prices in our and electronics point-of-sale markets, reductions in Europe and North handset antennae product lines, doubled year on year.
America, the relocation of antennae before stabilising during the assembly from Chennai, India, and second half of 2011.
In telematics, Our infrastructure antennae product Korea to China, and the consolidation infrastructure antennae, wireless M2M lines grew well overall, despite a of all manufacturing and assembly modules and our Cattron business, slow start to the year, with total into our Beijing facilities.
These on the other hand, we expect further infrastructure antennae sales growing actions will reduce the cost base revenue and margin growth as a 20% year on year.
The growth was overall, benefiting both 2011 and 2012, result of growing demand from driven largely by a recovery in wireless notwithstanding the rising cost these market segments, our new local area networks in North America, of direct labour in China.
product development programmes, and our successfully gaining market the enhancement of our technology share in Asia and Europe.
WiMax, land In telematics and in our infrastructure capabilities and through continuing mobile and portable radio, cellular antennae product lines we are geographic expansion.
Overall, we and RFID antennae sales also grew.
working on improving margins expect the division to demonstrate through greater vertical integration further progress in 2011.
The divisions underlying operating of our manufacturing processes, profit increased 30% in the year to particularly in respect of surface 15.0 million 2009, 11.5 million.
mount PCB technology and injection Return on sales increased from 4.6% moulding.
We also expect the in 2009 to 5.7% in 2010, with the continuing revenue growth in these margin increase driven primarily by product lines to provide greater the overall rise in revenues, as a result economies of scale.
of increased activity in the automotive sector.
Underlying operating profit Cattron, acquired in November showed strong growth in the second 2010, is bedding in well and has half of 2010 10.2 million compared performed above our expectations.
with the first half 4.8 million, as a The acquisition has brought a result of the higher revenues: return diversification in terms of customers on sales in the second half increased and end-markets, a greater focus to 7.4% compared with 3.8% in the first on software and systems, and half of the year.
aftermarket revenues from services, parts and spares, all at margins higher Towards the end of 2010 we than our historical average.
commenced a restructuring of our Laird PLC 17
