Strategy Lairds enduring strategy is driven by the overarching objective of creating and growing shareholder value, by developing a unique capability to provide our customers with a wide range of performance critical electronics products, systems and solutions.
Lairds enduring strategy is driven Focus on specialist high growth Exploit innovation and technology, by the overarching objective of markets and product convergence creating and growing shareholder Choice of markets is key to our A valuable source of technologyvalue, by developing a unique growth strategy.
In recent years based competitive advantage is capability to provide our customers we have focused on those showing our ability to combine products and with a wide range of performance high growth potential, extending solutions and exploit convergence, critical electronics products, systems our presence via capital investment both technological and physical, and solutions.
Our growth strategy in technological and operational by the bundling of components encompasses five key elements: excellence and via strategic and in the supply of modules and acquisitions.
We are focusing on a sub-assemblies, allowing us to 1.
Focus on specialist high growth path to growth that builds on our deliver multi-functional value to our markets materials science and component customers, whilst simplifying their 2.
Increase content and value-add products, and our wireless antennae supply chain.
in each electronic device unit off ering, leading to convergence 3.
Exploit innovation and technology, products and total systems.
Develop systems and controls and product convergence combining hardware and software 4.
Develop systems and controls Increase our content and value-add We believe that we can achieve both combining hardware and software in each electronic device unit higher margins, and more sustainable 5.
Maintain a culture of operational Higher speed, power and revenue streams, including services excellence allied to corporate social performance of electronic devices, and aftermarket revenues, through responsibility as well as the increasing trend to an increasing focus on systems and wireless connectivity, drives an controls that combine hardware, Our strategy, developed over a increasing need for our products software and assemblies.
Building number of years is, we believe, and solutions.
By broadening our on our acquisitions in the wireless enduring, and has proved its mettle technology capabilities over recent M2M areas and our acquisition of in the recession.
We believe that years we are now able to off er a Cattron with its wireless systems breadth is strength and that, unique range of components and controls, we see this as a key growth together with the elements outlined systems, which in turn gives us area for the future in a number above, will over time deliver superior access to new, high growth market of selected markets.
segments and ensures we are wellequipped to develop and deliver the solutions required by our customers in the future.
8 Laird PLC Wireless Control Systems Systems Wireless Systems M2M WiMax WLAN Antennae Convergence Signal Integrity Products Telematics Antennae Fixed and Mobile Antennae Thermo Electric Coolers Components Cellular Antennae Thermal Interface Materials EMI Shielding products 2000 2011 Global leader Maintain a culture of operational capabilities, targeting supply chain excellence allied to corporate eff iciencies, allied to compliance with social responsibility the Electronics Industry Citizenship Wireless RF Systems & Controls Our focus on operational excellence Coalition Code of Conduct and - hardware is a key component of our success, continuous improvement through - software - assemblies from supplying our customers just our Six Sigma programme.
in time to being the lowest cost supplier.
As part of our commitment to this philosophy, and in recognition Materials Science Wireless & component Antennae that responsible manufacturing products - personal practices are essential for sustainable, - EMI - fixed - Thermal - mobile long term growth, we are, amongst - SIP other areas, making strategic investments in upgrading production Laird PLC 9
