Operating review: Technology and Innovation Many of our customers need products that perform multiple functions and look to us to integrate multiple components into their operating systems.
We add value to our customers techniques.
In addition, nearly 200 electromagnetic noise reduction in products not only by our own are certified in Six Sigma with over various electronic assemblies with products that we sell but also 10% having Black Belt certification.
the University of Missouri-Rolla, are by our science, technology and identifying universities for potential engineering capabilities that We maintained our investment in R&D alliances in antennae simulation and we use across a broad range of in 2010, at 42.2 million before 9.5 design, and are targeting technology disciplines, applications, products and million of capitalised development, partnerships with leading Chinese geographies.
In all of our products we compared with 42.8 million in 2009. universities.
establish and deliver on roadmaps Expenditure was 7.4% of sales in 2010, that keep us in the forefront of compared with 8.1% in 2009.
Innovation in Technology technology delivered to the market.
and Product Convergence Our core areas of technical expertise Continued Development of Many of our customers need include basic science, product Technology Footprint products that perform multiple engineering, prototyping, production In 2010 we have already achieved functions and look to us to integrate and process engineering, and in results from our expansion of our multiple components into their diverse fields including heat transfer, M2M machine to machine wireless operating systems.
Advanced electromagnetic interference module design in Bangalore, India.
Telematics applications need highly prevention, signal propagation and The launch of a configurable wireless integrated solutions combining reception, acoustics, metal deposition gateway for M2M applications, antennae, wireless modules, input and processing, polymer processing, designed by the new team in output interfaces and ruggedised semiconductor materials, and Bangalore, has moved us into the mechanical design.
We are meeting software and controls.
We support realm of a total M2M hardware these needs with Smart Antennae, our customers through our global solution provider.
Many new M2M which combine our multi-functional network of technology, engineering service providers are seeking antennae and amplifiers, combined and prototyping centres which suppliers to provide the entire with software, in innovative packages can operate independently or in a systems design and functionality, so through integrated design of these concurrent or follow the sun model they can focus on their core business systems.
of data services, and these landmark products uniquely position us to Our investments in vertically Our diff erentiation as a technology enable their own market vision.
integrated production of flexible provider is supported both in product printed circuits FPC for antennae and process technology by continued We continue to develop and have allowed us to extend the limits investment in training, employee expand our university partnerships.
of this technology by making ultradevelopment, and recruiting.
In For instance, we are developing thin FPCs which can actually stretch 2010 we trained nearly our entire measurement techniques and and conform to three dimensional professional workforce in lean modelling tools to characterise shapes.
We believe that we now off er 18 Laird PLC Section Header Laird PLC 19 Operating review: Technology and Innovation continued the most complete product off ering We developed a wide range of of the art technologies, ranging for applications requiring a three conductive and non-conductive from thermoelectrics to ferrites, dimensional antenna.
pressure sensitive adhesives PSAs progress was substantial.
Towards for use in our EMI products, including this, CRL was heavily involved In Shenzhen, China we developed a new conductive fabric tape with a in applying nanotechnology to physical vapour deposition and flame retardant which earned a UL510 a number of its projects to take laser engraving technologies to FR rating only three companies in advantage of its unique properties.
create brilliant colours and 2D and the world off er this type of product.
Another development area was 3D patterns for logos and other We also continue to develop PSAs on commercialising thermally decorations for our mobile device with enhanced thermal characteristics conductive polymer composites customers.
We also installed for our LED TV customers.
based on in-house developed the capability for stainless steel, technology.
With its inherent superior aluminium and titanium forgings.
In our Infrastructure Antennae unit, properties, the material has generated we launched a broad line of antennae tremendous interest with a leading A new thermal interface material with that enable connection to the LED manufacturer, for thermal unprecedented high performance emerging LTE Long-Term Evolution management applications.
The was developed to meet the needs 4G standard, for use inside buildings performance evaluation is in its final of the most challenging applications as well as for external applications.
stages and the interim feedback has for cooling electronics, while at the been very positive.
The prototype same time lowering overall costs Robust Intellectual Property developments of the components are and exceeding the latest green Portfolio complex in shape, high performance standards.
A new platform of siliconeOur sustained investment in R&D in meeting technical requirements free thermal interface materials for continues to add to our solid and aesthetically pleasing in use in silicone sensitive applications intellectual property position.
such as hard drives and LCD TVs was the year we filed for 150 new patents launched.
and had 66 new patents granted.
Innovation in Continuous While patents are a significant method Improvement in all Operations In our elastomers product group we of protecting our investment in The markets in which our products launched a line of custom engineered R&D, we protect the majority of our are used typically value and require gaskets that build on our proprietary intellectual property as trade secrets.
constant reduction in size, weight and co-extrusion technology for EMI cost while simultaneously improving shielding specifically designed for Corporate Research Laboratory performance.
We address these needs improved electrical performance Our Corporate Research Laboratory by our new product development with enhanced environmental CRL in Bangalore, India continued activities as well as by our aggressive characteristics.
its path of innovation in 2010.
With continuous manufacturing eight ongoing projects in state improvement approach.
20 Laird PLC Tooling fabrication process Replacement of photochemical improvements and tool room capital etching with laser cutting for some investments in our Shenzhen facility of our requirements in our EMI metals have nearly doubled our internal products business yielded cost tooling capacity in 2010, while also reductions, unique capabilities improving capability, reducing lead and cycle time reduction.
times and improving tooling quality.
Several years of investment in Implementation of a three our thermoelectric module dimensional plastic printing process production process has resulted has significantly reduced the time in improved yields and throughput required to make prototype parts.
in this multi-step process, while By localising sources for many raw delivering significant improvement materials and components, we have in the reliability and performance shortened our lead time, reduced of the products.
our working capital, and reduced our operating costs.
Development of an integrated processing system for complicated multi-piece metal products are made in a single production line, eliminating all queuing of intermediate parts and reducing scrap and downtime.
We successfully replaced an existing powder roll compaction process with a water-based tape casing process to make ferrite signal integrity products, which gives significant quality and yield improvement.
A low-cost ferrite material was also developed, delivering a 13% saving in material costs for the price-sensitive cable core product line, both of these for our signal integrity products.
