Lamprell plc Annual report and accounts 2010 30 Directors biographies 1 Jonathan silver 58 1 2 Chairman Jonathan Silver joined the Board on 24 August 2007 and was appointed as the Chairman of the Company on 27 March 2009.
Jonathan trained with a leading City of London law firm and qualified as a solicitor in 1978, working first in London and later in the United Arab Emirates.
In 1981, he started his own practice in the United Arab Emirates and merged that practice with Clyde & Co in 1989.
Since then he has 3 4 headed up Clyde & Cos operations in the region, creating the largest international law firm operating in the Middle East.
Jonathan chairs Clyde & Cos regional management board and represents the region on the firms global management board.
Throughout his career in the legal profession, Jonathan has worked in the areas of international banking and finance, mergers & acquisitions, private equity, project and construction work involving him in most sectors of commercial 5 6 activity including international trade, energy, construction, shipping, commodities and insurance.
He has advised the boards of public and private companies from around the world extensively on their obligations, responsibilities and governance arrangements.
Jonathan has, for more than 20 years, been associated with the Lamprell Group, providing legal advice on numerous matters including on the Companys listing on AIM and more recently, the Official List.
Jonathan is 7 currently a Director of Tri-Emirates Property Corporation.
2 nigel robert mccue 59 Chief Executive Officer Nigel McCue was appointed to the role of Chief Executive Officer in May 2009.
He joined the Board of Lamprell on 7 July 2006 as a Non-Executive Director prior to being appointed to the Executive position of Chief Operating Officer company business corporate financial overview review governance statements Lamprell plc Annual report and accounts 2010 31 in May 2008.
Nigel has over 30 Operating Officer, Chris takes Nomination and Remuneration years of experience in the responsibility for all operational Committees.
Richard has been petroleum industry.
He was a activities undertaken by the Group, involved in the oil and gas industry Director and the Chief Executive including projects, production, since 1977 when he was appointed Officer of Jura Energy Corporation, engineering and quality assurance.
as an accountant at IHC Caland.
a company listed on the Toronto Chris initially held the position of Between 1977 and 2004, he held a Stock Exchange, and is now its project Quantity Surveyor at variety of positions at IHC Caland Chairman and a member of the Lamprell, before being promoted to renamed SBM Offshore, including Compensation Committee.
Prior to Chief Quantity Surveyor in 1999, to Chief Accountant, Treasurer and this, he was a Director and the Commercial Manager in 2002 and Financial Controller.
From 2000 to Chief Financial Officer of Lundin to Chief Operating Officer in 2010.
2004, he was appointed the Chief Petroleum AB.
Nigel has also held Prior to joining Lamprell in 1996, Financial Officer of the offshore various positions with Chevron Chris worked for a major division and was an Executive Overseas Inc. and Gulf Oil construction company in the United board member of Single Buoy Corporation.
Nigel is the Senior Kingdom.
He has a BSc honours Moorings Inc. From January 2005 Independent Non-Executive degree in quantity surveying, a post onwards he has been involved in Director, within the definition of the graduate diploma in arbitration from Sri Lanka, with the charity Monaco FRC Combined Code, of Dragon the College of Estate Management Aide et Presence.
Oil plc, where he is the Chairman of and an MBA from the Edinburgh its Audit Committee and a member Business School.
7 brian fredrick 59 of the Remuneration and Non-Executive Director Nomination Committees.
He is also 5 colin goodall 66 Brian Fredrick was appointed to a Director of Nemmoco Petroleum Senior Independent Nonthe Board on 1 January 2009.
He Limited, a private exploration and Executive Director Chairs the Remuneration production company, Frontier Colin Goodall was appointed to the Committee of the Company and is Acquisition Company Limited, Board on 14 September 2008.
He a member of the Audit and Frontier Holdings Limited, and Chairs the Nomination Committee Nomination Committees.
of the Company and is a member spent most of his career in the of the Audit and Remuneration financial services industry in Asia 3 scott Doak 49 Committees.
He is also the and the Middle East and worked in Chief Financial Officer Chairman of Sindicatum Carbon the United Arab Emirates in the Scott Doak joined Lamprell in Capital Ltd, and was Chairman of 1980s and 1990s.
Scott is responsible Dana Petroleum plc and Parkmead worked for HSBC in Hong Kong, for the finance and administration Group plc until 2010.
Colin qualified where he was HSBC Asia-Pacific activities of Lamprell.
Prior to joining as a chartered accountant and is a Head of International between Lamprell, he worked for Reuters member of the Chartered Institute 2003 and 2007 and in Brunei, and Limited, based in Dubai, in the of Taxation.
He spent most of his Vietnam.
He was the Chief position of Head of Finance for career in the upstream oil & gas Executive Officer of HSBCs Middle East & Africa, where he industry with BP plc, where he operations in Mauritius, the was a member of the Senior joined the finance team in 1975, Philippines and Indonesia for over Management Group involved in later becoming the first Chief of ten years.
He has served on the strategic planning and market Staff within the BP Group.
From boards of a number of companies development.
Previously he has 1995 to 1999 he served as Chief including A. Soriano Corporation held senior financial roles with Financial Officer for BP Europe and and Concrete Aggregates Inc, both Telerate Limited, Dubai, Price then as BPs senior representative quoted on the Philippine Stock Waterhouse, Dubai and Whinney in Russia.
His career has involved Exchange, Techcombank, one of Murray & Company Saudi affiliate to assignments in Africa, the Middle the largest private sector banks in Ernst & Young.
Scott is a member East, Europe, Russia and the Vietnam and was Chairman of of the Institute of Chartered Americas.
HSBC Bank Mauritius Ltd. Accountants of Scotland and has a Bachelor of Accountancy degree 6 richard germain Daniel from the University of Glasgow.
raynaut 55 Non-Executive Director 4 christopher Hand 40 Richard Raynaut was appointed to Chief Operating Officer the Board on 7 July 2006.
He Chris Hand was appointed to the Chairs the Audit Committee of the Board on 26 January 2011.
As Chief Company and is a member of the For more information visit: www.
