Lamprell plc Annual report and accounts 2010 12 case study strategic procurement Through the Framework Agreements we have Lamprells Procurement and Supply Chain delivered savings in two ways: PSC business model revolves around 1.
The delivery of direct and tangible measurable three discrete but nonetheless linked benefits to the business including: activities of: Source, Buy, and Deliver.
unit price reduction: working capital reduction: Source involves the development and execution of product substitution: and global sourcing strategies for products and materials demand reduction.
required for both our projects and our operations.
It also involves the effective management of 2.
T he delivery of less tangible but valuable benefits supplier relationships.
to the business including: improving safety: Buy involves the creation of purchase orders, the reducing risk: expediting of deliveries, the maintenance of data providing innovation: and support for the estimating process.
enhancing brand image: positively contributing to the environment: and Deliver involves the management of all inbound enhancing Corporate Social Responsibility.
freight, warehousing and inventory management processes plus the optimisation of all associated Although the strategic procurement initiative is at an logistics processes.
early stage 16 Framework Agreements have been completed capturing direct savings and other benefits As a means to deliver more value from procurement such as extended warranty terms and enhanced and supply chain work, Lamprell has established a safety by eliminating all acetylene gases from Strategic Procurement initiative to deliver savings our facilities.
through the consolidation of spend to a smaller number of contracted suppliers where volume is Our strategic procurement work continues for the exchanged for both price and other commercial benefit of the Company, its employees, its clients benefits.
and the maximisation of shareholder value.
Having segmented our suppliers in terms of the value of spend and risk to the business, the PSC team have researched, tendered and negotiated Framework Agreements for commodities and services which are both critical and strategic to the business.
company business corporate financial overview review governance statements Lamprell plc Annual report and accounts 2010 13 For more information visit: www.
