Lamprell plc Annual report and accounts 2010 06 our strategy and performance Our strategy is centred on sustainable, profitable growth.
In delivering this strategy our main aim is to secure value enhancement for our shareholders and other stakeholders.
We use financial and non-financial KPIs to measure our success in the delivery of our strategy and the management of our business.
maintaining a leading maintaining a focus position in the epc on repeat business and market continued expansion of services Objectives Objectives Focus on maintaining relations with Differentiated service offering all market participants Focus on timeliness of delivery and Expansion of facilities and service price competitiveness offering Focus on achieving leading HSE Investment in capital equipment to standards improve service levels Focus on quality assurance and quality control Expansion of engineering services to include detailed design During 2010 we successfully completed and Lamprell adopts a client focused approach to its delivered on a number of major projects, including business, reflecting the value it places on its the Offshore Mischief S116E jackup drilling rig relationships, and in 2010 this strategy resulted in and secured additional new build projects, contract awards from a number of repeat including a USD 317 million contract award from customers in various segments.
At the year end National Drilling Company, Abu Dhabi for two our order book included USD 329 million of jackup rigs.
company business corporate financial overview review governance statements Lamprell plc Annual report and accounts 2010 07 investment in a new continuing facility in Hamriyah to expand its free Zone client base Objectives Objectives Production focused design Maintain customer focus Emphasis on operating efficiency Broad service offering Yard layout and quayside design International marketing in multiple focused on rig related operations sectors Increased capacity to accommodate Transfer of skills to alternative energy multiple new build projects markets Improved staff welfare facilities Strategic marketing across sectors Focus on semi-automated processes Our significantly enlarged Hamriyah facility now We continue actively to market our products and enables us to work on multiple rigs at one time.
services on an international basis, with prominent We continue to invest in this facility to reflect the new clients in 2010 including Eurasia Drilling increasing level of fabrication activity experienced Company Limited and Fred Olsen Windcarrier by the Company.
and, in 2011, Greatship Global Energy Services Pte.
Ltd. At the year end our order book included USD 521 million of business from new customers.
For more information visit: www.
