Logica Annual report and accounts 2010 ITs not complicated Our business model Much of our revenue comes from recurring business, secured by long-term or repeat contracts.
Most of our top five clients in each sector have been with us for years.
We focus on growing alongside our existing clients and on winning over new clients with our industry insight.
Improving our margins going forward is inextricably linked to the value we create for clients.
Competitive edge Managing costs standard applications like SAP, it tends to The longer we work with our clients, the Longer-term contracts mean we have be per user for custom-built applications, more we get to know about their business, more visibility of future revenue.
And it tends to be per application.
A further their people and how they really use having good visibility of the backlog of element of the work is generally on a basis technology day-to-day and the more orders we will need to ful l over several where we charge for time and materials insightful and e ective our work for years also helps us understand how to or a fee rate.
Its this mix of insider manage our cost base.
Charging a xed price encourages knowledge and our own expertise and The largest part of our cost base is our our clients to think about how many experience that helps us create real value people.
Our focus is on getting the most applications they can really a ord to own.
out of the people we have, making sure Often, they end up choosing to reduce With new clients, our real value lies in we have the right people in the right jobs the number of applications.
our knowledge and experience of di erent and building the right mix of skills and Over the last two years, weve seen industries, right across Europe.
And unlike experience as they move through our a shift away from a per user per ticket our smaller rivals, we also have the scale business.
price to per item, based on how much to do things like run a global delivery clients want to use or produce.
model, industrialise processes, improve Outsourcing Long-term outsourcing relationships cost-e ciency or run parts of clients Larger outsourcing deals are around lead to other opportunities for the Group businesses for them, for less.
Our people running a clients applications and or like systems integration.
They may also often become an indispensable part of infrastructure for them, with the main be led by the work we are doing in our their teams.
This gives us a genuine reason being to cut costs.
They are Business Consulting practice.
competitive edge from day one, which usually made up of di erent elements, we can keep building on over time.
with some component of the contract at Consulting and Professional Services a xed price whether per user, per call Our Consulting and Professional Services ticket or per application.
To manage business works in two ways.
First, through How we contract with clients Outsourcing Systems Integration Projects Business Consulting and Professional Services Fixed price, multi-year commitment Fixed price, fixed term Fee rates priced on a per annum basis: solution priced: based on: Per functionality Per application Skills Per application Per project Volume Per contact Per user Fee rates based on: Skills Volume 16 Business review Our business model margin has been around 28% over the our Business Consulting practice, revenue is more cyclical in nature, last few years and kept our adjusted we advise our clients on how to use because its more linked to changes in operating margin steady at 7.4%.
We technology to achieve their business the economy or technology.
Clients may are aiming to take our margins higher.
We can help them to see change stop bigger pieces of project based work Were driving margins up by focusing programmes through from start to nish, in a downturn.
But its also the part of on hiring the best people, making sure or step in at any stage.
Second, we have our business where orders are often the right people are in the right job and our systems integration activities.
Because of its making Logica a great place to work.
our industry experts use their specialist shorter-term nature, orders are often Weve reduced our overhead costs knowledge and experience to solve converted to revenue in the same year.
by integrating our back o ce functions specic IT challenges.
So we need to make sure we manage all and are making better use of our real Some of our consultants work in our resources e ectively to be ready to estate.
There is still more we can do here.
specialist groups, while others work adapt as things change.
We have also invested more in sales and in industry-specic teams on systems marketing, our people and our client value integration and development projects.
Our resources proposition, spending 7.4% of revenues This could be for a few days or for a Our resources include not just our own there in 2009 and 2010. more prolonged period depending on people.
Supporting other companies software like SAP, Oracle, Microsoft We have a solid foundation to take our what the client needs.
and hundreds of other more specialist margins higher through: The Group is well known for its applications is still a core part of the work expertise in systems architecture and changing the mix of our Outsourcing we do for all our clients.
Our strength is the way we match and Consulting and Professional service to a client that includes elements up our specialist teams to meet specic Services work from other suppliers: software, hardware needs for our clients.
We can pull together growing the amount of uncontested often applications are hosted on servers a mix of industry and technical experts, work we do for clients that we may provide to the client or and specialists in particular elds like increasing the percentage of business services for example, for applications finance, HR or customer relationship from, and investments in, high value that may be hosted using a public management.
integrated solutions which deliver real cloud service.
Business Consulting services are business value to clients usually based on a fee rate, as technology industrialising processes and Improving margins consulting often is too.
Systems improving productivity in Outsourcing Some of the strongest global players integration, architecture and design is continued optimisation of our already achieve gross margins in the more often done on a project basis, where skills base.
As you can see from the margin we charge a xed price for the project.
structure chart on page 18, our gross Consulting and Professional Services Ongoing cost management to drive margin performance Productivity: Right people, Average cost Tools right skills, right places: of labour: Industrialised x Recruitment of skills x Base rates processes Managing attrition Utilisation Onshore o shore mix Skills optimisation Scale benefits in sales and marketing Truly integrated back office functions Efficient use of real estate 17 Managing Managing overheads our direct costs
