Logica Annual report and accounts 2010 Our performance against KPIs Our KPIs were changed in 2010 to add new metrics.
Outsourcing order backlog and Consulting and Professional Services book to bill replaced the previous Group book to bill to give greater granularity on orders, to enable shareholders to better assess the momentum in di erent parts of the business.
Given our focus on client intimacy, we continue to re ne our client centred metrics.
Sustainability is also now included as a KPI.
KPI Definition Rationale Revenue from Outsourcing contracts as a percentage Longer-term value-added outsourcing contracts Percentage of revenue of Group revenue.
represent a more predictable revenue stream, assuming good project and risk management.
from Outsourcing The investment in Outsourcing we have made over the last several years has been aimed at growing revenue from outsourcing faster than overall Group revenue growth.
Our goal is to grow revenue from Outsourcing from our current level of 43%.
Revenue for each market sector Financial Services, A balanced market sector pro le with a goal that Balanced market Energy and Utilities, Telecoms and Media, Transport, no sector accounts for less than 10% or more than Trade and Industrials, Public Sector as a percentage 30% ensures that Group revenue and pro t is less sector profile of Group revenue.
susceptible to any one segment.
While in di cult years, this may vary somewhat, a sizeable revenue base in each sector justi es continuing investment in domain expertise which di erentiates Logica versus its peers, winning business and underpinning pro tability.
From 2011, we expect this to evolve to a more client centred metric.
The percentage increase in the weighted mean score Client satisfaction is a proxy for our client engagement Client satisfaction for key questions in the annual Logica client survey.
and whether we are adding value to our clients.
The weighted mean score is a measure of the overall e ectiveness of our engagement with our clients and the change in satisfaction from year to year.
We aim to increase our client satisfaction and be rated among the key suppliers to our major clients.
Sales and marketing expense as a percentage Over our 2008 base, we delivered annualised cost Reinvestments in of sales.
A percentage of the cost reductions between 2008 and 2010 have been future growth reinvested in sales and marketing as well as in targeted sector and technology practice investments.
This retains our clients and delivers more sustainable long-term revenue growth and an improvement in adjusted operating margin.
Orders booked in a period divided by revenues in the In the more cyclical part of our business, this provides Consulting and period for Consulting and Professional Services.
This visibility of future revenue.
A book to bill above 100% is a new metric which, alongside Outsourcing order means that the Company is booking orders greater Professional Services backlog, will replace Group book to bill.
than the revenue in the year, suggesting a good order pipeline going forward.
book to bill The total value of orders booked but not yet delivered In the Outsourcing business, book to bill can be quite Outsourcing order in the Outsourcing business.
variable as large multi year orders can be booked in any one period, eclipsing revenue in the same period.
backlog The order backlog gives a better view of longer-term visibility of revenue in the business.
We would typically expect to have an order backlog greater than 50% of the previous years revenue at the beginning of any year.
Percentage growth in revenue in the current year Provides a measure of our ability to grow revenue.
Pro forma compared to revenues on a like-for-like basis in the This demonstrates our ability to take advantage of previous year, e. g. taking into account the impact of market growth, to use scale to generate market share revenue growth acquisitions, divestments and currency movements.
and to leverage our global delivery capability to expand revenue.
20 Business review Key Performance Indicators Our performance over three years 2008 2009 2010 Find out more For additional Outsourcing metrics, see page 32.
32% 37% 43% For the longer-term trends driving continued growth in the outsourcing market, see page 19.
For more insight into what has driven Telco Telco Telco 7% 8% 8% performance in each of the sectors in PS PS PS 2010, see pages 14 and 15.
FS FS FS 31% 30% 32% 18% 16% 15% Sectors are: 3,588m PS Public Sector 3,697m 3,702m TTI Transport, Trade and Industrial actual actual actual E&U Energy and Utilities E&U FS Financial Services TTI E&U TTI 16% E&U Telco Telecoms and Media 29% TTI 17% 28% 18% 27% For more on our enduring relationships, go to annualreport.
com 3% 2% 2% For more details on our top clients, see pages 14 and 15.
For more detail on our client engagement, see pages 18 and 19. n a 7.4% 7.4% For a view of our sector and technology practice investments, go to annualreport.
com For more details, see page 29. n a 108% 105% For additional Outsourcing metrics, see page 32. n a n a 2.3bn Important Outsourcing contract orders booked in 2010 are detailed on page 32.
We aim to deliver revenue above the market through the identi cation 5% 3% 1% of growth clients and di erentiated o erings to our clients.
We expect the market to grow by between 1% and 3% in 2011.
For more on market trends see pages 8 and 9.
21 Logica Annual report and accounts 2010 KPI Definition Rationale Annualised voluntary attrition is measured by number Retention of employees, alongside ongoing training Attrition of voluntary leavers as a percentage of the total and development and opportunities for interesting employee population.
There will always be a natural work and engagement in our wider community level of voluntary attrition due to people retiring, programmes, ensures that we are maintaining and decisions to change careers and a competitive upgrading the domain expertise which is a key marketplace.
It also measures our managers ability to retain their employees in a buoyant market.
Slowing attrition can be an important indicator of employees concern about job security.
A weighted mean score for key questions in the Assuming the response rate remains unchanged, People satisfaction annual Logica People Survey, as measured on a scale the weighted mean score is a measure of overall of 1 low to 5 high.
sta engagement with Logica and the change in A new basket of questions is being introduced to satisfaction from year to year.
These include measures put more focus on employee engagement.
The 2009 on how we meet our peoples expectations around score has been restated to re ect this new basket environmental and social responsibility.
Reduction in carbon emissions measured as reduction Our main emissions are generated by where our Improved sustainability in tonnes of carbon dioxide emitted.
people work, how they travel and the operation of our data centres.
As we improve the environmental of our operations sustainability of our operations, this also provides an opportunity to think more about how we work and what indirect bene ts these changes can have on our people.
We aim to reduce our absolute carbon emissions by 6% each year from our 2008 baseline, working towards a 50% reduction by 2020.
The headcount based in Logicas nearshore and Our onshore o shore blend continues to be an Nearshore and offshore o shore centres which were: India, Philippines, important di erentiator in the service we sell to clients Malaysia, Morocco and Central and Eastern Europe.
as well as a key driver of our pro tability.
We expect headcount our nearshore and o shore headcount to reach around 25% of total headcount over the medium term from its 2010 level of 15%.
Adjusted operating pro t as a percentage of revenue.
This measure is used to compare quality of earnings Adjusted operating Adjusted operating pro t is operating pro t excluding with those of our peers.
From 2011, our intention is the results of discontinued operations, exceptional to include any ongoing restructuring expense in the margin items and amortisation of intangible assets initially operating margin rather than as exceptional items recognised at fair value in a business combination, which were previously excluded.
Our medium-term whenever such items occur.
strategic objective remains to move the business toward sustainable double digit adjusted operating margin.
Net earnings attributable to equity holders of the EPS is an important measure for shareholders of Adjusted earnings parent company excluding, whenever such items the earnings generated by the business, after the occur, the result of discontinued operations, e ect of interest and tax.
per share EPS exceptional items, mark-to-market gains and losses on financial assets and financial liabilities designated at fair value through pro t or loss, and amortisation of intangible assets initially recognised at fair value in a business combination, net of tax where applicable, divided by the weighted average number of shares outstanding in the period.
The net cash in ow from trading operations divided A measure of the ability to generate cash from Cash conversion by adjusted operating pro t see adjusted operating operations.
The ability to convert pro t to cash is margin KPI.
based on an internal discipline of focus on cash and the strength of the internal collections mechanism, and is a proxy for strength of relationships with clients.
We would generally expect cash conversion of around 100%.
22 Business review Key Performance Indicators Our performance over three years 2008 2009 2010 Find out more We aim to strike a balance between a healthy level of attrition which is 13% 7% 14% likely to be around current levels and increasing employee satisfaction.
This is a core element of how we measure whether we are helping our people shape their own and our Companys future.
See our Corporate Responsibility report online for the underlying metrics at www.
com sustainability2009 From 2011, we are introducing some changes to the People Dashboard 3.51 3.61 3.53 and our senior team will be measured on the results.
For more details on the employee survey results and our community involvement, see our Corporate Responsibility report at www.
com sustainability2009 We have been successful in achieving external recognition for n a 5% 7% our environmental credentials.
Logica was ranked as number one in the FTSE 350 IT Services industry by the Carbon Disclosure Project.
For more details, see our full report at www.
com sustainability2009 We saw rapid growth in our Moroccan centre to support French speaking clients 5,000 5,100 5,800 in 2010 see page 13.
For more on how our clients are using our blended delivery o ering and how we are investing in our o shore centres, see at annualreport.
com For more detail on the underlying metrics like recruitment and utilisation 7.5% 7.4% 7.4% which drive our operating margin, please see page 28.
The evolution of our margin structure is detailed on page 18.
The quality of earnings has improved as we have reduced exceptional items.
Our operating cash conversion is an important driver of our ability to reduce 148% 130% 99% debt and increase dividends to shareholders.
For an overview of our debt facilities and net debt position, see page 40.
23 Logica Annual report and accounts 2010 Risk.
Managed Clients entrust us to manage their risk.
Our risk management policy and risk mitigation is regularly reviewed by the Board, Audit Committee and Executive Committee.
Risk Potential impact How we mitigate it Logicas client intimacy strategy is to engage with The client intimacy strategy depends on choosing Improving differentiation our clients in a way that drives value and deepens the clients who will work well with us.
Our focus is on solving business strong ecosystem through both partner and internal between Logica and challenges and supporting business objectives rather engagement, to provide a sustainable business than purely implementing technology.
Logica aims to relationship that drives value for all parties.
The our competitors develop a unique and rewarding relationship that strategy is measured through awareness, client di erentiates us from the competition.
The value we satisfaction and key financial performance create protects us from commoditisation and drives indicators see pages 20 to 23. margin improvement.
Our ability to meet the demands of the market and We are proactively managing risks in this area and Dependence on compete e ectively with other IT suppliers is, to a implementing and mitigating actions implemented as large extent, dependent on the skills, experience necessary to address speci c business issues.
There recruitment and and performance of our people as well as on an remains scope for ongoing action.
Speci c areas, such appropriate balance of onshore, nearshore and as attrition, are under increased focus.
As the level of retention of suitably o shore resources.
Attrition, our nearshore and attrition has risen in the last year our focus has been o shore headcount and employee satisfaction all on managing this to agreed levels and understanding qualified personnel remain key performance indicators as the long-term key skill groups to be retained in the business through sustainability of our business relies heavily on resource planning.
Where speci c skills have been motivated and inspired people who feel part of required, targeted recruitment campaigns have led to a long-term future to deliver value to our clients.
We are implementing a global HR process based on Oracle 12 to address our HR needs and manage risks via our global shared service centre in Manila.
Our contracts are complex and vary in scope and We manage risk through a process that considers Major contract length.
They may incur penalties for non-performance both project and operational risk, and is underpinned so we need good risk management, controls and by a comprehensive, well proven quality management related risks diligence in the way we deliver them.
We review all major and di cult projects as we need good risk management, control mechanisms part of our operations reviews at Group level.
We and diligence in the way we monitor delivery of our continue to standardise development tools and contracts to prevent reputational damage and methodologies.
We communicate, o er training and financial impact to our revenue and pro t if we fail to provide regular updates as to best practice as our deliver.
We monitor around 7,000 projects per year.
In 2010, an average of nine were put forward for our regular review of risk by the Board.
The market is increasingly demanding the ability to We have a group wide ethos and brand designed Delivering our Strategic deliver globally.
This in turn opens up the market to to support a focus on operational excellence and an increasing number of global players.
We have a global blueprint for how we run Change Programmes to demonstrate global process excellence in a timely the business, based on common processes, business manner in this environment would result in lower win support and knowledge management tools.
This to achieve operational rates, lower order intake at the bidding stage and provides a basis for industrialised processes, supported lower revenue once in the delivery stage over by common management systems.
We have a excellence and the longer term, leading to poorer margins in programme of change management that is centrally comparison to those best in class.
driven across all our programmes from HR to delivery, improvements in supported by an enterprise architecture to ensure coherence that we ultimately deliver the business operating margin strategic objectives.
24 Business review Risks Risk Potential impact How we mitigate it A failure of our systems, or a failure of our operational Standardisation of processes, systems and tools Business continuity and company management processes, could lead to through the One Logica programme is improving a loss of client con dence in, and satisfaction with, operational e ectiveness and should allow us to react risks associated with Logica which would undermine our market perception, more rapidly than in the past in the event of a failure.
our brand, and as a result, the leading position we Our delivery and account teams understand the operational failure, enjoy in many markets today.
processes to follow, should we become aware of a problem.
Our goal is to always ensure we know how to information systems respond to address client concerns early to preserve our relationships with them and their satisfaction and data security with us over the longer term.
Continental or global in uenza or related virus Events in 2010 have allowed us to assess some Business continuity pandemic and terrorist attacks continue to be possible of the business continuity plans we maintain in all threats.
Our wide geographic presence also means we geographies.
We reacted to incidences of in uenza: risks associated with could be exposed to political, financial, economic and air travel disruption following volcanic activity: storms social unrest.
While generally outside our control, any of in the Philippines: strikes in France as well as to adverse a pandemic, terrorist these incidents a ecting a large number of employees snow conditions in the UK.
The investment we have or a group critical to a client project could impact our made in the last few years to enable our people to incident or other external operations or our delivery against contract obligations.
work from home paid dividends in all these situations.
This could a ect client con dence in and satisfaction We have also tested our local plans against a range of event, including exposure with Logica, with any resulting lost business potentially disaster scenarios.
Our balanced business and market a ecting revenue and pro tability.
portfolio and our exibility in cutting costs also to geopolitical, economic provided resilience to signi cant revenue declines and social disruption, in some of our sectors, geographies and service lines in 2010. particularly in parts of Europe and in India We have a number of signi cant global and regional As well as maintaining a balanced geographical spread, Dependencies on major clients and operate mostly in European geographies.
the Groups business is well balanced across di erent A change in the strategy or in the buying pattern of market sectors and clients.
The Logica strategy has a clients and regional a key client, or changes in structure of local markets priority of client segmentation.
Identi ed clients receive e. g. clients consolidating, could a ect our order particular attention to ensure stability, account growth market sector risks: and revenue performance and or our pro tability.
In 2010, no client accounted We are also exposed to unrest in world market sectors, for more than 3% of revenue.
Our balanced business macroeconomic and such as finance, oil and gas, due to a range of factors and market portfolio and our exibility in cutting costs largely outside of our control.
Many market sectors in provided resilience to signi cant revenue declines in industry level trends which the Group operates have been susceptible to some of our sectors, geographies and service lines in rapidly changing technologies, regulation, variations in 2010.
To respond to longer-term market changes, our and changes affecting market economic conditions and uctuations in client strategic investment in sector thought leadership, the global competitive demand.
The Group needs to be able to continue to technology practices and sales programmes is aimed respond and adapt whilst, in a timely and cost-e cient at producing innovative solution and service landscape: loss of manner, continuing to deliver existing products and propositions and building the sales pipeline.
Failure to do so will be a risk to the Groups should 1 ensure alongside our Business Consulting authorisation or success.
In addition, a portion of Logicas revenue that we are seen as essential in helping the client is dependent on continued authorisation and react to trends in their industry and 2 stimulate new accreditation from accreditation by certain vendors of IT software and client revenue opportunities.
Development of the hardware, such as SAP and Oracle.
Without these understanding of the clients ecosystem ensures key vendors or disruption of service authorisations and accreditations, we would be relationships are established externally and across unable to o er certain products and services.
Failure to broader business relationships.
key supplier relationships maintain authorisations and accreditations could also mean being unable to ful l contractual obligations.
Compliance risks need to be e ectively understood We proactively monitor the complete breadth of Regulatory compliance and managed.
Our main risk areas are 1 data and compliance requirements across the individual information security, including Data Protection geographies and regulatory domains.
Formal risks regulations, 2 environmental standards and Corporate risk assessments identify the speci c mitigating Responsibility, and 3 global sta mobility issues actions required.
including adherence to immigration and tax regulations.
This symbol denotes one of our Key Performance Indicators KPIs, which are fully described on pages 20 to 23.
Our exposure to financial risks are in note 26 on pages 109 to 112.
