Logica on a page Logica on a page We are a leading European business and technology service company with 39,000 people spread across our onshore and global delivery locations.
We create value by successfully integrating people, business and technology into effective, sustainable ecosystems.
new consumer carbon management Oracle and SAP and a blended delivery Our client relationships see our people services in utilities, as companies start model.
We combine onsite, on shore, working daily with many of Europes to deploy smart meters.
We have a good nearshore and o shore resources to largest public sector organisations and balance of revenue across our sectors.
deliver an e cient and cost-e ective businesses.
Our top 50 clients represented blend to clients in English and non- 42% of our revenue in 2010 and include What are our principal services?
Outsourcing three of the top 10 listed European oil and Business Consulting: Clients ask for represented 43% of revenue in 2010. gas companies: seven of the top 10 listed consulting to help transform operations, European utilities: and six of the top 10 shape and implement change and evolve Systems integration, professional listed European telecoms operators.
IT systems and services to meet business services and projects: Integrating demands.
Our thought leadership is an business and technology has been a core What market sectors are we present in?
essential part of the overall service we competence since we started serving Our clients value the fact that our service o er clients, driving revenue in other clients over 40 years ago.
We are vendoris rooted in our understanding of their parts of the business as well.
independent and have strong sector and industry and their business.
Our people help leadership positions in utilities, in oil and Outsourcing: We deliver end-to-end clients adapt packaged systems, modify gas, and a strong presence in public service across applications management, existing systems and design new systems.
Our investments are infrastructure management and Business Around half of our revenue comes from in areas where there is a real need for Process Outsourcing BPO.
sector-speci c thought leadership is based on combining our strengths as a such as the work we are developing in vendor-independent systems integrator, sustainable transport services.
Or around our technology partnerships with leading citizen-centric services.
Or developing applications providers like Microsoft, Key metrics Revenue Adjusted operating profit Revenue and growth year-on-year by market sector Telco 3.7bn 272m 307m 2009 actual: 3.7 billion 2009 actual: 272 million -1% PS FS 1,133m 596m -3% 11% Employees Revenue from top 50 clients 3,697m E&U TTI 39,000 42% 638m 1,023m 2009 actual: 39,000 2009 actual: 42% -3% 3% PS Public Sector TTI Transport, Trade and Industrial E&U Energy and Utilities FS Financial Services Telco Telecoms and Media For a fide nition of adjusted operating pro t and margin, see note 8 on page 97.
Throughout this report, Key Performance Indicators KPIs are denoted by the symbol.
