Logica Annual report and accounts 2010 Report of the Directors Our Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 31 December 2010 will be laid before shareholders at our 2011 Annual General Meeting AGM on 4 May.
Find out more Our business activities and our business Logicas principal business model are described more fully on pages We are a leading European business and technology service company and our principal 1, 16 and 17. activities are: For more examples of what we do please the design, development, production, implementation, maintenance and marketing refer to page 141 and to our website at of custom built software products and associated hardware systems integration annualreport.
com the outsourcing of information technology and business services business consulting, applications management and project management in the information technology sector.
Regular monthly updates to our largest Who are our major shareholders?
shareholders, further to the Companys Interests in 3% or more of our issued share capital noti ed to us during the year are set share register analysis, are posted on our out below, as at 31 December 2010 and 8 March 2011.
The percentages have been website at www.
com investors calculated on the shares in issue at those dates.
The Board is proposing a final dividend of 2.3p per share 2009: 2.3p which will result For any administration queries with in a full year dividend of 4.2p per share 2009: 3.3p.
respect to dividends, see contact details on page 139.
A summary of the business to be What issues will be voted on at our next AGM?
conducted at the AGM is set out on At our AGM on 4 May 2011 the approvals to be sought from shareholders will include page 53.
Board attendance at the 2010 resolutions to purchase our own shares and allot new shares for cash.
In addition, in AGM is set out on page 56. keeping with best practice, all Directors will stand for re-election.
50 Governance Report of the Directors Business review Dividends Branches The business review can be found in the Earnings per share are set out in note 15 We continue to operate a number of following sections: on page 100. overseas branches which include A review of the development, The Board has proposed a final dividend branches in France and Ireland in the performance and financial position of of 2.3p per share 2009: 2.3p which, when European Union.
the business as well as an analysis of taken with the interim dividend of 1.9p per Key Performance Indicators KPIs : share 2009: 1.0p, will amount to a dividend Creditor payment policy and practice p rogress against the 2008 2009 for the year of 4.2p per share 2009: 3.3p.
We and our subsidiaries seek the best strategic plan on pages 18 and 19 If approved, the final dividend will be paid on possible terms from suppliers appropriate progress against financial and non5 May 2011 to eligible shareholders on the to their businesses and, in placing orders, financial Key Performance Indicators register at close of business on 8 April 2011. give consideration to quality, delivery, on pages 20 to 23 Dividend waiver details are set out in note price and the terms of payment which will bu siness review on pages 2 to 41 IX on page 133. be agreed with suppliers when the details financial review on pages 26 to 41. of each transaction are agreed.
We will Research and development continue to honour our contractual and Our 2011 outlook, future direction, During the year the Group invested other legal obligations and to pay creditors strategic plan and guiding principles 30.4 million 2009: 23.7 million on the dates agreed in contract and for the business: in research and development on purchase orders except where we are view from the CEO on page 3 products, of which 21.2 million 2009: in legal dispute.
At 31 December 2010, view from the Chairman on page 43 13.3 million was capitalised.
the number of days of annual purchases o ur strategic plan on page 5 represented by year-end trade creditors bu siness review on pages 2 to 41 Events after the Balance Sheet date for the Group amounted to 68 days financial review on pages 26 to 41.
No important events have occurred since 2009: 60 days and for the Company the year-end.
amounted to nil days 2009: nil days.
Future developments Further information on future Financial instruments Share capital developments can be found in the view Our exposure to financial risks including Our share capital consists entirely of from the CEO on page 3, the business the use of financial instruments and one class of ordinary shares of 10p each.
review on pages 2 to 41 and in the policies for hedging and the exposure Each share ranks equally and carries the financial review on pages 26 to 41. to price, credit, cash ow and liquidity same rights to vote and receive dividends risk can be found in note 26 to the and other distributions declared.
No restrictions exist on the transfer or holding of our shares.
Group Key Performance Indicators Change of control The rights attached to shares which KPIs, summarised on pages 20 to 23, are In some sectors in which we operate it is are the subject of awards under any identi ed by the symbol throughout not unusual for client contracts to include of our employee share plans are not this report.
a clause that allows the client to terminate available until any award or option is These sections, together with the the contract in the event of a change of exercised and the shares are allotted Corporate Governance Report set out on control.
The only other signi cant or transferred to the relevant individual.
pages 54 to 62, are incorporated into this agreements to which we are party that The Trustee of each of our employee Report by reference.
take e ect, alter or terminate upon a bene t trusts is obliged to act in the best change of control following a takeover bid, interests of the share plans bene ciaries.
Results are our principal debt facilities where the At General Meetings, the Trustee may For the year ended 31 December 2010, our lenders can require the repayment of exercise discretion and vote in respect of consolidated revenue was 3,697 million amounts drawn down against the facility Trust shares although it may not always 2009: 3,702 million.
In the same period, in the event of a change of control.
Where shares are pro t before tax was 193 million 2009: are no agreements between us and our bene cially held by an employee within 43 million.
The pro t attributable to Directors or employees providing for a share plan they may direct the Trustee shareholders was 152 million 2009: compensation for loss of o ce or to vote on their behalf.
Basic earnings per share from employment that occur because of are further explained on pages 68 to 70. total operations were 9.6p 2009: 2.5p.
Basic adjusted earnings per share from Issue of new share capital continuing operations were 12.3p 2009: The Directors require express 12.5p.
Net debt at 31 December 2010 was authorisation from shareholders to 280 million 2009: 291 million.
This authority can 51 Logica Annual report and accounts 2010 shareholders in advance of the 2011 AGM, Directors and Officers insurance be granted for a period of five years.
copies of which are also available on our We maintain insurance cover for all However, we follow best practice and website at www.
Directors and O cers of Group companies seek shareholder approval annually.
against liabilities which may be incurred At the 2010 AGM the Board was Directors by them while acting as Directors and granted the authority to allot new shares The names, functions and biographical O cers.
In addition, indemnities are in up to an aggregate nominal amount of details of our current Directors are set out force under which we have agreed to 52,826,094, representing approximately one-third of the then issued share capital.
on pages 44 to 46 and are also available indemnify the Directors against all Shareholders will be asked to renew on our website at www.
liabilities and related costs that they this authority at the forthcoming AGM.
may incur in the execution of their duties.
In addition, the usual resolution to Board changes Copies of these indemnities are kept The following changes to the Board took place in 2010: disapply pre-emption rights will also be at our registered o ce and are open proposed, subject to approval of the 1 January 2010 for inspection by any member.
These Jan Babiak appointed as a Non-Executive Director authority to allot shares referred to above.
indemnities do not cover the Directors During the year our issued share or O cers for fraudulent activity.
5 May 2010 Roger Payne retired as a Non-Executive Director capital increased by 1,325,689 shares as a result of the issue of shares on the Employees, employment policies 30 June 2010 Crister Stjernfelt retired as an Executive Director exercise of options and awards of shares and equal opportunities under our employee share plans.
At Our employment policies and practices 31 December 2010 our issued share are based on the best practice of each Jan Babiaks appointment was approved capital was 1,601,941,495 shares.
of the countries in which we do business.
by shareholders at the 2010 AGM in We are committed to providing equal accordance with our Articles of Purchase of own shares opportunities to all employees irrespective Association.
At the 2010 AGM shareholders approved of their gender, sexual orientation, marital Seamus Keating was appointed as a resolution giving us authority to purchase status, age, religion, race or whether they CEO, Benelux, in December 2010, in up to 160,079,075 of our own shares.
We give full and fair addition to his role as Chief Operations No shares were purchased during the consideration to di erently abled people O cer.
During 2010 he was the Groups year and the authority will expire at the with respect to applications for employment, Chief Financial and Operations O cer.
Accordingly, at the 2011 continued employment, training, career remains Group CFO during the search for AGM the Directors will seek to renew the development and promotion, having his successor which is currently underway.
authority to make market purchases of regard to each individuals particular All of the Directors intend to retire and up to a maximum of 10% of issued share aptitudes and abilities.
We also wish to seek re-election by shareholders at the capital.
At the present time we have no ensure that we operate as an ethical next AGM and subsequently at each AGM plans to exercise this authority.
As our following the principles set out in the new people are at the heart of our own and UK Corporate Governance Code, which Restrictions on voting rights our clients success, we endeavour to came into e ect for us on 1 January 2011.
All shareholders entitled to attend and protect their best interests, support their Further details of the re-election of the vote at a General Meeting may appoint a learning and development and uphold the Directors can be found on page 53 and in proxy or proxies to attend, speak and vote highest standards of corporate governance.
the notes to the AGM Notice on our in their place.
A member may appoint website at www.
more than one proxy provided that each Employee involvement The governance structure of the Board proxy is appointed to exercise the rights We are committed to ensuring that our is illustrated on page 55 and the activities attached to a dierent share or shares employees share in the success of the of the Boards governance committees held by the shareholder.
A proxy need not Group and in particular employees are are outlined on pages 60 to 62. be a shareholder.
Proxy forms must be encouraged to participate in our share received by our registrars at least 48 option and share purchase plans, further Directors remuneration report hours before the time appointed for information about which is set out on The Directors remuneration report is set holding a meeting, as set out in any Notice pages 117 and 118, in note 36. out on pages 63 to 81. or in any form or proxy circulated by us.
Andy Green, Chief Executive O cer, The appointment of a proxy does not communicates directly to employees Directors interests preclude a shareholder from attending through a regularly updated personal Directors interests in our share capital as and voting in person at a General Meeting.
blog, accessible worldwide on our at 31 December 2010 are shown on page Further details may be found in the Notice intranet.
He and other Group executives 75 in the Directors remuneration report.
of Meeting and the proxy card sent to use this to set out their views on the 52 Governance Report of the Directors Annual General Meeting tools, the issue of bulletins and brie ngs organisations and no such payments The Companys AGM will be held on and our intranet.
To encourage feedback were made during the year.
4 May 2011 at 10.30am at Kings Place, and suggestions from employees, an 90 York Way, London N1 9AG.
annual sta survey is undertaken.
The Auditors A summary of the resolutions to be results of the survey are provided to the  LLP have proposed at the 2011 AGM is set Board, HR and all employees.
been our auditors for a number of years.
out below: Further details on our employment The Audit Committee considers that the policies and employee involvement are relationship with the auditors is working Ordinary Resolutions included in the Sustainability report on well and remains satis ed with their to re ceive the Directors and Auditors our website at www.
The auditors are required reports and the audited Accounts employee related KPIs can be found to rotate the audit partners responsible for 2010 for the Group and key subsidiaries on pages 22 and 23. to a pprove the 2010 final dividend audits.
In accordance with best practice of 2.3p per share guidelines, a new lead audit partner was Charity to ap prove the Directors remuneration appointed in 2010.
There are no contractual Our employees continue to be generous report for 2010 obligations restricting our choice of auditor.
in their support for charitable causes.
t o reappoint  The Directors recommend the We support give as you earn schemes LLP as auditors and to set their fees reappointment of  to facilitate financial donations by t o re-elect each of the Directors LLP, who have expressed their willingness employees via the payroll.
We also a separate resolution will be proposed to continue in oce.
A resolution for their encourage employees to support charities for each Director reappointment will be proposed at the and participate in local charitable events t o renew the Directors authority to forthcoming AGM.
and, where possible, we donate surplus allot new shares.
computers to local good causes.
When Auditors right to information making charitable donations, our aim is to Special Resolutions Each person who is a Director at the date develop partnerships with national charities The following resolutions will be passed of approval of this Report con rms that: and non-governmental organisations in the only if 75% or more of the votes cast are a so far as he or she is aware, there is countries in which we operate.
Total UK in favour: no relevant audit information of which charitable donations in 2010 were t o renew the Directors authority to the auditors are unaware: 155,000 2009: 92,000.
Given our allot shares for cash other than on b he or she has taken all the steps that role in the knowledge economy, our a pro-rata basis he or she ought to have taken as a community and charitable programmes to re new the authority to purchase our Director to make himself or herself support individuals, particularly children.
own shares up to a maximum of 10% aware of any relevant audit information The majority of our 2010 donations of issued share capital and to establish that the auditors are were made to childrens charities.
Other to a pprove the calling of a General aware of that information.
donations included charities involved Meeting other than an AGM on not less with disability, homelessness, the elderly than 14 clear days notice.
By order of the Board and the environment.
We also support projects that actively involve our employees The full details of the resolutions can be and, where possible, make use of their found in the Notice of Meeting, a copy of technical knowledge and expertise.
In which is available on our website at addition, our employees are encouraged www.
com or can be obtained to raise money for causes that support Alice Rivers from the Company Secretary.
the objectives of our community policy.
Company Secretary With only 20% of our business in the UK 8 March 2011 principal internal and external issues this represents only a minor part of our a ecting us and encourage comment and worldwide charitable activities and Registered office discussion through an open Tell Andy donations.
Further information about our Logica plc response facility, which is widely utilised.
activities in the community and charitable 250 Brook Drive In 2010, we also continued our policy of donations can be found in the Sustainability Reading RG2 6UA informing and involving employees in report on our website at www.
United Kingdom matters which concern them through the use of regular meetings between Political donations and contributions Registered in England management and employees, corporate Our policy is not to make any donations No.
1631639 news letters, knowledge management or contributions to political parties or 53
