RESERVES & RESOURCES During 2010, Lonmin has reviewed its Mineral Resource and Reserves and certain areas have been re-estimated where necessary.
The more notable changes are as follows: The Mineral Resources at Marikana were largely unchanged.
The tonnage depletion through mining was offset by slightly more Inferred Resources as a result of additional data acquired through surface drilling.
Exploration drilling at Marikana in FY10 was focused on infill drilling rather than Mineral Resource extension: A revision of the relative proportions of the individual precious metals resulted in slight adjustments to the Platinum quantities at Marikana and Pandora: The Nickel and Copper grades of the Marikana Mineral Resource were reviewed and the average Nickel and Copper percentages are reported in the main Resource and Reserve report for each ore type: The Marikana Mineral Reserve grade increased by 3% 0.12 g t. As a result the 3PGE Au content of the reserve was slightly higher 0.6 Moz.
This was largely due to several areas of Probable Reserves being removed from the reserve and replaced by new higher grade reserves: The Proved Reserves increased by 24%, reflecting the Companys focus on Ore Reserve Development in 2010: The down-dip extension to the Pandora Plan 4 area was included in the Mineral Reserve in 2010, resulting in approximately 0.3 Moz of 3PGE Au being added to in the Probable Reserve category attributable to Lonmin: Modelling of the assay results received from the prior years diamond drilling at Akanani further increased the confidence in the P2 portion of the Mineral Resource.
Over 80% of the P2 Resource is now declared as an Indicated Resource.
The quantity of P2 Mineral Resource increased by 3% and 3PGE Au grades remained largely unchanged, confirming the robustness of the grade of this portion of the Akanani Mineral Resource.
In addition, the volume and grade of the underlying P1 Mineral Resource was increased, albeit in the lower confidence category Inferred Resources : An Inferred Resource has been declared on the Denison Property, near Sudbury Ontario, Canada which is subject to a JV that was formed with INCO now Vale in 2005.
This is the first Mineral Resource declared for the JV and although the initial resource is relatively small it demonstrates the economic potential for this style of mineralisation in the area: and The total 3PGE Au content of the overall Lonmin Mineral Resource increased by 2% and the grade decreased marginally.
This was primarily a result of the increase in the Inferred P1 Resource at Akanani.
A summary of the changes in both the Lonmin Mineral Resources and Reserves is shown in the following tables and should be read in conjunction with the Key Assumptions outlined below.
The complete 2010 Mineral Resources and Reserves statement can be found on our website: www.
3 Loskop JV and Sudbury PGM JV excludes Rh, due to insufficient assays, and therefore 2PGE Au is reported.
4 Resources are reported Inclusive of Reserves.
5 Quantities and grades have been rounded to one or two decimal places, therefore minor computational errors may occur.
18 Directors Report Business Review Directors Report Governance Financial Statements Operating Statistics Shareholder Information 2010 Annual Report and Accounts Lonmin Plc Key assumptions regarding the 2010 Lonmin Mineral Resource and Reserve Statement Mineral Resources are reported inclusive of Mineral Reserves.
Resources that are converted to Reserves are also included in the Mineral Resource statement: and All quoted Resources and Reserves include Lonmins attributable portion only.
There have been no changes in the percentage attributable to Lonmin during the year, aside from including the Sudbury resource.
The following percentages were applied to the total Mineral Resource and Reserve for each property: Limpopo Limpopo Baobab, Sudbury Marikana Dwaalkop JV Doornvlei, Zebediela Akanani Pandora Loskop PGM Lonmin Attributable 82% 41% 82% 74% 34.85% 41% 50% Incwala Resources, Lonmins BEE partner, owns 18% of both Western Platinum Limited and Eastern Platinum Limited, and 26% of Akanani: Limpopo includes Dwaalkop JV which is a Lonmin managed JV between Mvelaphanda Resources 50% and Western Platinum 50% : Pandora JV: Eastern Platinum Limited has an attributable interest of 42.5% in the Pandora JV together with Anglo Platinum 42.5%, Mvelaphanda Resources 7.5% and the Bapo Ba Mogale Mining Company 7.5% : Loskop JV: Western Platinum Limited has an attributable interest of 50% in the Loskop JV with Boynton Investments: Sudbury PGM JV PGE grades are stated as Pt Pd Au 3E.
Through the JV, Lonmin acquires its pro rata share, currently a nominal 50%, of the product from any PGE deposit developed on the participating properties.
The agreement is that Lonmin will be allocated its pro-rata share in PGEs and Vale will be allocated its pro-rata share in Nickel, Copper, Cobalt, Gold and Silver.
The exchange of metals will be governed by prevailing metal prices at the time of the refined metal production: Where grades are reported as 3PGE Au these are a summation of the Platinum, Palladium, Rhodium and Gold grades.
Modelling of available assay information, obtained from drillhole core, indicates that the proportion of 3PGE Au contained in 5PGE Au, which includes Ruthenium and Iridium, is approximately as follows: UG2 Merensky Platreef Marikana 0.81 0.92 Limpopo 0.86 0.93 Akanani 0.95 Pandora 0.81 Where Nickel Ni and Copper Cu grade estimates are derived from sufficient reliable information for the various Mineral Resources, they are reported as average grades in percent.
These grades represent acid soluble proportions.
Acid soluble percentages of Ni and Cu are closely correlated to the metals present as sulphide minerals: Mineral Resources are reported as in-situ tonnes and grade and allow for geological losses such as faults, dykes, potholes and Iron Rich Ultramafic Pegmatite IRUP : Mineral Resources are estimated using a minimum true width of at least 90 cm and therefore may include some diluting material: Proved and Probable Mineral Reserves are reported as tonnes and grade expected to be delivered to the mill, are inclusive of diluting materials and allow for losses that may occur when the material is mined: Mine tailings dams are excluded from the above Mineral Resource summary: For economic studies and the determination of pay limits, consideration was made of both short and long term revenue drivers.
The following long term global assumptions were used: Precious Metals per Troy Ounce : Pt $1,800, Pd $500, Rh $3,000, Ru $200, Ir $450, Au $800: Base Metals per metric tonne : Ni $15,000, Cu $5,000: Average exchange rate of US$1 to R8.28: and Dilutions are quoted as waste tonnes waste ore tonnes in percent.
Unless otherwise stated, the Lonmin Mineral Resources and Reserves estimates were prepared or supervised by various persons employed by Lonmin.
