56 Directors Report Business Review Directors Report Governance Financial Statements Operating Statistics Shareholder Information 2010 Annual Report and Accounts Lonmin Plc 1.
Ian Farmer 48 Chief Executive Officer 3.
Alan Ferguson 52 Chief Financial British and South African British and South African Officer British Roger was appointed Chairman in 2009, Ian joined the Company in 1986 and after A Business Economics and Accountancy having served as an independent Nonworking in UK and Zambian operations, he graduate and Chartered Accountant, executive Director since 1997, and also was appointed Finance Director of Lonmin Alan was appointed as CFO and a chairs the Nomination Committee.
Born Platinum in South Africa in 1995, holding director in 2007, having previously been and raised in South Africa, Roger is a this role until he joined the Board and Finance Director of BOC and Inchcape graduate in economics and law and has transferred to London in 2001.
He was during a career spanning a range of career-long experience of the international appointed as CEO in September 2008, financial management roles.
As part of mining industry.
He is a non-executive following seven years as Chief Strategic the planned transfer of operational director of Harry Winston Diamond Officer.
A chartered accountant with a management to South Africa, he will Corporation and his previous nonB.
Hons degree, he has now relinquish the CFO role after the 2010 executive experience includes Engelhard completed his relocation to Johannesburg to results are announced, remaining on the Corporation.
be based closer to our operational assets.
Board as an Executive Director until he leaves the Company at the end of the calendar year as planned.
Simon Scott 52 Executive Director South African and British Non-executive Director Dutch Non-executive Director British Appointed in 2005, Karen is a member of Appointed to the Board in 2007, he is A South African registered Chartered Accountant, Simon joined the Company the Audit and Risk, Nomination and Safety also a member of the Nomination and & Sustainability Committees.
A graduate in Safety & Sustainability Committees.
and the Board in September 2010 and will become CFO in November.
A law, with an MBA from a US university, she David is currently Development Director spent more than 30 years working globally of Kazakhmys Plc, in which role he is graduate with accounting and commerce degrees, he also attended the with Shell, becoming their first female responsible for modernising and country head in 1983.
After 2 years as CEO improving operations and the delivery of management development programme at the University of Cape Town.
He has of Shells global Gas & Power business, strategic development initiatives.
He was she spent 5 years developing and leading formerly CEO of RMC Group Plc, Chief held a number of financial management roles in South Africa, with local and Shells renewable energy business.
Karen is Development Officer of BHP Billiton Plc a Non-executive Director of British American and a director of Billiton Plc responsible global employers, including a total of nine years with Anglo Platinum.
Most recently Tobacco where she chairs the Corporate for its global aluminium and base metals Social Responsibility Committee and businesses.
A mining engineering he was CFO of JSE-listed Aveng, an engineering and construction group bioethanol producer Ensus, a director of graduate, he has extensive experience Pyry and a member of the supervisory of mine management in South Africa.
with significant involvement in the mining sector.
Cyril Ramaphosa 57 Non-executive Non-executive Director South African Director British Director South African Appointed to the Board and the Audit & Appointed in 2003, Michael chairs the Audit Cyril was nominated by Shanduka, Lonmins Risk and Nomination Committees in March & Risk Committee and is a member of the principal BEE partner of which he is the 2010, Len holds degrees in accounting Nomination and Remuneration Committees.
controlling shareholder, and appointed to and commerce from South African and A chartered accountant, he held senior the Board in July 2010.
After qualifying as a general and financial management positions he was the first General Secretary of the Chartered Accountant, he pursued an in a number of manufacturing companies, National Union of Mineworkers and academic career at the University of culminating in 16 years as FD of Rexam.
assisted in building it into the most Durban-Westville, then spent six years with He is also a Non-executive Director of BAE powerful union in South Africa.
In 1991, the Independent Development Trust as Systems, and chairs that companys Audit he was elected Secretary General of the head of investments and internal audit.
He was a member of the ANC and led the team negotiating the now has a broad-ranging business career, Hampel Committee which devised the end of apartheid, subsequently chairing the chairing the boards of leading South African first version of the UKs Combined Code.
Assembly which drafted the countrys first companies including Exxaro Resources democratic constitution.
He then moved into and serving on others including Sappi the private sector, founding Shanduka Group and the South African Reserve Bank.
which he continues to chair.
He is also A member of the King Committee on Chairman of MTN and Mondi and serves on Corporate Governance, he is also a the board of a number of other companies director of the Securities Regulation and advisory bodies, including South Panel and the Institute of Directors.
Jonathan Leslie 59 Independent Non-executive Director British Non-executive Director British Appointed in 2007, Chairman of the Appointed to the board in 2009, he is Remuneration Committee and a member a member of the Remuneration and of the Audit & Risk and Nomination Nomination Committees, and chairs Committees.
An actuary by profession, the Safety & Sustainability Committee.
After Jim has extensive UK and South African graduating in Jurisprudence and qualifying business experience, including senior as a barrister, Jonathan spent 26 years with executive roles with Prudential UK and Rio Tinto, including 9 years service on the Old Mutual, being CEO of the latter for board.
His roles at Rio Tinto included Mining 7 years.
He is a director of the Financial Director and Chief Executive of the Copper, and Diamonds and Gold Product Groups.
Reporting Council and chairs the UK Board for Actuarial Standards, and is He subsequently was CEO of Sappi and the Executive Chairman of Nikanor and also a director of Liberty Group and Liberty Holdings, Sun Life Financial and is currently CEO of Extract Resources.
