Ian Farmer 48 Chief Executive Officer 7.
Mark Munroe 41 EVP, Mining South African British and South African Mark joined Lonmin in March 2008 in the Mining business, Biography included in Board of Directors section on page 57. becoming VP Capital Projects & Engineering before being appointed as EVP Mining in June 2009.
Alan Ferguson 52 Chief Financial Officer British DRDGold, where he spent six years, holding a number of senior Biography included in Board of Directors section on page 57. management positions including General Manager of DRDGold and CEO of DRDCapital.
Prior to that, he worked for AngloGold 3.
Simon Scott 52 Chief Financial Officer-designate for 12 years.
He is a mining engineer and also has a degree in British and South African economics.
Biography included in Board of Directors section on page 57.
Barnard Mokwena 46 EVP, Human Capital & External Affairs 4.
Mahomed Seedat 54 Chief Operating Officer South African South African Mahomed joined Lonmin in September 2007.
He was previously Barnard joined Lonmin in October 2005, having previously with BHP Billiton where he was latterly President of their Energy worked in senior management positions in a range of sectors for Customer Sector Group and a member of BHP Billitons a number of companies including Sentech and the South African Executive Committee.
Prior to that, he held several positions with Rail Commuter Corporation.
that company, including President and Chief Operating Officer of Ingwe Coal, and President and Chief Operating Officer Aluminium 9.
Karishma Sewpersad 31 Principal, Shanduka Resources Southern Africa as well as a number of roles in their Aluminium South African Customer Sector Group.
Before joining BHP Billiton, Mahomed Karishma joined the Exco in July 2010 following the closing of worked for Anglo Coal.
Her career began as a chemical engineer for Xstrata where she progressed to a managerial 5.
Albert Jamieson 52 Chief Commercial Officer position over the space of four and a half years in the ferrochrome British industry.
She then joined BHP Billiton as a Commercial Analyst in Albert joined Lonmin in 1989 after 8 years at Impala Platinum, their Coal division.
Today, Karishma is a Principal for Shanduka where he was responsible for their concentrator operations.
Resources and serves as a director on Shandukas other At Lonmin, he has held a number of senior management and investments in the mining industry.
executive positions in the mine production and commercial areas of the business including responsibility for investments in Africa, 10.
Rowan Smith 46 Managing Director, Shanduka Resources South America, North America, Australia and Japan.
The South African commercial portfolio currently comprises business development, Rowan has attended Exco meetings by invitation since July 2010, strategy, marketing and sales, exploration, legal and life of when the Shanduka transaction closed.
He has almost two business planning.
decades experience of the minerals and merchant banking industries, including mine geological evaluation work both in 6.
Theuns fide Bruyn 41 EVP, Process Division South African industry and banking, and four years as a Director of Investecs Theuns joined Lonmin in November 2006, having worked for Resource Finance Division.
His background in natural resources BHP Billiton for nearly 20 years, where he was most recently and investment banking led to his appointment as MD of Business Development Manager for their Strategy and Business Shanduka Resources, the investment vehicle controlling all of Development function.
Prior to that, he held a number of other Shandukas investments in the mining sector.
roles at BHP Billiton, including General Manager of the Tubatse Ferro-chrome facility as well as other positions in the ferro-chrome and aluminium sectors.
