Directors Report Governance Directors Report Business Review Financial Statements Operating Statistics Shareholder Information 2010 Annual Report and Accounts Lonmin Plc DIRECTORS REPORT GOVERNANCE This report combines the Directors Report required to be produced by law and the corporate governance statement required by the Disclosure & Transparency Rules.
It also includes sections reporting on the role and work of the Audit and Risk Committee and the Nomination Committee, respectively required by the Disclosure & Transparency Rules and the Combined Code.
The Directors Remuneration Report is contained in the Remuneration Committee Report on pages 78 to 95.
Governance of the Company The Company is led and controlled by the Board of Directors.
The Board is fully committed to the highest standards of corporate governance which it believes will support the long term success of the Company.
As an English-incorporated company with a premium listing on the London Stock Exchange, Lonmin is subject to The Combined Code on Corporate Governance published by the Financial Reporting Council FRC.
For the year under review, we were subject to the version of the Combined Code published in June 2008 and the revised version of the Turnbull Guidance published in October 2005, both of which are available from the FRC website, www.
During the year to 30 September 2010 and to the date of this report, the Company has in all respects complied with the provisions of section 1 of the Combined Code.
In June 2010, the FRC published The UK Corporate Governance Code which supersedes the Combined Code and is applicable for companies with accounting periods beginning on or after 29 June 2010.
The Board has reviewed the provisions of the new Governance Code and believes it can comply with all of these recommendations.
In addition, the Board has decided that all Directors should stand for re-election on an annual basis, commencing at the Companys Annual General Meeting in January 2011.
Substantially the whole of the Companys business is based in South Africa, and our principal operating subsidiaries are subject to the provisions of the King Report on Governance for South Africa 2009, more commonly known as King III.
Whilst the Company itself is not subject to King III, the Board has reviewed the recommendations in that report and identified four minor areas where adopting the provisions on a voluntary basis is felt likely to confer advantage to the Company and its shareholders.
How does the Board of Directors operate?
2.1 Appointments to the Board The Companys Articles of Association specify that there shall be between four and fifteen Directors at all times, and confers power on the Board to fill a vacancy.
To ensure a formal, rigorous and transparent procedure for the appointment of new Directors to the Board, a Nomination Committee has been created, whose work is more fully described in section 7 of this report.
Appointments are made on merit and against objective criteria, always having regard to the benefits that diversity of background can bring.
In the case of candidates for Non-executive directorships, care is taken to ascertain whether they have sufficient time available to fulfill their Board and, where relevant, Committee responsibilities.
As part of this process, candidates disclose all other time commitments and, on appointment, undertake to inform the Board of any changes.
The terms and conditions of appointment of Non-executive Directors are available for public inspection and a sample letter of appointment is provided on the Companys website.
2.2 The Board of Directors The Board currently has eleven members, comprising a Non-executive Chairman, seven Non-executive Directors and three Executive Directors.
The names of the current directors and short biographical details are set out on page 57.
All served throughout the year, save for the following: Len Konar and Cyril Ramaphosa, who were appointed to the Board as Non-executive Directors on 11 March 2010 and 13 July 2010 respectively.
Simon Scott, who was appointed to the Board as an Executive Director on 27 September 2010.
Upon publication of the final results for 2010, Mr Ferguson will relinquish, and Mr Scott will assume, the role of Chief Financial Officer CFO.
As previously advised, Mr Ferguson will remain on the Board as an Executive Director until he leaves the business at the end of 2010.
In addition, Sivi Gounden served as a Non-executive Director until his resignation on 16 October 2009, and Peter Godsoe also served as a Non-executive Director until his retirement from the Board on 28 January 2010.
In May 2010, the Company announced that Mahomed Seedat, currently Chief Operating Officer, will relinquish his current position on 31 December 2010 and join the Board as a non-independent Non-executive Director with effect from 1 January 2011.
2.3 Board balance and independence The Board believes that it has an acceptable number of members with a sufficiently diverse balance of backgrounds, experience and skills to discharge its functions effectively and to manage succession issues, but without being so large as to be unwieldy.
The quality of the individual Directors and the Boards composition is a key contributor to the Boards effectiveness: importantly, no one individual or group of individuals is able to dominate the decision-taking.
The Board keeps the membership of its Committees under review, to ensure gradual refreshing of skills and experience.
It is satisfied that all Directors have sufficient time to devote to their roles and that it is not placing undue reliance on key individuals.
Mr Ramaphosa was nominated to the Board by Shanduka, the parent company of Incwala Resources, Lonmins BEE partner.
As such, the Board does not judge that Mr Ramaphosa is independent.
However, all of the other serving Nonexecutive Directors are regarded as independent by the Board, as was the Chairman on his appointment.
continued 2.3 Board balance and independence continued The experience and international diversity of the Non-executive Directors in office at the date of this report can be summarised as follows: Industry sector experience Number Natural Resources 4 Financial Services 2 Manufacturing 1 Total 7 Current country of residence Number United Kingdom 4 South Africa 2 Kazakhstan 1 Total 7 A number of the Non-executive Directors have lived and worked in countries other than those in which they currently reside, and the majority have some link with South Africa as evidenced in the biographical details on page 57.
2.4 Leadership of the Board Prior to Roger Phillimores appointment as Chairman in March 2009, he had served on the Board as a Non-executive Director for more than nine years.
Notwithstanding this, the Board was fully satisfied that he had demonstrated complete independence, robustness of character, judgement and action throughout this time and readily concluded that he was independent on his appointment as Chairman.
Mr Phillimores role as leader of the Board is touched on in his remarks on page 5, including the use of an external facilitator in connection with the effectiveness review, which extended to his role as Chairman.
There were no material issues in relation to his chairmanship raised in, or actions resulting from, that review.
2.5 How do we assess and refresh the Board?
There are three key mechanisms by which we attempt to ensure that the Directors continue to provide suitable leadership and direction to the Company: 1 Performance evaluation: 2 Succession planning: and 3 Periodic re-election by shareholders as noted above, we intend to adopt annual re-election from the 2011 AGM.
1 Performance evaluation The Board considers that annual evaluations are critical to maintaining an effective, challenging and dynamic Board.
By acting on the results of the previous years evaluation, which was undertaken internally by the Chairman, the Board strives to achieve a continuous cycle of evaluation, targeted actions and performance improvement.
Two material issues were identified in last years evaluation: Issue Resolution Senior operational management should be based Ian Farmer, the CEO, relocated to South Africa in January 2010. in South Africa close to the mining operations in Alan Ferguson, the CFO, decided not to relocate as a result of order to enhance day to day management and which Simon Scott was appointed to the Board in September 2010. communications and to enable more effective Mr Scott will assume the position of CFO in November 2010 and engagement with South African stakeholders.
will be based in South Africa.
The Board also decided to relocate the majority of the London head office functions to South Africa.
Restructure meetings to increase time with A third day was added to each of the bi-annual Board visits to senior and executive managers in South Africa.
60 Directors Report Governance Directors Report Business Review Financial Statements Operating Statistics Shareholder Information 2010 Annual Report and Accounts Lonmin Plc DIRECTORS REPORT GOVERNANCE 2.
continued 2.5 How do we assess and refresh the Board?
continued 1 Performance evaluation continued As in 2009, the Chairman held 1:1 meetings with each Director during the year.
In addition, we felt this year that it was appropriate to appoint an experienced external facilitator to assist the Board with an evaluation of its performance and effectiveness, also extending to that of its Committees.
The facilitator chosen had no prior links to or involvement with Lonmin, and is free from any conflict of interest.
The process involved structured interviews on a 1:1 basis with each of the Directors and the Secretaries to the Board and Committees and the facilitator observed a number of meetings.
The scope of the evaluation focused on the Board and its Committees as a whole rather than the Directors individually and all feedback was provided on a non-attributable basis.
The key findings from the review were presented to the Board in November 2010, and helped establish the key priorities for performance improvement in 2011.
In particular, the Board wished to be more closely involved in contributing to the premises underpinning the development of strategy proposals, and to increase support for the delivery of Lonmins Social & Labour Plans and other transformation initiatives.
A Transformation Committee has therefore been formed and empowered to support, advise and provide counsel to management as appropriate, under the chairmanship of Cyril Ramaphosa.
Under the leadership of the Senior Independent Director, Michael Hartnall, the Board met in November 2010 without the Chairman present to discuss the findings of the review in relation to his effectiveness as Chairman.
There were no areas of concern or any actions arising from this session.
2 Succession planning The Board aims to review succession plans for all key management roles including the Executive Directors on an annual basis.
The purpose of this is to mitigate the risk of key roles not having one or more identified successors and to review potential development opportunities and career plans for talented individuals.
3 Re-election of Directors Under the Companys Articles of Association, all Directors are required to submit themselves for re-election by shareholders after first appointment and thereafter by rotation at least once every three years.
Where a Non-executive Director save for the Chairman has served more than three three-year terms, they are obliged to do so on an annual basis.
The UK Corporate Governance Code recommends that directors of FTSE 350 companies seek re-election by shareholders on an annual basis.
The Board has decided to adopt this provision early, on a voluntary basis, and all Directors in office at the time will therefore seek re-election at the Companys AGM in January 2011.
Sufficient biographical and other information including, in the case of a Non-executive Director, a statement as to his or her continued effectiveness and commitment to the role is provided to enable shareholders to make an informed decision.
To this end, the Nomination Committee has carried out formal performance evaluations of all the Non-executive Directors and concluded that each is effective and continues to demonstrate commitment to his or her respective role.
Further information is contained in the Directors biographies on page 57 and in the Annual General Meeting circular.
2.6 What is the role of the Board?
The Board provides the entrepreneurial leadership, direction and control of the Company and is the custodian of the Companys strategic aims, vision and values.
It assesses whether the necessary financial and human resources are, and will continue to be, in place to enable the Company to meet its objectives and takes account of safety, environmental and social factors when considering matters put before the Board.
All Directors are free to express their views and may ask that these be recorded in the minutes where appropriate.
The Board is the senior decision-making forum in the Company, and has a formal schedule of matters reserved for its decision, the most material of which fall into the key areas listed below: Strategy and direction, including risk tolerance: Financial reporting and control: Social, environmental and ethical matters: Contracts and financial commitments: External communications: Corporate governance: Remuneration: and Board composition and membership.
Subject to legislation, the Companys Articles of Association and any directions given by special resolution, the business of the Company is managed by the Directors who may exercise all powers of the Company including the power to authorise the issue and buy back of the Companys shares subject to the authority being given to the Directors by shareholders in general meeting.
Whilst all Directors have equal responsibility in law for managing the Companys affairs, it is the role of executive management to run the business within the parameters laid down by the Board and to produce clear, accurate and timely reports to enable the Board to monitor and assess managements performance.
The executives make full use of the diverse range of backgrounds, knowledge, skills, expertise and experience that the Non-executive Directors bring to the Company.
continued 2.6 What is the role of the Board?
continued The Chairman routinely holds discussions with Non-executive Directors without the Executive Directors being present.
The Non-executive Directors have access to the Executive Committee members see Section 10 below and with the operational management team reporting to the Executive Committee through a range of working sessions, site visits and presentations, as well as a number of less formal occasions.
During calendar 2010, the Board met nine times in formal meetings.
The total time spent on the broad themes noted below during these meetings was as follows: 9.6% 5.5% 35.0% 49.9% Operational Strategic Risk Governance Inevitably, any agenda item can involve a degree of overlap between two or more of the categories given above.
2.7 What are the roles of the Chairman and the Chief Executive Officer?
The roles of the Chairman and the Chief Executive Officer are clearly separated and set out in writing.
The Chairman is responsible for leadership of the Board, ensuring its composition is appropriate and that it is effective, setting its agenda, facilitating the effective contribution of all Directors, and especially ensuring that there is a constructive relationship between the Executive and Non-executive Directors.
The Chairman also has primary accountability for providing strategic guidance to the executive team and monitoring the performance of the business, and for ensuring that there is effective communication with shareholders.
The role of the Chief Executive Officer is to provide leadership to the executive team in running the business, to develop proposals for the Board to consider in all areas reserved for its judgement and to oversee the efficient and effective implementation of Board-approved actions.
Executive management, led by the Chief Executive Officer, run the business.
In particular, they develop strategy for consideration by the Board, ensuring there is adequate opportunity for constructive challenge by the Non-executive Directors, implement Board-approved strategy and furnish the Board with all information reasonably required to monitor the efficient and effective conduct of the business.
2.8 What is the role of the Non-executive Directors?
The Non-executive Directors are expected to contribute individually and collectively to: The consideration and approval of strategy, including setting an agreed tolerance of risk: Assessment of the management of risk and the strength of the internal control environment: The setting of targets and the subsequent monitoring of performance, providing challenge to the executive where appropriate: The selection, appointment, pay and, where appropriate, removal of the executives leading the business and the succession planning necessary to support this: and Effective governance in terms of 1 compliance with applicable Codes, 2 ensuring stakeholders needs are adequately considered and addressed and 3 in overseeing the internal management arrangements of the Company to ensure shareholders interests are protected.
2.9 How often does the Board meet, and who attends?
The Board met formally on nine occasions during the year, of which six were scheduled meetings.
The scheduled Board meetings included two three-day trips to South Africa.
Aside from meeting commitments, the Non-executive Directors also make themselves available to management whenever required and there are numerous regular contacts outside the Board meeting schedule.
62 Directors Report Governance Directors Report Business Review Financial Statements Operating Statistics Shareholder Information 2010 Annual Report and Accounts Lonmin Plc DIRECTORS REPORT GOVERNANCE 2.
continued 2.9 How often does the Board meet, and who attends?
continued Attendance at the Board meetings was as follows: Scheduled meetings Extra meetings Number of Number of meetings held Number of meetings held Number of during time meetings during time meetings Director in office attended in office attended Ian Farmer 663 3 Alan Ferguson 663 3 Peter Godsoe 201 0 Sivi Gounden 000 0 Michael Hartnall 663 3 Len Konar 331 1 Jonathan Leslie 663 2 David Munro 663 3 Roger Phillimore 663 3 Cyril Ramaphosa 110 0 Simon Scott 000 0 Karen fide Segundo 663 3 Jim Sutcliffe 663 3 In addition, six ad hoc meetings of a committee of the Board were also held to issue formal approvals or deal with other procedural matters which did not require the participation of the full Board.
Mr Godsoe advised the Chairman in October 2009 of his intention to retire from the Board, but agreed that this would only become effective at the conclusion of the AGM held in January 2010, at which meeting he was due to seek re-election.
While he made himself available to management and the Board and provided advice on a number of subjects between these dates, he was unavailable on the date of the November 2009 meeting and, as he is resident in Canada, was not asked to travel for the January 2010 meeting since this was held immediately prior to the AGM at which he would retire from the Board.
Whenever a Director is unable to participate in a meeting, either in person or remotely, the Chairman will speak to them ahead of time to solicit their views on key items of business, in order that these can be presented at the meeting and influence the debate.
2.10 What Committees support the Board in its work?
The Board has established four formal Committees and provides sufficient resources to enable them to undertake their duties.
Membership of these Committees during the year to 30 September 2010 and to the date of this report except where stated otherwise is shown below.
Safety and Remuneration Audit and Risk Nomination Sustainability Non-executive Directors 1 1 Peter Godsoe Member Member 2 2 Sivi Gounden Member Chairman Michael Hartnall Member Chairman Member 3 3 Len Konar Member Member 4 Jonathan Leslie Member Member Chairman David Munro Member Member Roger Phillimore Chairman 5 Cyril Ramaphosa Karen fide Segundo Member Member Member Jim Sutcliffe Chairman Member Member Executive Director Ian Farmer Member 1 To 28 January 2010 2 To 16 October 2009 3 From 11 March 2009 4 From 16 October 2010 5 Mr Ramaphosa is not judged to be independent and is therefore ineligible to join any of these Committees.
However, his counsel is sought whenever appropriate In November 2010 the Board created a Transformation Committee, to oversee the delivery of the Groups obligations under its Social and Labour Plans and other empowerment objectives.
The composition and terms of reference of this Committee will be finalised by early 2011. www.
continued 2.10 What Committees support the Board in its work?
continued The roles of each of the Board Committees are described later in this report, or in the separate Remuneration Committee Report.
The interaction between the Board, its Committees and the management of the Company can be summarised as follows: Board of Directors Safety and Chief Executive Audit and Risk Nomination Remuneration Transformation Sustainability Officer Committee Committee Committee Committee Committee Key: Board Committees Management Committees Executive Operations Price and Risk Committee Committee Committee Executive Directors, Executive Committee Executive Directors, Chief Operating Officer, members, operational Chief Commercial Officer, Chief Commercial Officer & functional VPs and VP Treasury & Risk, VP and three Executive certain executives and Finance UK, CFO SA, Vice Presidents plus senior managers Executive Manager, Marketing one nominee of Shanduka Resources 2.11 How does the Board manage any conflicts of interest?
Under the Companies Act 2006, directors have a statutory duty to avoid a situation in which they have, or can have, a direct or indirect conflict of interest or possible conflict of interest with the company.
The Act further provides that there is no breach if the relevant matter has been authorised in advance.
In line with the Act, the Companys Articles of Association contain provisions which enable the Board to authorise such conflicts.
In March 2009, the Board approved a procedure to consider and manage any conflicts.
In essence, this requires that when a Director becomes aware that he or she: is in a situation: or has an interest in an existing or proposed transaction in which the Company has an interest then they are required to notify the Board in writing of the nature of the situational or transactional conflict, as soon as possible and certainly prior to any transaction being concluded.
Directors are not counted in the quorum for the authorisation of their own actual or potential conflicts.
Authorisations that are granted are recorded by the Company Secretary in a register of conflict authorisations.
Directors have a continuing duty to update the Board on any changes to these conflicts and in any event the Board carries out reviews annually.
The interests of new Directors are reviewed by the Board at the first meeting following their appointment.
An annual review of the Directors interests and other appointments was carried out in March 2010.
Other than the agreements relating to the investment by Shanduka Resources Proprietary Limited a company ultimately controlled by Cyril Ramaphosa in Incwala Resources Proprietary Limited, the Companys Black Economic Empowerment partner and the loans made by the Company to facilitate that investment, further details of which are set out in paragraph 4.3 below, no Director had a material interest in any contract of significance in relation to the Companys business at any time during the year.
The interests of the Directors who held office at the end of the year, and to the date of this report in the Companys shares are shown in the Remuneration Committee Report on pages 78 to 95.
Save for Mr Ramaphosa, no Director held any beneficial interest in the share capital of any other Group company at any time during the year or to the date of this report.
2.12 How do we support the Board?
The Board is supplied with regular, comprehensive and timely information in a form and of a quality that enables it to discharge its duties.
All Directors are encouraged to make further enquiries as they feel appropriate of the Executive Directors or management.
The Chairman advocates that all Directors continually update their skills and knowledge, and develop the familiarity with the Companys operations needed to fulfil their role, and a number of Non-executive Directors have visited the operations during the year, in addition to organised Board visits.
The Company provides the necessary resources for developing and updating all Directors knowledge and capabilities, both on appointment and subsequently as necessary.
This includes a full, formal and tailored induction programme, briefings on the legal, regulatory including environmental, safety and social matters, financial and competitive environments in which the Company operates and, when appropriate, the opportunity to meet a range of major shareholders and external advisors.
Copies of sell-side analysts notes on the Company are circulated to all Directors and senior executives, as are summaries of analysts opinions collected anonymously by the Companys financial PR advisors and summaries of shareholders views collated by the Companys joint brokers.
64 Directors Report Governance Directors Report Business Review Financial Statements Operating Statistics Shareholder Information 2010 Annual Report and Accounts Lonmin Plc DIRECTORS REPORT GOVERNANCE 2.
continued 2.12 How do we support the Board?
continued All Directors have access to the services of the Company Secretary who is responsible for information flows to the Board, facilitating induction and assisting with professional development as required, ensuring compliance with Board procedures and applicable laws and regulation and advising the Board on corporate governance matters.
The appointment or removal of the Company Secretary is a Board decision and his remuneration is overseen by the Remuneration Committee.
There is a procedure in place for Directors to take independent professional advice, if they judge this to be necessary, at the Companys expense.
Board Committees are provided with sufficient resources, plus the power to co-opt such additional support as they may require from time to time, to undertake their duties.
2.13 What remuneration do the Directors receive?
While the Board is ultimately responsible for all Directors remuneration, the Remuneration Committee, which consists solely of independent Non-executive Directors, is responsible for: determining the remuneration and conditions of employment of the Executive Directors: and making recommendations to the Board on the fees offered to the Non-executive Directors, after taking professional advice.
A report on Directors remuneration, including a more detailed description of the role and activities of the Remuneration Committee is set out on pages 78 to 95.
The terms and conditions of appointment of all Directors are available for inspection at the Companys registered office and will be available for inspection at the AGM.
2.14 What protection do we offer to Directors?
In law, Directors are responsible for most facets of the Companys dealings.
As a consequence, they face potentially significant personal liability under criminal and civil law and the UK Listing, Prospectus, Disclosure and Transparency Rules, and face a range of penalties including private or public censure, fines and or imprisonment.
The Company believes that it is appropriate to protect the individuals prepared to serve on its Board from the consequences of innocent error or omission and that it is in the Companys best interests to do so, as it enables us to attract individuals of suitable calibre and character drawn from diverse backgrounds to act as Directors.
The Company maintains, at its expense, a Directors and Officers liability insurance policy to afford an indemnity in certain circumstances for the benefit of Group personnel including the Directors.
The insurance policy does not provide cover where the Director or Officer has acted fraudulently or dishonestly.
In accordance with the Companys Articles of Association and to the extent permitted by law, Deeds of Indemnity have been issued to protect all past, present and future Directors and officers of the Company from all costs and expenses incurred in the defence of any civil or criminal proceedings in which judgement is given in their favour or the proceedings are otherwise disposed of without a finding of fault or the successful application to court for relief from liability.
Under the terms of the indemnities, the Company is permitted to advance funds to meet a Directors defence costs which, should the Director not be exonerated, would be repayable to the Company.
The indemnities are expressed to operate only to the extent that the Directors and officers liability insurance policy fails to respond to a claim.
Relations with shareholders 3.1 Who owns the Company?
Lonmin Plc has a premium listing on the London Stock Exchange and our UK share register has circa 15,600 registered shareholders.
We also have a secondary listing on the JSE Securities Exchange, South Africa and our South African branch register has approximately 2,000 beneficial shareholders, including those who hold their shares in dematerialised form in STRATE.
We also have a sponsored Level I American Depositary Receipts programme, with around 750 participants.
Like most listed companies, ownership of the Companys shares is concentrated in a number of institutional and other corporate shareholders.
The Company had been notified pursuant to DTR5 of the following interests in 3% or more of the Companys total voting rights up to 12 November 2010: Percentage of the Companys Number of total shares shares and and voting Nature of 1 voting rights rights Holding Ameriprise Financial, Inc. 6,158,652 3.04 Indirect Legal & General Group Plc 7,706,524 3.99 Direct Prudential plc group companies 24,418,923 12.07 Direct Vanguard Precious Metals and Mining Fund 10,391,666 5.13 Direct Xstrata Plc 49,826,225 24.67 Direct 1 Percentages as at date of notification The rights attaching to the ordinary shares of the Company held by these shareholders are identical in all respects to the rights attaching to all the ordinary shares of the Company.
Relations with shareholders continued 3.2 How do we communicate with our institutional shareholders?
The Combined Code encourages dialogue with institutional shareholders based on the mutual understanding of objectives.
The Executive Directors have regular discussions with institutional shareholders where they believe this to be in the Companys best interests, but no information is shared which is not available to shareholders generally.
Detailed feedback from these visits is shared with the Board and a summary of the views expressed is presented to the next Board meeting.
In addition, the Chairman periodically offers key shareholders the opportunity of meetings with either himself or the Senior Independent Director to discuss governance, strategy or any other matters shareholders wish to raise.
The Chairman of the Remuneration Committee, accompanied by either the HR Director or the Company Secretary met with a number of institutional shareholders and their representative bodies during the year to discuss the Companys policy on remuneration and how this is implemented in practice.
The Senior Independent Director, Michael Hartnall, is available to shareholders if they have concerns which contact through the normal channels has failed to resolve or for which such contact would be inappropriate.
3.3 How do we communicate with our private shareholders?
The Combined Code urges boards to use the AGM to communicate with private investors and to encourage their participation.
The Board has followed these principles for many years.
The Notice of Meeting is sent to all shareholders at least one month in advance.
At the meeting, a business presentation is made by the Chief Executive Officer and all Directors are available to answer questions both during the meeting and informally afterwards.
We give shareholders the opportunity to vote on every substantially different issue by proposing separate resolutions and use electronic poll voting on all resolutions, with the results of these votes being announced to the markets and displayed on our website.
This enables the votes of all shareholders to be taken into account, whether they are able to attend the meeting or not, as well as providing a more discreet and democratic method of voting at the meeting.
The Company has taken advantage of the ability in law to move to a default route of electronic communications with shareholders, both to save cost, paper and other resources that would be entailed in printing and distributing large numbers of documents.
However, individual shareholders can opt to receive paper documents at any time should they so wish.
In recognition of the needs of private shareholders, the Companys website contains a range of investor relations materials, including up-to-date information on the Groups activities, copies to read or download of all presentation materials given to institutional investors and of our public reporting documents.
3.4 What is the purpose of the Annual General Meeting?
The AGM is an important event in the corporate year, and is the point at which the Directors place their report on the previous years events and results before the shareholders, and seek certain approvals and authorisations.
As seen above, these now include the re-election of each Board member on an annual basis.
Poll voting allows the views of all shareholders to be taken into account, and votes are routinely cast by those owning more than 70% of the Companys shares.
The 2011 AGM will be held at 11.00 a. m. on Thursday, 27 January 2011 at The Assembly Hall, Church House Conference Centre, Deans Yard, Westminster, London SW1P 3NZ.
A separate circular containing the Notice of Meeting, together with an explanation of the items of special business has been sent to all shareholders and is also available on the Companys website.
Among the resolutions to be proposed at the AGM will be ones seeking shareholders authority for the Directors to be empowered to allot equity securities, a limited dis-application of the statutory pre-emption rights and an authority for the Company to make market purchases of its own shares.
Further details of all of these matters are set out in the AGM circular.
3.5 Are we paying a Dividend to shareholders?
As noted in the Chairmans Statement on pages 4 to 6, the Board recommends the payment of a final dividend of 15 US cents per share to be paid, subject to approval by shareholders at the AGM, on 11 February 2011 to shareholders on the registers at the close of business on 14 January 2011.
The Company did not declare an interim dividend for the year ended 30 September 2010 and therefore the total dividend for the year ended 30 September 2010 will be 15 US cents per share total dividend 2009 nil.
The Companys business and statutory disclosures 4.1 What is Lonmins business?
The principal activities of the Group during the year continued to be mining, refining and marketing of Platinum Group Metals.
Details of revenue, operating profit, principal activities and segmental analysis appear in note 2 to the accounts and a list of the principal subsidiary undertakings, indicating their main activities, appears in note 34.
Detailed information on the Groups activities can be found in the Business Review.
Lonmin Plc operates in South Africa as a branch which is registered in that country as an external company, in addition to the business conducted by its subsidiary undertakings.
66 Directors Report Governance Directors Report Business Review Financial Statements Operating Statistics Shareholder Information 2010 Annual Report and Accounts Lonmin Plc DIRECTORS REPORT GOVERNANCE 4.
The Companys business and statutory disclosures continued 4.2 Business Review The Companies Act 2006, section 417 requires that the Directors present a Business Review in this report to inform shareholders and help them assess how the Directors have performed their duty to promote the success of the Company.
The information that fulfils this requirement, which has been prepared in the light of the recommendations in the ASBs Reporting Statement 1, can be found in the sections set out below and is incorporated by reference into this report: The Chairmans Letter on pages 4 to 6: The Chief Executives Review on pages 7 to 10: The Operational Review on pages 12 to 17: The Financial Review on pages 20 to 27: The discussion of Internal Controls and Risk Management on pages 28 to 33: The Key Performance Indicators KPIs on pages 34 and 35 together with the Operational Statistics on pages 146 to 148: and The Sustainable Development Review on pages 36 to 54. which collectively contain a discussion of the main trends and factors likely to affect the future development, performance and position of the Companys business.
We have also been mindful of the best practice guidance published by DEFRA and other bodies in relation to environmental, community and social KPIs, and the recommendations of the Association of British Insurers in those areas, when drafting this Business Review.
The Business Review has been prepared to provide the Companys shareholders with a fair review of the business of the Company and a description of the principal risks and uncertainties facing it.
It may not be relied upon by anyone, including the Companys shareholders, for any other purpose.
The Business Review is designed to provide shareholders with an understanding of the Companys business and the environment in which it operates, and of necessity only focuses on material issues and facts.
The omission of reporting on any specific topic should not be taken as implying that it is not being addressed.
The Business Review and other sections of this report contain forward-looking statements.
By their nature, forwardlooking statements involve a number of risks, uncertainties and future assumptions because they relate to events and or depend on circumstances that may or may not occur in the future and could cause actual results and outcomes to differ materially from those expressed in or implied by the forward-looking statements.
No assurance can be given that the forwardlooking statements in the Business Review will be realised.
Statements about the Directors expectations, beliefs, hopes, plans, intentions and strategies are inherently subject to change and they are based on expectations and assumptions as to future events, circumstances and other factors which are in some cases outside the Companys control.
The information contained in the Business Review has been prepared on the basis of the knowledge and information available to Directors at the date of its preparation and the Company does not undertake any obligation to update or revise the Business Review during the financial year ahead.
It is believed that the expectations set out in these forward-looking statements are reasonable, but they may be affected by a wide range of variables which could cause actual results or trends to differ materially.
The forward-looking statements should be read in particular in the context of the specific risk factors for the Company identified in the Business Review.
The Companys shareholders are cautioned not to place undue reliance on the forward-looking statements.
Shareholders should note that the Business Review has not been audited or otherwise independently verified.
4.3 Principal events of the year The principal events of the year are covered in the Business Review.
However, from a statutory perspective the key event during the year concerned the Companys Black Economic Empowerment partner, Incwala Resources Proprietary Limited.
On 10 May 2010, the Company announced that Shanduka Resources Proprietary Limited had agreed to acquire a majority stake in Incwala.
To facilitate Shandukas participation in this transaction, the Company provided Shanduka with funding of 200 million in the form of a 5 year interest-bearing loan, secured on Shandukas interest in Incwala.
This loan was part-funded by an equity placing of 9,064,249 new ordinary shares of $1 each representing approximately 4.69% of the Companys issued share capital at that time at a price of 1765p per share to raise gross proceeds of approximately 160 million.
The balance of the funding was provided by the roll-over of existing vendor financing loans made by the Company to previous shareholders in Incwala.
There were no material events from 30 September 2010 to the date of this report.
The Companys business and statutory disclosures continued 4.4 Transactions with Related Parties In March 2010 the Company announced that it had entered into long-term contracts with two parties to supply low-grade PGM but chrome-rich tailings to those counterparties, who would construct chrome recovery plants to treat the tailings and return a chrome-depleted concentrate to Lonmin for further reprocessing.
One of the counterparties is the Xstrata-Merafe Chrome Venture, which involves a subsidiary of Xstrata Plc, which owns a significant shareholding in the Company.
The UK Listing Authority concurred with the Companys assessment that this transaction was of a revenue nature in the ordinary course of business, and no shareholder approval was required.
The transaction with Shanduka Resources referred to above resulted in a financial benefit flowing to the selling shareholders in Incwala Resources Pty Ltd. Two of the selling shareholders, being the Thelo Consortium and the Vantage Consortium included certain individuals who had been nominated by Incwala to serve as directors of Lonmins operational subsidiaries.
As such, Thelo and Vantage were considered to be related parties of the Company.
Of the 200 million provided to Shanduka by Lonmin, approximately 96 million of this was used by Shanduka to purchase Thelo and Vantages interests in Incwala.
It was these elements of the Shanduka transaction which were therefore technically transactions with related parties for the purposes of the UK Listing Rules.
The quantum of these transactions did not require shareholder approval.
As detailed above, part of the funding provided to Shanduka by Lonmin was funded by an equity placing.
Pursuant to the placing, Xstrata Zinc BV, a subsidiary of Xstrata Plc, subscribed for 2,233,600 new ordinary shares of $1 each at a cost of approximately 39.4 million and M&G Investment Management Limited, part of the Prudential plc group of companies, subscribed for 998,377 new ordinary shares of $1 each at a cost of approximately 17.6 million.
Both Xstrata Plc and the Prudential plc group of companies own significant shareholdings in the Company.
4.5 Employees The Group employed 23,900 people in South Africa as at the end of the year.
Information on the Groups policies on employee recruitment and engagement can be found in the Sustainable Development Review on pages 36 to 54.
4.6 Research and development Group companies continue to be actively involved in research and development projects in the areas of mineral extraction, processing and refining.
4.7 Policy on the payment of creditors The Company complies with, and has registered its support of, the Better Payment Practice Code, available from the Better Payment Practice Group website, www.
The Company has a consistent policy and practice of paying its bills in accordance with contracts by settling the terms of payment with its suppliers when agreeing the terms of each transaction, either by accepting suppliers standard terms of payment or by proposing alternative terms but, in either case, then abiding by the agreed payment terms.
Trade creditors of the Company at 30 September 2010 represented 7 days 2009 11 days of its annual purchases.
4.8 Charitable and political donations No political donations were made during the year.
Lonmin has an established policy of not making donations to any political party, representative or candidate in any part of the world.
Charitable donations made by the Group during the year in the United Kingdom amounted to 35,500 $55,117 2009 34,659 $50,868.
During the year, the Group funded a number of long term social welfare and community development projects in Southern Africa.
The Groups funding for these projects for the year amounted to R1.3 million $0.2 million 2009 R4 million $0.5 million.
These amounts are in addition to amounts expensed by the Group as the normal costs of the operation of its corporate social responsibility programme.
A fuller explanation of this expenditure will be contained in the Sustainable Development Report for the year ended 30 September 2010 which can be downloaded from the Companys website.
4.9 Share capital and reserves The issued share capital of the Company at 30 September 2010 is set out in note 26 to the accounts.
The rights and obligations attaching to the Companys ordinary shares and the provisions relating to the transfer of the ordinary shares are governed by law and the Companys Articles of Association.
The holders of ordinary shares are entitled to receive all shareholder documents, to receive notice of any general meeting, to attend, speak and exercise voting rights, either in person or by proxy and are entitled to participate in any distribution of income or capital.
There are no restrictions on the transfer of shares or on the exercise of voting rights attached to them except where the Company has exercised its rights to suspend voting rights or to prohibit transfer.
The share capital comprises 50,000 sterling deferred shares of 1 each in addition to the ordinary shares of $1 each, which were created in 2002 and issued to a nominee company by the capitalisation of reserves, in order to comply with the requirement that a public limited company must have a minimum share capital of 50,000.
These shares do not rank pari passu with the ordinary shares of the Company.
The holders of such shares are not entitled to receive notice of any general meeting or to attend, speak or vote at such meeting, nor are they entitled to participate in any distribution of income or capital.
The Company has established an employee benefit trust, the Lonmin Employee Share Trust, to facilitate various employee share schemes.
The trustee, who is independent of the Company, does not seek to exercise voting rights on the ordinary shares held in trust, and a dividend waiver is in place in respect of shares which are the beneficial property of the trust.
The total share capital and reserves attributable to the Group amounted to $2,709 million at 30 September 2010.
68 Directors Report Governance Directors Report Business Review Financial Statements Operating Statistics Shareholder Information 2010 Annual Report and Accounts Lonmin Plc DIRECTORS REPORT GOVERNANCE 4.
The Companys business and statutory disclosures continued 4.10 Use of authorities granted at the 2010 Annual General Meeting At the AGM held on 28 January 2010, shareholders approved an authority for the Company to make market purchases of its own shares, up to a maximum of 19,308,000 shares being approximately 10% of the issued share capital at prices not less than the nominal value of each share being $1 and not exceeding 105% of the average mid-market price for the preceding five business days.
The Company made no purchases of its own shares during the year and no shares were acquired by forfeiture or surrender or made subject to a lien or charge.
During the year, the Company allotted 9,238,185 ordinary shares of $1 each, for cash, following the placing to partfinance the Shanduka transaction, to satisfy the exercise of options or the vesting of awards granted under the Companys employee share schemes and to provide the Companys employee benefit trust with sufficient shares to meet its obligations in connection with employees share schemes.
4.11 Amendment of the Articles of Association The Companys Articles of Association may only be amended by a special resolution at a general meeting of the shareholders.
4.12 Essential contractual arrangements Certain Group companies are party to contracts and other arrangements which the Board judges are essential to the business of the Company.
For any mining company, its mineral rights and mining licences are of crucial importance and therefore the New Order Mining Licence granted by the South African governments Department of Mineral Resources to certain Group companies in respect of the Marikana operations falls into this category, as do the old order mining rights in respect of the Limpopo operations and the various prospecting rights held by Group companies.
The remaining essential contractual arrangements can be summarised as follows: Contracts for the purchase of inputs while most of the supplies needed to operate the Groups mines and refining facilities are secured through competitive tendering in the open market, the Group is heavily dependent on Eskom for the supply of electricity, and Rand Water in respect of the supply of water.
Financing arrangements the Company and Group have a number of bank facilities which we believe could be replaced in the open market.
Contracts relating to labour and services the principal arrangements essential to our business are collective agreements with trade unions representing the majority of the Groups employees, most notably with the National Union of Mineworkers in South Africa.
Contracts for the sale of goods certain Group companies are party to separate contracts with BASF and Mitsubishi, under which substantially the whole of the Groups production of finished PGMs for the period under review was sold.
4.13 Significant Agreements change of control A number of agreements take effect, alter or terminate upon a change of control of the Company following a takeover bid, such as debt facilities and employee share plans.
None of these are deemed to be significant except for the Companys banking facilities in the amount of $888 million spread across three separate facilities with the counterparties generally being syndicates of different banks.
These facilities contain provisions under which, in the event that new terms to continue the facility are not agreed within 25 days of a change of control, the lender is entitled to give notice cancelling the facility and declaring all outstanding loans together with accrued interest to become payable within 15 days of such notice.
The Company does not have agreements with any Director or employee that would provide compensation for loss of office or employment resulting from a takeover except that certain provisions in some of the Companys share schemes may be triggered.
These are briefly described below and further information on these schemes and on the Directors service agreements can be found in the Remuneration Committee report on pages 78 to 95.
Awards made under the Stay & Prosper Plan crystallise immediately following a change of control, although they only vest and become payable on their normal maturity date three years from the date of grant and subject generally to continued employment of the participant.
Directors of the Company are not permitted to hold awards under this Plan.
Awards under the remainder of the share plans will vest to the extent specified by the Remuneration Committee, who will generally take into account the extent to which the performance targets have been met and such other factors as they believe to be appropriate in line with the rules of the relevant plans.
Accountability and Audit 5.1 What are the Directors responsibilities in this area?
The Directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Report and Accounts and the Group and parent company financial statements in accordance with applicable law and regulations.
Company law requires the Directors to prepare Group and parent company financial statements for each financial year.
Under that law, they are required to prepare the Group financial statements in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards as adopted by the EU IFRSs and applicable law and they have elected to prepare the parent company financial statements in accordance with the UK Accounting Standards and applicable law UK Generally Accepted Accounting Practice.
Under company law the directors must not approve the financial statements unless they are satisfied that they give a true and fair view of the state of affairs of the group and parent company and of their profit or loss for that period.
In preparing each of the Group and parent Company financial statements, the Directors are required to: select and maintain suitable accounting policies and then apply them consistently: make judgments and estimates that are reasonable and prudent: for the Group financial statements, state whether they have been prepared in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the EU: for the parent Company financial statements, state whether applicable UK Accounting Standards have been followed, subject to any material departures disclosed and explained in the parent company financial statements: and prepare the financial statements on the going concern basis unless it is inappropriate to presume that the Group and the parent Company will continue in business.
The Directors are responsible for keeping adequate accounting records that are sufficient to show and explain the parent Companys transactions and disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the financial position of the parent Company and enable them to ensure that its financial statements comply with the Companies Act 2006.
They have general responsibility for taking such steps as are reasonably open to them to safeguard the assets of the Group and to prevent and detect fraud and other irregularities.
Under applicable law and regulations, the Directors are also responsible for preparing a Directors Report, Directors Remuneration Report and Corporate Governance Statement that complies with that law and those regulations.
The Directors are responsible for the maintenance and integrity of the corporate and financial information included on the Companys website.
Legislation in the UK governing the preparation and dissemination of financial statements may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
The Directors Responsibility Statement can be found on page 97.
5.2 How have the Directors discharged their responsibilities in this area?
The Lonmin Group financial statements are presented in accordance with the IFRSs as adopted by the EU.
The Group adopted the US Dollar as its reporting currency in 1998.
Details of the Groups financial risk management are described in the Financial Review on pages 20 to 27 and in the Statement on Internal Controls and Risk Management on pages 28 to 33.
The Directors consider that the Group has adequate financial resources to continue operating for the foreseeable future and that it is, therefore, appropriate to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the financial statements.
The Directors have satisfied themselves that the Group is in a sound financial position and that it has access to sufficient borrowing facilities and can reasonably expect those facilities to be available to meet the Groups foreseeable cash requirements.
Please refer to the going concern disclosure in the Financial Review on pages 20 to 27.
5.3 Relationships with the external auditors The external auditors are appointed by shareholders to provide an opinion on the financial statements and certain other disclosures prepared by the Directors.
KPMG Audit plc acted as the external auditors to the Lonmin Group throughout the year.
The lead audit partner is based in London and supported by an audit partner based in Johannesburg.
As required under section 418 of the Companies Act 2006, so far as each current Director is aware, there is no information relevant to the audit of which the Companys auditors are unaware, and each Director has taken all the steps that he or she ought to have taken as a Director to make himself or herself aware of any such information and to ensure that the Companys auditors are aware of that information.
A resolution for the re-appointment of KPMG Audit Plc as auditors of the Company will be proposed at the AGM.
The Audit and Risk Committee 6.1 What is the role of the Audit and Risk Committee?
The Audit and Risk Committee is a formal Committee of the Board and has powers delegated to it under the Articles of Association.
Its terms of reference were last reviewed by the Board in January 2007 and are compliant with the provisions of the Combined Code.
A copy of the terms of reference is available on the Companys website and sets out the primary purposes of the Audit and Risk Committee, which are: To monitor the integrity of the Companys financial statements and announcements relating to its financial performance and reviewing significant financial reporting judgements: To keep under review the effectiveness of the Companys internal controls and risk management systems: To monitor the effectiveness of the internal audit function and review its material findings: and To oversee the relationship with the external auditors, including agreeing their remuneration and terms of engagement, monitoring their independence, objectivity and effectiveness and ensuring that policy surrounding their engagement to provide non-audit services is appropriately applied.
70 Directors Report Governance Directors Report Business Review Financial Statements Operating Statistics Shareholder Information 2010 Annual Report and Accounts Lonmin Plc DIRECTORS REPORT GOVERNANCE 6.
The Audit and Risk Committee continued 6.1 What is the role of the Audit and Risk Committee?
continued The Committee is authorised to investigate any matters within its terms of reference, access all Group documents and information, seek information from any Director or employee of the Group and co-opt any resources including external professional assistance it sees fit in order to fulfil its duties.
However, the Committee has no executive function and its primary objective is to review and challenge rather than assume responsibility for any matters within its remit.
Minutes of all meetings of the Committee save those recording private discussions with either the internal or external auditors are circulated to all Directors and supplemented by a written or verbal update from the Committee Chairman at the next Board meeting, identifying any matters in respect of which action or improvement is required and making recommendations where appropriate.
The Committee presents a summary of its activities to shareholders and other interested parties by means of this report and the Committee Chairman attends general meetings of the Companys shareholders to answer any questions on the Committees activities.
6.2 Who are the members of the Audit and Risk Committee?
All independent Directors, with the exception of the Chairman of the Board, are eligible to become members of the Committee, which comprised the following members, any two of whom form a quorum, during the year and to the date of this report.
All members of the Committee must be financially literate.
Michael Hartnall: an independent Director and a chartered accountant, Mr Hartnall was formerly the finance director of Rexam, a multinational manufacturer of consumer packaging and is currently a non-executive Director of BAE Systems, where he chairs the audit committee.
He was also a member of the Hampel Committee which produced the first version of the Combined Code in 1998.
He joined the Committee as its chairman in 2003 and the Board has judged that he has the significant, recent and relevant financial experience necessary to chair the Committee.
Len Konar: an independent Director who joined the Committee in March 2010.
Dr Konar has a strong accounting background, having previously been professor in and head of the Department of Accountancy at the University of Durban-Westville.
He has extensive knowledge of local business practices in Southern Africa, serving on the audit committees of a number of leading South African companies, many of which he chairs.
Karen fide Segundo: an independent Director and a member of the Audit and Risk Committee since 2005.
Jim Sutcliffe: an independent Director who joined the Committee in 2007.
Mr Sutcliffe is also a director of the Financial Reporting Council.
Biographical details of each Director are set out on page 57 of this document.
Each member receives an annual fee of 10,000 for serving as a member of the Committee, or 17,500 in the case of the Chairman.
These fees are included in the table of Directors remuneration on page 87.
All members of the Committee are provided with appropriate induction into the role of the Committee and the operation of its terms of reference on appointment.
Access to training is provided on an ongoing basis to ensure that members are able to discharge their duties.
Meetings of the Committee are attended by the Chief Executive Officer, Chief Financial Officer, Chief Financial Officer South Africa, VP Finance UK, VP Treasury and Risk, Head of Internal Audit and the Assistant Company Secretary who acts as secretary to the Committee, none of whom do so as of right.
The internal and external auditors attend Committee meetings and a private meeting is routinely held with each of them to afford the opportunity of discussions without the presence of management.
6.3 How often did the Committee meet, and who attended?
The Committee met five times during the year.
Attendance at these meetings was as follows: Number of meetings Number of Director held during time in office meetings attended Michael Hartnall 55 Len Konar 33 Karen fide Segundo 55 Jim Sutcliffe 55 6.4 What did the Audit and Risk Committee do during the year?
The principal business of these meetings was: November: Review of the annual reporting documents including the accounts and consideration of whether to recommend the same to the Board: Assessment of any material exercises of judgement by management: Consideration of the going concern statement: Consideration of the letter of representation from management to the external auditors relating to the accounts: Review of report from the external auditors following their review of the full year accounts: Review of non audit services provided by the external auditors during the year and approval of the fees for the year: Evaluate the independence, objectivity and effectiveness of the external auditors and agree to recommend to the Board the external auditors reappointment: Private meeting with the external auditors: Review of the effectiveness of internal controls and risk management systems during the year, as prepared by management: Review of a report on the internal controls environment prepared by the external auditors: Review of feedback from management confirmation letters completed by senior management: Review of matters reported to the external whistleblowing hotline.
The Audit and Risk Committee continued 6.4 What did the Audit and Risk Committee do during the year?
continued March in South Africa : Review of matters arising from the prior year audit: Review of external auditors plan for the half year review and full year audit and approve the fees and engagement letter for the same: Review of internal audit report including an overview of performance against the internal audit plan for the year: Review of outstanding internal and external audit points: Private meeting with the internal auditors: Review of risk management report including results of the bottom-up and top-down risk reviews: Follow up of feedback from management confirmation letters completed by senior management.
May: Review of interim report including the accounts and agree to recommend the same to the Board: Review and approval of the Q2 production report: Assessment of any material exercises of judgement by management: Consideration of the letter of representation from management to the external auditors relating to the interim accounts: Review of report from the external auditors following their review of the interim accounts: Private meeting with the external auditors: Review of risk management report: Review of outstanding internal and external audit points: Review of non audit services provided by the external auditors year to date: Review of tax update report: Receive an update on the insurance renewal.
September in South Africa : Review of internal audit report including an update on outstanding internal and external audit points: Approval of the scope and focus of the internal audit programme and internal audit budget for the forthcoming financial year: Review of external auditors plan for the year end audit: Review of non audit services provided by the external auditors during the year and approve fees for the full year audit: Review of a report on the internal controls environment prepared by the external auditors: Review of risk management report including key risks facing the Group following top down and bottom up risk reviews and assessment of internal control framework: Review of feedback on issues identified during the prior years Management Confirmation Letter: Review and approval of the renewal terms and scope of cover of the Groups insurance programme: Review of matters reported to the external whistleblowing hotline: Review of matters reported to the investigations department: and Consideration of the effectiveness of the internal auditors.
The other scheduled meeting was held solely to approve the Q3 production report which incorporated the Companys interim management statement.
In addition to the routine business described above, the Committee also undertook the following activities during the year and in the period to the date of this report: Review of accounting and tax issues associated with the placement of new ordinary shares in relation to the Shanduka transaction: Review of FRC consultation document on Guidance for Audit Committees in relation to non audit services provided by the external auditors: Review and approval of policy to obtain services from the external auditors: Review of accounting issues in relation to depreciation and amortisation: and Analysis of the alignment between risk and internal audit.
The Board appointed an external consultant to facilitate the Board members evaluation of the effectiveness of the Board and its Committees.
This entailed a series of one to one meetings with each of the Directors and by observing meetings in session.
There were no material issues raised in, or actions resulting from, this review in relation to either the Audit and Risk Committee or its Chairman.
6.6 How does the Company address internal audit?
The Head of Internal Audit reports to the Chairman of the Audit and Risk Committee, with a joint reporting line with effect from 1 October to the CFO previously to the VP, Treasury and Risk.
He is supported by an internal audit department comprising four in-house auditors and PwC who provide specialist services in connection with matters such as IT security and treasury.
A total of 47 assignments were undertaken during the year across a broad cross-section of activities identified by both management and the Committee, and which align with the principal risks faced by the Company.
Internal audit reports are reviewed with operational management and then delivered to the executive management team, including the Chief Financial Officer.
Material findings and recommendations are summarised to the Committee, who receive regular updates on progress in addressing the matters raised by internal audits.
All audit close-out action points are recorded on a database which is monitored regularly to ensure that there is full accountability for implementation.
72 Directors Report Governance Directors Report Business Review Financial Statements Operating Statistics Shareholder Information 2010 Annual Report and Accounts Lonmin Plc DIRECTORS REPORT GOVERNANCE 6.
The Audit and Risk Committee continued 6.6 How does the Company address internal audit?
continued The Head of Internal Audit is also responsible for the Companys whistle-blowing programme and heads up the investigations unit comprising ten investigators.
A review of the effectiveness of the internal audit function was carried out during the year by way of a questionnaire completed by relevant members of the senior management team and the external auditors.
Having considered the results of this survey and a number of other factors, including the communication and impartiality of the internal audit function, the Committee concluded that the internal audit function was in all respects effective.
6.7 How does the Committee manage the external auditors?
The Audit and Risk Committee is responsible for oversight of the external auditors including approving the annual work plan and fee budget.
The Committee believes that in certain areas it is appropriate, timely and cost effective to engage the external audit firm to deliver certain services as this enables us to benefit from their understanding of the Group.
The Company recently updated its policy the Audit Engagement Policy, available on the Companys website on the use of the external auditors to provide such services.
Under this policy, the external auditors are not permitted to perform any work that they may subsequently need to audit or which might otherwise either create a conflict of interests or affect the auditors objectivity and independence.
The Committee monitors the balance between audit, audit related and non-audit spend to ensure that auditor independence is maintained.
The policy provides for the following annual authorisation limits: Audit related services Non audit services Chief Financial Officer $200,000 $100,000 Chairman of the Audit and Risk Committee $500,000 $250,000 Audit and Risk Committee $500,000 $250,000 Fees for non-audit services incurred during the year amounted to $0.1 million 2009 $0.6 million representing 5% of the audit and audit related fees.
Note 4 provides a breakdown of this expenditure.
The Committee is satisfied that the overall levels of audit related and non-audit fees are not material relative to the income of the external audit offices and firm as a whole, and that the nature of the services provided are appropriate and in line with the Companys policy in this area.
The Audit and Risk Committee appraised the performance, independence and objectivity of KPMG and also reviewed their effectiveness as external auditors.
The Committee also considered the external auditors compliance with relevant regulatory, ethical and professional guidance on the rotation of partners, as well as assessing its qualifications, expertise and resources.
A report from the external auditors on their own internal quality procedures was also considered.
The Committee concluded that the external auditors were effective and has recommended to the Board that their re-election should be proposed to shareholders.
Nomination Committee 7.1 What is the role of the Nomination Committee?
The Nomination Committee is a formal Committee of the Board and has powers delegated to it under the Articles of Association.
Its remit is set out in terms of reference that were formally adopted by the Board in November 2006.
These are available from the Company and are displayed on the website.
The primary purposes of the Committee are: To ensure that a regular, rigorous and objective evaluation of the structure, size, composition, balance of skills, knowledge and experience of the Board is undertaken: To recommend any proposed changes to the composition of the Board and to instigate and manage the recruitment process: To ensure the Companys adherence to applicable legal and regulatory requirements in relation to the above: and To oversee compliance with the Combined Code and other applicable corporate governance regulations.
7.2 Who are the members of the Nomination Committee?
All of the Non-executive Directors are members of the Committee save for Cyril Ramaphosa, whose counsel would be sought whenever appropriate.
The Chairman of the Board chairs the Committee, except when matters pertaining to himself or his successor are under consideration.
Similarly, if the matter under discussion is in relation to his own position, that Nonexecutive Director would recuse himself.
The quorum for a meeting of the Committee is two members.
The members of the Committee are considered to be wholly independent.
Each member receives an annual fee of 7,500 and the Chairman 12,500.
These fees are included in the table of Non-executive Directors remuneration on page 87.
The Committee is supported by the services of the Company Secretary who acts as secretary to the Committee and it has full access to the Chief Executive Officer.
It is also empowered to appoint search consultants, legal, tax and other professional advisors as it sees fit to assist with its work and to co-opt such resources as it requires in fulfilling its duties.
Nomination Committee continued 7.3 How often did the Committee meet, and who attended?
The Committee met four times during the year.
Attendance at these meetings was as follows: Number of meetings Number of Director held during time in office meetings attended Peter Godsoe 11 Sivi Gounden 00 Michael Hartnall 43 Len Konar 22 Jonathan Leslie 43 David Munro 43 Roger Phillimore 44 Karen fide Segundo 44 Jim Sutcliffe 44 7.4 What did the Nomination Committee do during the year?
During the year, the Committee undertook the following: Reviewed the Committees report within the Annual Report and Accounts and recommended approval of this to the Board: Evaluated the effectiveness of David Munro and Jim Sutcliffe, both of whom retired by rotation and Jonathan Leslie, who was appointed during the year, concluding that they were able, committed and effective in their roles and had sufficient time to fulfil their duties: Considered the re-election of Roger Phillimore who, having been re-elected the prior year for a one year term only, was invited to stand for re-election for a three year term in accordance with the Companys Articles of Association: Reviewed the composition of the Board resulting in the subsequent appointment of Len Konar: Following his nomination by Shanduka, recommended the appointment of Cyril Ramaphosa to the Board: Considered the succession issues arising from Alan Fergusons decision not to relocate to South Africa and implemented a formal process to search for his successor, culminating in the appointment of Simon Scott: and Approved the appointment of Mahomed Seedat as a non-independent Non-executive Director with effect from 1 January 2011.
None of the Directors played any part in the discussion concerning themselves.
The Committee reports its material findings and decisions to the next Board meeting and copies of the minutes are circulated to all Directors.
7.5 What is the policy on appointments to the Board?
All recommendations for Board appointments are made on merit and against objective criteria and take into account the benefits of diversity.
A job specification is drawn up which includes, in the case of non-executive appointments, an estimate of the time commitment required.
Generally, the Committee will engage executive search consultants to assist in ensuring a comprehensive listing of potential candidates from a range of backgrounds for the Committees consideration.
The effectiveness of the Committee and its Chairman was considered by the Board as part of the  evaluation of the Board undertaken during the year.
This involved a series of one to one meetings with each of the Directors and by observing various meetings in session.
There were no material issues raised in, or actions resulting from, this review in relation to either the Nomination Committee or its Chairman.
74 Directors Report Governance Directors Report Business Review Financial Statements Operating Statistics Shareholder Information 2010 Annual Report and Accounts Lonmin Plc DIRECTORS REPORT GOVERNANCE 8.
Safety and Sustainability Committee 8.1 What is the role of the Safety and Sustainability Committee?
The Safety and Sustainability Committee is a formal committee of the Board and has powers delegated to it under the Articles of Association.
Its terms of reference were most recently reviewed by the Board in March 2008 and are available on the Companys website.
The primary purposes of the Committee are: To have oversight of and provide advice to the Board and, as necessary to the Audit and Risk Committee, on safety and sustainability including health, environment and community matters, and particularly as pertaining to the risk and management of these issues within the Group: To have oversight of and provide advice to the Board on the Groups compliance with applicable legal and regulatory requirements associated with safety and sustainability: To assess the effectiveness of managements attitudes and approach towards, and activities in, managing safety and sustainability related risk: To assess periodically the effectiveness of the Groups policies, standards and systems for identifying and managing safety and sustainability related risk: To review significant safety and environmental incidents and consider causative factors, consequences and actions including the impact on employees and third parties and reputational risk: To review the Groups performance indicators in connection with safety and sustainability matters: To review the Groups public disclosures on safety and sustainability matters and approve these as necessary: and To report to the Board on developments, trends and or forthcoming significant legislation on safety and sustainability matters which may be relevant to the Groups operations, its assets or employees.
The Committee is authorised by the Board to investigate any matter within its terms of reference, to seek any relevant information that it requires from any Director or employee of the Group and to co-opt any resources it may require to undertake its duties.
The Committee is also authorised to obtain independent legal or other professional advice if it considers this necessary.
In line with the other Committees of the Board, the Safety and Sustainability Committee does not have any executive power and the Directors and operational managers retain their full responsibility and accountability for the management of safety and sustainability matters in the Group.
Minutes of all meetings of the Committee are circulated to all Directors and supplemented by a verbal update from the Committees Chairman at the next Board meeting, identifying any material matters which arose from the Committees work.
The Committee presents a summary of its activities to shareholders and other interested parties by means of this section of the Directors Report.
More detailed information concerning the Groups sustainability related activities is set out on pages 36 to 54, and in the Companys Sustainable Development Report, which can be downloaded from the Companys website.
8.2 Who are the members of the Safety and Sustainability Committee?
The terms of reference for this Committee require a minimum of two independent Non-executive Directors, one of whom shall be the Chairman of the Committee, and one Executive Director.
The Board may, on the recommendation of the Nomination Committee, appoint or remove members of the Committee, subject to there being at least three members at all times.
At the request of the Committees Chairman, the Chief Operating Officer, the Executive Vice President Processing who is responsible for safety and sustainability issues for the Group and the Assistant Company Secretary who acts as Secretary to the Committee attend all meetings of the Committee.
The Committee comprised the following members during the year and to the date of this report, except where stated otherwise: Jonathan Leslie: an independent Non-executive Director who joined the Board in June 2009, joined the Safety and Sustainability Committee in July 2009 and was subsequently appointed its Chairman on 16 October 2009.
Mr Leslie has significant experience of the mining industry, having spent twenty six years with Rio Tinto in a variety of operational management roles.
Ian Farmer: an Executive Director and Chief Executive Officer of the Company who has been a member of the Committee since September 2008.
David Munro: an independent Non-executive Director who joined the Board in August 2007 and was appointed to the Safety and Sustainability Committee in September 2007.
Mr Munro is a mining engineer with significant experience of the mining industry internationally, including many years working in South Africa.
Karen fide Segundo: an independent Non-executive Director who has been a member of the Committee since January 2007.
She has more than 30 years executive experience of the natural resources sector, including appointments as CEO of Shells global Gas & Power business unit and of Shell International Renewables.
Sivi Gounden: an independent Non-executive Director who was Chairman of the Committee until he resigned as a Director on 16 October 2009.
Biographical details of each of the Directors are set out on page 57.
Each of the Non-executive Directors on this Committee receives an annual fee of 7,500 for serving as a member or, in the case of the Chairman, 12,500.
These fees are included in the table of Non-executive Directors remuneration on page 87 of this document.
Members are also offered opportunities to visit the operations and community projects with which the Company is involved.
Safety and Sustainability Committee continued 8.3 How often did the Committee meet and who attended?
Attendance at these meetings was as follows: Number of meetings Number of Director held during time in office meetings attended Ian Farmer 44 Sivi Gounden 00 Jonathan Leslie 44 David Munro 44 Karen fide Segundo 44 8.4 What did the Safety and Sustainability Committee do during the year?
The principal business at these meetings was: November: Review of safety statistics and trend analysis: Review of environmental statistics and trend analysis: Report from external auditors following their assurance review of selected data in the Sustainable Development Reports: Review and approve the summary and full Sustainable Development Reports and recommend the same to the Board: Review and approve the Committees report contained within the Annual Report and Accounts and recommend the same to the Board.
March South Africa : Review of safety statistics and trend analysis: Review of environmental statistics and trend analysis: Review of health indicators and update on community health issues: Review Social and Labour Plan commitments.
June: Review of safety statistics and trend analysis: Review of environmental statistics and trend analysis: Review of health indicators and update on community health issues: Review Social and Labour Plan commitments: Approve the external auditors letter of engagement in relation to the summary and full Sustainable Development Reports: Review principal sustainability related risks.
September in South Africa : Review of safety statistics and trend analysis: Review of environmental statistics and trend analysis: Review of health indicators and update on community health issues: Review Social and Labour Plan commitments.
In addition to the routine business described above, the Committee also undertook the following activities during the year and in the period to the date of this report: Review ICAM reports on all serious environmental and safety incidents, including fatalities an ICAM being a detailed analysis of factors contributing to an incident and the corrective and preventative measures taken to prevent recurrence presented by the executive and senior manager responsible for the relevant parts of the Groups business: Review feedback from safety maturity audit: Review report considering environmental, political and legal impact of climate change: Review proposed regulations in relation to platinum salt sensitivity and actions to attain compliance: Consider future sustainability reporting and assurance requirements: Review housing strategy and visit local converted hostel: and Review close out report on community programme operated in conjunction with the International Finance Corporation.
The Board undertook an  evaluation of the effectiveness of the Board and its Committees during the year.
There were no material issues raised in, or actions resulting from, this review in relation to either the Safety and Sustainability Committee or its Chairman.
76 Directors Report Governance Directors Report Business Review Financial Statements Operating Statistics Shareholder Information 2010 Annual Report and Accounts Lonmin Plc DIRECTORS REPORT GOVERNANCE 9.
Transformation Committee As noted in section 2.10, in November 2010 the Board created a Transformation Committee to oversee the delivery of the Groups obligations under its Social and Labour Plans and other empowerment objectives.
The composition and terms of reference of this committee will be finalised by early 2011.
Executive Committee The members of the Executive Committee are the Executive Directors and key senior executives as set out on page 58.
The members include one nominee of Shanduka Resources, the Companys principal Black Economic Empowerment investor who has no executive responsibilities, but who participates fully in the Committees activities.
The Chief Executive Officer is Chairman of the Committee.
The Committee meets once every month and its responsibilities include the following key areas: Develop strategy for submission to the Board: Develop, implement and monitor the operational plans, policies, procedures and budgets: Review financial performance, forecasts and targets: Prioritise initiatives and allocate resource: Identify and drive efficiencies across the Group: Approve capital expenditure proposals within the authority levels delegated by the Board and otherwise recommend to Board: Develop and monitor the Groups policies and practices in respect of health, safety and environmental matters taking into account legal requirements, regulations and best practice: Review ICAM findings for all serious incidents: Oversee risk management including identifying risks and developing and implementing risk mitigation plans: Develop and monitor the internal control environment: and Develop and implement Group wide evaluation, training, reward and remuneration practices and manage wage negotiations benefits with unions.
Operations Committee The members of the Operations Committee are the members of the Executive Committee and a wider group of around 25 operational and functional executives and senior managers across the Group.
The Chief Operating Officer is Chairman of the Operations Committee.
The Committee meets once every month and its primary responsibilities are to: Assess operational and financial performance across the business including mining, processing, technical services, human capital, safety, environment and health: Monitor progress of various initiatives: and Provide a forum to debate business issues between various parts of the business value chain.
Price and Risk Committee The Price and Risk Committee is chaired by the Chief Executive Officer and the members are the Chief Financial Officer, Chief Commercial Officer, VP Treasury & Risk, VP Finance UK, CFO SA and the Executive Manager, Marketing.
The primary purpose of this Committee is to review and agree proposals in relation to the forward sale of by-products, for example nickel and copper.
The Committee meets as and when required.
For and on behalf of the Board Rob Bellhouse Company Secretary 12 November 2010 www.
