22 Anglo American plc Annual Report 2010 OPERATING AND FINANCIAL REVIEW: Strategy in action continued organising eFFiCiently anD eFFeCtively asset optiMisation employing 2010 commodity prices and exchange rates.
This strong performance In 2010, we continued to reap the benefit was driven by increased volumes realised of our asset optimisation AO programme from the portfolio of projects and increased which continues to unlock value from our cost savings, with benefits from prior period existing assets across the Group.
initiatives being enhanced by higher market prices in 2010, partially offset by regional The AO agenda is designed around a currency strengths.
holistic approach to both the health skills development, mindsets and behaviours A further amount of $279 million was delivered and the performance cost and productivity from one-off projects during 2010. improvements of our operations.
It creates a business culture whereby employees can Similarly, our Other Mining and Industrial asset work in close collaboration with each other portfolio delivered $286 million in sustainable and where they are encouraged to come benefit and an additional $37million from forward with, and follow through on, initiatives one-off projects.
Driver operator Deoni Adams about to to improve our business.
continue her shift on a 280 tonne haul truck Business Unit $m at Kumbas Sishen iron ore mine.
482 Platinum A key feature of development within the programme during 2010 was the design, 316 Copper organising heavy piloting and introduction of a formalised 5 Nickel Mining eqUipMent internal Operation Review OR process.
236 Kumba Iron Ore 331 Metallurgical Coal Prior to Strategic Sourcing teams being The OR process, run entirely with internal 178 Thermal Coal mobilised, there was little comparative resources, combines the strength of our 1,548 information on fleet operating performance central technical capacity with our operational Total core assets and total cost information across the Group expertise from across the Group to create 286 Other Mining and Industrial for heavy mining equipment HME.
For a team focused on delivering value from 1,834 Total suppliers, working with Anglo American operational improvement.
meant managing multiple contracts and constituted in such a manner that the customer interfaces rather than a single company is able to leverage our global best We have now developed more than 600 relationship covering the entire Group.
practice across the Groups complete mining AOprojects.
These projects continue to be value chain.
The ORs apply a structured prioritised for resourcing and implementation The HME category team worked with our evaluation process in three functional areas: on a value adding basis.
business units cross-functional teams, operational improvement revenue as well as technical and continuous enhancement and cost reduction : technical improvement departments, to conduct assessment technical risk and adherence sUpply Chain Total Cost of Ownership benchmarking to technical standards : and a safety and and understand future demand plans.
This sustainable development assessment S&SD In February 2008, the Group set out a identified potential cost saving initiatives risks and value opportunities in order to programme to transform Anglo Americans and led to the development of a co-ordinated identify opportunities for value improvement.
procurement and supply chain operations category strategy for the Group.
The OR process assists operation managers globally, with the target of becoming the as well as business unit management, by industry leader and global benchmark for The team then conducted a supplier selection providing a framework against which identified supply chain value creation.
The aim is to process, which involved comparisons of value opportunities can be realised while create $1 billion of additional value by the end product life-cycle cost and supplier putting in place value enabling processes of 2011 through more effective management capabilities, and also efforts to gain a better to identify further possibilities for business of purchased materials and services.
The understanding of how aligned suppliers were improvement.
three main focus areas have been value to our values, including those relating to safety delivery, supplier relationship management, and sustainable development.
During 2010, ORs were conducted at Drayton and local procurement.
Metallurgical Coal, Greenside Thermal Through this process, the HME category Coal, Los Bronces Copper, Codemin In 2010, $800 million of procurement team was able to clearly identify the criteria Nickel and Mogalakwena Platinum.
benefits were delivered, of which $713 million needed to become our preferred supplier, were from core businesses.
Benefits as part of an overall global framework In 2010, $1,548 million of sustainable benefits comprised $552 million from operating profit agreement.
In future, the preferred supplier were delivered from our core businesses, and $248 million from capital spend.
The of HME equipment will be formally involved representing the additional operating profit substantial progress made in the past year has in both the Groups capital expenditure and realised in the year over and above the been the result of effective cross-functional capital project initiative planning.
performance expected had the programmes collaboration throughout the Group.
