18 Anglo American plc Annual Report 2010 OPERATING AND FINANCIAL REVIEW: Strategy in action continued investing in worlD Class assets the Most attraCtive CoMMoDities new Capital investMent Anglo American also reached agreement on a fixed 25-year iron ore port tariff with its port Anglo Americans pipeline of projects spans its partner, LLX SA, in relation to the LLX Minascore commodities and is expected to deliver Rio LLX MR iron ore port facility at Au.
The organic production growth of 50% by 2015. iron ore volumes associated with the first phase Our $70billion pipeline of more than 60 of the project will be subject to a net port tariff of projects has the potential to double the approximately $5.15 per tonne in 2013 terms production of the Group over the next decade.
after taking into account AngloAmericans shareholding in LLX MR $7.10 per tonne The Los Bronces copper expansion project gross.
As part of the agreement to secure the in Chile is on schedule for first production in long term tariff arrangements, Anglo American the fourth quarter of 2011.
Production at has agreed to fund a greater share of the LosBronces is scheduled to increase to development cost of the first phase of the 490ktpa over the first three years of full port.
This agreement is expected to result in production following project completion additional capital expenditure attributable to and to average 400 ktpa over the first 10 Anglo American of approximately $525 million years.
At peak production levels, LosBronces in relation to the port.
is expected to be the fifth largest producing copper mine in the world, with highly Studies for the expansion of the Minas-Rio attractive cash operating costs and reserves project have continued during 2010 and the and resources that support a mine life of over latest resource statement provides a total 30years, with further expansion potential.
resource volume Measured, Indicated and The Los Bronces copper expansion project Also within the Los Bronces district, work Inferred of 5.3 billion tonnes, supporting the in the Chilean Andes is due to come on continues on the exploration tunnel being expansion of the project.
The port tariff stream in the fourth quarter of 2011. constructed.
This tunnel will provide agreement also covers a long term tariff underground drilling access to explore and arrangement for all Anglo Americans iron ore define the resources at the very significant volumes beyond the first phase of the Minasinvesting in worlD and high quality new discovery at the Rio project.
The level of the expansion tariff will Class assets Los Sulfatos discovery.
be dependent upon the capital cost to expand the port to accommodate those additional Anglo Americans pipeline of projects will The Barro Alto nickel project in Brazil was 99% volumes and that capital cost will be deliver organic production growth of 50% complete at the year end and is on schedule to determined in due course.
by 2015. deliver first production in March 2011.
This project makes use of a proven technology and Kumba Iron Ores Kolomela project in South will produce an average of 36ktpa of nickel in Africa is well advanced and overall project full production 41 ktpa over the first five progress reached 81% at 31 December 2010. organiC proDUCtion growth years, with a competitive cost position.
The project remains on budget and on expeCteD By 2015 schedule to deliver initial production by the The Minas-Rio iron ore project in Brazil has end of the first half of 2012, ramping up to made significant progress and is expected to full capacity in 2013.
To date, 22.6 Mt of 50% produce 26.5 Mtpa of iron ore in its first phase.
waste material has been moved, 18.6 Mt The award of the second part of the mine, of it during 2010. beneficiation plant and tailings dam installation licence LI part 2 in December 2010 was the The Mogalakwena North project reached pipeline oF projeCts final primary installation licence and supports steady state during the third quarter of 2010 commencement of the civil works for the annual steady state 2011 and through beneficiation plant and tailings dam optimisation projects will continually produce construction: these works are expected to start 600 kt per month of ore. $ 70 bn in March 2011, after the rainy season.
This licence followed the award of the mining permit Dishaba East Upper project implementation in August.
It should take between 27 and 30 commenced in 2007 and is on schedule to months from commencement of these works reach steady state production of 100 kozpa to construct and commission the mine and of platinum by 2012. plant, complete the project and deliver the first ore on ship: however, there are still a number The concentrator at the Unki project in Zimbabwe of other licences and permits to be obtained was formally commissioned during the fourth during this period.
First production of refined metal from the mine is expected during the first quarter of 2011.
At full capacity, Unki will supply 70 kozpa of refined platinum, a run rate expected to be reached in 2013.
