Overview Operating and financial review Governance Financial statements Ore Reserves and Mineral Resources Other information 39 Anglo American plc Annual Report 2010 The ARNi pilot plant which was hot commissioned in January 2011 and will process approximately 30kg hr of nickel laterite feedstock sourced from the Jacar deposit in Pra state, Brazil.
portion is treated using the High Pressure process is that it is capable of regenerating anglo aMeriCan researCh Acid Leach HPAL process but this has the major reagents required in the process niCkel arni projeCt had a very low success rate to date.
The such as magnesia, sulphur dioxide and saprolite portion has been successfully hydrochloric acid.
The process has been Nickel is recovered from two major ore processed using the Rotary Kiln Electric successfully tested at mini-plant scale and types.
Sulphides, though only representing Furnace RKEF, but this remains an a larger, fully integrated pilot plant has now 30% of known resources, are the source of energyand capital-intensive process.
This plant was hot 70% of the worlds nickel: while laterites, commissioned in January 2011 and will which account for 70% of known resources, Any organisation that can develop a process approximately 30kg hr of laterite are responsible for the remaining 30% of methodology for treating the whole orebody feedstock sourced from the Jacar nickel global nickel output.
in a single, cost-effective process will have a deposit situated in Par state, Brazil.
It is significant competitive advantage.
To this anticipated that a pre-feasibility study will The widely held industry view is that the end, the ARNi process has been developed.
commence in late 2011 and a demonstration future of the nickel industry lies in the In this process, the limonite fraction is plant may be constructed at Barro Alto economic exploitation of laterite deposits.
leached at atmospheric pressure to dissolve during 2012 13 to thoroughly test and However, owing to the complex nature of nickel, cobalt and iron.
The saprolite material commercialise the process using both laterite deposits, which consist of weathered is then used as a primary neutralisation BarroAlto and Jacar ores.
iron-rich limonite and un-weathered agent, with the added benefit that additional magnesium-rich saprolite, there is currently nickel and cobalt are leached from the no commercial process that can treat the For more information on our Nickel business saprolite.
Another unique feature of the turn to page 66 entire orebody.
