Overview Operating and financial review Governance Financial statements Ore Reserves and Mineral Resources Other information 83 Anglo American plc Annual Report 2010 Improvements in coal recovery rates continued to contribute positively to all aspects of the operation.
Cerrejns in-pit mining initiatives have enabled the mine to cope with the unprecedented rainfall.
The 4% increase in total tonnage sold was partly due to the utilisation of the stockpile which had been built up over the previous dry periods.
Projects In South Africa, the $517 million Zibulo project is approaching completion, the opencast operation is at full production and the underground operation has four of eight production sections deployed.
The washing plant, which is a 50:50 joint venture with BHP Billiton Energy Coal South Africa, is fully commissioned and is operating at 80% of planned monthly production.
Completion of the man and materials shaft is expected to be in the second quarter of 2011.
The mining rights of Zibulo colliery and the environmental management plan were approved during 2010.
The feasibility study for the New Largo project started in 2010 and is expected to be completed in the first quarter of 2012.
Significant progress has been made to complete a provisional coal supply agreement with Eskom by the end of March 2011.
At Cerrejn, a two-phase growth strategy has been adopted and is currently being implemented.
The first phase, referred to as P500 Phase 1, requires an increase in the port and logistics chain capacity, while maintaining the current operational footprint, in order to reach a target of 40 Mtpa.
The second phase, referred to as P500 Phase 2, will require a river diversion and pit expansions to access the additional reserves required to reach a potential 50-60 Mtpa.
The feasibility study for Phase 1 was reviewed by the shareholder review teams towards the end of 2010.
A process is under way to address the findings of the review process.
The aim is to have the Phase 1 ready for approval by the shareholder boards towards the end of the second quarter of 2011.
Outlook Extreme wet weather, predominantly in Australia, Indonesia and Colombia, has significantly affected short term thermal coal availability and 2011 export prices are expected to trade in a range considerably above those prevailing during 2010.
Coal-train loaders Abiel Mula and France Thamaga at the load-out station at the Greenside export colliery.
