Overview Operating and financial review Governance Financial statements Ore Reserves and Mineral Resources Other information 41 Anglo American plc Annual Report 2010 nUMBer oF CoUntries where nUMBer oF line kiloMetres we are exploring Flown By speCtreM airBorne Excluding fide Beers eleCtroMagnetiC systeM in past 15 years 1 7 1.
4 m T Explor he ArNi pilot plant which w ation drilling in northern Finland as hot commissioned in January 2011 and will using an innovative closed drilling system.
process approximately 30kg hr of laterite feedstock sourced from the Jacare deposit in Para State, Brazil.
In the past 15 years, Spectrem Air has Technological innovation has also been saFe DisCovery flown more than 1.4 million line kilometres key for our Arctic projects in maintaining exploring for various commodities of their licence to operate.
In order to minimise The guiding vision of Anglo American interest for Anglo American and fide Beers, impact when drilling in environmentally Exploration is Safe Discovery the assisting in the discovery of a number of sensitive areas, the team worked together successful discovery of major new orebodies significant orebodies.
with a drilling partner to develop a closed in a safe and sustainable way.
To achieve this drilling system.
This is a recycling system vision, we couple traditional field work with The low temperature electromagnetic whereby all the cuttings ground-up rock innovative technologies to detect buried SQUID is a highly innovative exploration and water from the drill hole are captured mineralisation as well as developing new tool developed in co-operation with the and the cuttings are separated from the exploration technologies that minimise our Institute for Photonic Technologies IPHT, water in special tanks.
The cuttings go into overall environmental footprint.
a research institute in Jena, Germany.
plastic tubes, which are disposed of in SQUIDs are highly sensitive instruments established waste-management facilities The Spectrem airborne electromagnetic that can measure extremely weak and the water and drilling additives are system was developed by Anglo American electromagnetic fields.
To date, the low re-used for the drilling process.
Since the first Spectrem temperature SQUIDs have been utilised survey in 1989, exploration geophysical by Anglo American and IPHT in highly methodologies have evolved significantly: sensitive ground electromagnetic systems Spectrem, however has been able to which have been instrumental in three maintain its position as an industry leader mineral deposit discoveries.
Research is through ongoing R&D and constant currently investigating the use of these low improvements.
The system is a broadband temperature SQUIDs for the collection of time-domain electromagnetic system high resolution airborne magnetic and mounted in a modified DC3 aircraft which electromagnetic data.
can be used to directly detect mineralisation and produce high resolution maps.
