Overview Operating and financial review Governance Financial statements Ore Reserves and Mineral Resources Other information 65 Anglo American plc Annual Report 2010 Operating performance Higher power, labour, contractor, spares and Also in Peru, early-stage work continues at the fuel costs, coupled with a stronger peso and Michiquillay project.
The drilling relating to the Attributable production lower production levels, adversely impacted geological exploration programme will restart tonnes 2010 2009 unit operating costs, although their impact was once certain social agreement issues under Copper 623,300 669,800 partly offset by higher by-product revenues, discussion with the local communities have lower sulphuric acid prices and lower TC RCs, been resolved.
It is currently envisaged that the Total copper production of 623,300 tonnes in addition to benefits generated by asset project will move to the pre-feasibility stage was 7% lower than for the prior year, which optimisation and procurement initiatives.
once drilling analysis and orebody modelling with the exception of Collahuasi, was in line have been satisfactorily completed.
Projects The Los Bronces expansion project is on Activity at the Pebble project in Alaska Los Bronces production of 221,400 tonnes schedule for first production in the fourth continued during 2010, with the focus on was 7% lower than 2009s record production, quarter of 2011.
Production at Los Bronces engineering work to advance towards a principally due to, as forecast, lower throughput is scheduled to increase to 490 ktpa over the pre-feasibility study, further environmental as a result of harder ore and lower grades.
The first three years of full production following study work towards completion of an earthquake in February 2010 also had a small project completion and to average 400 ktpa environmental baseline document, and negative impact on production levels due to over the first 10 years.
At peak production additional geological exploration drilling.
power outages and the need to realign a SAG levels, Los Bronces is expected to be the The projects pre-feasibility study is expected mill.
Recoveries were marginally higher than fifth largest producing copper mine in the to be completed in 2012. the prior year.
world, with highly attractive cash operating costs, and reserves and resources that Outlook Collahuasi attributable production at 221,800 support a mine life of over 30 years, with Copper production is expected to increase tonnes was 6% lower than the record level further expansion potential.
Also within the during 2011, with the start-up of production achieved in 2009.
In addition to lower grades, LosBronces district, work continues on the from the expansion project at Los Bronces production was also impacted by an illegal exploration tunnel being constructed.
The in the fourth quarter of 2011, together with contractor strike in May, which had a negative tunnel will provide underground drilling improvements in plant throughput, and at impact of 5,000 tonnes, a 33-day strike in access to explore and define the resources ElSoldado due to a significant grade November during wage negotiations with at the LosSulfatos discovery.
improvement as the development phase of employees which reduced production by a the open pit mine nears completion.
A further further 5,000 tonnes, and a number of smaller At Collahuasi, the expansion project to step change in production will be seen in 2012, negative impacts on production relating to increase sulphide processing capacity to when the LosBronces expansion project unscheduled outages in the concentrator 150,000 tonnes of ore per day is scheduled reaches full capacity, delivering the targeted plant.
These were partly offset by targeted to be commissioned in the second half of economies of scale, driving unit costs down improvements and debottlenecking, which 2011.
In July 2010, Collahuasi announced the the industry cost curve and offsetting upward significantly improved throughput at the increase of its copper reserves and resources cost pressures expected to continue in 2011. concentrator plant.
In December 2010, a by 40%, or by more than 2 billion tonnes, to catastrophic failure occurred in the shiploader 7.1billion tonnes at 0.82% copper.
A concept The short to medium term outlook for the at Collahuasis Patache port.
Collahuasi is study to evaluate the next phases of copper price is robust, underpinned by healthy currently implementing a contingency plan expansion at Collahuasi, to ultimately increase demand growth, in particular from China and to ship copper out of alternative ports in production to at least 1Mt of copper per other industrialising countries, and insufficient Arica, Iquique and Antofagasta during the annum, is expected to be completed in the copper supply from existing mines and first quarter of 2011 whilst repairs are first quarter of 2011. planned projects.
Such conditions are being carried out.
The incident reduced expected to lead to a period of metal market AngloAmericans share of December sales Studies continue at both Mantos Blancos and deficits and dwindling inventories, by approximately 8,800 tonnes of copper Mantoverde to evaluate further extensions to exacerbated by the emergence of physically but did not impact production.
the lives of the operations.
During 2010, the life backed ETFs.
Copper is also expected to of Mantos Blancos was extended by five years benefit from continued investor interest in Mantos Blancos production of 78,600tonnes to 2020, and Mantoverde by two years to 2016. commodities as a new asset class.
While some was 13% lower, principally due to there being further price-induced substitution is expected no purchases of third party solutions from In Peru, the feasibility study for the Quellaveco to occur, this is not expected to be significant which the prior year had benefited, expected project is complete.
It is the intention to submit enough to undermine the other positives, lower grades and the impact of a conveyor the project for Board approval during 2011 certainly over the medium term.
failure in the first quarter.
At ElSoldado, once the necessary water permits have been production of 40,400 tonnes was 2% lower.
Some early works activity is under The impact of mining lower grade ore and way in order to maintain the project completion recovering low grade stockpiles was mostly date of late 2014. offset by additional copper recovered from processing slag from the Chagres smelter.
Production at both Mantoverde and the Chagres smelter were in line with 2009.
