Overview Operating and financial review Governance Financial statements Ore Reserves and Mineral Resources Other information 113 Anglo American plc Annual Report 2010 The Business Principles are supplemented politiCal donations additional information by four Anglo American Way documents, for shareholders covering the safety, environmental, No political donations were made during 2010. occupational health and social aspects Anglo American has an established policy of Set out below is a summary of certain of sustainable development.
These set not making donations to, or incurring expenses provisions of the Companys current Articles out specific standards for each of these for the benefit of, any political party in any part of Association the Articles and applicable subject areas.
of the world, including any political party or English law concerning companies the political organisation as defined in the Political Companies Act 2006 the Companies Act Copies of the Good Citizenship: Our Business Parties, Elections and Referendums Act 2000. required as a result of the implementation of Principles and the Anglo American Way the Takeovers Directive in English law.
This is documents are available from the Company a summary only and the relevant provisions of and may be accessed on the Companys annual general meeting the Articles or the Companies Act should be website at www.
com consulted if further information is required.
The AGM will be held on 21 April 2011 when The Business Integrity Policy and shareholders will have the opportunity to put Dividends and distributions Performance Standards set out how Group questions to the Board, including the chairmen Subject to the provisions of the Companies employees, business partners and major of the various committees.
A separate booklet Act, the Company may by ordinary resolution suppliers must act to ensure that our zero enclosed with this report contains the notice from time to time declare dividends not tolerance of corruption is upheld.
During 2010, convening the meeting together with a exceeding the amount recommended by the training was held at all Business Units for description of the business to be conducted.
The Board may pay interim dividends employees to embed knowledge of the policy whenever the financial position of the as well as the recently enacted UK Bribery Act Facilities have been put in place to enable Company, in the opinion of the Board, justifies and how to behave in corruption risk shareholders on the UK register to receive such payment.
This training will be ongoing and Company communications electronically mandatory for all senior levels and others rather than by mail and, for those unable to The Board may withhold payment of all or any where it is deemed appropriate.
attend the meeting, to cast their votes by part of any dividends or other monies payable electronic means, including those in respect of the Companys shares from a The Group has a well-used enterprise shareholders whose shares are held in the person with a 0.25% interest or more as information portal, theSource, which seeks to CREST system.
defined in the Articles if such a person has ensure that employees are regularly updated been served with a notice after failing to on developments within the Group, and In accordance with best practice, voting on provide the Company with information feedback is encouraged.
In addition, the each resolution to be proposed at the AGM concerning interests in those shares required Company regularly publishes Optima will be conducted on a poll rather than by to be provided under the Companies Act.
available on the Companys website and a show of hands.
The results of the poll will OurWorld, which contain items of news, be announced to the press and on the Rights and obligations attaching current affairs and information relevant to Companys website.
The rights and obligations attaching to the ordinary and preference shares are set out in eleCtroniC CommuniCations the Articles.
The Articles may only be changed CharitaBle donations by the shareholders by special resolution.
As a result of the implementation of the During the year, Anglo American, its electronic communications provisions in the Voting subsidiaries and the Anglo American Group Companies Act 2006, the Company has Subject to the Articles generally and to any Foundation made donations for charitable substantially reduced the cost of annual report special rights or restrictions as to voting purposes or wider social investments production and distribution.
Shareholders may attached by or in accordance with the Articles amounting to $111 million 1.31% of operating elect to receive notification by email of the to any class of shares, on a show of hands profit from subsidiaries and joint ventures.
availability of the annual report on the every member who is present in person at a Charitable donations of $0.8 million were Companys website instead of receiving general meeting shall have one vote and, on a made in the UK, of which the main categories paper copies.
poll, every member who is present in person were: education and training 43% and or by proxy shall have one vote for every share community development 39%.
These of which he she is the holder.
It is, and has figures were compiled with reference to the been for some years, the Companys practice London Benchmarking Group model for to hold a poll on every resolution at defining and measuring social investment shareholder meetings.
A fuller analysis of the Groups social investment activities can be found in the Sustainable Development Report 2010.
114 Anglo American plc Annual Report 2010 GovernAnce: Directors report continued Where shares are held by trustees nominees Shares in uncertificated form Transfer of shares in respect of the Groups employee share Directors may determine that any class of All transfers of shares which are in plans and the voting rights attached to such shares may be held in uncertificated form and certificated form may be effected by transfer shares are not directly exercisable by the title to such shares may be transferred by in writing in any usual or common form or in employees, it is the Companys practice that means of a relevant system or that shares of any other form acceptable to the directors such rights are not exercised by the relevant any class should cease to be so held and and may be under hand only.
Subject to the provisions of the of transfer shall be signed by or on behalf of Companies Act, the CREST Regulations and the transferor and except in the case of Under the Companies Act, members are every other statute, statutory instrument, fully-paid shares by or on behalf of the entitled to appoint a proxy, who need not be a regulation or order for the time being in force transferee.
The transferor shall remain the member of the Company, to exercise all or any concerning companies and affecting the holder of the shares concerned until the name of their rights to attend and to speak and vote Company together, the Statutes, the of the transferee is entered in the register.
All on their behalf at a general meeting or class directors may determine that any class of transfers of shares which are in uncertificated meeting.
A member may appoint more than shares held on the branch register of form may be effected by means of the one proxy in relation to a general meeting or members of the Company resident in South CREST system.
class meeting provided that each proxy is Africa or any other overseas branch register of appointed to exercise the rights attached to a the members of the Company may be held in The directors may decline to recognise any different share or shares held by that member.
uncertificated form in accordance with any instrument of transfer relating to shares in A member that is a corporation may appoint system outside the UK which enables title to certificated form unless it: one or more individuals to act on its behalf at a such shares to be evidenced and transferred a is in respect of only one class of share: and general meeting or class meeting as a without a written instrument and which is a corporate representative.
The debate around relevant system.
The provisions of the Articles b is lodged at the transfer office duly s323 of the Companies Act has been resolved shall not apply to shares of any class which are stamped if required accompanied by the so that where a shareholder appoints more in uncertificated form to the extent that the relevant share certificate s and such than one corporate representative in respect Articles are inconsistent with the holding of other evidence as the directors may of its shareholding, but in respect of different shares of that class in uncertificated form, the reasonably require to show the right of the shares, those corporate representatives can transfer of title to shares of that class by transferor to make the transfer and, if the act independently of each other, and validly means of a relevant system or any provision of instrument of transfer is executed by some vote in different ways.
other person on his her behalf, the authority of that person so to do.
Restrictions on voting Deadlines for exercising voting rights No member shall, unless the directors Votes are exercisable at a general meeting The directors may, in the case of shares in otherwise determine, be entitled in respect of of the Company in respect of which the certificated form, in their absolute discretion any share held by him her to vote either business being voted upon is being heard.
and without assigning any reason therefor, personally or by proxy at a shareholders Votes may be exercised in person, by proxy, or refuse to register any transfer of shares not meeting or to exercise any other right in relation to corporate members, by corporate being fully-paid shares provided that, where conferred by membership in relation to representative.
The Articles provide a deadline any such shares are admitted to the Official shareholders meetings if any call or other sum for submission of proxy forms of not than less List of the London Stock Exchange, such presently payable by him her to the Company than 48 hours before the time appointed for the discretion may not be exercised in such a way in respect of that share remains unpaid.
In holding of the meeting or adjourned meeting.
as to prevent dealings in the shares of that addition, no member shall be entitled to vote if class from taking place on an open and proper he she has been served with a notice after Variation of rights basis.
The directors may also refuse to register failing to provide the Company with Subject to statute, the Articles specify that an allotment or transfer of shares whether information concerning interests in those rights attached to any class of shares may be fully paid or not in favour of more than four shares required to be provided under the varied with the written consent of the holders persons jointly.
of not less than three-quarters in nominal value of the issued shares of that class, or with If the directors refuse to register an allotment Issue of shares the sanction of an extraordinary resolution or transfer, they shall send within two months Subject to the provisions of the Companies passed at a separate general meeting of the after the date on which the letter of allotment Act relating to authority and pre-emption holders of those shares.
At every such or transfer was lodged with the Company, to rights and of any resolution of the Company in separate general meeting the quorum shall the allottee or transferee, a notice of the a UK general meeting, all unissued shares of be two persons holding or representing by refusal.
the Company shall be at the disposal of the proxy at least one-third in nominal value of directors and they may allot with or without the issued shares of the class calculated A shareholder does not need to obtain the conferring a right of renunciation, grant excluding any shares held as treasury shares.
approval of the Company, or of other options over or otherwise dispose of them to The rights conferred upon the holders of any shareholders of shares in the Company, such persons, at such times and on such terms shares shall not, unless otherwise expressly for a transfer of shares to take place.
provided in the rights attaching to those shares, be deemed to be varied by the creation or issue of further shares ranking pari passu with them.
Overview Operating and financial review Governance Financial statements Ore Reserves and Mineral Resources Other information 115 Anglo American plc Annual Report 2010 Directors Significant agreements: Change Directors shall not be less than ten nor more of control than 18 in number.
A director is not required to At 31 December 2010, Anglo American had hold any shares of the Company by way of committed bilateral and syndicated borrowing qualification.
The Company may by ordinary facilities totalling $14.4 billion with a number of resolution increase or reduce the maximum relationship banks which contain change of or minimum number of directors.
The ZAR 20 billion South African Medium Term Note Programme and Powers of directors $7.3 billion of the Groups bond issues also Subject to the Articles, the Companies Act and contain change of control provisions.
In any directions given by special resolution, the aggregate, this financing is considered business of the Company will be managed by significant to the Group and in the event of a the Board who may exercise all the powers of takeover change of control of the Company, the Company.
these contracts may be cancelled, become immediately payable or be subject to The Board may exercise all the powers of the acceleration.
Company to borrow money and to mortgage or charge any of its undertaking, property Purchases of own shares and uncalled capital and to issue debentures At the AGM held on 22 April 2010, authority and other securities, whether outright or was given for the Company to purchase, as collateral security for any debt, liability in the market, up to 197.3 million Ordinary 86 or obligation of the Company or of any Shares of 54 US cents each.
Company did not purchase any of its own shares during 2010.
The Company may by ordinary resolution declare dividends but no dividend shall be Indemnities payable in excess of the amount To the extent permitted by law and the Articles recommended by the directors.
Subject to the the Company has made qualifying third party provisions of the Articles and to the rights indemnity provisions for the benefit of its attaching to any shares, any dividends or other directors during the year and which remain in monies payable on or in respect of a share force at the date of this report.
Copies of these may be paid in such currency as the directors indemnities are open for inspection at the may determine.
The directors may deduct Companys registered office.
from any dividend payable to any member all sums of money if any presently payable by By order of the Board him her to the Company on account of calls or otherwise in relation to shares of the Company.
The directors may retain any dividends payable on shares on which the Nicholas Jordan Company has a lien, and may apply the same Company Secretary in or towards satisfaction of the debts, 18 February 2011 liabilities or engagements in respect of which the lien exists.
Appointment and replacement of directors The directors may from time to time appoint one or more directors.
The Board may appoint any person to be a director so long as the total number of directors does not exceed the limit prescribed in the Articles.
Any such director shall hold office only until the next AGM and shall then be eligible for election.
The Articles provide that at each AGM all those directors who have been in office for three years or more since their election or last re-election shall retire from office.
In addition, a director may at any AGM retire from office and stand for re-election.
However, in accordance with the UK Corporate Governance Code, all directors will be subject to annual re-election.
