Overview Operating and financial review Governance Financial statements Ore Reserves and Mineral Resources Other information 85 Anglo American plc Annual Report 2010 At Black Mountain, good progress was made CopeBrs Coal aMeriCas with the improvements to the underground infrastructure, which resulted in an increase Copebrs recorded an operating profit of Peace River Coal PRC in Canada had a of 13% in total ore hoisted.
Tonnes milled $81million, a $121 million improvement much improved operating performance in increased by 7%, with improved feed grades over 2009, as a result of improved market 2010, delivering a 44% increase in run of mine on all metals other than silver.
This resulted conditions and operational improvement coal and a 35% increase in clean metallurgical in strong metal in concentrate production initiatives.
Strong prices for soft commodities coal production.
This was due to improved increases of 28% for zinc to 36,100 tonnes, during the second half of 2010 served as a mining and plant operations and improved 3% for lead to 50,600 tonnes, 14% for copper sound foundation for increased demand for coal recovery, coupled with the successful to 2,500 tonnes and 4% for silver to 56,600 kg.
Sales volumes at 998,100 implementation of Phase 1 of the Trend Mine tonnes of fertilisers were virtually in line with Plant Upgrade project in May 2010, which Anglo American announced the sale of its those achieved in 2009, but higher operating improved and stabilised plant performance.
zinc portfolio to Vedanta on 10May 2010 margins were achieved, with record sales Phases 2 and 3 of the project are progressing 2 for a total consideration of $1,338 million.
on schedule and will be commissioned in the The sale of Skorpion was completed on first quarter of 2011, delivering a further 30% 3December 2010, resulting in a net cash capacity improvement in plant throughput.
Catalo 2 The business was impacted by temporary The agreed consideration was based on profits and cash flows for the zinc businesses being for the benefit of the purchaser Catalo generated an operating profit port constraints during December 2010, from 1January 2010, subject to completion.
of $67million for the year, 37% lower than which led to the delay of two cargoes into 2009 as a result of lower niobium grades and the first week of 2011, with the result that overall recoveries, partially offset by improved metallurgical coal sales volume for 2010 sCaw Metals realised prices.
Sales in 2010 reached ended 18% lower than coal production.
Following a landslide in the pit a result of the impact on revenue of these Scaw Metals increased its operating profit in late 2009, operations at Catalo started delayed cargoes, PRC reported an operating by 30% to $170 million.
to improve by mid-year when access was loss of $3 million for the year.
However, given re-established in richer parts of the pit.
The the current market strength and the strong Moly-Cop and AltaSteel performed well, subsequent discovery of water in certain parts trading conditions anticipated for 2011, assisted by strong demand for grinding media of the pit in the third quarter required a coupled with increasing production from PRC, and increased vertical integration with the revision of the mining plan.
Normal levels of a substantial uplift in profitability is forecast Canadian rolling mills.
Production of steel production were reached towards the end for 2011. products at 794,200 tonnes exceeded the of the year.
prior year, notwithstanding the earthquake in The Environmental Assessment Application Chile in February 2010 impacting production Anglo American has conducted a drilling for the Roman Mountain Brownfield project in Talcahuano.
In November, Anglo American programme at its Catalo ferroniobium was submitted in 2010.
This project will consist announced the sale of Moly-Cop and business in Brazil which has delineated of an integrated plant and mining operation of AltaSteel to OneSteel.
The transaction was additional niobium resources.
In conjunction up to 5 Mtpa capacity with the Trend mine.
completed on 31December 2010, resulting with the application of improved processing in a net cash inflow of $993 million.
technology, this may result in the significant The business continues to develop strong extension of Catalos life of mine and relationships with the community and the In the South African managed businesses, production capacity, which would enable key First Nations in the area, which was certain key steel markets remained under Anglo American to take advantage of the reflected in the successful launch of mining pressure, resulting in a lower operating profit.
attractive dynamics of, and long term fundamentals and a truck driver training The reduction was attributable to selling price demand outlook for, the niobium market.
The programme is pressure, rising input costs and the effect of a Anglo American has therefore decided to delivering promising results and has had a strong rand.
Despite this, the integrated nature retain the business in its portfolio and is positive impact on the workforce in the area.
of the business allowed the rolling mills to progressing a feasibility study for Catalo.
maintain reasonable levels of output to supply the downstream businesses.
Grinding media demand remained strong, albeit with some pricing pressure.
Production of steel products at Scaw South Africa was 710,000 tonnes, a 2% increase over the prior year.
