38 Anglo American plc Annual Report 2010 OPERATING AND FINANCIAL REVIEW: Resources and technology continued oUr resoUrCes knowleDge anD expertise LIFE OF MINE PER COMMODITY oUr resoUrCes gaps in existing technologies required to achieve The 2030 Mine, a series of projects Years, minimum to maximum The resources Anglo American considers have been identified to develop the requisite 60 critical to achieving its strategic aims include: systems.
Already, critical projects have been initiated to close the gaps.
Knowledge and expertise 50 Proved and probable reserves Ultimately, the successful application of the 40 technologies surrounding The 2030 Mine Full details of the Groups Ore Reserves and should provide Anglo American with Mineral Resources estimates are found on considerable competitive advantage in the 30 pages 172 to 194. mining and minerals processing sector.
20 The Technical Discipline teams have added teChnology significant value to operations by applying 10 their asset management know-how to Our strong in-house technology capability production equipment such as haul trucks provides world class solutions to and conveyor trains at several underground 0 AngloAmerican and its global operations.
and opencast operations, resulting in Following the comprehensive internal increased systems availability and reduced Platinum Metallurgical Coal restructuring process conducted throughout Copper Thermal Coal maintenance costs.
The focus on integrating Nickel Iron Ore the Group in 2009, significant improvements the value chain from resource to market Life of mine LOM in years is based on scheduled Ore Reserves.
have been made in sharpening the focus of has assisted a number of operations to Note: the 30 years for Platinum is due to 30 years being the maximum our Mining and Technology unit as well as in enhance their profitability.
number of years for which a Mining Right is granted in South Africa.
uprating its capacity to deliver.
For Iron Ore, the LOM gures include some Inferred Resources considered for life of mine planning.
Technical Services continue to turn data Mining and Technology now comprises available at operations into useful seven technical groups which concentrate management information.
The team has the 2030 Mine their expertise in specific value adding areas.
developed sophisticated software using The Technology Development Group has neural networks in order to identify crucial The 2030 Mine concept has been used to formulated a vision for a futuristic mine patterns and early prediction of failures.
define future technological requirements, 20years from now The 2030 Mine and As an example, the many machine condition which span the different commodities and has drafted the related technology roadmaps variables measured on haul trucks have been encompass the entire value chain from and technology development action plans.
transformed into user-friendly reports, yet with exploration to beneficiation.
enough detail to provide a basis for operations The four discipline centres of excellence personnel to take appropriate action.
The Mining, Metallurgy, Geosciences and system is currently being rolled out at a nUMBer oF DisCipline Engineering provide technical governance in number of operations.
Centres oF exCellenCe: respect of technical risks and have formulated Mining, MetallUrgy, a technical standards strategy which will Our Spectrem state-of-the-art airborne geosCienCes anD engineering positively impact on project delivery, electromagnetic system again proved to be operational performance and technical risk extremely effective, its broadband capability control across all of our business units.
allowing significant reductions in time and 4 cost required to carry out exploration in In support of the Groups operations, projects, difficult areas.
For example, Spectrem business units and the Safety and Sustainable 2 screened more than 8,500 km in a remote Development Group, as well as the other area over a period of just four months.
This corporate functions, Technical Services resulted in the identification of more than 10 provides leading metallurgical and process targets, permitting areas of low prospectivity research as well as laboratory facilities, a to be relinquished.
broad range of technical consulting services, project engineering and design services, and Metallurgical Coal, in conjunction with field services.
Technical Services, was instrumental in the development of the worlds highest capacity Technology development in the future will roof-support system and, in conjunction be increasingly co-ordinated and integrated with CRC Mining, in the development across the Group.
In pursuit of this aim, the of The Smartcap which applies brainvision for The 2030 Mine has been used to monitoring technology to address the define future technological requirements, dangers of driver fatigue.
which span the different commodities, and also encompass the entire value chain from exploration to beneficiation.
