Overview Operating and financial review Governance Financial statements Ore Reserves and Mineral Resources Other information 59 Anglo American plc Annual Report 2010 CONSUMER DEMAND FORECASTS BUsiness overview inDUstry overview US$ Polished wholesale prices Anglo Americans diamond interests are Up to two-thirds of the worlds diamonds by represented by our 45% shareholding in value originate from southern and central DeBeers.
The other shareholders in Africa, while significant sources have been DeBeers are Central Holdings Ltd an discovered in Russia, Australia and Canada.
Oppenheimer family owned company, Most diamonds come from the mining of 2010 which owns 40%, and the Government of kimberlite deposits.
Another important source Forecast the Republic of Botswana GRB with 15%.
of gem diamonds, however, has been secondary alluvial deposits formed by the DeBeers is the worlds leading diamond weathering of primary kimberlites and the business and with its joint venture partners subsequent deposition of released diamonds operates in more than 20 countries across six in rivers and beach gravels.
The company produces around 35% of the Rough or uncut diamonds are broadly USA 38% Taiwan 2% worlds rough diamonds by value from its classified either as gem or industrial quality, Japan 11% Gulf 8% mines in Botswana, Canada, Namibia and with gem being overwhelmingly 99% the India 10% Turkey 2% China Hong Kong 11% Rest of world 18% South Africa.
larger of the two markets by value.
The primary world market for gem diamonds is in DeBeers holds a 50% interest in Debswana retail jewellery, where aspects such as size, Diamond Company and in Namdeb Diamond colour, shape and clarity have a large impact Corporation, owned jointly with the GRB and on valuation.
DeBeers, through the DTC, and the Government of the Republic of Namibia its partners in Botswana, South Africa and GRN respectively, and a 70% shareholding Namibia, supplies its clients known as 2016 in DeBeers Marine Namibia.
Sightholders with parcels of rough Forecast diamonds that are specifically aligned to their In addition, DeBeers has a 74% shareholding respective cutting and polishing needs.
in South African based DeBeers Consolidated Mines Limited, with a broad based black economic empowerment consortium the strategy anD growth Ponahalo group holding the balance.
DeBeers introduced Five Strategic Levers USA 36% Taiwan 3% Japan 8% Gulf 8% DeBeers owns 100% of The Diamond Trading in 2010 to drive business growth while India 14% Turkey 2% Company DTC, the sales and rough diamond permanently capturing the efficiencies China Hong Kong 14% Rest of world 15% distribution arm of DeBeers.
It also has a gained during the global economic crisis.
50% interest with the GRB in DTC Botswana The company is focused on: Note: China, Hong Kong, Taiwan, India and Gulf expected to account and a 50% ownership, along with the GRNs for approximately 40% of consumer demand by 2016 1.
Sustainably maximising the price matching shareholding, in Namibia DTC.
received for its rough diamonds through its distribution system operating proFit DeBeers and LVMH Mot Hennessy Louis 2009: $64 m Vuitton have established a high-end retail 2.
Finding, operating, optimising and investing jewellery joint venture, through DeBeers in those mines that generate superior risk Diamond Jewellers, with stores in the most adjusted returns fashionable areas of some of the worlds great 3.
Retaining and investing in downstream $ 495 m cities, including New York, Los Angeles, opportunities that ensure real value creation London, Paris, Tokyo and Dubai.
Ensuring 2009 cost and capital share oF groUp operating proFit DeBeers, through Element Six, is the worlds efficiencies become entrenched 2009: 1% leading supplier of industrial diamond 5.
Investing in and protecting DeBeers supermaterials.
Element Six operates reputation and diamond equity.
internationally, with 10 manufacturing sites worldwide and a comprehensive global sales 5 % network.
It is the leading player in the markets in which it operates.
