Overview Operating and financial review Governance Financial statements Ore Reserves and Mineral Resources Other information 13 Anglo American plc Annual Report 2010 Mining is the lifeblood of global economic growth in the 21st century that gives us a clear, first quartile FOB cost significant progress but, regrettably, 14 people highlights position for Minas-Rio.
Our optionality for port lost their lives while on company business in expansion and the priority rights we havefor 2010.
We have further to go in order to achieve our iron ore shipments make this portfacility our goal of zero harm and again have stepped a key strategic asset for AngloAmerican in up our efforts to achieve this.
Anglo American has a truly world class Major strategiC growth resource base beyond our near and medium projeCts nearing proDUCtion term projects, with the potential to double sUstainaBle DevelopMent production over the next decade through our leaDership $70 billion pipeline of more than 60 projects.
In the next three years alone, we expect to I am pleased that Anglo American continues approve $16 billion of projects.
to lead change in the mining industry, ensuring 6 that modern mining is wholly sustainable.
sChools BUilt anD FUlly Anglo American invests in mining operations eqUippeD aFter the Chilean reFining oUr portFolio and projects not for just the next 10 or 20 earthqUake years, but for many generations.
Our ability to Our programme to divest non-core positively impact those communities around businesses is well advanced, announcing our operations is therefore an area of major and completing a number of sales during focus, to ensure a long term legacy built on 2010 and into 2011.
We have completed respect, responsibility and integrity.
7 divestments of our non-core businesses, with announced proceeds of $3.3 billion to date, These characteristics have been particularly Core CoMMoDities including our zinc portfolio, Moly-Cop and evident in our response to two unforeseen AltaSteel, five undeveloped coal assets in natural events during 2010.
The fact that our Australia and a number of Tarmacs European Copper business was ready and able to build businesses.
On 18 February 2011, the Group six fully equipped schools in such a short time 50% and Lafarge announced their agreement after the earthquake in Chile, enabling 4,500 to combine their cement, aggregates, readychildren to complete their school year, is proDUCtion growth By 2015 mixed concrete, asphalt and contracting testimony to the compassion and commitment businesses in the United Kingdom, Tarmac of our employees.
We have seen a similar Limited and Lafarge Cement UK, Lafarge response by our Metallurgical Coal business in Aggregates and Concrete UK.
The 50:50 joint Queensland, Australia following the devastating venture will create a leading UK construction flooding over the New Year period, providing $70 bn materials company, with a portfolio of high accommodation, meals and amenities to oF projeCt optionality quality assets drawing on the complementary hundreds of evacuees.
We are proud of our geographical distribution of operations people and the difference they make.
and assets, the skills of two experienced management teams and a portfolio of well known and innovative brands.
We have oUtlook received strong interest in the remaining businesses and will divest those in a manner Mining is the lifeblood of global economic and on a timetable that maximise value.
growth in the 21st century and AngloAmerican has the long-life resources of the right commodities to sustain the saFety setting the stanDarD supply to fuel that growth.
While there remain a number of uncertainties in the We continue to focus on our safety immediate term, not least in the developed performance day in, day out across the economies, our medium to long term view business.
We are making a real difference to of demand growth for our commodities our people within Anglo American and across remains very positive, driven by the resource the industry, particularly in South Africa, by intensive nature of economic growth in the setting new benchmark standards for safety emerging markets.
We recorded further improvement during the year, with fatalities and lost time injury rates both continuing to reduce.
At Anglo American, we have now achieved a Cynthia Carroll 68% reduction in the number of fatal incidents Chief executive and a 51% improvement in lost time injury rates since 2006.
