10 Anglo American plc Annual Report 2010 OVERVIEW: Our strategy DeFining oUr aMBition oUr strategy Anglo American aims to be the leading global mining company the investment, the partner and the employer of choice through the operational excellence of world class assets in the most attractive commodities and a resolute commitment to the highest standards of safe and sustainable mining.
key strategiC highlights Our focused commodity businesses are Anglo American performed strongly in driving superior operating performances, 2010, both operationally and financially, through major productivity improvements, and we have continued to deliver on disciplined cost management and the our clear strategic objectives.
Strategic significant benefits of our asset optimisation highlights from the year include: and global supply chain programmes.
1 We have completed $3.3 billion of divestments Cynthia Carroll of non-core businesses, including our zinc Chief executive portfolio, Moly-Cop and AltaSteel, five undeveloped coal assets in Australia and a number of Tarmacs European businesses.
We have received strong interest in the remaining businesses and will divest those in a manner and on a timetable that maximise value.
In February 2011, we announced our intention to combine the UK businesses of Tarmac and Lafarge, to create a leading UK construction materials company oUr FoUr strategiC eleMents investing in world class assets in the most attractive commodities We own, operate and grow world class mining assets in those commodities investing that we believe deliver the best returns World class assets through the economic cycle and over in the most attractive the long term.
commodities We aim to focus on those commodities in which we have advantaged positions and on large scale assets with long lives, BeCoMing low cost profiles and with clear expansion the leaDing operating organising potential, that is: copper, diamonds, iron Mining CoMpany Safely, Efficiently and ore, metallurgical coal, nickel, platinum sustainably and effectively Investment, partner and thermal coal.
responsibly and employer of choice eMploying The best people Overview Operating and financial review Governance Financial statements Ore Reserves and Mineral Resources Other information 11 Anglo American plc Annual Report 2010 In 2010 we considerably strengthened Talent development remains a key priority.
Project delivery is a major challenge in our balance sheet and are well positioned In pursuit of this aim, we launched the our industry.
At Anglo American we have to finance our project pipeline and to People Development Way, a global chosen to focus on the way that we take advantage of any attractive M&A capability framework that describes the develop and approve our projects, ensuring opportunities.
behaviours, knowledge, skills and that we harness the full capacity of our experiences needed to enable Anglo technical resources in a disciplined and American to achieve its strategic objectives.
Mervyn Walker David Weston Rne Mdori Group Director of Human Resources Group Director of Business Finance Director and Communications Performance and Projects 2 ore project in Brazil, and expect civil works We have exceeded all expectations by for the beneficiation plant and tailings dam achieving asset optimisation and procurement construction to begin in March 2011 benefits of $2.5 billion from our core 4 businesses alone including one-off benefits, We continue to focus on our safety well ahead of our 2011 target of $2 billion performance across the board and 3 recorded further improvements during We have made excellent progress on our four the year, with fatalities and lost time injury major projects, enabling us to start up a major rates both continuing to reduce.
We have Creating trust is at the heart of our project every six to nine months over the next now achieved a near 70% improvement licence to operate: in 2010 we made few years.
The first of these, the Barro Alto nickel in safety since 2006 as we pursue our further headway, with another project, will begin production on schedule in goal of zero harm.
significant improvement in our safety March 2011, more than doubling our Nickel performance, while extending our business output when it reaches full production.
internationally recognised community The expansion of our LosBronces copper engagement programme.
operation in Chile and theKolomela iron ore project in South Africa are progressing on schedule and on budget.
We have also secured Brian Beamish key licences and permits for the Minas-Rio iron Group Director of Mining and Technology oUr FoUr strategiC eleMents organising efficiently operating safely, sustainably eMploying the best people and effectively and responsibly Our structure aims to facilitate the Operating safely, sustainably and Our people are as vital to our success as delivery of performance and efficiencies responsibly is embedded in everything we our mining assets.
The safety of our people is our key core value and we are relentless in striving to We are committed to our people, who Each commodity business unit is focused achieve our goal of zero harm.
determine how effectively we operate and on operational excellence, project delivery build our reputation with our investors, and driving its cost position further down We are committed to environmental partners and fellow employees every day, its industry curve, while the lean corporate stewardship and minimising the and whom we require to uphold our values.
centre facilitates the extraction of value environmental impact of our operations.
beyond what is achievable by the Ultimately, it is our people who will realise businesses alone.
We aim to make a sustainable and positive our ambition and deliver our strategy to be difference to community development and the leading global mining company.
Through close collaboration, value-driven act with integrity to build respectful leadership, the sharing of best practice, relationships with the societies in which we technical innovation, operational know-how work.
Behaving in this way, supported by and the pursuit of synergies in key valuestrong governance and risk management driving functions such as supply chain and processes, enables us to develop and helps asset optimisation, the substantial benefits maintain trust with all our stakeholders and of Anglo Americans scale and performance create value, which is fundamental to our oriented culture are realised.
ability to deliver superior long term returns to our shareholders.
