78 Anglo American plc Annual Report 2010 OPERATING AND FINANCIAL REVIEW: Metallurgical Coal continued strategy anD growth FinanCial overview The market for metallurgical coal has traditionally priced coal through annual price Metallurgical Coals strategy is to increase Metallurgical Coal generated an operating negotiations providing for fixed pricing for significantly the value of the business by profit of $783 million, a 74% increase, a 12 month period.
Since the second quarter optimising existing operations and developing primarily due to higher average benchmark of 2010, a move to quarterly pricing has new operations to supply high margin export coking coal prices and record production of occurred.
In parallel with this shift, multiple coal.
Three specific programmes have been high margin export products.
The business coking coal indices have been developed with developed to implement this strategy.
First, a delivered record export sales growth of 30% the aim of creating a liquid spot market with structured programme of asset optimisation is for metallurgical coal, with production transparent pricing, though no reliable index designed to deliver industry-best operational increases of 16% compared with the prior has yet been determined.
Metallurgical Coal performance over the existing asset base.
year, 12% higher than the previous record in is well placed to continue to supply its Secondly, the business units attractive and 2008.
This offset the impact of the strong customers under the new pricing mechanisms well-developed organic growth pipeline aims Australian dollar, which had the effect of as they evolve.
to double high value metallurgical coal increasing unit costs by 17% in US dollar production over the next decade.
Adverse weather and flooding had Operating performance resource base of approximately 3.4 billion a significant impact on production, initially Attributable production 1 tonnes, four future projects, including two with Cyclone Ului in the first quarter and 000 tonnes 2010 2009 high quality metallurgical coal opportunities in subsequently record spring and summer Export Queensland: Grosvenor and Moranbah South, rainfall from the third quarter onwards in the metallurgical coal 14,702 12,623 and the Dartbrook and Drayton South thermal, regions where the business operates.
Thermal coal 14,461 14,052 semi-soft and PCI prospects in NewSouth Wales, have been mapped out to position the Markets Metallurgical Coal delivered record production company for growth.
Thirdly, in line with and sales of metallurgical coal.
The business Anglo American weighted increasing demand from the steelmaking average achieved FOB price increased the sales of its high quality $ tonne 2010 2009 industry in both existing and emerging metallurgical coal by 30% to 14.9 Mt, driven by Export markets, Metallurgical Coal is realising a strong supply response from the Capcoal and metallurgical coal 176 141 increased value from developing superior Moranbah North complexes.
The production specialised product offerings to customers in increases were achieved despite the negative Export thermal coal 87 74 that sector.
Emerging markets, particularly in impact of Cyclone Ului in the first quarter and Domestic the Asia-Pacific region, are likely to remain the record rainfall in the second half of the year in thermal coal 30 27 driving force behind metallurgical coal Queensland.
The rainfall experienced in 2010 Attributable sales volumes demand both in the short and the long term.
was more than double the historical average 000 tonnes 2010 2009 for areas in which the business operates.
Export Early in 2010, we undertook a review of our Successful stock management, dewatering metallurgical coal 14,948 11,542 portfolio of coal assets in Australia in order to capacity, relocation of assets and the quick assess their alignment with the Groups overall Export thermal coal 6,384 6,239 mobilisation of additional production capacity strategy.
As a result of this review, in July we were key to ensuring that the open cut Domestic announced the sale of the Bylong and Sutton production recovered as quickly as possible.
thermal coal 8,342 8,604 Forest undeveloped coal assets in New South Combined with improved coal logistics chain Wales and the three open cut coal deposits In 2010 there was a significant increase in management, this enabled the business to at Collingwood, Ownaview and Taroom in demand for metallurgical coal from the global deliver record sales volumes in response to Queensland.
In November, we instituted a steel industry, with a return to levels last seen stronger demand.
divestment process for Callide, which in 2008 in the traditional Asian markets and primarily supplies domestic power stations in sustained growth in China and India.
Demand Productivity improvements at the Biloela and Gladstone.
This follows on the increased in the first quarter as steelmakers underground operations were a major focus disposal of the Dawson Seamgas assets started to restock, which resulted in a during the year, particularly in response to the earlier this year.
temporary oversupply of steel mid-year as rain disruption at the open cut operations.
Unit steel producers drew down stock again.
In costs were negatively affected by the adverse the third quarter, this trend reversed and the weather conditions, mitigated by the benefits industry has subsequently seen a from the increased production volumes, with strengthening in coal demand and prices.
export cost per tonne in local currency 1% European demand continues to recover, albeit lower than the previous year.
A comprehensive at a slower pace than in Asia.
Unseasonal rain loss mitigation plan aimed at reducing the record rainfall in Australia has limited supply impact of rain at the open cut operations has from Queensland mines since September, been initiated.
a trend which continued throughout the 1 Comprising: 1.6 billion tonnes Measured Resources, fourth quarter and will continue to impede 1.6 billion tonnes Indicated Resources and 0.2 billion tonnes production in early 2011.
Industry stock levels Inferred Resources.
The Measured and Indicated Resources reached record lows and this is expected to are in addition to reserves.
All resources are reported on result in a further increase in metallurgical coal a 100% basis and have been estimated in accordance with the requirements of the JORC code.
