50 Anglo American plc Annual Report 2010 OPERATING AND FINANCIAL REVIEW: Risk continued Event risk Damage to physical Impact: The direct costs of repair or replacement Mitigation: Specialist consultants are engaged to assets from fire, combined with business interruption losses can result analyse such event risks on a rotational basis and explosion, natural in financial losses.
provide recommendations for management action catastrophe or to prevent or limit the effects of such a loss.
breakdown of critical Root cause: Some of the Groups operations are machinery.
located in areas exposed to natural catastrophe such Contingency plans are developed within the Group as earthquake extreme weather conditions.
The to respond to significant events and recover normal impact of climate change may intensify the severity levels of business activity.
The Group purchases insurance to protect itself against The nature of the Groups operations exposes it to the financial consequences of an event, subject to failure of mining pit slopes and tailings dam walls, fire, availability and cost.
explosion and breakdown of critical machinery, with long lead times for replacement.
Employees The ability to recruit, Impact: Failure to retain skilled employees or Mitigation: An appropriate suite of reward and benefit develop and retain to recruit new staff may lead to increased costs, structures is in place for new and existing employees, appropriate skills for interruptions to existing operations and delay in while work to position Anglo American as an attractive the Group.
A risk of strike or other Industrial disputes may have an adverse effect on The Group also seeks to simplify employee moves industrial relations production levels, costs and the results of operations.
across business units and countries.
Root cause: The Group is subject to global A process of constructive dialogue and maintenance competition for skilled labour.
The location of the of effective working relationships with union leaders Groups assets and development projects can be is sought.
remote or in countries where it is challenging to recruit suitably skilled employees or transfer employees from other parts of the Group.
Employees in the key countries where the Group operates are unionised.
Negotiations over wage levels or working conditions can sometimes fail to result in agreement.
Contractors Inability to employ the Impact: Disruption of operations or increased costs Root cause: Mining contractors are used at a number services of contractors may arise if key contractors are not available to meet of the Groups operations to develop mining projects, to meet business needs production needs.
Delays in start-up of new projects mine and deliver ore to processing plants.
In periods of or at expected cost may also occur.
high commodity prices, demand for contractors may levels.
Mitigation: Effective planning and establishment of effective working relationships with key contractors are utilised to mitigate this risk.
Business integrity Failure to prevent acts Impact: Potential impacts include prosecution, Mitigation: The Group has very clear principles on the of fraud, bribery, fines, penalties and reputation damage.
manner in which it conducts its business and expects all corruption or antiemployees to act in accordance with its values.
The Group may suffer financial loss if it is the victim of a and awareness programmes are in place to ensure fraudulent act.
consistent understanding of the Groups expectations.
Root cause: In certain countries where the Group The Groups internal control environment is designed to operates the risk of corruption is high, as indicated by prevent fraud and is regularly reviewed by an internal indices prepared by independent non-governmental audit team to provide assurance that controls are organisations NGOs.
