Overview Operating and financial review Governance Financial statements Ore Reserves and Mineral Resources Other information 81 Anglo American plc Annual Report 2010 SEABORNE THERMAL COAL BUsiness overview inDUstry overview DEMAND BY COUNTRY Thermal Coal operates in South Africa Coal is the most abundant source of fossil fuel and has a one-third interest in Cerrejn in energy in the world, considerably exceeding Colombia.
In South Africa, Thermal Coal known reserves of oil and gas.
The bulk of all wholly owns and operates nine mines and coal produced worldwide is thermal coal, has a 50% interest in the Mafube colliery which is used as a fuel for power generation and Phola washing plant.
Five of the mines and other industries, notably the cement collectively supply 22 Mtpa of thermal coal sector.
The seaborne thermal coal market 2010 to both export and local markets.
New Vaal, accounts for nearly 692 Mtpa and is supplied New Denmark and Kriel collieries are from a large number of countries, with coal domestic product operations supplying producers operating in a highly competitive 32Mtpa of thermal coal to Eskom, the global marketplace.
Isibonelo mine produces 5 Mtpa of thermal coal for Sasol Thermal coal usage is driven by the demand Synthetic Fuels, the coal to liquids producer, for electricity and is influenced by the price Japan 17.9% Germany 4.0% China 11.4% Russia 3.4% under a 20 year supply contract.
of competing fuels, such as oil and gas and, South Korea 11.3% United States 3.3% increasingly, the cost of carbon.
Global Taiwan 8.2% Malaysia 2.6% Anglo American Inyosi Coal, a broad based thermal coal demand is also affected by the India 6.3% Rest of world 26.6% United Kingdom 5.0% black economic empowerment BBBEE availability of alternative generating company valued at approximately $1 billion, is technologies, including gas, nuclear, hydro- 73% held by Anglo American: the remaining electricity and renewables.
The market for 27% is held by Inyosi, a BEE consortium led by export thermal coal is further impacted by the Pamodzi and Lithemba consortia 66%, the varying degrees of privatisation and with the Womens Development Bank and a deregulation in electricity markets, with community trust holding the remaining equity.
customers focused on securing the lowest 2009 Anglo American Inyosi Coal, in turn, owns Kriel cost fuel supply in order to produce power colliery, the new Zibulo multi-product colliery at a competitive price.
This has resulted in previously known as the Zondagsfontein a move away from longer term contracts project and the greenfield projects of Elders, towards shorter term contracts priced against New Largo and Heidelberg.
The outstanding various coal price indices, which has given rise conditions precedent to the Anglo American to the development of an increasingly active Inyosi Coal transaction were fulfilled by the financial market for hedging and derivative Japan 18.1% Germany 4.1% end of May and the transaction became instruments.
The extent to which these pricing South Korea 11.5% United States 3.3% effective from 1 June 2010. instruments are used, however, varies from China 11.0% Russia 3.2% Taiwan 8.6% Spain 2.5% region to region.
India 6.3% Rest of world 26.2% Thermal Coals South African operations United Kingdom 5.2% currently route all export thermal coal through operating proFit the Richards Bay Coal Terminal RBCT, in 2009: $721 m which it has a 27% shareholding, to customers throughout the Med-Atlantic and Asia-Pacific regions.
Within South Africa, 62% of total sales tonnes are made to the Eskom power $ 710 m utility, of which the majority are on long term i. e. life of mine cost-plus contracts.
A further 8% is sold to Sasol and 2% to industrial sector consumers.
The remaining 28% is exported share oF groUp operating proFit through RBCT.
2009: 15% In South America, we have a one-third shareholding with BHP Billiton and Xstrata each owning one-third in Cerrejn.
Cerrejn 7 % is Colombias largest thermal coal exporter.
This opencast operation has a 32 Mtpa production capacity 10.7 Mtpa attributable.
eBitDa Cerrejn owns and operates its own rail and 2009: $875 m deep water port facilities and sells into the export thermal and pulverised coal injection PCI coal markets.
