72 Anglo American plc Annual Report 2010 OPERATING AND FINANCIAL REVIEW: Iron Ore and Manganese continued strategy anD growth PRICE OF IRON ORE 2009 TO 2010 $ t FOB Australia A core strategy is to grow our position in iron ore and to supply premium, high quality iron 200 ore products against a background of declining quality global iron ore supplies.
160 Anglo American has a unique iron ore resource profile, with large, high quality 120 resource bases in South Africa and Brazil.
Significant future growth will come from 80 Minas-Rio including expansion potential and expansion at Kolomela.
40 Kumbas business strategy is to be a leading 0 2009 2010 value adding iron ore supplier to the global steel industry.
The business is focused on Spot Quarterly benchmark optimising the value of current operations by Average 2009 realised iron ore price $65 t Average 2010 realised iron ore price $125 t successfully executing its asset optimisation initiatives and the optimisation of its product Geologist Carlos Marconi Santiago portfolio.
Kumba seeks to capture further Tavares inspecting core samples from value across the value chain through its niche the Minas-Rio project.
product strategy and the professionalising of its ocean freight management.
Minas-Rio will capture a significant part of the high growth pellet feed market with its premium product featuring high iron content and low impurities.
Phase 1 of the Minas-Rio project will produce 26.5 Mtpa, with first production scheduled after completion and commissioning of the project, which is anticipated 27-30 months after commencement of civil works for the beneficiation plant and tailings dam construction.
Further expansion potential is supported by the 2010 resource estimate of 5.3 billion tonnes Measured, Indicated and Inferred, and further resource potential is considered to exist.
While focus has been on phase 1 construction, studies for the expansion of the project, including consideration of the optimal production profile, have continued to be evaluated during the year.
Kolomela is expected to produce 9 Mtpa of Samancor to access markets with an optimal Markets iron ore, with initial production scheduled for mix of ore and alloy, to optimise production World crude steel production continued the end of the first half of 2012 and ramping to best suit market conditions and provide to increase during 2010 and returned to up to full capacity in 2013.
Further growth ongoing information on the performance of above pre-2008 levels at 1.4 billion tonnes.
projects in the Northern Cape and Limpopo their ores in the smelting process.
Chinas continued robust economic growth regions of South Africa could potentially contributed to growth in crude steel increase Kumbas production output to production, despite power restrictions and 70 Mtpa.
FinanCial overview destocking through the supply chain.
Crude steel production in China increased by The manganese strategy is to focus on Iron Ore and Manganese generated an 9% to 626 Mt and continued to exceed upstream resources businesses, despite their operating profit of $3,681 million, 147% higher demand.
The European, Japanese and South low-cost alloy smelters having been significant than 2009.
This was as a result of higher iron Korean markets saw a 24% increase in crude contributors to profit in recent years.
In ore export prices and sales volumes, as well steel output, bringing total production to addition, alloy smelters add value to the overall as higher manganese ore and alloy volumes 341Mt, only slightly below levels achieved in manganese business as they enable and prices.
Despite the continued strength in iron
