Overview Operating and financial review Governance Financial statements Ore Reserves and Mineral Resources Other information 23 Anglo American plc Annual Report 2010 Core sUstainaBle BeneFits Core BeneFit FroM asset optiMisation FroM proCUreMent 2009: $749 m 2009: $445 m $ 1.5 bn $ 713 m Business Unit $m 188 Platinum 90 Copper 58 Nickel 89 Kumba Iron Ore 74 Metallurgical Coal 97 Thermal Coal 90 Iron Ore Brazil 24 Corporate 3 fide Beers 713 Total core assets 87 Other Mining and Industrial 800 Total In 2010 terms.
Supplier relationships are integral to our supply chain process.
From developing new technologies to integrating sustainable local procurement and global sourcing strategies, together with suppliers we are tackling the most pressing issues impacting our supply chain and examining how we can continue to raise the bar.
Supplier awards were launched to recognise supplier performance and achievement and build a better appreciation of our priorities with suppliers in the areas of safety, sustainability, innovation and partnership.
Presented at the annual Supplier Conference, these awards demonstrate the progress of the Group and its partners since the transformation began.
Routine maintenance work on the UG2 IsaMill at Platinums Global framework agreements GFA Amandelbult concentrator.
with major suppliers provide enhanced security the tails from conventional milling circuits of supply and improved commercial terms, organising platinUM are further milled to liberate PGM particles both of which are critical in a high demand locked up in waste minerals and hence market.
With a strong production growth The Stirred Milling Technology of the improve recovery.
pipeline, strength of relationships with suppliers Concentrator team was the overall winner is key to ensuring on-time delivery of projects.
in the team award for innovation at the 2010 Platinum has commissioned 18 MIG Procurement collaborated with Projects Anglo American Applaud awards.
This projects to improve liberation of value Engineering to progress several GFAs and project involves leveraging high intensity, minerals before discard to tailings.
In improve evaluation, selection and management stirred-milling technology using inert addition, four ultrafine grinding UFG of engineering, procurement and construction grinding media to increase metal recovery applications were implemented to improve management EPCM and major equipment rates and produce higher grade products.
Value is being realised through this Large scale IsaMill stirred milling approach in other categories of spend, including technology became commercially available Since the introduction of IsaMill heavy mining equipment, tyres, fuels and for fine grinding in platinum group metals technology, the expected PGM recovery lubricants, and professional services.
PGM concentrator circuits around 2000 rate has increased, depending on site, by an and currently, Platinum has the largest additional 2% to 5%.
Some concentrators Local procurement plays a key role in securing number of installed stirred mills in world are now operating at the 90% recovery level and maintaining our right to mine, developing mining.
When deployed in a concentrate for Merensky ore and the 88% level for thriving and healthy host communities, regrind application, concentrates are ground UG2 ore, setting industry benchmarks.
creating efficiencies in our supply chain and and polished to enhance floatability, remove Tailings PGM values at Rustenburg and ensuring reliable access to critical supplies.
excess waste and thus reduce mass pull.
This Amandelbult, Platinums biggest production A Group-wide policy for local procurement has the benefit of availing additional furnace facilities, are now at their lowest levels.
The was launched in 2010 with the objective of capacity and reducing smelting energy project contributed an additional operating improving access by local businesses to consumption and costs.
When deployed in a profit of $27 million in 2010. supply chain opportunities that arise from mainstream inert grinding application MIG, the presence of our projects and operations.
