Overview Operating and financial review Governance Financial statements Ore Reserves and Mineral Resources Other information 31 Anglo American plc Annual Report 2010 nUMBer oF joBs CreateD anD sUstaineD throUgh oUr enterprise DevelopMent prograMMe 1 7,200 32 output key performance indicators KPIs in our ability to monitor, manage and report efforts, which were greatly appreciated have been developed which capture the on our social performance in a rigorous and by both affected communities and the benefits of projects.
Sample indicators include consistent manner.
government, more than 4,500 students permanent jobs created, partner staff trained, were able to continue their education with and numbers of beneficiaries of our health, Social programmes no significant interruption.
education, community development and Good progress has also been made on a other projects.
number of our core social programmes.
The External recognition number of jobs created and sustained through In 2010 we were delighted to become During the year all business units and company our enterprise development programmes the first mining company to be awarded sponsored foundations collated detailed input rose to 17,200 at the end of 2010, up from the CommunityMark, which is given in and output data and the first results will be 12,982 in 2009. recognition of excellence in community presented in our 2010 Report to Society.
The accolade is future, output data will be collected as part Progress was also made towards our awarded by Business in the Community, of project approval processes.
Such data will objective of being able to offer free antithe UKs leading organisation for allow us to undertake detailed assessments retroviral treatment to the dependants of responsible business.
We also achieved of the value for money of different types of employees with AIDS.
In particular, a Platinum status in Business in the social investment projects, as well as review detailed survey was undertaken to identify Communitys annual Corporate the effectiveness of different delivery methods, the specific home locations of migrant Responsibility Index, the UKs leading partners or even operations.
labourers in our South African business.
benchmark of responsible business We also initiated a partnership with the performance.
Platinum is the highest level In 2010, we launched a Group-wide Eastern Cape provincial department of health in the index and 2010 was the first time stakeholder complaints and grievance to devise models to strengthen weak rural Anglo American achieved this level.
The new approach ensures that health systems.
Ensuring good access to all our operations will be able to record, primary care is an essential element of any In 2010, we also became the first mining categorise, notify and manage stakeholder HIV AIDS programme.
company to have a commitment accepted complaints to a consistently high standard.
under the Business Call to Action BCtA The system has been designed to address Social investment expenditures increased to in support of the Millennium Development a key element of the recommendations of $111 million up from $82.5 million in 2009.
The BCtA is run by the United Professor John Ruggie, the United Nations This was partly driven by our $10 million Nations Development Programme and Secretary Generals Special Representative donation to the relief effort in Chile after the has the support of several national on Business and Human Rights.
devastating earthquake of February 2010. governments.
Commitments are only Our response to the earthquake included accepted if they are innovative, scaleable The process for assessing and reporting a focused practical effort to assist those and replicable.
Anglo Americans compliance against the Anglo American affected.
This included the provision of heavy commitment was to expand our enterprise Social Way, together with the social earthmoving equipment during the rescue development services worldwide, with a investment output KPIs and the new and clear-up phase, and the construction of new target of creating 15,000 additional stakeholder complaints and grievance six fully equipped replacement schools within jobs through our small business creation procedure, amount to a significant investment six weeks of the disaster.
Because of our programmes by 2015.
Following the massive earthquake in Chile in February 2010, Anglo American constructed six fully equipped replacement schools in six weeks with some of the schools now being able to accommodate twice as many students as the buildings that were destroyed.
