60 Anglo American plc Annual Report 2010 OPERATING AND FINANCIAL REVIEW: Diamonds continued In February 2010, the shareholders of Operating performance Projects DeBeers agreed, as part of the DeBeers Revenue from sales of rough diamonds Debswana commenced the Cut-8 expansion groups refinancing, that additional equity by the DTC, including those through joint project at Jwaneng mine during 2010.
The shareholders, ventures, increased by 57% compared with represents the largest ever mining investment accordingly, all agreed to subscribe, in 2009, in response to increased consumer in Botswana and is expected to extend the life proportion to their current shareholding, for demand.
Approximately 33.0 million carats of mine to at least 2025.
$1 billion of additional equity in DeBeers.
were recovered from wholly owned and Our share of such additional equity, in line joint venture operations in 2010, compared DeBeers continued to take an active with our 45% equity holding, amounted to with around 24.6 million carats in 2009, an leadership role in protecting consumers $450 million.
As it has done since its inception, fide Beers continued to support In March 2010, DeBeers successfully The business has remained focused on the Kimberley Process, offering guidance refinanced all of its international and South prudent cash management and has continued to DTC Sightholders on the identification of African debt.
The tenor of all debt facilities was to tackle costs aggressively.
While costs potentially illegal and unethical exports from extended to August 2013.
At the end of 2010, necessarily rose due to increased production Zimbabwes Marange region.
DeBeers net debt amounted to $1.76 billion compared levels, exacerbated by a weaker USdollar, continued to support increased producer with $3.20 billion at the end of 2009, a DeBeers was able to maintain savings from country participation in the diamond pipeline, reduction of 45%.
the restructuring of the cost base in 2009, a key element of further empowerment.
The contributing to improved margins.
In 2010 DeBeers Shining Light Awards, focused Botswana, Debswana commenced a on promoting young, undiscovered designers FinanCial overview comprehensive operations and cost review in southern Africa, was the largest to date, that identified many efficiency improvement comprising 30 pieces of diamond jewellery Anglo Americans share of operating profit opportunities which will be delivered over the from Botswana, Namibia and South Africa.
from DeBeers increased significantly to next three years.
DTC sales of rough diamonds Outlook totalled $5.08 billion, a 57% increase 2009: DeBeers has an uncompromising focus on The near term market outlook has been $3.23 billion, due to improved consumer the safety of its employees and the security improved by the strengthening demand for demand and better prices during 2010. of its product.
Regrettably, Debswana rough diamonds throughout 2010 and the experienced a fatality late in the year, and robust retail performance during the year Markets DeBeers 2010 LTIFR was 0.24 versus end gifting season, which extended from The first half of 2010 saw a strong recovery 0.21 for 2009.
This deteriorating trend is the traditional Thanksgiving and Christmas in demand for rough diamonds from DTC being addressed through the continued period, to cover Diwali and the Chinese Sightholders against the low levels seen in roll-out of the Safety Risk Management New Year, reflecting increasing growth in early 2009.
This recovery trend continued Programme SRMP.
It is likely that some of the through the second half of the year following price and volume increases were driven by improved demand from retail markets, In 2010, a review of the impact of the illicit retailer restocking and the business therefore particularly in the eastern markets of India diamond trade on fide Beers demonstrated expects 2011 to produce positive growth, and China.
By the end of 2010, DTC that there were a number of criminal albeit at a slower rate than 2010.
While rough diamond prices had returned to syndicates behind the systematic theft of starting from a low level, growth is expected to pre-recession levels.
This resulted continue to be strong in the emerging markets in the development of a new Global Security of China, India and other Far East markets.
Since launching two years ago, DeBeers Strategy, which called for an organisational Production of approximately 38 million carats proprietary diamond brand, Forevermark, restructuring, with security specialists being is expected in 2011, reflecting increasing has continued to establish itself in China, recruited to both the centre and operations.
demand from Sightholders and growing Hong Kong and Japan.
Forevermark jewellery A baseline of security control effectiveness consumer demand.
is now available in 348 stores globally, a 40% for each operation was also established, increase on the beginning of 2009.
Expansion, forming the basis for improvement targets.
particularly across China, is progressing Going forward, DeBeers will be driving a rapidly with five new cities added in 2010 and lossprevention programme as a key pillar further locations planned for 2011. to improve product security.
