36 Anglo American plc Annual Report 2010 OPERATING AND FINANCIAL REVIEW: Resources and technology Our strong reserves and resources position is complemented by a highly experienced geology team, backed up by our renowned in-house mining and technology unit.
rESOurcES ANd TEchNOlOGy proviDing worlD Class solUtions oUr resoUrCes Our Los Sulfatos exploration team was The difficult terrain, high altitude, harsh Drilling has confirmed that the world class recently selected to receive the Prospectors climate and environmentally challenging copper deposit extends to depths of at least and Developers Association of Canadas conditions meant that field activities were 1,000 metres below the surface.
However, PDAC prestigious Thayer Lindsley Award.
restricted, and could only be carried out over significantly more drilling is needed to The award recognises and honours an the limited summer periods between determine the full characteristics of the individual or team of explorationists credited December and March.
deposit before mine development options with a recent significant mineral discovery can be considered.
Extreme conditions anywhere in the world.
The exploration drilling campaigns were mean the only alternative is to carry out the carefully planned.
Two field camps, housing drilling from underground.
A tunnel boring Anglo American became involved in the up to 30 people, were set up in the high machine is currently being used to construct LosSulfatos area after the purchase of mountains using both modern and more an eight kilometre exploration tunnel, LosBronces in 2002.
Critical technical traditional methods of transportation.
starting from the Los Bronces operation.
evaluation and ranking of all the known Movement of all the equipment, personnel, This tunnel will provide underground access prospects in the area were conducted food and fuel was carried out by helicopter, to the deposit and drill platforms for its almost immediately after the acquisition with mules carrying the team between the detailed evaluation.
and LosSulfatos was identified as the camps and the drill sites.
In July 2009, the first mineral resource After obtaining the required permits and estimate was published: Inferred Mineral approvals, exploration at Los Sulfatos began Resources of 1.2billion tonnes at 1.46% Cu with a geological reconnaissance of the area and 0.02% Mo containing an estimated in 2004, followed by helicopter-supported 17.5million tonnes of copper.
For more information on exploration turn to page 40
