Overview Operating and financial review Governance Financial statements Ore Reserves and Mineral Resources Other information 49 Anglo American plc Annual Report 2010 Climate change The Groups operations Impact: Potential impacts from climate change Root cause: The Group is a significant user of energy are exposed to changes are difficult to assess and will depend on the and one of the key commodities it produces is coal.
in climate and the need circumstances at individual sites, but could include to comply with changes increased rainfall, flooding, water shortages and Mitigation: In addition to the initiatives to monitor and in the regulatory higher average temperatures.
These may increase limit the impact of operations on the environment, the environment aimed at costs, reduce production levels or impact the results Group continuously seeks to reduce energy input levels reducing the effects of of operations.
The asset optimisation programme climate change.
seeks to make operations more energy efficient.
Policy developments at an international, national and sub-national level, including those related to the 1997 Kyoto Protocol and subsequent international agreements and emissions trading schemes, could adversely affect the profitability of the Group.
Regulatory measures may affect energy prices, demand or the margins achieved for carbon intensive products such as coal.
Supply risk The inability to obtain Impact: Any interruption to the Groups supplies Mitigation: The Group takes a proactive approach key consumables, raw or increases in costs adversely affects the Groups to developing relationships with critical suppliers materials, mining and financial position and future performance.
and improving the effectiveness of the Groups processing equipment purchasing leverage.
Root cause: During strong commodity cycles, increased demand can be experienced for such supplies, resulting in periods when supplies are not always available to meet demand.
Anglo American has limited influence over manufacturers and suppliers.
Reserves and resources The Groups Mineral Impact: Fluctuations in the price of commodities, Mitigation: The Group is very experienced in managing Resources and Ore production costs and recovery rates may have an reserves and resources and has robust procedures to Reserves are subject impact on the financial condition and prospects of reduce the likelihood of significant variation.
All factors to a number of the Group.
are consistently monitored by management.
assumptions which may be incorrect.
Root cause: All assumptions related to reserves The Groups policy on reporting of ore reserves and and resources are long term in nature and are mineral resources is set out on pages 172 to 194. subject to volatility owing to economic, regulatory or political influences.
Operational performance and project delivery Failure to meet Impact: Increased unit costs may arise from Root cause: Increasing regulatory, environmental, production targets failure to meet production targets affecting the access and social approvals can increase construction or project delivery results of operations and financial performance.
Failure to meet project delivery timetables and budgets may affect operational performance, Mitigation: Management oversight of operating delay cash inflows, increase capital costs and performance and project delivery through regular reduce profitability, as well as have a negative executive management briefings, a continuous focus impact on the Groups reputation.
on improvement of operations through the asset optimisation programme, and consistent application of the Groups methodology for new projects are key to managing this risk.
