Overview Operating and financial review Governance Financial statements Ore Reserves and Mineral Resources Other information 79 Anglo American plc Annual Report 2010 Port and track expansions for the Dalrymple Bay Coal chain were completed in 2010 to address immediate seaborne market growth.
The business has flexible arrangements in place to assist in logistics planning and weather mitigation.
To meet the continuing industry growth, rail and port throughput will be addressed through the 25 Mtpa Abbot Point expansion and the 30 Mtpa Wiggins Island project, scheduled for 2012 and 2014 respectively, and a number of conceptual projects currently under way.
Projects Metallurgical Coal took further steps to focus its business on high margin export products by progressing the Grosvenor and Drayton South feasibility studies and by divesting non-core assets, including the sale of five undeveloped exploration assets and the Dawson Seamgas assets.
The proposed divestment of the Callide mine has also been announced.
Callide primarily supplies domestic power stations in Queensland and produced 8.5Mt of thermal coal in 2010 and has expansion potential from its resource base of more than 800 million tonnes.
At the Greenfield projects of Grosvenor, Moranbah South, Dartbrook and Drayton South, studies continue in order to meet expectations of growing demand for both metallurgical and export thermal coal.
Approval of the 4.3 Mtpa Grosvenor metallurgical coal project is targeted for the second quarter of 2012.
Outlook A continued focus on longwall productivity and other asset optimisation programmes to improve operational effectiveness are expected to further increase sales of highmargin export products in 2011.
The positive industry trends seen in 2010 are expected to continue as the European market recovers and new steel plants come on stream in India and Asia.
The demand outlook for both metallurgical and export thermal coal is stimulating expansion of supply from new and existing mines to meet demand over the medium term.
Prices are forecast to remain strong as Australia, which provides two-thirds of the world seaborne metallurgical coal market, has experienced severe weather related supply constraints in the first quarter of 2011, while Europe and China experience another cold winter.
Environmentalist Matt Goddard at the coal handling preparation plant at Lake Lindsay mine in Queensland.
