40 Anglo American plc Annual Report 2010 OPERATING AND FINANCIAL REVIEW: Resources and technology continued EXPLORATION SPEND BY exploration Nickel exploration, on which $27 million was COMMODITY IN 2010 expended, was aimed at strengthening the $m During 2010, our global exploration activity project pipeline, with continued advanced continued to have a strong focus on adding exploration work at the Sakatti project in value to our projects and operations as well northern Finland and further evaluation of the as on conducting greenfields exploration Jacar and Morro Sem Bon projects in Brazil across a range of outlying frontier areas and and West Raglan in Canada.
exploration was conducted in western Brazil, northern Finland, the Musgraves region of Anglo American teams continued to advance Australia and the Canadian Arctic.
exploration on recent discoveries, sole funded projects and alliances with other companies.
Iron Ore exploration expenditure of $14million For the year, the Group, excluding DeBeers, was incurred principally on Kumbas projects spent $136 million 2009: $172 million on in South Africa as well as on the Amap mine exploration in 17 countries.
In Brazil, programmes tested iron exploration expenditure amounted to ore targets close to the principal resources.
In South Africa, exploration drilling was Copper $19 m Diamonds $43 m undertaken to support the Kolomela project Nickel $27 m Other $41m Platinum exploration costs amounted and the Sishen operation.
Resource evaluation Iron Ore $14 m to $11 million during 2010, with a specific drilling of the Zandrivierspoort project in focus on providing high quality geological Limpopo province continued.
A number of support to the advanced projects and targets between the Sishen and Kolomela operations around South Africas Bushveld mines were explored as part of the Falcon Igneous Complex and fulfilling the statutory Sibelo project, along with work on resource work programme requirements to maintain evaluation drilling on the Phoenix project at land access rights.
Surface diamond drilling Thabazimbi mine.
was conducted in several locations, while a variety of geophysical methods were Coal exploration expenditure of $24 million employed, including 3D seismic surveys, was concentrated on evaluating, assessing aeromagnetic surveys, and electromagnetic and extending resources for export thermal surveys using Anglo Americans low and coking coal, domestic thermal coal and temperature superconducting quantum coal bed methane CBM.
In South Africa, interference device SQUID tool.
Outside exploration was undertaken on the South Africa, platinum exploration continued Standerton, Vaal Basin, New Largo, in Brazil and Zimbabwe, although projects in Heidelberg and Elders projects.
Exploration Canada and Russia were brought to a close.
drilling and 2D seismic surveys were conducted on the Limpopo project and Copper exploration expenditure totalled extensive exploration drilling was completed $19million, with exploration concentrated for the Waterberg Coal pre-feasibility project.
Advanced project Evaluation of the Lephalale CBM resource work further evaluated the West Wall and continued, focusing on exploration drilling Michiquillay copper projects in Chile and Peru and gas-yield testing.
Near-mine exploration efforts activities in Botswana continued to evaluate centred on the Los Sulfatos and San Enriquethe prospectivity of the Eastern Karoo Basin Monolito copper projects in Chile, as well as through a reconnaissance drilling programme other opportunities close to the ElSoldado, that has identified areas for future exploration.
Mantoverde and Mantos Blancos mines.
In Australia, exploration programmes in Greenfield exploration was conducted in the 2010 and the opening weeks of 2011 were DRC, Indonesia, Chile, Peru, Colombia, disrupted by very high rainfalls.
targeted coking coal and export thermal coal at the Drayton South, Moranbah South and Grosvenor projects.
Extensive exploration drilling was also completed to support the operations at Callide, Capcoal, Dawson, Drayton, Foxleigh and Moranbah North.
