Overview Operating and financial review Governance Financial statements Ore Reserves and Mineral Resources Other information 47 Anglo American plc Annual Report 2010 anglo aMeriCan risk FaCtors Commodity prices Commodity prices for Impact: Commodity price volatility can result Root cause: Commodity prices are determined all products that Anglo in material and adverse movement in the Groups primarily by international markets and global supply and American produces are operating results, asset values, revenues and demand.
The demand for commodities will largely be subject to wide cash flows.
determined by the strength of the global economic fluctuation.
Falling commodity prices could prevent the Group from completing certain transactions that are important to its Mitigation: The diversified nature of the commodities business and which may have an adverse affect on its that Anglo American produces provides some financial position e. g. inability to sell assets at values protection to this risk, and the policy of the Group is or within timelines expected.
not to engage in commodity price hedging.
If commodity prices remain weak for a sustained period, The Group constantly monitors the markets in the ability of the Group to deliver growth in future years which it operates and reviews capital expenditure may be adversely affected as growth projects may not programmes to ensure supply of product reflects be viable at lower prices.
Liquidity risk The Group is exposed to Impact: If the Group is unable to obtain sufficient Mitigation: The Group has an experienced Treasury liquidity risk in terms of credit due to capital market conditions, it may not be team who are responsible for ensuring that there are being able to fund able to raise sufficient funds to develop new projects, sufficient committed loan facilities in place to meet operations and growth.
fund acquisitions or meet its ongoing financing needs.
short term business requirements after taking into As a result, revenues, operating results, cash flows or account cash flows from operations and holdings of financial position may be adversely affected.
cash, as well as any Group distribution restrictions which exist.
The Group limits exposure on liquid funds Root cause: Liquidity risk arises from uncertainty through a policy of minimum counterparty credit or volatility in the capital or credit markets due to ratings, daily conterparty settlement limits and perceived weaknesses of the global economic exposure diversification.
environment or possibly as a response to shock events.
Counterparty risk The Group is exposed to Impact: Financial losses may arise should those Mitigation: The Group Treasury team is responsible counterparty risk from counterparties become unable to meet their obligations for managing counterparty risk with banks where to the Group.
Anglo American places cash deposits.
However, the customers, certain Treasury operations of joint ventures and associates, suppliers and holders Root cause: Severe economic conditions or shock including DeBeers, are independently managed and of cash.
events as experienced in recent years can have a major may expose the Group to financial risks.
impact on the ability of financial institutions and other counterparties that the Group has relationships with to For other counterparty risks the Groups businesses meet their obligations.
have in place credit management procedures.
Currency risk The Group is exposed to Impact: Fluctuations in the exchange rates of the Root cause: The global nature of the Groups currency risk where most important currencies influencing operating costs businesses exposes the Group to currency risk.
and asset valuations the South African rand, Chilean transactions are not peso, Brazilian real, Australian dollar, and pound Mitigation: Given the diversified nature of the Group, conducted in US dollars.
sterling may adversely affect financial results to a the Groups policy is generally not to hedge currency material extent.
Mitigation in the form of foreign exchange hedging is limited to debt instruments and capital expenditure on major projects.
Inflation The Group is exposed to Impact: Higher rates of inflation may increase Root cause: Cost inflation in the mining sector is more potentially higher rates future operational costs if there is no concurrent apparent during periods of high commodity prices as of inflation in the depreciation of the local currency against the demand for input goods and services can exceed countries in which it US dollar, or an increase in the dollar price of the supply.
Mitigation: The Group manages costs very closely This may have a negative impact on profit margins and through its asset optimisation and supply chain financial results.
initiatives and, where necessary, through making efficiencies in employee and contractor numbers.
