34 Anglo American plc Annual Report 2010 OPERATING AND FINANCIAL REVIEW: Strategy in action continued eMploying the Best people ANGLO AMERICAN VOLUNTARY oUr perForManCe In addition to the completion of the reorganisation, the year has seen a number LABOUR TURNOVER We are committed to our people, who of other initiatives designed to ensure that % determine how effectively we operate and AngloAmericans values continue to be 7 build our reputation with our investors, reinforced strongly across the Group.
The 6.8 partners and fellow employees every day launch of the Groups new brand and the 6 and who we require to uphold our values.
associated advertising campaign, with its striking imagery of employees from across the Group, have helped to emphasise the 5.4 5.3 5 eMployer oF ChoiCe contribution made by Anglo Americans people and to demonstrate the Groups attractiveness 4.3 4 We continued to pursue our objective of as an employer.
The launch of the new Applaud 3.9 Anglo Americans becoming the Employer recognition programme, which celebrates of Choice in the mining sector, with a number outstanding achievement in the areas of Safety, 3 of major initiatives.
Sustainability, Partnership and Innovation, was extremely successful and helped to emphasise 2 Organisational development the extent to which the Groups values are The implementation of the major being applied in practice in the business.
reorganisation announced in October 1 2009 was completed.
Talent management The development of talent remains a key 0 The new organisation structure involved the priority for the Group.
During the year, in 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 removal of the old divisional co-ordinating addition to the continuation of the existing layer, resulting in a leaner organisation with talent review and development processes, shorter lines of communication and clearer we launched The People Development Way.
Profit accountable business This is a global capability framework which units are complemented by a lean corporate describes the behaviours, knowledge, skills centre focused on essential governance and experiences needed in the organisation ANGLO AMERICAN DIVERSITY activities and the capture of synergies across to enable Anglo American to achieve its % female the Group through collaborative working strategic objectives.
It will be applied in a and best practice sharing in all corporate consistent manner across the Group and 25 functions, with a particular emphasis on will be used to guide development.
The asset optimisation, project management, introduction of the People Development procurement and supply chain.
Way is being supported by comprehensive 21.0 20 training support for managers and their 19.0 Following the completion of the changes teams to ensure clear understanding of its 17.0 in organisation structure and the process importance and application.
15 of appointing people to roles in the new 15.2 15.3 14.2 14.0 organisation at the start of the year, the Reward and performance management emphasis has been on putting in place new The Groups comprehensive reward strategies 12.0 12.0 processes to ensure that the opportunities continue to be designed to assist in attracting 10.6 10 for sharing best practice are maximised.
and retaining talented and skilled employees In particular, the Anglo American Projects in specialist labour markets that have again Way has implemented a best practice become increasingly competitive as the sector 5 approach to project management across has emerged from the economic downturn.
the Group and the Operations Review process has enhanced further our approach The major initiative during the year has to asset optimisation.
been the completion of the design and 0 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 introduction of a new performance The overall effect of the organisational management system, which will apply from % Females review has been to create an organisation the 2011 performance year onwards.
The % Female managers that is both significantly more effective and system will be applied consistently across the also more efficient.
The reduction of 25% Group and replaces a number of previous in overhead support headcount targeted performance management approaches that as part of the reorganisation has been applied in different parts of the Group.
The substantially completed, with the remaining new system has been designed to place reductions to take place, as planned, in 2011. strong emphasis on alignment of individual objectives with the Groups strategy and plans, reinforcement of the Anglo American values and the importance of a focus on personal development.
