Overview Operating and financial review Governance Financial statements Ore Reserves and Mineral Resources Other information 111 Anglo American plc Annual Report 2010 GovernAnce: Directors report direCtors report The directors have pleasure in submitting the statutory financial statements of the Group for the year ended 31 December 2010. prinCipal aCtivities and going ConCern dividends Business review The financial position of the Group, its cash An interim dividend of 25 US cents per Anglo American plc is one of the worlds flows, liquidity position and borrowing facilities ordinary share was paid on 16 September largest mining companies, is headquartered are set out in the Group financial performance 2010.
The directors are recommending that in the UK and listed on the London review on pages 42 to 45.
In addition, detail a final dividend of 40 US cents per ordinary and Johannesburg stock exchanges.
is given on the Groups policy on managing share, be paid on 28 April 2011 to ordinary AngloAmericans portfolio of mining credit and liquidity risk in the Risk section on shareholders on the register on 1 April 2011, businesses spans precious metals and pages 46 to 53, with details of our policy on subject to shareholder approval at the minerals in which it is a global leader in capital risk management being set out in note Annual General Meeting AGM to be held both platinum and diamonds: base metals 25 to the financial statements.
This would bring the total copper and nickel: and bulk commodities debt at 31 December 2010 including related dividend in respect of 2010 to 65 US cents iron ore, metallurgical coal and thermal coal.
hedges was $7.4 billion 2009: $11.3 billion, per ordinary share.
In accordance with Anglo American is committed to the highest representing a gearing level of 16.3% International Financial Reporting Standards standards of safety and responsibility across 2009: 28.7%.
Details of borrowings and IFRS, the final dividend will be accounted for all its businesses and geographies and to facilities are set out in notes 24 and 25 and in the financial statements for the year ended making a sustainable difference in the net debt is set out in note 31.
31December 2011. development of the communities around its operations.
The Companys mining operations The directors have considered the Groups Two shareholders have waived their rights and extensive pipeline of growth projects are cash flow forecasts for the period to the end to receive dividends.
In both cases, these located in southern Africa, South America, of March 2012.
The Board is satisfied that the shareholders act as trustees nominees Australia, North America and Asia.
Groups forecasts and projections, taking holding shares for use solely in relation to account of reasonably possible changes in the Groups employee share plans.
These More detailed information about the trading performance show that the Group shareholders and the value of dividends Groups businesses, activities and financial will be able to operate within the level of its waived during the year were: performance is incorporated in this report by current facilities for the foreseeable future.
Greenwood Nominees Limited $4,429.50 reference and can be found in the Chairmans For this reason the Group continues to adopt and Chief executives statements on pages the going concern basis in preparing its Security Nominees Limited $354,828.25 6to 7 and 12 to 13 respectively and the financial statements.
Operating and financial review on pages 14to 85.
The Corporate governance statement is on pages 86 to 97 and is incorporated in this Directors report byreference.
