112 Anglo American plc Annual Report 2010 GovernAnce: Directors report continued share Capital payment of suppliers employment and other poliCies The Companys issued share capital as at Anglo American plc is a holding company The Groups key operating businesses are 31December 2010, together with details of and, as such, has no material trade creditors.
empowered to manage, within the context of share allotments during the year, is set out in Businesses across the Group are responsible the different legislative and social demands note 29 on pages 157 to 161. for agreeing the terms under which of the diverse countries in which those transactions with their suppliers are conducted, businesses operate, subject to the standards The Company was authorised by shareholders reflecting local and industry norms and group embodied in Anglo Americans Good at the AGM held on 22 April 2010 to purchase purchasing arrangements which may have Citizenship: Our Business Principles.
In 2009, its own shares in the market up to a maximum been made with a supplier.
The Group values after an extensive review, the Business of 14.99% of the issued share capital.
No its suppliers and recognises the benefits to be Principles were updated.
shares were purchased under this authority derived from maintaining good relationships during 2010.
This authority will expire at the with them.
Anglo American acknowledges the Within all the Groups businesses, the safe and 2011 AGM and in accordance with usual importance of paying invoices, especially those effective performance of employees and the practice a resolution to renew it for another of small businesses, promptly.
maintenance of positive employee relations year will be proposed.
Managers are charged with ensuring that the following key value of land principles are upheld: material shareholdings Adherence to national legal standards on Land is mainly carried in the financial employment and workplace rights at all Details of interests of 3% or more in the statements at cost.
It is not practicable to times ordinary share capital of the Company are estimate the market value of land and mineral shown within the Shareholder information rights, since these depend on product prices Adoption of fair labour practices section of the Notice of Meeting booklet.
over the next 20 years or more, which will vary Prohibition of child labour with market conditions.
Prohibition of inhumane treatment of direCtors employees and any form of forced labour, post-BalanCe sheet events physical punishment or other abuse Biographical details of the directors currently Continual promotion of safe and healthy serving on the Board are given on pages Post-balance sheet events are set out in note working practices 88 and 89.
Details of directors interests in 38 to the financial statements on page 168. shares and share options of the Company can Promotion of workplace equality and be found in the Remuneration report on pages elimination of all forms of unfair 98 to 109. audit information discrimination Provision of opportunities for employees Fred Phaswana retired from the Board The directors confirm that, so far as they are to enhance their work-related skills and on 1January 2010.
Sir Rob Margetts and aware, there is no relevant audit information of capabilities ChrisFay retired from the Board at the which the auditors are unaware and that all conclusion of the AGM on 22 April 2010. directors have taken all reasonable steps to Recognition of the right of our employees NickyOppenheimer has indicated his intention make themselves aware of any relevant audit to freedom of association to retire after the conclusion of the AGM on information and to establish that the auditors Adoption of fair and appropriate procedures 21April 2011.
A tribute to MrOppenheimer are aware of that information.
for determining terms and conditions of is contained in the Chairmans statement on employment page 7.
Further, the Group is committed to treating employees at all levels with respect and sustainaBle development consideration, to investing in their development and to ensuring that their The Sustainable Development Report 2010 careers are not constrained by discrimination will be available in April 2011.
This report or arbitrary barriers.
focuses on the safety, sustainable development, health and environmental performance of the Groups managed operations, its performance with regard to the Companys Good Citizenship: Our Business Principles, and the operational dimensions of its social programmes.
