46 Anglo American plc Annual Report 2010 OPERATING AND FINANCIAL REVIEW: Risk Managing risk oUr approaCh David Challen The management of risk is critical to the Chairman, Audit Committee success of Anglo American.
The Group is exposed to a variety of risks which can have a financial, operational or reputational impact.
Effective management of risk supports the delivery of the Groups objectives and achievement of sustainable growth.
the risk ManageMent proCess Identifying risks Analysing risks and Understanding our key risks and developing controls to manage appropriate responses is critical to our those risks future success.
We are committed to a robust system of risk identification and 2 effective response to such risks.
1 Anglo American assessment of strategic, operational and project risks 3 4 Determining Reporting management and monitoring actions required how Do we Manage risk?
Identifying risks Determining management actions A consistently applied methodology is used If additional controls are required these will The approach to management of risk is to: to identify key risks at Group business units, be identified and responsibilities assigned.
The risk management Identify the key risks that could have a process is undertaken through a series of risk Reporting and monitoring significant impact on the ability of the workshops at least annually at business units, Management is responsible for monitoring Group to achieve its objectives, at an sites and at key stages in projects.
An update progress of actions to mitigate key risks and early stage is performed every six months.
is supported through the Groups internal Analyse risks and controls audit programme, which evaluates the design Analysing risks and controls and effectiveness of controls to mitigate Ensure appropriate responses are put Once identified, the process will evaluate key risks.
in place to mitigate the risks those risks to establish financial and Monitor the effectiveness and non-financial impacts, likelihood of The results of the key risk management implementation of controls occurrence and root causes.
Consideration process are reported to the Audit Committee of current controls to mitigate those risks is every six months.
Regular reports to the audit committee also undertaken to enable a prioritised register of risks to be created.
