Overview Operating and financial review Governance Financial statements Ore Reserves and Mineral Resources Other information 29 Anglo American plc Annual Report 2010 at this stage.
We are also researching other Anglo Americans coal business has become a cornerstone investor in MBD Energy, an ways to capture and use the dilute methane that Australian energy company that is developing projects that recycle CO using algae to 2 is released from underground mine ventilation produce commercial quantities of oil and feedstock.
Featured are MBDs Agri Business shafts.
The research into catalysed ventilation manager Tony St Clair left and managing director Andrew Lawson.
air methane capture is being undertaken together with Johnson Matthey.
Using alternative sources of energy Collectively, in 2010 our Copper, Nickel and Iron Ore Brazil businesses consumed 34.5million GJ of energy largely derived from renewable sources and 74,000tonnes of biofuels.
Our South African and Australian operations, which run on electricity grids that are heavily coal-dependent, have greater difficulty in finding renewable sources of energy.
Our biggest alternative energy projects are the methane-fired power stations at the Moranbah North and Capcoal mines, which generate a combined 77 MW of electricity.
In South Africa, we have begun to install solar water heaters in our mine housing, and are investigating additional low carbon energy options.
Carbon neutral mining of the future The Anglo American Mine 2030 project was initiated to develop and deploy technologies that will enable us to manage cost effective, zero harm and resource-efficient mines in the future.
We have, as part of this process, incorporated potential energy and carbon technologies into a timeline that will help us to run efficient, carbon-neutral mines in 20 years The technology is modular and economically CliMate Change ContinUing time.
These range from near term solutions scaleable, and has applications across the researCh for spontaneous combustion to eventually numerous industries, including the being able to capture and store carbon in generation of electrical power.
MBD Energy, in which we have a 20% an effective and financially viable way.
shareholding, offers technology with the MBD is based at James Cook University potential to provide large-scale commercial Reducing product emissions JCU in Queensland, Australia, and is one and sustainable solutions to three of the Although one of our core commodities, of the largest dedicated algae research worlds most critical issues.
These include platinum, along with its sister platinum and development establishments of its the availability, security and affordability group metals PGMs, helps to reduce kind anywhere in the world.
It has an of bio-oil: the production of nutritious meal GHGs through the use of these metals in exclusive relationship with JCU, a world for use in livestock and aquaculture: and, of environmental technologies, downstream leader in algae research and development.
particular importance to us, carbon coal-related emissions are responsible for sequestration.
the greatest proportion of our Scope 3 The company has received funding from 1 carbon footprint.
Viable carbon the Australian Federal Government and MBDs hybrid COcapture and algal 2 sequestration technologies are not currently Queensland State Government, and has synthesiser process involves the injection available, which is why we participate in a signed formal agreements to deploy its of captured flue gases into a wastewater number of cutting-edge clean coal and carbon technology with three major CO emitters growth medium housed in plastic 2 sequestration research initiatives.
These the Tarong, Loy Yang and Eraring power membranes.
This allows for the rapid include the US based FutureGen Industrial stations which, combined, account for growth of an oil-rich algal biomass that Alliance, the Otway CO storage project in 2 23% of Australias installed coal-fired may be harvested continuously to produce Australia and the South African Centre for power generating capacity.
nutritious animal feed and oil suited to Carbon Capture and Storage.
More directly, the production of a variety of bio-resins, we hold a 20% interest in MBD Energy, which plastics and transport fuels, including large has commenced applied research into quantities of bio-diesel.
1 Scope 3 carbon emissions are indirect emissions which are a consequence of our business activities, but occur from sources not ownedor controlled by us such as the combustion of coal.
