86 Anglo American plc Annual Report 2010 GovernAnce: Introduction setting the highest standards for Corporate governanCe Good corporate governance is not just about making decisions in the right way, it is about making better decisions.
I strongly believe that good corporate governance creates value Sir John Parker Chairmans introduCtion Board refreshment Chairman Since my appointment I have sought to Good governance is at the core of continue and accelerate the process of AngloAmericans board and committee board refreshment.
In this section we have tried to RayORourke and Jack Thompson were give a clear and concise description of that recruited as independent non-executive structure and the processes that support it.
directors NEDs to replace the three retiring But first, I would like to explain why I believe NEDs: Chris Fay, Sir Rob Margetts and Fred good corporate governance is so important.
The new NEDs bring financial, strategic, mining, engineering and major Over a number of years now we have seen project experience to the already highly skilled an ever increasing focus on standards of and diverse board.
During 2010 we also made corporate governance, with a series of reviews changes to committee composition in order and guidance culminating, in June 2010, to incorporate the new NEDs.
with the publication of the UK Corporate Governance Code the Code.
This process In compliance with the Code, and in advance of codification has provided both important of its full implementation, the entire Board is in this seCtion guidance for companies and, quite rightly, being proposed for re-election at the 2011 an agreed set of standards against which Annual General Meeting.
Anglo American 86 Chairmans introduction others can judge our corporate governance has a diverse board that is equipped to drive performance.
I am pleased to report that a global listed mining group.
We are proud to 86 Board refreshment Anglo American will fully comply with the be led by Cynthia Carroll, one of a handful of new Code, as we did with its predecessors.
female FTSE 100 chief executives, while the 87 Board effectiveness Board as a whole comprises men and women Good governance is about more than mere from France, Germany, Hong Kong, Ireland, 88 Board and Executive Management compliance, however.
For example, by South Africa, the UK and the US.
However, biographies separating and clearly stating the roles and diversity is not simply about gender or race responsibilities of the chairman and chief the Anglo American Board has been selected 91 Role and composition of the Board executive we aim to avoid unhealthy on the basis of the varied backgrounds, skills, concentrations of authority: by appointing experience and insight of its members.
91 Excellence in the board room strong independent directors we benefit from their expertise and perspective and reduce The Nomination Committee has defined 92 Investor communication the risk of groupthink.
Good corporate the skills and experience profiles required governance is therefore not just about making of future NEDs over the next few years.
This 93 Board Committees decisions in the right way, it is about making includes our aim to increase the representation better decisions.
I strongly believe that good of women on the Board excluding the 94 Audit Committee report corporate governance creates value.
chairman from 20% to 30% within two years.
96 Effectiveness of internal control and risk management
