26 Anglo American plc Annual Report 2010 OPERATING AND FINANCIAL REVIEW: Strategy in action continued operating saFely, sUstainaBly anD responsiBly LOST TIME INJURY FREQUENCY oUr perForManCe Performance 1 RATE LTIFR AND FATAL INJURY We deeply regret that 14 employees and FREQUENCY RATE FIFR Anglo American is committed to operating contractors lost their lives while working at LTIFR FIFR safely, sustainably and responsibly and Anglo American in 2010.
We take the view that 1.2 0.030 we believe that real sustainable progress any loss of life is unacceptable and we believe is best achieved by engaging in productive that all injuries are preventable.
continue to be unrelenting in our efforts to 1.0 0.025 keep our people safe.
However, we are Sustainable development SD touches on encouraged by the significant progress in our every aspect of our business and is both a safety performance over recent years.
Since 0.8 0.020 critical enabler in terms of our licence to 2006, the total number of workplace deaths operate and a key value driver.
Our approach is has declined by 68%, and 30% year on year.
based on a belief that exceptional operational 0.6 0.015 value can be realised by embedding Our total number of lost-time injuries, the sustainable development in everything that we lost-time injury frequency rate LTIFR and 0.010 0.4 do from our systems, risk processes and the severity of injuries also continue to decline.
procedures, to the way in which we consult At year end 2010, the Group LTIFR of 0.57 and work with our stakeholders.
represented a 51% decrease since 2006 0.2 0.005 and bettered our target of 0.64 for the Strong governance and risk management year.
These figures represent significant processes ensure that we deliver on our improvements across most business units, 0 0 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 commitments.
A dedicated global Safety and particularly in the Platinum business, which Sustainable Development S&SD risk and has shown remarkable progress given the LTIFR FIFR assurance team provides the Executive high risk nature of deep-level hard-rock See KPI table on page 14 for denitions of LTIFR and FIFR Committee and S&SD Committee of the mining.
Excluding Platinum, our LTIFR stood Board with expert opinion on the adequacy of at 0.22.
Notably, too, Anglo Americans total risk-control measures to ensure that current recordable case frequency rate of 1.44 2009: operating saFely and emerging risks are effectively controlled.
1.81 has also reduced steadily over the years.
This independent perspective, coupled with The safety of our workforce remains our subject matter expertise internal and Managing risk over-riding value, and we are continuing to external enables us to identify critical safety, The Group safety strategy, launched towards strengthen our risk management system health and environmental improvement the end of 2008, remains our core framework in this regard.
opportunities, thereby focusing and and roadmap for safety management accelerating improvement efforts.
It is based upon 10 key elements which we believe are the To help identify those SD activities and fundamentals of effective risk management DeCline in workplaCe associated levers that will increase the the key to improving safety performance.
Deaths sinCe 2006 competitive strength of our mines, both in the short and longer term, we have identified and During 2010, a mandatory safety, health and integrated key S&SD value drivers into our environmental risk-management process and operations and project review process.
We are procedure was implemented throughout the 6 8% also developing a framework to assess the Group to ensure that everyone, permanent financial value of SD initiatives and the extent employee and contractor alike, follows a to which these can increase the value of consistent and rigorous approach.
the nUMBer oF people traineD greenfield projects.
This will support decisionin oUr saFety risk ManageMent making at the planning stages of projects, A suite of Major Risk Standards and prograMMe thereby enhancing future performance and Guidelines was also developed in recognition maximising value.
that we needed to take a more proactive approach to the management of those risks that may have low probability but which could 5, 152 saFety potentially result in major loss of life.
Implementation of these standards will Mining is a hazardous industry and our most commence in 2011. urgent priority is to prevent any fatal injury occurring.
The safety of our employees, These build upon the Anglo Fatal Risk therefore, will remain our top priority until we Standards AFRS, designed to address achieve and maintain zero harm.
high level hazards that are common throughout most of the Group.
By year end, we had achieved an average AFRS compliance of 86% against a target of 100%.
1 A further two fatal incidents are under investigaton.
