Overview Operating and financial review Governance Financial statements Ore Reserves and Mineral Resources Other information 27 Anglo American plc Annual Report 2010 aroUnD 72% oF oUr operations aroUnD the worlD are loCateD in water-stresseD CatChMents c. 72% While we believe that the most critical water hazards have been addressed sufficiently, further work is required to reach full Around 72% of our operations are located compliance: action plans have been in water-stressed catchments where we developed to address any gaps.
expect increasing competition for water resources.
Resultant risks include supply Enhancing risk-management capability shortages, cost escalations and growing The award-winning Anglo American Safety, legislative complexities.
Health and Environment Risk Management Programme, which we have now made A strategy for water stewardship available across the mining industry, continues At the heart of the new Anglo American water to be one of the key ways in which we equip strategy and policy, approved in 2010, is our our people with the essential knowledge aim to demonstrate leadership within our and skills they need to ensure we apply a water catchments.
We believe that this will common, robust approach to managing risk.
unlock value in our current operations, More than 5,000 Anglo American executives, safeguard future projects and bring benefit managers and front-line employees and to both the environment and the communities other stakeholders have now been trained surrounding our operations.
The strategy is in the programme, which has been revised a three-stage journey phased over 10 years, to include our new safety, health and moving from a strong initial focus on internal Tripartite Safety Initiative visit to Thermal environment risk management process.
performance improvement, to leadership Coals Goedehoop colliery in South Africa.
This is now being rolled out to target beyond operational borders.
The strategy is supervisors and front-line employees.
guided by four focus areas: water efficiency, water security, water risk and liability and WATER CONSUMPTION 3 Learning from incidents stakeholder engagement.
Million m A crucial step in preventing injuries is to 600 465 understand their immediate and fundamental Performance causes.
A standardised suite of training During 2010, Group operations consumed 3 programmes and an associated set of 115million m of water for primary activities.
500 learning from incidents LFI procedures This 6.5% like-for-like decrease on 2009 has been developed to ensure that we consumption levels is due to a 11% saving investigate incidents thoroughly and enhance in water used for primary activities at the 400 our learning as a result.
This includes guidance Platinum business, and revised calculation on conducting thorough, consistent incident methods at the LosBronces copper project 300 investigations in order to establish their root in Chile.
Despite acquisitions and expansions, causes and to identify and put in place and taking into account disposals, a relatively 130 preventative measures and additional controls stable level of demand has been maintained 3 200 to improve the management of current and since 2006.
We used a further 10.6 million m potential risks.
of water forsecondary activities such as 9 2 employee villages, sports grounds and 123 121 118 115 115 100 Safety assurance facilities linked tocompany owned A total of 47 audits were conducted by the infrastructure.
These areas of activity will be Group Safety and Sustainable Development the target of greater reduction efforts as we 0 Risk and Assurance team in 2010.
Focusing on strive to decrease our total water footprint in 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 our key risk areas, including falls of ground, the future.
Group excluding divested businesses contractor management, noise and dust, and Divested businesses isolation of energy, this risk based assurance A focus on water efficiency programme is a key element in reviewing the Operations employ a combination of quality and effectiveness of the controls we technology, behaviour and process-change have in place for managing these risks.
initiatives in order to save water.
A new water efficiency target setting tool WETT was Audit reports identifying elements of best piloted in 2010 and will set new site level practice and areas for improvement have been targets and ultimately a Group water shared with site and business unit leadership reduction target.
teams and action plans subsequently developed to help focus and accelerate Apart from using less water, many of our improvement efforts.
operations are also experimenting in the use of different qualities or sources of water.
