Overview Operating and financial review Governance Financial statements Ore Reserves and Mineral Resources Other information 75 Anglo American plc Annual Report 2010 Project development at the plant has been Kumbas operating profit remains SIOC initiated an application on 14 December focused on progressing earthworks in highly sensitive to the rand US dollar 2010 to interdict ICT from applying for a preparation for the commencement of civil exchange rate.
mining right in respect of the Sishen Mine works.
The pipeline element of the project is and the DMR from accepting an application well progressed, with pipe laying, welding and The market for manganese ore and alloys from ICT, nor granting such 21.4% mining burying beginning in June and ended the year is dependent upon the carbon steel industry.
right to ICT pending the final determination ahead of schedule, including the completion Increased demand and prices will be of the review application.
This application is of two underground river crossings one of underpinned by strengthening steel production currently pending.
which is the longest of its type in Brazil.
The trends and the level of Chinese exports.
civil works for the filtration plant are under The DMR informed SIOC on 12 January 2011 way and, at the port, offshore works have Kumba Iron Ore update that ICT had applied for a 21.4% mining right continued with the commencement of the Kumbas Sishen Iron Ore Company SIOC over Sishen Mine on 9 December 2010, and construction of the iron ore pier and notified ArcelorMittal South Africa Limited that the DMR had accepted this application on breakwater, following completion of the ArcelorMittal on 5 February 2010, that it was 23 December 2010.
The DMRs acceptance 2.9km main trestle.
no longer entitled to receive 6.25 Mtpa of iron of the application means that the mining right ore contract mined by SIOC at cost plus 3% application will now be evaluated according to Studies for the expansion of the Minas-Rio from Sishen Mine, as a result of the fact that the detailed process stipulated in the Mineral project continued during 2010 and ArcelorMittal had failed to convert its old order Resources & Petroleum Development Act the latest resource statement provides a mining right.
This contract mining agreement, 2004 before a decision is made as to whether total resource volume Measured, Indicated concluded in 2001, was premised on or not to grant the mining right.
and Inferred of 5.3 billion tonnes, ArcelorMittal owning an undivided 21.4% supporting the expansion of the project.
interest in the mineral rights of Sishen Mine.
SIOC does not believe that it was lawful for In addition, the port agreement noted above As a result of ArcelorMittals failure to convert the DMR to have accepted ICTs application, also covers a long term tariff arrangement its old order mining right, the contract mining pending the High Court Review initiated in for all AngloAmericans iron ore volumes agreement automatically lapsed and became May 2010, and has formally objected to, and beyond the first phase of the Minas-Rio inoperative in its entirety as of 1 May 2009. appealed against, the DMRs acceptance of project.
The level of the expansion tariff ICTs mining right application.
SIOC has also will be dependent upon the capital cost As a result, a dispute arose between SIOC requested that its interdict application be to expand the port to accommodate those and ArcelorMittal, which SIOC has referred determined on an expedited basis, in order additional volumes and that capital cost will to arbitration.
SIOC and ArcelorMittal reached to prevent the DMR from considering ICTs be determined in due course.
an interim pricing arrangement in respect of mining right application until the finalisation of the supply of iron ore to ArcelorMittal from the review proceedings.
In addition, SIOC is in Outlook the Sishen Mine.
This arrangement will the process of preparing a challenge against Analyst forecasts indicate that global crude endure until 31 July 2011.
Both parties have the DMRs decision of 25 January 2011 to steel production is expected to grow by 5-10% exchanged their respective pleadings, and reject SIOCs May 2009 application to be in 2011.
The rate of growth in crude steel the arbitration panel has been appointed.
granted the residual 21.4% mining right.
production in China is anticipated to decrease Finally, on 26 January 2011, SIOC lodged as the Chinese government seeks further After ArcelorMittal failed to convert its old a new application for the residual 21.4% improvements in overall energy efficiency order mining right, SIOC applied for the mining right.
for the next five-year plan.
However, with residual 21.4% mining right previously anticipated shortfalls in seaborne iron ore held by ArcelorMittal and its application On 4 February 2011, SIOC made an supply, in particular from India, the overall was accepted by the Department of application to join ArcelorMittal as a global seaborne iron ore market is expected Mineral Resources DMR on 4 May 2009. respondent in the review proceedings.
A competing application for a prospecting right over the same area was also accepted by SIOC will continue to take the necessary Kumbas export sales volumes are anticipated the DMR.
SIOC objected to this acceptance.
steps to protect its shareholders interests to be in line with volumes achieved during Notwithstanding this objection, a prospecting in this regard.
Domestic sales volumes remain right over the 21.4% interest was granted by dependent on the offtake requirements the DMR to Imperial Crown Trading 289 from ArcelorMittal.
Waste mining at all the Proprietary Limited ICT.
SIOC initiated a operational sites is anticipated to increase, review application in the North Gauteng High which will put upward pressure on unit cash Court on 21 May 2010 in relation to the costs of production.
Annual production decision of the DMR to grant a prospecting volumes during 2011 are expected to remain right to ICT.
at levels achieved during 2010 as the jig plant has reached its nameplate capacity.
