Overview Operating and financial review Governance Financial statements Ore Reserves and Mineral Resources Other information 07 Anglo American plc Annual Report 2010 saFety We are also re-doubling our efforts on We aim to have a quality Board with a culture environmental issues, focusing on new of transparency that encourages internal The year was marked by yet another major technologies to address the twin challenges debate.
In this vein we have defined the improvement in our safety performance, with of water scarcity and climate change global skills and experience for the non-executive a significant reduction in both the number of priorities in relation to which South Africa will directors we plan to recruit over the next people who died and were injured on company be the centre of world attention as we prepare few years.
We also aim to increase our business.
Over the past four years, under for the COP 17 conference in Durban later percentage of women on the Board excluding Cynthia Carrolls leadership, the number this year.
the chairman from todays 20% to c. 30% by of people who have died in accidents at end 2012. our operations has reduced by more than As a major coal producer and consumer two-thirds.
With such improvements, year on of energy, we remain committed to reducing I wish, therefore, to acknowledge and year, our ultimate aim of zero harm is not just our carbon emissions focusing not only thank the Board team and its newer attainable, but is now being seen to be so.
All of on carbon capture and storage, but also on members, who collectively are making a us need to remain very committed to this goal.
new technologies such as algae which can significant contribution to our Board debates, be used to produce sustainable fuels.
We are while also serving on the Boards vitally also closely involved in research to study important committees.
sUstainaBle DevelopMent the role of PGMs in a cleaner energy mix, especially in fuel-cell technologies.
In addition, But it is to our longest-standing member We continue to focus on enhancing the AngloAmerican continues to play a leading that I especially want to pay tribute.
Nicky positive impacts of Anglo Americans role in policy development around biodiversity Oppenheimer has notified the Board of his operations on our host communities, and and reducing deforestation.
wish to retire as a non-executive director, at on preventing or reducing negative effects the forthcoming AGM, after 43 years with the in line with our commitment to being the Anglo American Group.
partner of choice for host governments oUtlook and communities.
AngloAmericans origins in South Africa Looking ahead, the global economic outlook more than 90 years ago lay in the hands of In 2010 we continued the implementation remains positive.
Continuing industrialisation Nickys grandfather and that legacy lives on.
of our new, more demanding socialand urbanisation in China, India and other Sir Ernests commitment that Anglo American performance and environmental standards emerging economies underpins growth in should make a positive and sustainable through the Anglo American Social Way and commodity demand with good prospects of difference to the communities around its the Anglo American Environment Way.
I am a sustainable expansion in the medium and mining operations remains deeply embedded pleased to report that compliance with the longer term.
In the advanced economies, in the way we do business.
new standards improved when compared however, the recovery faces some stiff with 2009.
During 2011 our objective is to headwinds.
In Europe, many governments On behalf of the Board, I would like to eliminate all non-compliances.
have announced austerity packages, which express our thanks to Nicky for his significant may weaken economic growth in 2011.
But contribution to Anglo American over so many Focus areas in 2010 included launching in the US, additional monetary and fiscal years.
We will miss Nickys wise counsel, a major Group-wide project which aims stimulus should have the effect of supporting sound business sense and integrity.
We wish to facilitate greater local procurement by greater economic activity.
him well and look forward to a continued our operations.
We firmly believe that our strong relationship through our respective procurement budget of over $10 billion interests in fide Beers.
represents our most important opportunity the BoarD to further develop local communities.
Finally, I wish to pay tribute to the management Quality leadership is critical to the success team we have in place at Anglo American, and During the year we also brought a much of any organisation and it is critically to all of our employees, who have responded greater focus to measuring our social important in the boardroom.
This is the place so willingly and ably to the challenges of a performance in a more rigorous manner.
where we take ownership of the companys demanding and successful year.
We have developed a standardised suite strategy, and where that strategy is debated of output key performance indicators KPIs and stress-tested.
It is also the forum that for our social investment programmes that creates the drumbeat for our values, and will be used across all of our operations and empowers management to execute the company-sponsored foundations.
The first strategy, and be accountable for its delivery.
report produced by the new KPIs will be Sir John Parker presented in our 2010 Sustainable Chairman Development Report.
