72 Marks and Spencer Group plc Annual report and financial statements 2010 Directors report Other disclosures Principal activities and Business review Share capital Marks and Spencer Group plc the Company is the holding The Companys authorised and issued ordinary share capital as at company of the Marks & Spencer Group of companies the 3 April 2010 comprised a single class of ordinary shares.
We are one of the UKs leading retailers with over movements in the issued share capital can be found in note 25 to 21 million customers visiting our stores every week.
We sell high the financial statements.
Each share carries the right to one vote quality, great value clothing and home products and outstanding at general meetings of the Company.
During the period, 4,521,662 quality food.
We source our products responsibly from 2,000 ordinary shares in the Company were issued as follows: suppliers around the world, 76,000 people work for M&S both 977,352 shares under the terms of the 2002 Executive Share in the UK and in 41 countries overseas where we have a growing Option Scheme at prices between 215p and 352p: and international business.
3,544,310 shares under the terms of the United Kingdom The Companies Act 2006 requires the Company to set out Employees Save As You Earn Share Option Scheme at prices in this report a fair review of the business of the Group during between 203p and 349p.
the financial year ended 3 April 2010 including an analysis of the position of the Group at the end of the financial year, and Restrictions on transfer of securities a description of the principal risks and uncertainties facing the There are no specific restrictions on the transfer of securities Group known as a Business review.
in the Company, which is governed by the Articles and prevailing The information that fulfils the Business review requirements legislation.
Nor is the Company aware of any agreements between can be found in the following sections of this report.
holders of securities that may result in restrictions on the transfer of Chairmans overview on pages 1 to 7 securities or that may result in restrictions on voting rights.
Performance overview and KPIs on pages 8 to 11 Brand and marketplace on pages 12 to 15 Variation of rights Operating and financial review on pages 16 to 43 Principal risks and uncertainties on pages 56 and 57 Subject to applicable statutes, rights attached to any class of shares Financial risk management on pages 102 to 105 may be varied with the written consent of the holders of at least Social, environmental and ethical matters on pages 36 to 41. three quarters in nominal value of the issued shares of that class, More information is given in the How We Do Business report or by a special resolution passed at a separate general meeting available on our website at marksandspencer.
annualreport2010 Rights and obligations attaching to shares Pages 1 to 76 inclusive together with the sections of the Annual Report incorporated by reference consist of a Directors report Subject to the provisions of the Companies Act 2006, any resolution that has been drawn up and presented in accordance with and in passed by the Company under the Companies Act 2006 and other reliance upon applicable English company law and the liabilities of shareholder rights, shares may be issued with such rights and the directors in connection with that report shall be subject to the restrictions as the Company may by ordinary resolution decide, or limitations and restrictions provided by such law.
if there is no such resolution or so far as it does not make specific An index to other Directors report disclosures are given on provision as the Board as defined in the Articles may decide.
Subject to the Articles, the Companies Act 2006 and other shareholder rights, unissued shares are at the disposal of the Board.
Profit and dividends Powers for the Company issuing or buying back The profit for the financial year, after taxation, amounts to 526.3m its own shares last year 508.0m.
The directors have declared dividends as follows: The Company was authorised by shareholders, at the 2009 AGM, to purchase in the market up to 10% of the Companys issued Ordinary shares m share capital, as permitted under the Companys Articles.
No shares Paid interim dividend of 5.5p per share have been bought back under this authority.
This standard authority last year 8.3p per share 86.4 is renewable annually: the directors will seek to renew this authority Proposed final dividend of 9.5p per share at the 2010 AGM.
It is the Companys present intention to cancel last year 9.5p per share 150.4 any shares it buys back, rather than hold them in treasury.
There are no specific restrictions on the transfer of securities Total ordinary dividend, 15.0p per share in the Company, which is governed by the Articles and prevailing last year 17.8p per share 236.8 legislation, nor is the Company aware of any agreements between The final ordinary dividend will be paid on 16 July 2010 to holders of securities that may result in restrictions on the transfer shareholders whose names are on the Register of Members at the of securities or that may result in restrictions on voting rights.
close of business on 4 June 2010.
Subject to the Companies Act 2006, rights attached to any class of share may be varied with the written consent of the holders of at least 75% in nominal value of the issued shares of that class, or by a special resolution passed at a separate general meeting of the shareholders.
To find out more, visit marksandspencer.
com annualreport2010 73 Operating & Financial review p16 Governance Financial statements p78 The directors were granted authority at the 2009 AGM to allot the 250m puttable callable reset notes issued by the Company relevant securities up to a nominal amount of 132,511,272. to various institutions on 11 December 2007 under the Groups That authority will apply until the conclusion of this years AGM.
3bn EMTN programme contain an option such that, upon a At this years AGM shareholders will be asked to grant an authority change of control event, combined with a credit ratings to allot relevant securities i up to a nominal amount of 131,895,652, downgrade to below sub-investment level, any holder of an and ii comprising equity securities up to a nominal amount of MTN may require the Company to prepay the principal amount 263,791,305 after deducting from such limit any relevant of that MTN: securities allotted under i, in connection with an offer of a rights the $500m US Notes issued by the Company to various issue, the Section 551 Amount, such Section 551 amount to apply institutions on 6 December 2007 under section 144a of the until the conclusion of the AGM to be held in 2011 or, if earlier, US Securities Act contain an option such that, upon a change on 2 October 2011. of control event, combined with a credit ratings downgrade A special resolution will also be proposed to renew the directors to below sub-investment level, any holder of such a US Note powers to make non pre-emptive issues for cash in connection with may require the Company to prepay the principal amount of rights issues and otherwise up to a nominal amount of 19,784,347. that US Note: A special resolution will also be proposed to renew the directors authority to repurchase the Companys ordinary shares in the the $300m US Notes issued by the Company to various market.
The authority will be limited to a maximum of 158m ordinary institutions on 6 December 2007 under section 144a of the US shares and sets the minimum and maximum prices which will be Securities Act contain an option such that, upon a change of paid.
control event, combined with a credit ratings downgrade to below sub-investment level, any holder of such a US Note may require Interests in voting rights the Company to prepay the principal amount of that US Note: Information provided to the Company pursuant to the Financial the 1.2bn Credit Agreement dated 13 August 2004 and the Services and Authoritys FSA Disclosure and Transparency Rules 400m Credit Facility Agreement dated 3 February 2008 between DTRs is published on a Regulatory Information Service and on the the Company and various banks both contain a provision such Companys website.
As at 24 May 2010, the Company had been that, upon a change of control event, unless new terms are notified under DTR5 of the following significant holdings of voting agreed within 60 days, the facilities under these agreements will rights in its shares.
be cancelled with all outstanding amounts becoming immediately payable with interest: Ordinary shares % of capital Nature of holding the agreement between HSBC and the Company relating to Brandes Investment M&S Money dated 9 November 2004 as amended and restated Partners, L. P. 111,595,173 6.57% Indirect interest on 1 March 2005 contains a clause such that, upon a change Direct and of control of the Company, any new owner would be obliged to AXA S. A.
89,374,221 5.66% indirect give undertakings to HSBC in respect of the continuation of the Capital Research agreement, negotiate revised terms or terminate the agreement: & Management 78,591,394 4.98% Indirect interest the agreement between Marks and Spencer plc and Marks Legal & General Group plc 63,188,326 3.99% Direct interest and Spencer Pension Trust Limited as trustee of The Marks The Wellcome Trust 47,464,282 3.01% Direct interest and Spencer Pension Scheme the Pension Fund dated 25 March 2009 relating to Marks and Spencer Scottish Limited Partnership the Partnership contains a clause such that, upon Deadlines for exercising voting rights a change of control of the Company, Marks and Spencer plc shall elect either to cause the Partnership to surrender its Votes are exercisable at a General Meeting of the Company in discretion over the payment of annual distributions to the Pension respect of which the business being voted upon is being heard.
Fund or to increase the rate at which compensatory interest Votes may be exercised in person, by proxy, or in relation to accrues on any annual payments that Marks and Spencer plc corporate members, by corporate representatives.
The Articles provide a deadline for submission of proxy forms of not than less has elected to defer.
than 48 hours before the time appointed for the holding of the The Company does not have agreements with any director meeting or adjourned meeting.
or employee that would provide compensation for loss of office or employment resulting from a takeover except that provisions of Significant agreements change of control the Companys share schemes and plans may cause options and awards granted to employees under such schemes and plans to There are a number of agreements to which the Company is party that take effect, alter or terminate upon a change of control of the vest on a takeover.
Details of the significant agreements of this kind are as follows: the 267m Medium Term Notes issued by the Company on 28 March 2007 and 400m Medium Term Notes issued by the Company on 30 November 2009 both to various institutions MTN and under the Groups 3bn Euro Medium Term Note EMTN programme contain an option such that, upon a change of control event, combined with a credit ratings downgrade to below sub-investment level, any holder of an MTN may require the Company to prepay the principal amount of that MTN: 74 Marks and Spencer Group plc Annual report and financial statements 2010 Directors report Other disclosures continued Board of directors Directors indemnities The membership of the Board and biographical details of the The Company maintains directors and officers liability insurance directors are given on page 44 and 45 and are incorporated into which gives appropriate cover for any legal action brought against this report by reference.
Details of directors beneficial and nonits directors.
The Company has also granted indemnities to each of beneficial interests in the shares of the Company are shown on its directors and the Group Secretary to the extent permitted by law.
Options granted under the Save As You Earn SAYE Qualifying third party indemnity provisions as defined by section Share Option and Executive Share Option Schemes are shown 234 of the Companies Act 2006 were in force during the year on pages 68 to 70.
Further information regarding employee share ended 3 April 2010 and remain in force, in relation to certain losses option schemes is given in note 12 to the financial statements.
and liabilities which the directors or Group Secretary may incur to Marc Bolland was appointed to the Board as Chief Executive third parties in the course of acting as directors or Group Secretary on 1 May 2010 and will stand for election at the AGM in 2010, or employees of the Company or of any associated company.
along with John Dixon who was appointed to the Board as an executive director on 9 September 2009.
Sir Stuart Rose will Employee involvement step down as Executive Chairman on 31 July 2010, when he will We have maintained our commitment to employee involvement become Chairman.
He will leave the Company by March 2011. throughout the business.
On 5 May 2010 the Company announced the resignation of Employees are kept well informed of the performance and Ian Dyson.
He will step down from the Board following the AGM objectives of the Group through personal briefings, regular on 14 July and will leave the Company on 31 August 2010. meetings, personal letters to their home, email and Chairman On 8 July 2009 Graham Oakley was succeeded in his role as broadcasts at key points in the year to all head office employees Group Secretary by Amanda Mellor, who had been Head of and store management.
In addition many of our store colleagues Investor Relations since 2004. can join the briefings by telephone to hear directly from the Board.
The appointment and replacement of directors is governed These types of communication are supplemented by our employee by the Companys Articles, the Combined Code on Corporate publications including, Your M&S magazine, Plan A updates and Governance 2008 the Code, the Companies Act 2006 and DVD presentations.
More than 3,500 employees elected onto related legislation.
The Articles may be amended by a special Business Involvement Groups BIGs across every store and head resolution of the shareholders.
Subject to the Articles, the office location represent their colleagues in two-way communication Companies Act 2006 and any directions given by special resolution, and consultation with the Company.
They have continued to play a the business of the Company will be managed by the Board who key role in a wide variety of business changes, in what has been a may exercise all the powers of the Company.
The Company may by ordinary resolution declare dividends not The fifteenth meeting of the European Works Council EWC exceeding the amount recommended by the Board.
Subject to the established in 1995 will take place in September 2010.
Companies Act 2006, the Board may pay interim dividends, and This Council provides an additional forum for informing, consulting also any fixed rate dividend, whenever the financial position of the and involving employee representatives from the countries in the Company, in the opinion of the Board, justifies its payment.
The EWC includes members from our joint venture companies established in the Czech Republic and Greece, Appointment and retirement of directors as well as representatives from the Republic of Ireland and the UK.
The directors may from time to time appoint one or more directors.
By holding the meeting in September this year, the new Chief The Board may appoint any person to be a director so long as the Executive will have the opportunity to address the EWC and update total number of directors does not exceed the limit prescribed in the on his observations following his first four months in office.
Any such director shall hold office only until the next AGM Directors and senior management regularly attend National BIG and shall then be required to stand for election.
meetings and visit stores and discuss with employees matters of At each AGM at least one-third of the current directors must current interest and concern to them and the business through retire as directors by rotation.
All those directors who have been in meetings with local Business Involvement Groups, specific listening office at the time of the two previous AGMs and who did not retire groups and informal discussion.
at either of them must retire as directors by rotation.
In addition, a Share schemes are a long-established and successful part of director may at any AGM retire from office and stand for re-election.
our total reward package, encouraging and supporting employee In accordance with the Code, any director who has served more share ownership.
In particular, around 25,000 employees currently than three three-year terms other than as a director holding an participate in Sharesave, the Companys all employee Save As you executive position is subject to annual re-election.
Full details of all schemes are given on pages 95 to 97. the Board has determined that Sir Stuart Rose will seek annual We maintain contact with retired staff through communications re-election as a director until the Companys governance reverts from the Company and the Pension Trust.
Member-nominated to recommended best practice.
trustees have been elected to the Pension Trust Board, including employees and pensioners.
We continue to produce a regular Directors conflicts of interest Pensions Update newsletter for members of our final salary pension scheme and the M&S Retirement Plan.
The Company has procedures in place for managing conflicts of interest in place.
Should a director become aware that they, or their connected parties, have an interest in an existing or proposed transaction with Marks & Spencer, they should notify the Board in writing or at the next Board meeting.
Internal controls are in place to ensure that any related party transactions involving directors, or their connected parties, are conducted on an arms length basis.
Directors have a continuing duty to update any changes to these conflicts.
com annualreport2010 75 Operating & Financial review p16 Governance Financial statements p78 Equal opportunities Trade creditor days for Marks and Spencer plc for the year ended 3 April 2010 were 18 days, or 12 working days last year 20.5 days, The Group is committed to an active Equal Opportunities Policy or 13.7 working days, based on the ratio of Company trade from recruitment and selection, through training and development, creditors at the end of the year to the amounts invoiced during the performance reviews and promotion to retirement.
It is our policy to promote an environment free from discrimination, harassment and victimisation, where everyone will Market value of properties receive equal treatment regardless of gender, colour, ethnic or national origin, disability, age, marital status, sexual orientation or The last formal valuation of the Groups properties was carried out religion.
All decisions relating to employment practices will be in September 2006.
Taking into account movements in the Groups objective, free from bias and based solely upon work criteria and property portfolio since that date, the directors are of the opinion individual merit.
The Company is responsive to the needs of its that the market value of the Groups properties, at 3 April 2010 employees, customers and the community at large and we are an exceeded their net book value including prepayments in respect organisation which uses everyones talents and abilities and where of leasehold land of the fixed asset and leasehold properties by diversity is valued.
For example, we are one of the few major approximately 0.8bn.
retailers or companies to operate without a Normal Retirement Age and are experiencing a number of employees continuing to work Charitable donations with us past the state retirement age.
In line with our Plan A commitments, during the year, the Group made charitable donations to support the community of 13.2m Employees with disabilities last year 12.2m, excluding management costs and memberships.
It is our policy that people with disabilities should have full and fair These principally consisted of cash donations of 5.2m last year consideration for all vacancies.
During the year, we continued to 5.2m which included Breakthrough Breast Cancer, The Prostate demonstrate our commitment to interviewing those people with Cancer Charity, Groundwork, WWF, Shelter, our Marks & Start disabilities who fulfil the minimum criteria, and endeavouring to programme and local community donations.
We also donated retain employees in the workforce if they become disabled during 1.6m last year 1.3m of employee time, principally on fundraising, employment.
We will actively retrain and adjust their environment Marks & Start and school work experience programmes, and stock where possible to allow them to maximise their potential.
donations of 6.3m last year 5.7m to a variety of charities We continue to work with external organisations to provide including Oxfam, Newlife Foundation for Disabled Children workplace opportunities through our innovative Marks & Start and Shelter.
scheme and by working closely with JobCentrePlus.
We also had a particularly successful year supporting the raising of extra funds of 7.7m last year 4.8m for our charity partners.
Essential contracts or arrangements This principally consisted of cash raised through the fundraising activities of our 125 Year Anniversary and by generating funds for The Company is required to disclose any contractual or other our charity partners such as Groundwork and funds raised through arrangements which it considers are essential to its business.
the sale of stock donations to Oxfam from The Clothing Exchange.
We have a wide range of suppliers for the production and distribution of products to our customers.
Whilst the loss of or Political donations disruption to certain of these arrangements could temporarily affect the operations of the Group, none are considered to be No political donations were made during the year ended 3 April essential, with the exception of certain warehouse operators 2010.
Marks & Spencer has a policy of not making donations and the provider of the Companys e-commerce platform.
to political organisations or independent election candidates or incurring political expenditure anywhere in the world as defined in Creditor payment policy the Political Parties, Elections and Referendums Act 2000.
For all trade creditors, it is the Groups policy to: Post balance sheet events agree the terms of payment at the start of business with that supplier: On 12 May 2010 Marks and Spencer Group plc announced a ensure that suppliers are aware of the terms of payment: and 800m funding plan for its UK defined benefit pension scheme.
pay in accordance with its contractual and other legal obligations.
The funding plan includes the following contributions from Marks & Spencer: The main trading company, Marks and Spencer plc, has a policy Cash contributions of 35m per annum for the first three years concerning the payment of trade creditors as follows: of the funding plan increasing to 60m per annum until 2018. general merchandise payments are received between 19 and 26 This has a present day cash value of 376m.
days after the stock was delivered: 300m of value through the granting of a further interest in the food payments are received between 18 and 25 days after the Marks and Spencer Scottish Limited Partnership.
This new stock was delivered: and interest entitles the pension scheme to a fixed annual distribution distribution suppliers are paid monthly, for costs incurred in that of c. 36m for 15 years commencing in 2017 and a capital sum month, based on estimates, and payments are adjusted quarterly in 2031 equal to the lower of 350m or any funding deficit in the to reflect any variations to estimate.
pension scheme at that point in time.
124m of value through the transfer of assets from existing US$ debt hedge contracts held by Marks and Spencer plc.
76 Marks and Spencer Group plc Annual report and financial statements 2010 Directors report Other disclosures continued Going concern the Group financial statements, which have been prepared in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the EU, give a true and fair In adopting the going concern basis for preparing the financial view of the assets, liabilities, financial position and profit of the statements, the directors have considered the business activities as Group: and set out on pages 1 to 43 as well as the Groups principal risks and the Business review contained in this report includes a fair review uncertainties as set out on pages 56 and 57.
Based on the Groups of the development and performance of the business cash flow forecasts and projections, the Board is satisfied that the and the position of the Group, together with a description of Group will be able to operate within the level of its facilities for the the principal risks and uncertainties that it faces.
For this reason the Group continues to adopt the going concern in preparing its financial statements.
Disclosure of information to auditor Auditors Each director confirms that, so far as he she is aware, there is no relevant audit information of which the Companys auditors are Resolutions to reappoint  LLP as auditors unaware and that each director has taken all the steps that he she of the Company and to authorise the Audit Committee to determine ought to have taken as a director to make himself herself aware of their remuneration will be proposed at the 2010 AGM.
any relevant audit information and to establish that the Companys auditors are aware of that information.
Annual general meeting The AGM of Marks and Spencer Group plc will be held at the Royal Index to principal Directors report disclosures Festival Hall, London on 14 July 2010.
The Notice is given, together Information required to be disclosed in the Directors report can be with explanatory notes, in the booklet which accompanies this report.
found on the following pages: Page Directors responsibilities Information number s The directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Report, the Annual general meeting 76 Remuneration report and the financial statements in accordance Appointment and retirement of directors 74 with applicable law and regulations.
Company law requires the Auditors 76 directors to prepare financial statements for each financial year.
Under that law the directors have prepared the Group and Board of directors 74 Company financial statements in accordance with International Charitable donations 75 Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs as adopted by the EU.
Creditor payment policy 75 Under company law the directors must not approve the financial statements unless they are satisfied that they give a true and fair Deadlines for exercising voting rights 73 view of the state of affairs of the Group and the Company and of Directors conflicts of interest 74 the profit or loss of the Company and Group for that period.
Directors indemnities 74 In preparing these financial statements, the directors are Directors responsibilities 76 required to: Disclosure of information to auditor 76 select suitable accounting policies and then apply them consistently: Employee involvement 74 make judgements and accounting estimates that are reasonable Employees with disabilities 75 and prudent: Equal opportunities 75 state whether applicable IFRSs as adopted by the EU have been Essential contracts or arrangements 75 followed, subject to any material departures disclosed and explained in the financial statements: and Going concern 76 prepare the financial statements on the going concern basis Interests in voting rights 73 unless it is inappropriate to presume that the Company will Market value of properties 75 continue in business.
Political donations 75 The directors are responsible for keeping proper accounting records Post balance sheet events 75 that are sufficient to show and explain the Company's transactions and disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the financial Powers for the Company issuing or buying position of the Company and the Group and to enable them to back its own shares 72 ensure that the financial statements and the Remuneration report Principal activities and Business review 72 comply with the Companies Act 2006 and, as regards the Group Profit and dividends 72 financial statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
They are also Restrictions on transfer of securities 72 responsible for safeguarding the assets of the Company and the Group and hence for taking reasonable steps for the prevention Rights and obligations attaching to shares 72 and detection of fraud and other irregularities.
Share capital 72 The directors are responsible for the maintenance and integrity Significant agreements change of control 73 of the Companys website.
Legislation in the UK governing the preparation and dissemination of financial statements may differ Variation of rights 72 from legislation in other jurisdictions.
Each of the directors confirm that, to the best of their knowledge: By order of the Board Amanda Mellor, Group Secretary London 24 May 2010
