06 Marks and Spencer Group plc Annual report and financial statements 2010 Directors report Overview Chairmans overview continued 6 10 3 4 8 9 5 7 2 1 MANAGEMENT BOARD We have also built up our position as the Finally, over the same period, I am pleased UKs leading retailer of good quality, fresh to say that we have given back around 1.
Sir Stuart Rose Chairman food.
We have driven innovation while staying 4.6bn to our shareholders in dividends and 2.
Marc Bolland Chief Executive true to our quality and ethical sourcing buy-backs.
Ian Dyson Group Finance and Operations principles.
We have improved our pricing Director and made our Food offer more convenient.
Steven Sharp Executive Director, Marketing We now have 350 Simply Food stores Marc will be able to benefit from the wealth across the UK in locations such as high 5.
Kate Bostock Executive Director, of experience within the management team General Merchandising streets, railway stations and airports up that has led M&S over the last year.
John Dixon Executive Director, Food In 2009, I announced that Kate Bostock Meanwhile we have made significant, 7.
Clem Constantine Director, International, would take responsibility for our Home long overdue investment in the business.
Property and Store Development division, bringing our entire General Our total capital expenditure has been 8.
Tanith Dodge Director, Human Resources Merchandise offer under her leadership.
around 3.5bn of which 2.2bn has been Over the last 12 months we have seen the 9. nayna McIntosh Director, Store invested in stores.
Over 80% of our store Marketing and Design benefits of this, with greater collaboration portfolio has been completely renovated and and shared learning across the GM business 10.
Steve Rowe Director, Retail and M&S Direct we are building new logistics and delivery units.
Similarly, the management of all our 11.
Andrew Skinner Trading Director, per una systems, which are essential to the future of shopping channels transferred to Steve our business especially our two key areas 12.
Darrell Stein Director, IT and Logistics Rowe, allowing us to better focus on our of growth, Multi-channel and International.
From 31 July 2010, will handover CEO role, ambitions as a multi-channel retailer.
leaving the Company by March 2011 We have also invested in our people Joined 1 May 2010 In September 2009, John Dixon was with training and career paths and we Resigned from the Company on 5 May 2010.
Ian will promoted to the Board as Executive Director step down from the Board following the AGM on 14 July reinstated an active customer feedback and will leave the Company on 31 August 2010. of Food.
Since his appointment as Director programme.
We know our customer service of Food in July 2008, John has been has improved because of this.
Our mystery instrumental in improving the performance of shopping scores currently stand at 89%, up the Food division and returning it to positive from 70% when we introduced this measure like-for-like sales.
