44 Marks and Spencer Group plc Annual report and financial statements 2010 Directors report Governance overview Board of directors Chairmans overview Deputy Chairmans overview 1 2 trading, key risks and mitigation.
Directors also have a duty to take into account the long-term, employees, relationships with suppliers, customers and others, local communities, the environment and how business is conducted.
Therefore, the Management Board, operational committees and functions support the Board in reviewing strategy and performance whilst taking We have one of the most trusted brands on At M&S, governance is about doing the right these wider interests into account.
the high street, a clear plan, strong leadership thing, the right way.
The Board seeks to ensure The Board is also responsible for and motivated employees, who are all that the right balances and accountabilities maintaining our values, supporting Plan A, focused on offering our customers great are in place by: monitoring our code of ethics and protecting products at great value and great service.
demonstrating independence to bring We want our governance to be While we try to make sure we are in line fresh perspectives and hold management meaningful, relevant and focused on with best practice the Board took a difficult to account: improving our business: decision in 2008 to combine the roles of seeking full information to form views, promoting our strong brand values: Chairman and Chief Executive.
The Board question management and take strategic believed this to be in the best interests of driving the business supported by decisions: and sound plans: the Company at the time to provide for acting responsibly to make sure we meet appropriate succession.
We have delivered providing strong leadership and our accountabilities to shareholders and accountability: the first phase of our transition back to best wider stakeholders.
practice with Marc Bollands appointment getting the best from our people by This year we assessed our progress against developing and motivating them: as Chief Executive.
By the end of July we these three requirements and also against will have separated the roles, and by March keeping our customers happy and giving the actions developed from last years them what they want: and 2011 at the latest we will have appointed performance review.
running the business with effective risk During the coming year we want to management and appropriate controls.
improve the understanding of governance The Board needs a clear view of the and its relevance to the business and our Companys leadership and the day-to-day people, whatever part they play in serving activities of the Group, including current Sir Stuart Rose Chairman our customers in stores, online, in the UK and overseas.
We will do this through our Business Involvement Groups across stores and head office and with a specific article in our employee magazine.
Board of directors 3 4 5 6 Independent 7 Audit Committee Remuneration Committee Nomination & Governance Committee 1 Sir Stuart Rose Chairman 3 Marc Bolland Chief Executive 5 Kate Bostock Executive Director, General Merchandise Appointed in March 2008.
Kate joined Appointed in May 2004.
Stuart will step down as Appointed on 1 May 2010.
Marc joined Marks Executive Chairman on 31 July 2010 when he will become & Spencer from Morrison Supermarkets plc, where Marks & Spencer in October 2004.
He will leave the Company by March 2011. he had been Chief Executive since 2006.
Prior to this, Product Director for Childrenswear at Next from 1994, Stuart is Chairman of Business in the Community and a Marc worked for 20 years at Heineken NV in a variety of before joining Asda in 2001 as Product Director for the George Global Brand.
She was responsible for the launch non-executive director of Land Securities plc.
Stuart began management and marketing roles.
He went on to become his career in retail at Marks & Spencer in 1971 where he an Executive Board member and Chief Operating Officer.
of the standalone George concept and the launch of the remained until 1989, before going on to become Chief He is a non-executive director of Manpower inc. George brand globally.
Executive at a number of well known UK retailers, including Argos plc, Booker plc and Arcadia Group plc.
4 Ian Dyson Group Finance and Operations Director 6 John Dixon Executive Director, Food Appointed in June 2005.
Ian joined Appointed on 9 September 2009.
John joined 2 Sir David Michels Deputy Chairman Chairman Marks & Spencer as Group Finance Director, becoming Marks & Spencer over 20 years ago as a store management trainee.
He has worked across the business in a variety Appointed in March 2006.
David is Deputy Group Finance and Operations Director in March 2008.
Chairman, Chairman of the Nomination & Governance Ian was appointed a non-executive director of Betfair of senior roles, from Executive Assistant to the Chief Committee and Senior Independent Director.
He is Group Limited in February 2010.
Previously, Ian was Executive, to Director of Home and M&S Direct.
John Chairman of Paramount Restaurants, Deputy Chairman of Finance Director of The Rank Group plc and Group was Director of Food from July 2008 until his appointment to the Board.
easyJet plc, a non-executive director of Strategic Hotels & Financial Controller of Hilton Group plc.
Ian was a nonResorts and Jumeriah Group, Dubai.
David was previously executive director of Misys plc until September 2005.
Senior Independent Director of The British Land Company plc, non-executive director of Arcadia Group and Chief We announced Ians resignation on 5 May 2010 and have Executive of Hilton Group plc.
commenced our search for a new finance director.
Ian will step down from the Board on 14 July and will leave the Company on 31 August 2010. e G e o t G t v t r i i r e d m o e r u u n A m c p a G o n n C c o e e v p e S r To find out more, visit marksandspencer.
com annualreport2010 45 Operating & Financial review p16 Governance Financial statements p78 Deputy Chairmans overview Our governance structure We believe better communication of governance can help support business performance and define behaviours.
We have aligned this Governance Business Management Continuity section with the themes in the FRCs Board Committee recommended new UK Corporate Governance Code: leadership pages 46 to 48 : effectiveness pages 49 to 53 : accountability pages 54 and 56-57 : communication page 55 : and Fire, Health Group remuneration pages 58 to 71. and Safety Investment Committee Committee We have made further progress with Group our governance with the appointment of Marc Bolland as Chief Executive.
Board The Nomination & Governance Committee conducted a thorough process for Marcs appointment and is applying the same approach to the search for a new Chairman.
Each year the Board tracks its progress Business Customer against an action plan to ensure that what Involvement Insight Unit Groups it does continues to meet the needs of the business.
This year it has been influenced by our Board and Committee performance reviews, which I have led as Deputy How We Do Business Committee Chairman.
I am satisfied that we have taken a rigorous approach to looking at our effectiveness and throughout the year encouraged independent challenge to the executive at all levels.
Sir David Michels Deputy Chairman Group Secretary 8 9 10 11 12 13 7 Steven Sharp Executive Director, Marketing 10 Steven Holliday Non-Executive Director 12 Jan du Plessis Non-Executive Director Appointed in November 2005.
Steven joined Chairman Appointed in November 2008.
Jan is Chairman Marks & Spencer in May 2004.
He is a non-executive Appointed in July 2004.
Steve is Chairman of the of Rio Tinto plc.
He was Chairman of British American director of Adnams plc and an elected member of the Remuneration Committee.
He is Group CEO of National Tobacco plc until October 2009 and a non-executive Tate Members Council.
Steven was previously Marketing Grid plc, having been responsible for the UK Electricity and director of Lloyds Banking Group plc until April 2009.
Director at Asda, the Burton Group, Booker plc and Gas businesses.
Previously he was on the Board of British He was also Chairman of RHM plc from 2005 to 2007.
Borneo Oil and Gas and held senior positions with the Exxon Jan was previously Group Finance Director of Richemont, Group.
He has also developed business opportunities in the Swiss luxury goods group until 2004.
8 Jeremy Darroch Non-Executive Director Chairman countries such as China, Australia, West Africa and Brazil.
Jeremy is Chairman 13 Amanda Mellor Group Secretary and of the Audit Committee.
He is Chief Executive of British 11 Louise Patten Non-Executive Director Head of Governance Sky Broadcasting Plc, having been the companys Chief Appointed in February 2006.
Jeremy was previously Group Finance adviser to Bain & Co and a non-executive director of Marks & Spencer in 2004 as Head of Investor Relations.
Director and Retail Finance Director at Dixons Group plc.
She was formerly Chairman of Brixton Her previous roles include Director of Corporate Relations plc, and a non-executive director of Hilton Group plc, at Arcadia Group plc, and over 10 years working in 9 Martha Lane Fox Non-Executive Director GUS plc, Somerfield plc and Harveys Furnishings plc.
Martha is the UKs Digital Champion and a non-executive director of Channel 4 Television.
She is founder and Chairman of Lucky Voice, and of her own grant giving foundation, Antigone.
Martha was a co-founder of lastminute.
