Quality, Value, Service, Innovation and Trust 36 Marks and Spencer Group plc Annual report and financial statements 2010 Directors report How we do business Plan A plan a is our five year eco and ethical plan which we launched in 2007. we have Visit the plan a website at marksandspencer.
com plana already achieved 62 of our original 100 commitments and are on track to meet a further 30, leaving only eight commitments where we face additional challenges.
new commitments added in 2009 10 our success gave us the confidence to extend plan a in 2010, adding 80 new commitments and extending existing commitments further.
the new plan 80 involves all our customers and employees and sets ourselves the ambitious total commitments goal of becoming the worlds most sustainable major retailer by 2015.
1 80 Over the past three years Plan A has helped Climate change number of original 100 commitments us improve our environmental performance, Were determined to play our part to help achieved so far develop more sustainable products and tackle climate change and we remain services and improve the lives of people in 62 committed to making our UK and ROI communities where we trade.
As well as operations carbon neutral by 2012. being the right thing to do, its also been Weve cut our carbon emissions by 8%, good for business and over the past year equivalent to 20% per sq ft by improving our alone Plan A generated 50m additional energy efficiency and reducing emissions profit, which we invested back into the from our store refrigeration systems.
Our improvements in energy efficiency were achieved by rolling out the lessons learned In 2009 10, Plan A highlights: at our five energy efficiency stores to other a reduction in CO emissions of 2 stores.
This will help us improve on this 50,000 tonnes: figure in future.
Additionally the efficiency of 1.8 million used clothing garments recycled our General Merchandise delivery fleets has via Oxfam: improved by 30%.
20,000 tonnes of waste diverted To help our customers reduce their TRUST from landfill: carbon footprint weve continued to extend above: digging deep Working with environmental our range of energy efficient electrical charity Groundwork we developed a wildlife habitat a reduction in 400 million food carrier bags at Paddington Recreation Ground in London.
being used by our customers: products and developed M&S Energy which The money was raised from profits from our 5p is now helping 300,000 customers cut their 130 million clothing hangers recycled carrier bag charge and the project transformed an energy use.
under-used area of the park into wetland meadow, or reused: By 2015 weve committed to reduce making it a great educational destination for local 13.2m invested in community children.
This is one of 79 Greener Living Spaces our energy use by 35% per sq ft, help our programmes: created as a result of the charge.
suppliers significantly reduced environmental launch of new products and services, impact and broaden our action on climate including 300,000 customers from change to include more ways to get our M&S Energy: customers and employees involved.
certified to the Carbon Trust Standard: and awarded Platinum status in the Business in the Community Corporate Responsibility Index.
TRUST above: Find out more our performance in our full How We Do Business Report 2010 at InnOvATIOn corporate.
com howwedobusiness Carrier bag use in 2009 10 400 million reduction marksandspencer.
com hwdbreport2010 How We Do Business Report 2010 To find out more, visit marksandspencer.
com annualreport2010 37 overview p01 performance & KpIs p14 Brand & marketplace p20 operating & financial review Governance p50 Financial statements p78 think Green The your Green Idea judging panel is chaired by Sir Stuart Rose, joined by new CEO, Marc Bolland.
The panel also includes the well-known green faces of wildlife Tv presenter, Kate Humble: former director of Friends of the Earth and trustee of WWF, Jonathan Porritt: and environmental writer, Julia Hailes.
This panel will decide on the top three green ideas which will then be put to a public vote for consumers to decide which idea they would like us to put into practice across all our UK stores within the next year.
available in store and at marksandspencer.
com 38 Marks and Spencer Group plc Annual report and financial statements 2010 Directors report How we do business Plan A continued TRUST & QUALITy left: From farm to fork Paul Luney is one of our food technologists, specialising in fish.
As part of his role he regularly visits our suppliers to ensure they adhere to our industry leading code of practice.
He is pictured here on a visit to a sea farm in Oban on the west coast of Scotland.
waste A further 1.4m has been raised for Groundwork thanks to donations for our Were reducing waste and recycling Food carrier bag charging, with their use wherever possible and have committed to down by 81% since 2006 07.
The money send no operational or construction waste raised is being used to fund 79 parks and to landfill by 2012.
Were pleased to be able play areas, including our 125th anniversary to report good progress.
town centre project in Leeds.
By the end of 2009 10 wed achieved We have stretched our waste targets an 88% recycling rate and reduced the total even further and by 2015 our aim is to amount of waste we generate in our TRUST increase the number of M&S garments operations by 16%.
Food waste has been above: Model factories In our Brandix Seeduwa recycled annually by Oxfam from 2 million reduced by 29% with over a quarter of factory in Sri Lanka workers enjoy a subsidised to 20 million and increase the percentage what is left being sent to generate energy.
canteen and store, medical facilities, an on site of hangers we recycle to 70%.
We will also counseller and free financial advice.
We collected 133 million clothes hangers work with our suppliers to improve their in-store and reused 76% with the remainder performance on waste and we aim to being recycled.
We also recycled 89% of source 25% of our food by turnover from our construction waste up from 65% in factories that send no waste to landfill 2006 07. within the next five years.
Weve continued to reduce packaging General Merchandise packaging by 36% natural resources and Food by 20% whilst also using more sustainable materials such as recycled We want to ensure our key raw materials plan a RECyCLInG ALL OUR WASTE plastics.
We encourage recycling and waste come from the most sustainable sources Our Birstall store in yorkshire has become the reduction in the communities we work in possible, so we protect the environment and first M&S store in the UK to send none of its and this year, we are signing deals with four the worlds natural resources.
We have waste to landfill.
All the waste from the store local authorities, including Somerset Waste already done much work in this area, which is one of our biggest Simply Foods is now segregated and returned in our lorries for Partnership, which will help us to close our including becoming the first major UK food recycling.
These deals will bring us retailer to source only pole or line caught two clear benefits we will receive more tuna for all the tuna products we sell, from recycled materials to use in our food sandwiches to steaks, and we also became packaging and we will ensure that the the first retailer to sign the WWFs Seafood equivalent amount of food packaging we Charter to ensure our entire range of use every year is recycled.
seafood products comes from sustainable Through the M&S and Oxfam Clothes sources.
Over 60% of our wild seafood is Exchange, some 500,000 customers have now either Marine Stewardship Council raised 700,000 for Oxfam by returning MSC certified or undergoing MSC 1.8 million used M&S garments.
of our work with Oxfam led to the expansion In October 2009 we purchased GreenPalm of the scheme last summer to encourage certificates to cover all the palm oil used in people to recycle their soft furnishings, M&S products and committed to use only including cushions, curtains, throws and sustainable palm oil by 2015, with the first For more information visit bed linen.
eight sustainable palm oil products launched marksandspencer.
com plana in March this year.
We also improved our sourcing of wood materials so that 72% of To find out more, visit marksandspencer.
com annualreport2010 39 overview p01 performance & KpIs p14 Brand & marketplace p20 operating & financial review Governance p50 Financial statements p78 InnOvATIOn left: pet wine bottles We became the first retailer to convert its entire range of mini 25cl still wine bottles to PET, a material traditionally used in-flight catering where turnover is very fast.
Working in partnership with Paul Sapin and Roger Harris Wines, we developed a new oxygen barrier technology, guaranteed to keep wine fresh for at least 12 months.
88% lighter than glass bottles, PET bottles require less energy to manufacture and reduce the carbon footprint in transport and distribution.
the wood we use in our products and 90% Study into long-term causes of the disease.
To give customers and employees the of wood products used in construction and Weve also supported the Prostate Cancer information they need to make healthier store fit-outs are Forest Stewardship Council charity for four years, helping to raise nearly choices weve improved our online services.
certified, recycled or from sources that 200,000 in 2009 10 to part-fund a UKThese include a healthy lifestyle website otherwise protect forests and communities.
and a monthly health bulletin for customers, Under our new phase of Plan A we are new developments with our suppliers along with a your Wellbeing website and committed to becoming the first major retailer include our new commitment to become the newsletter for employees.
to ensure traceability of all the key raw materials first major retailer to actively tackle and bring used in our clothing and home products clarity to the living wage debate.
We will do looking ahead including cotton, wool, polyester, nylon, this by determining and agreeing a fair, living Despite the recession, we know that leather and wood.
We will also increase the wage before implementing a process to environmental and social issues remain amount of cotton we source from sustainable ensure our clothing suppliers pay this wage important to our customers.
Plan A is sources to 25% by 2015 and 50% by 2020. to their workers in Bangladesh, Sri Lanka already delivering considerable benefits and In Food our aim is to become the first major and India.
we have made significant progress against retailer to ensure that the five key raw materials In Clothing and Homeware, we have our original commitments.
Our goal to we use palm oil, soya, coca, beef, coffee pledged to work with our suppliers to become the worlds most sustainable major come from sustainable sources that do not provide training and education programmes retailer by 2015 is an ambitious one.
that will include basic healthcare and extended Plan A will reach further and move workers rights, for 500,000 workers in us faster covering every part of our Fair partner their factories.
Meanwhile in Food, we are business and reaching out to forests, encouraging 10,000 farmers who supply One of the things that sets us apart from other farms, factories, lorries, warehouses our fresh produce to join our sustainable retailers is the way we work with our suppliers.
and into our customers and agriculture programme.
This year weve helped our suppliers to set employees homes.
We believe up 10 Ethical Model Factories to demonstrate sustainability is a key ingredient of health and wellbeing how good employment practices can result business success and that Plan A in a more productive workforce and allow for Promoting active, healthier lifestyles for our will continue to make us more higher wages.
We provided over 80,000 customers and employees has always been efficient, develop new markets hours of supplier training four times more important to us.
This year one of our major and build customer loyalty.
than last year and held best practice new launches was our Simply Fuller Longer It remains the right thing to do conferences around the world.
range, developed in collaboration with the both morally and commercially.
2009 10 was the sixth year of our Marks Aberdeen University, to help people eat less & Start work experience programme by feeling full for longer.
Healthier food now providing work experience to some 700 makes up 38% of M&S Food ranges.
participants who otherwise would face Since we launched Plan A in 2007 weve barriers to employment, with 40% of them removed artificial colours and flavouring from TRUST subsequently finding jobs.
all M&S food and soft drinks and met 91% above: our Milk pledge plus guarantees the Weve helped our customers and of the Food Standards Agencys FSA 2010 milk prices paid to suppliers reflects the retail employees raise 2.1m for Breakthrough salt reduction targets.
price and now includes a bonus payment for high Breast Cancer during 2009, with 13.1m We use traffic light nutritional food animal welfare standards.
Monitored by Bristol vet school part of Bristol University, the scheme not raised for the charity over the past nine labelling alongside Guideline Daily Amounts only provides farmers with greater security, but years.
This figure, 15% of Breakthrough on all FSA recommended categories of food.
incentivises them to maintain a healthy herd, so Breast Cancers 2009 10 funding, is used In 2009 10 we also introduced the use of customers can enjoy our milk safe in the knowledge to part fund the Breakthrough Generations calorie labelling on price tickets in our cafs.
it comes from farms with the highest standards.
