12 Marks and Spencer Group plc Annual report and financial statements 2010 Directors report Our brand by Steven Sharp Our marketing campaigns remain a visible and important way Steven Sharp Executive Director, Marketing of communicating with our customers.
Over the last 12 months we have responded to the difficult market conditions by refocusing and increasing our marketing activity, keeping the M&S brand fresh and relevant to our customers changing needs.
We are already seeing returns on this investment, with improving sales across the business.
Quality worth every penny As consumers showed greater willingness to invest in their wardrobes, our clothing In 2009 we looked back over our 125 year campaign demonstrated the versatility history and the core values M&S has always of the M&S range, encouraging customers stood for.
Quality Worth Every Penny to make your wardrobe earn its keep.
is a simple message that demonstrated the continued relevance of our founding Delivering principles of Quality, Value, Service, Innovation and Trust.
Our brand communications extend beyond The campaign launched with a TV ad advertising from our in-store promotions SERVICE to celebrate our 125th anniversary, taking through to our website they help us show Above: Christmas wouldnt be Christmas customers back to where M&S began customers that we are in tune with their Our Christmas wouldnt be Christmas without campaign appealed to those customers both at Leeds Kirkgate market.
In the midst of changing needs.
Investment in our marketing regular and occasional shoppers who find it a recession, the campaign resonated activity delivers tangible benefits across the impossible to imagine Christmas without M&S.
particularly well, reassuring our customers business, with our internal measures pointing The result was our highest ever customer that M&S is a brand they can trust to deliver to a direct correlation between improved recognition for an advertisment.
consumer perception of the M&S brand and We believe Quality positive sales and profit growth.
Worth Every Penny has ongoing relevance, Trust reinforcing the value for M&S occupies a special place with the money M&S offers and British public and is repeatedly voted as one this message continues of the UKs most trusted brands.
This is PlAn A: DOING THE RIGHT THInG to underpin our demonstrated in the success of M&S Money In Summer 2009 we 2010 campaigns.
It continues reflected our status as one to perform strongly as consumers turn to of Britains most trusted new directions brands through our Plan A trusted brands like M&S for their financial campaign Doing the right In recent years our advertising has achieved services.
This year we launched our thing.
Launched with a iconic status however, though our core Premium Club, which offers shopping and manifesto setting out our values remain the same, M&S has not stood travel benefits to M&S credit card holders.
commitment to the highest ethical credentials, the still.
As the economic situation slowly campaign included a series of ads displaying improved in the latter part of the year, we felt looking ahead no nonsense user friendly expressions of why the time was right to refresh our marketing we do what we do.
The strength of the M&S brand has enabled activity and invest in a new look across our us to weather the recession and as we move advertising to better reflect our customers For more information about Plan A see into 2010 11 we will continue to communicate growing confidence.
com plana with our customers, delivering engaging, This year we decided to take M&S Food relevant campaigns that bring our core back into the heart of family life, with a values to life.
lighter, brighter campaign, fronted by actress Caroline Quentin.
The campaign wraps up all of our core values in a single story, capturing all the reasons why customers turn to M&S quality, innovative products, provenance or simply good value in our new strap line Just because.
Steven Sharp Executive Director, Marketing To find out more, visit marksandspencer.
com annualreport2010 13 Overview p01 Performance & KPIs p14 Brand & marketplace Operating & financial review p26 Governance p50 Financial statements p78 new faces This year, Twiggy was joined by a new line-up of celebrity faces popstar VV Brown, featured on page 17, joins X-Factor judge Dannii Minogue, Capital FM presenter Lisa Snowdon and Brazilian supermodel Ana Beatriz Barros featured.
Customers responded well to the upbeat, energetic feel of the new ad and said it demonstrates how M&S is in touch with fashion for women of all ages.
Find out more at marksandspencer.
