16 Marks and Spencer Group plc Annual report and financial statements 2010 Directors report What we sell Womenswear M&S remains the nations favourite in womenswear and over the last 12 months Kate Bostock Executive Director, General Merchandising weve grown our market share to 10.7% by value, up 0.2%, as women of all ages continue to turn to us for great value, stylish clothing.
This year weve expanded our market share in casualwear, through the launch of Indigo Collection and have listened and responded to our customers demands for more versatile investment pieces.
Weve remained focused on refining our brands to deliver the right looks for all our customers.
Year in review Over the last 12 months, we have reviewed Womenswear value market share the pricing mix in womenswear in response Over the last year our customers have 1 0.
Weve continued to weather the difficult economic maintained our level of competitive opening 0.2% pts environment.
Though they remain cautious price points but have strengthened our about the outlook, women have begun to position in better and best in categories Volume market share show signs that they feel more confident such as knitwear, as customers have shown about spending on their wardrobes again, 9.1 % more willingness to trade up.
searching out investment pieces that offer 0.1% pts long-term value, such as coats and leather Versatility boots collectively growing by 14% on last year.
Women have told us they want their In response to this trend our Autograph wardrobe to work harder for them and our range, known for its luxurious fabrics and emphasis on quality and value has served us high level of detailing, has performed well well.
We used our spring 2010 advertising with sales increasing by 3.9% over the last campaign to highlight the versatility of our 12 months.
Weve introduced customers to womenswear range, demonstrating how a the two top Italian designers behind the per simple pair of black cropped stretch trousers una, Speziale label, Lorella and Cinzia fide at 18 can be styled from day to evening.
Rosa and produced a new couture inspired Over the last year, products that lend collection to cater for customers looking for themselves to both dressed-up and dressunique investment items.
down looks have proved popular with However, our customers still want the customers and wardrobe staples such as option of good opening price points, so they tunics, leggings, and casual shirt dresses can be flexible with how they spend their have been among our best sellers.
This year individual clothing budgets.
We continue to has also marked the return of the day dress differentiate ourselves from other womenswear as customers responded to the value brands through our pricing hierarchy, offering offered by a one piece item that can be something for everyone through our good, transformed using simple accessories.
better and best price points.
For example, at 15, a cashmilon long sleeve knitted cardigan falls into our good pricing category.
A chunky knit open front black cardigan at 29.50 is an example of VALuE better pricing: while an Autograph pure Right: Wardrobe cashmere scoop neck cardigan at 59 is Solution Our Indigo a best price point.
Collection day dress at 39.50 can easily be dressed up or down.
QuALITy Above: Speziale Our per una Speziale label is inspired by chic Italian design To find out more, visit marksandspencer.
com annualreport2010 17 Overview p01 Performance & KPIs p14 Brand & marketplace p20 Operating & financial review Governance p50 Financial statements p78 Tribal prints Hot off the catwalk tribal and animal prints are a fierce fashion trend for Summer 2010.
Weve translated this look across our womenswear range, such as the featured linen Blend Abstract Print Textured Tulip Skirt at 25.
Find out more at marksandspencer.
com 18 Marks and Spencer Group plc Annual report and financial statements 2010 Directors report What we sell Womenswear continued VALuE Right: Quick fix Women loved these on trend studded leather ankle boots, a simple solution to bring an outfit right up to date.
Indigo Collection Autograph A contemporary range, defined by luxurious fabrics, a high level of detailing In October 2009 we launched Indigo and sleek modern silhouettes.
It remains Collection to meet our customers requests popular among customers in search of stylish for easy-to-wear outfit solutions that fit with career, occasional and weekend wear.
their busy lifestyles and to address the gap Classic Aimed at our more mature shopper we saw in the casualwear market.
The new who wants comfortable, co-ordinated range provides a selection of co-ordinated designs for all occasions.
separates in a soft colour palette, underpinned Indigo Collection This new brand provides by a strong denim collection.
In its first six a complete casualwear range.
Myleene months, Indigo Collection has exceeded our Klass promoted the launch with an Indigo expectations and its success has been at Collection roadshow giving shoppers across the expense of our competitors, as our the uK practical tips on putting together a market share in casualwear strengthened.
Limited Collection Our fast fashion range Our brands is always first with the key catwalk trends of To retain our position as market leaders the season.
Over the last 12 months it has we know we must continue to deliver continued to deliver a bold, confident look, clothing for Every Woman, Every Time.
which is regularly refreshed in store.
The We can only do this by listening and range sells to fashion devotees of all ages, responding to our customers, but has enabled us to further grow our so we continually assess our clothes younger customer base.
through focus groups with women per una This remains our most popular of all ages and lifestyles.
brand and last summer saw the launch It is through our brands that we of the first full collection designed by our can deliver on this promise providing in-house team.
We have taken the brand looks that appeal to women of different back to its Italian roots and returned per ages and with different budgets.
Over the una to its core values of being feminine last year we have continued to work hard to and confident, with an emphasis on vibrant ensure that each brand has a clear identity, colour, embellishment and quality fabrics.
serving a different customer and addressing Portfolio Now in its second year, this stylish specific needs.
collection has successfully met our core customers requests for a flattering, feminine range that was appropriate for their age and lifestyle and delivered a polished look.
INNOVATION Left: Limited Collection corset dress This year weve responded quickly to trends such as underwear as outerwear with our corset dress which was praised by the fashion press.
To find out more, visit marksandspencer.
com annualreport2010 19 Overview p01 Performance & KPIs p14 Brand & marketplace p20 Operating & financial review Governance p50 Financial statements p78 VALuE Left: The year of the leg Hero products dont get more heroic than leggings, treggings and even jeggings.
These lycra-based garments have become wardrobe staples for women of all ages and shapes.
Combining comfort and fashion, they are a quick fix to update outfits and form the basis of lots of different looks.
Outfit building We marked our 125th year with our Dress Looking ahead of the Decade campaign, a range of dresses Sales of footwear and accessories have We are not complacent about our market inspired by our archives and the styles of increased during the economic downturn leading position and we will continue to bygone years.
From Forties inspired polka as women used them as a quick and consult our customers to make sure we dots to Eighties power dressing, we had easy way to update a tired wardrobe.
are delivering the right products for them.
something for everyone proving that style We responded to this trend by selling more We will ensure our brands retain distinct and quality never goes out of fashion.
of our accessories alongside our clothing identities, translating them across footwear to better show customers how a whole and accessories, making it easier Responding to trends outfit can be brought together.
for customers to find the Over the last year we have aligned our Over the last 12 months we have built on products they want in store.
branded clothing ranges with footwear and our successful quick response supply base The investment we are making accessories, making it easier for customers to in Limited Collection.
These improvements in improving availability will also build a wardrobe within their favourite brand.
mean we are now able to add further help customers find exactly embellishments as well as finer fabrics and what they are looking for every yarns, bought from the Far East and India.
Style credentials Collections are regularly refreshed in stores, The foundations we have keeping our ranges firmly on trend.
Our laid mean we are well placed Our style credentials underpin our entire regional offices in Sri Lanka, India, Hong Kong to capitalise on opportunities womenswear range and in the autumn and Turkey have played a large part in this in the womenswear market.
we took part in Vogues Fashion Night Out, strategy.
They have helped streamline the We will build on the success a global event where high fashion met approval process and enabled us to drive of Indigo Collection, which high street.
The year also included our product development forward.
presents a great opportunity collaboration with Zandra Rhodes, who to grow casualwear over the designed two collections for us, based on Better availability next 12 months.
the bright prints for which she is best known.
As part of our Every Woman, Every Time commitment we want to make sure our customers can have the product they want, in the right size, colour and style every time PLAn A: SWAP SHOP they shop with M&S.
As part of our wider Business Foundation Programme, discussed Since the launch of our Oxfam Clothing on page 34, we have invested in our stock Exchange in January 2008 our customers have recycled over 4 million garments.
This will help us The scheme offers donors money-off improve how we tailor products to individual vouchers each time they recycle their stores and therefore improve availability.
M&S clothes at Oxfam and following the successful launch we have extended the scheme to include soft furnishings.
For more information about Plan A see p36 or visitmarksandspencer.
com plana 20 Marks and Spencer Group plc Annual report and financial statements 2010 Directors report What we sell Lingerie When it comes to lingerie we are the UKs number one choice, with one in four Lingerie value market share women buying M&S underwear.
In an ever competitive market we have grown 25.9% our volume market share to 18.9% and value market share to 25.9%.
We make sure we stay half a step ahead of the market by responding quickly to trends 0.7% pts and delivering innovation.
Lingerie volume market share 1 8.9% Our brands Driving footfall 0.2% pts A clear, confident approach drives our Hosiery remains a key footfall driver for us lingerie business and this year weve and sales have again grown year on year.
worked to better align lingerie Sales of coloured and patterned tights have with our womenswear brands fared well in a tougher climate, offering so customers can more easily women an easy and affordable way to recognise their preferred brand: update their wardrobes.
Sales also received a boost during the cold snap in early 2010.
Autograph A sophisticated collection with detailed finishes and luxurious fabrics.
Innovation Limited Collection Our most fashion focused collection, which over the next year Our success in lingerie is founded on our will replace the existing Ceriso range.
New for per una A vibrant collection, which now summer 2010 is our backless bra the has a greater focus on pretty detailing.
design uses pivotal technology, anchoring Portfolio Launched last year, the range SERVICE the bra to the body through silicone lined offers flattering, feminine styles.
A first to the uK market, it provides Above: Perfect fit We fit more bras than any other range has now been brought under the retailer and stock sizes to fit 99% of the uKs the ideal lingerie solution for dramatic low Portfolio label.
Over the last backed designs.
year we have retrained our fitting room staff across Body Solutions Our shaping range, famous We have developed our shapewear the country and conducted mystery shops to for its innovative secret support.
This year lingerie through the introduction of body improve our service.
During this time weve seen weve worked to make the range prettier, our market share continue to increase.
solution products such as an anti-cellulite as well as practical.
The range responds to fashion trends and this year Pricing weve launched skinny jeans shaping shorts and secret support magic leggings to help We understand that different women invest give customers the confidence to wear the PLAn A: ECO FACTORy different amounts in their lingerie and we styles they want.
Sales of our No VPL cater for this.
They can purchase cotton Our suppliers range have also benefited from slim fit knickers for just 1.50 and a bra for 7 at Sri Lanka factory fashions, up 30% this year.
was the worlds the M&S quality they expect.
However, for first eco factory those in search of something more special, devoted to Looking ahead we offer luxurious, silk collections, especially making lingerie.
From its We will continue to lead the way in compressed innovation, developing the lingerie solutions earth bricks, which require no kiln burning, Trends women want.
Our customers will experience to its rooftop of grass and medicinal plants, the benefits of the improvements we have this revolutionary building is designed to Last year we reduced our lead times to eight use less electricity and water than other made in our fitting service this year.
A closer weeks in some areas, allowing us to respond clothing factories.
We now have four General alignment with womenswear has created a more quickly to trends.
This year weve Merchandise eco factories supplying stronger brand identity and we will continue focused on turning around key fashion looks M&S products.
As ever, we will listen and to bring more Womenswear shoppers into respond to our customers, ensuring we Lingerie and vice versa.
For example, Worn For more information about Plan A see remain their favourite for underwear.
to be seen featured above capitalises on p36 or visit marksandspencer.
com plana the trend for underwear as outerwear.
Although this range is stocked in our Lingerie departments it is showcased on womenswear mannequins to improve cross-selling.
com annualreport2010 21 Overview p01 Performance & KPIs p14 What we sell Brand & marketplace p20 Menswear Operating & financial review Governance p50 Financial statements p78 We remain the market leaders in menswear and this year have grown market Menswear value market share share by 0.2% to 10.4% by value and maintained 13% by volume.
Our leadership 10.4% position is underpinned by our ongoing commitment to quality, value, and innovation.
This year we have focused on improving our style credentials, 0.2% pts sharpening our market leading tailoring offer and brands.
As a result we have broadened our customer base both in terms of age and lifestyle.
Menswear volume market share 13.0% Our brands Innovation Level This year we have used lessons from Continued innovation has helped maintain womenswear, to help us refine our our position as market leaders.
This year we INNOVATION menswear portfolio to ensure it meets developed Bodymax, a revolutionary range the needs of all our customers.
Products contain a hidden stomach control panel to help Autograph This collection is sharp and create a slimmer silhouette.
The range lends contemporary and throughout the year we itself to the slim-fit styles weve translated have used designer collaborations to inject from the catwalks.
Blue Harbour We have taken Blue Harbour Design back to its roots, providing classic casual Above: Before the gym kicks in The poststyles aimed at our core customer.
Designer collaborations offer our style Christmas launch of our Bodymax Shaping Vest Collezione In February we re-launched conscious customers key seasonal pieces grabbed the medias attention, featuring on the Collezione, reviving its Italian inspired origins.
that are affordable and great quality.
front page of the Daily Telegraph and even making Designed to help men pull together a Our collaboration with leading London waves Down under, with a ten minute slot on the product featured on Australias Channel Nine.
sophisticated, co-ordinated wardrobe, based designer, Jsen Wintle, combined the it has been extended to include leisurewear contemporary Autograph look with the and accessories.
designers use of subtle colours and couture Limited Collection Following a successful cuts.
To mark our 125th anniversary we trial in January, the brand will roll-out during celebrated the best of British tailoring with 2010.
Focused on tailoring, it provides fast our 125 Collection, designed by Savile Row fashion suits with a modern, slim silhouette tailor Timothy Everest.
aimed at a younger male customer.
north Coast Re-launched this year to Accessories address a similar need for casualwear as This year we have seen a move to outfit Indigo Collection has in womenswear.
building and believe accessories and Focused on soft colour palettes, knitwear footwear offer a growth opportunity.
and denims, its revamp has strengthened We are market leaders in our position in the casualwear market.
formal tailoring, with a 20% market share and this year Responding to customers we have focused on delivering a stylish formal footwear range, With M&S comes an expectation of quality and in Menswear this extends across our with a view to bringing our footwear market share in line.
This year, some of our customers told us they loved our shirts but Looking ahead wanted a slimmer fit option.
In response we worked with our tailors to deliver a slim-fit With clear brands in place we remain on range and within a week of launch, two track to grow our Menswear business.
of our new shirts were among our top five We will continue to refine our ranges to best-sellers, delivering incremental sales.
ensure we are offering what our customers Above: new face in Menswear In March 2010, We have now introduced a slim-fit cut to want.
Quality is increasingly important to our Jamie Redknapp was named as the new face other ranges, including tailoring and denim.
menswear shoppers and we will continue to drive innovation to ensure M&S remains not only good value, but delivers something extra special.
22 Marks and Spencer Group plc Annual report and financial statements 2010 Directors report What we sell Kidswear It has been another strong year for kidswear and we have grown market share Kidswear value market share to 6.1% by value, up 0.7% and to 6.3% by volume.
We are number four in the 6.1 % kidswear market and have retained our number one spot for schoolwear, against stiff competition from the supermarkets.
We are committed to 0.7% pts reclaiming our position as the first choice store for parents in search of quality, on-trend, great value kidswear.
Kidswear volume market share 6.3% Brand clarity Fashionability 0.4% pts Parents come to M&S for all the landmark We know from speaking to our customers stages for newborn clothing and school that the fashionability of kidswear is uniforms, partywear and teenage outfits.
To keep our Our kidswear must deliver the right products ranges firmly on trend, weve worked closely for all these phases, as well as the practical, with our regional office in Turkey to help us everyday clothing kids need, like our essentials, reduce our lead times.
As a result, the entire nightwear and footwear.
process of designing a product, making it Over the last 12 months we have and delivering it to store can take as little as worked to make our kidswear brands easier eight weeks.
for parents to identify and more closely aligned to our adult clothing ranges.
Destination shopping INNOVATION Autograph Stylish pieces for both boys Busy parents want to quickly browse and and girls.
This range provides, high quality, buy and with this in mind, our Home division Above: Living the Dream In April 2010 we launched our Living the Dream boyswear range, contemporary style that is perfect for launched Kids at Home in November 2009 in association with the Vodaphone McLaren special occasions.
Kids at Home displays our Mercedes Formula 1 team and World Champions Indigo Collection In January we launched clothing, toys and kids interior collections in Jenson Button and Lewis Hamilton.
the Indigo Collection brand across boys and a lifestyle setting to make it easier for parents girlswear, providing parents with mix and to shop.
Further to this, Kidswear match casualwear that offers easy, everyday collaborated with the outfit solutions.
Home division to launch Girls Limited Like our adult Limited My unusual Friends a Collection, this is a trend-led range with an nursery and babywear emphasis on providing accessible fashion.
range designed by PLAn A: ECO SCHOOL uNIFORM childrens illustrator and Value and quality author of Humphreys Our top-to-toe recycled school uniform was a high street first, Corner, Sally Hunter.
Our focus remains fixed on delivering the which used polyester made Our research has told us that many best quality, hardwearing clothes for from recycled plastic bottles parents like to shop at home online, once in the blazer, shirt, skirt and children, at great value.
As always at M&S, their children have gone to bed.
Our E-leather shoes value is never at the expense of quality and we are placing more emphasis on developing are made from leather waste our schoolwear range is a good example of that would usually end up our multi-channel kidswear offer and are this.
The starting price point for an entire in landfill.
school uniform remains at 6.50 and this includes a 100% cotton jumper, a polo shirt Looking ahead and a crease resistant skirt or pair of nonWe remain committed to becoming the iron trousers.
Parents come to M&S above the number one destination for kidswear in the uK.
We will do this by building on our competition for school uniform, so there is a natural opportunity to be the first choice achievements so far continuing to refresh For more information about Plan A see our ranges and providing excellent choice, p36 or visit marksandspencer.
com plana for kids essentials like underwear, socks and nightwear too.
This year we have fashion and value for money.
focused on growing our market position in this area, with sales up 16.9%.
com annualreport2010 23 Overview p01 Performance & KPIs p14 What we sell Brand & marketplace p20 Home Operating & financial review Governance p50 Financial statements p78 M&S Home has performed well in a difficult market with sales up 2.1% on Total Home Sales last year.
During 2009 10 we have improved the way we showcase our offer, 546.1m selling more home products in a lifestyle setting alongside food and clothing ranges.
A new management structure has also helped us build closer links 2.1 % between our clothing and home design teams.
The strength of the M&S includes Beauty, which was not stated as part of the brand has enabled us to expand further in energy and technology, 2008 09 Home sales figure.
launching a new Home Energy Services division this year.
The market Extending the range The static housing market meant more Technology: Customers trust us customers embraced the Improve dont to provide an easy to shop, edited Move trend.
From tableware to bedding, technology range, including the best quality we provide co-ordinated mix and match branded goods and M&S own label products.
products to help customers build an updated This year we set a target that all of our home look for their home in line with their budget, electrical products will carry a credible energy with sales of core products such as curtains efficiency rating by 2015. increasing by up to 85% on some ranges.
Energy: This year M&S Energy customers have grown from 65,000 to almost 300,000.
Fashion and design In January, we launched a Home Energy Service division offering a range of energy Our Home and Clothing divisions now sit efficient products such as loft insulation and QuALITy under the same management structure, solar panels.
enabling us to better apply the lessons Above: Sally Bendelow, Head of Home Design Beauty: In spring we re-launched our skincare at M&S.
Working closely with our clothing design weve learnt in clothing.
This year weve offer in 30 stores and brought our existing team, weve translated the key trends of 2009 10 worked with our regional offices in Turkey to into our Home range, such as our In Bloom cosmetic ranges, under one new brand reduce lead times and respond more quickly selection, which picked up Perfection.
Weve also improved our bath to trends.
Closer links with clothing have on the floral prints and and body products offer, with sales up 14%.
vibrant colour palettes seen ensured we better reflect the latest fashions, on the catwalk this year.
colours and fabrics in our products.
Looking ahead Showcasing the range We will continue to strengthen our Home offer so we are in the best possible Displaying our entire Home range is a position when confidence returns challenge given the square footage to the housing market.
We have continued to build on our work with other parts address this, opening two new M&S Home of the business to showcase stores in Aberdeen and Cheltenham, with products to customers better Tunbridge Wells due to open in autumn.
and will continue to take There are now five M&S Home stores, with a advantage of growth further 413 carrying homeware products.
All of this will Our Home catalogue and website play a be supported by our online vital role in helping customers browse our offer, which will play an even range.
We have improved the online experience, bigger role in helping introducing fabric swatches and e-catalogues, customers make buying as well as offering more exclusive online deals.
As a result online sales increased by 20% and 11% year on year across Home and Beauty INNOVATION respectively.
Above: Tess Daly In October we launched our We have collaborated with other M&S award-winning range of Tess Daly beauty products divisions to showcase our Home offer better.
designed to help skin glow.
Over Christmas a product from the range was sold every 30 seconds.
We launched a Spa range in partnership with Lingerie, selling bathroom favourites like towels and sponges as well as spa wear.
We also launched Kids at Home explained on page 22.
24 Marks and Spencer Group plc Annual report and financial statements 2010 Directors report What we sell Food Over the last year we have strengthened our position as the leading retailer of fine John Dixon Executive Director, Food quality fresh food in the UK.
Our Food business has now returned to growth and we have delivered consistent improvements in like-for-like sales over every quarter.
At the same time we delivered volume growth of 3% as customers put more of our food in their baskets than they did a year ago.
We have achieved this by listening to our customers and giving them the best quality food at great value for money, while continuing our focus on innovation, healthy eating and ethical sourcing.
Year in review authentic pastes and marinades.
For those UK Food sales in search of a more convenient option, we Last year we laid down our plans to drive 4.3bn have increased choice in our Cook!
range the M&S Food business out of the recession and remain the market leaders in restaurant 1.8% based on our founding principles of Quality, quality, fully prepared ready meals.
Value, Service, Innovation and Trust.
Food value market share We invested in margins to offer our QUALITY customers even better value while retaining 3.8% our commitment to deliver the best quality Delivering great quality food has always -0.1% pts food on the high street.
We launched new been at the heart of our business and this ranges like Simply year we have given our customers the Fuller Longer, highest quality without cutting corners.
improved our service We are the uKs leading quality food retailer by making our offer and independent research from Millward more convenient and more complete, and Brown shows that customers turn to M&S remained focused on our strong ahead of the competition when they want environmental and ethical principles.
This food that delivers something special.
approach has seen us return the business to M&S leads the field in home cooking positive like-for-like growth for the first time solutions and convenient ready meals.
Against an increased level of competition Our customers remain cautious about our quality sets us apart.
We achieve this QuALITy the economic outlook, but we have seen through first to market launches, like 1234 Above: Christmas wouldnt be Christmas signs of increased confidence in their Cook, which allows customers to build the without your M&S.
Our Christmas and party food was awarded the top rating in a Daily Mail spending.
This has translated into a renewed meal from a selection of the finest, easy comparison against all the uKs supermarkets.
trend for buying treats and greater indulgence to cook mix and match products and by around special occasions.
Celebration and the continual upgrading of core ranges.
Eventing categories delivered 8% growth This year we improved our Gastro Pub on last year and the new ranges of luxury Shepherds Pie, moving from lamb mince cupcakes and layer cakes have driven which included a selection of cuts to PLAn A: BRITISH GROWN MELONS significant additional sales.
slow cooked, shredded lamb shoulder.
Exclusive to M&S, the first ever British melons Our lower prices allowed customers to The change provided more texture and were grown reusing the soil bed and plastic both indulge and economise across the a deliciously rich home-cooked flavour tunnels from the earlier British strawberry crop M&S Food offer.
Our Wise Buys range and sales have increased by 11%.
so it is not only a great tasting fruit but it also allows the farmers to produce two crops continues to underpin our value proposition In autumn we began a trial of fresh meat from their land.
demonstrating our price competitiveness and fish counters in Meadowhall, Sheffield, For more information about Plan A see on everyday products, whilst retaining the and Bluewater, Kent.
Not only is this a great p36 or visitmarksandspencer.
com plana highest M&S quality credentials.
way to showcase the quality of fresh meat, Customers turn to us for restaurant quality fish and rotisserie chickens: it also offers our food and inspiration as they opt to dine at customers a more personalised service and home more often, rather than eating out.
We also provide a range of cooking solutions.
For customers cooking from scratch, we have expanded our range of raw ingredients and also introduced ranges of 52 weeks.
com annualreport2010 25 Overview p01 Clickstart to health The launch of our Simply Fuller Longer range, pictured below was accompanied by Performance & KPIs p14 our first ever health website.
Designed to encourage customers to manage Brand & marketplace p20 weight sensibly through balanced menu planning the site offers healthy recipe ideas, nutritional advice Operating & financial review and practical tools.
Governance p50 Find out more at marksandspencer.
com health Financial statements p78 26 Marks and Spencer Group plc Annual report and financial statements 2010 Directors report What we sell Food continued VALuE SERVICE Above: Budgeting At M&S customers can Above: Hospitality Our customers can also enjoy opt for Pork Sausages at 97p or Outdoor Bred M&S food in store at one of our deli bars or M&S Pork Sausages at 2.69 cafs the uKs third largest coffee chain.
VALUE Dine-in promotions remain one of the key alongside these brands, demonstrating drivers of footfall and we continue to look at clearly to customers the great value of the Last year we invested in margin to improve new ways of encouraging our more occasional M&S products.
our prices whilst maintaining or improving Dine-in shoppers to become more regular Since launch, branded goods have been the quality of our food.
For example, this year we extended this a welcome addition, improving convenience We extended Wise Buys to highlight promotional format to more everyday meal for customers and increasing the average our great value on every day products with combinations, such as casserole, mash and number of items bought during each visit.
There are now vegetables for 5. around 600 items in this range representing Better availability about 10% of our offer, including milk, eggs, SERVICE bread and meat.
We run a weekly price This year we have improved on shelf check against the competition to ensure availability largely through restructuring and Range they remain competitive and customers can retraining our merchandising and allocation see this comparison in store on our price We aim to deliver a service that matches teams.
At the same time as delivering tickets.
the high quality of our food and we are doing improved sales and better availability we have Over the last 18 months the wider food this by listening and responding to our managed to reduce levels of waste.
Over the market has experienced high levels of price customers.
We know how important it is to next three years we believe there is a big inflation.
As we expanded Wise Buys and meet the needs of our regular shoppers, opportunity to improve this further and we are continued to improve our values, we were giving them an enjoyable shopping introducing new IT systems to improve our the only food retailer to reduce prices during experience every time.
Feedback showed that customers love We want to make sure we display Much imitated by competitors, our original M&S food and wanted to do more of their our ranges in the best possible way to Dine in for two for 10 promotion remains a weekly shop with us.
To help them do this demonstrate the breadth of our offer.
We we have broadened our food range by We have now put in place a new Ranging have built on the success of this promotion, extending our own label products such as & Display team to ensure we achieve this.
adding new lines and expanding the deal at dried herbs and ingredients and introduced special occasions such as a Mothers Day a greater choice of frozen goods.
Following InnOVATIOn roast dinner for four at 15 and a stunning a successful trial, we are also rolling out a M&S is recognised as a leader in product Valentines Day menu that included treats like selection of 400 carefully chosen branded innovation and this year we have set scallops, champagne souffl, fine wine and products to all our stores by the end of this ourselves the ambitious target of renewing a gift.
Over half a million couples celebrated summer, so customers can now pick up 25% of our total food range every year.
with the Valentines menu all for just 20. their favourite brands like Coke or Ariel, This keeps many customers coming back, alongside all the M&S ranges.
as they return to see what is new and Branded products will be focused in exciting in store.
This year we launched first areas where we have lower market share to market ranges, pioneering products and such as beers and pet food or where we updated old favourites, as well as adding have no equivalent product, like Marmite.
In January 2010 we Importantly, no M&S products have been launched Simply Fuller Longer a new, discontinued to make way for branded exclusive to M&S range developed with the goods.
All branded products have been Rowett Institute at Aberdeen university, to price matched against the competition and provide meals that are nutritious and keep we are confident that any own label you feeling full.
equivalent products compare favourably To find out more, visit marksandspencer.
com annualreport2010 27 Overview p01 Performance & KPIs p14 Brand & marketplace p20 Operating & financial review Governance p50 Financial statements p78 QuALITy TRuST & INNOVATION Above: The Great British Breakfast This year Above: Chocolate Butterflies We pride ourselves we committed to sourcing all our bacon, sausages on being first to market with innovative, sustainable and eggs from British farmers.
We were first to launch a chocolate confidence in the quality of these products, and wrapper that grows into flowers.
The wrappers makes us the first retailer to offer 100% British paper packaging includes seeds that grow into across these ranges.
Candytuft flowers, which attract butterflies.
Each dish contains a carefully calculated sustainable fisheries by 2012.
Over the next balance of proteins and carbohydrates to year WWF will work with us to evaluate the help you lose weight as part of a calorie sustainability of our fish products and controlled eating plan.
identify and develop more We know health is a consideration in sustainable sources.
40% of all food purchases and we are We continue to source already seeing new customers buying the our fresh produce from the range, with hearty portion sizes appealing to uK and wherever possible INNOVATION men.
Its popularity has not been at the locally.
For example, we expense of Count on us, where sales have now sell uK grown flowers Below: Soft Brews Available in citrus, apple and blackcurrant flavours, soft brews are produced in increased by 13%.
all year round, such as the same way as beer.
However, by stopping the In September 2009 we launched the our Autograph bloom process before fermentation they have all the taste M&S Sweet Shop, complete with the first chrysanthemums grown in but none of the alcohol.
ever confectionery range to be 100% free Cheshire.
We have also sourced from artificial flavours and colours.
The range sugar snap peas from British includes old favourites like cola cubes and growers for the first time.
Our confectionery performance has subsequently improved by over 5%.
Looking ahead We also introduced customers to black M&S has always been synonymous with apricots and peppers with high levels of innovation and we will deliver on our promise vitamins A, C and E, as well as baby pears to renew 25% of our range each year, by and the flower sprout a cross between a anticipating and setting new food trends.
brussel sprout and kale, named exclusively We will ensure our stores offer the breadth by Good Housekeeping readers.
of goods required by our customers, while continuing to build on our improved value TRUST position and further developing our From clear product labelling to our promotional offers, to give our customers dealings with suppliers, customers trust the best quality and excellent value for us to do the right thing.
on page 36 of our Plan A section, our Over the next two years, operational environmental and ethical credentials improvements will ensure we get more of are an essential feature of the food the right products on to our shelves at the we sell.
By enhancing on shelf availability We have had a sustainable fishing we will improve our customer service policy for over a decade and this year proposition so that it matches the high became the first uK company to sign quality of our Food offer.
the World Wildlife Foundation WWF Seafood Charter to work towards our objective of sourcing all seafood from Marine Stewardship Council or other
