14 Marks and Spencer Group plc Annual report and financial statements 2010 Directors report Our marketplace CONSUMER CONFIDENCE INDEX And how we have responded 10 5 0 -5 -10 -15 -20 -25 -30 -35 -40 -45 Source: CFK Consumer Confidence Index March 2010.
Customers are the heart of our business so its essential we understand what they want from M&S.
Our Customer Insight Unit CIU makes sure we are listening to our customers, understanding what they think and how they behave.
Through a combination of market data analysis, research and customer feedback, our CIU identifies emerging trends and how external factors are impacting consumer behaviour.
This ensures our customers needs are always recognised in business decisions.
This section sets out some of the key trends A greater appetite for investment pieces M&S CLOTHING RESPONSE of the last year and outlines how M&S has has translated into growth in the mid-priced responded to them.
clothing market and a strengthening position Our good, better, best pricing structure caters for clever spending, allowing in premium clothing.
consumers to trade up or down to suit their 2009 10 MARKET OVERVIEW priorities.
Weve encouraged customers to Customers have sought easy, affordable trade up by focusing on detailing and quality Though Britain has returned to low levels ways to experiment with key trends, such fabrics in brands such as Autograph and of economic growth, concerns about the as footwear and accessories.
have extended Portfolio across footwear and economy meant uncertainty continued to be accessories so customers can update their In 2008 09 the lingerie market suffered as the main characteristic of the marketplace.
wardrobe and experiment with new trends.
women deemed luxurious underwear an See womenswear on page 16.
Consumer sentiment is that theyve unnecessary extravagance and stuck to weathered the storm and adapted well basics, but this year women started to treat in a difficult economic climate.
result consumer confidence levels have doubled over the last 12 months, though HOME MARKET TREnDS as illustrated in the index above, they remain in negative territory.
Mortgage lending remained broadly flat for However, increasing confidence has the year, providing little improvement to the not marked a return to frivolous spending.
Consumers remain cautious and have Sales of large furniture and white goods adopted a trend for clever spending, declined, as homeowners opted to stay flexing their budget according to personal put and improve their existing home rather priorities.
Put simply, they are willing to than move.
spend more, but only on the things that matter to them.
In a slow market, consumers wanted to individualise their home to give it a distinctive M&S HOME RESPONSE ClOTHInG MARKET TREnDS stylish look mixing and matching a range of soft furnishings and accessories.
Improving consumer confidence has seen the The style credentials of M&S clothing have been translated into our soft furnishings offer clothing market return to growth this year.
Shifting household demographics have to appeal to customers looking to spruce up resulted in more people in their 20s living their home.
We have focused on providing Price remains one of the main drivers for with their parents, along with a rise in older great value, co-ordinated homeware so purchases, resulting in the continued growth customers can easily build an updated look.
This change has seen of the value market.
However, after a year See more on page 23. greater demand for furniture offering flexible of economising consumers have moved living solutions, such as combined bedroom beyond a wardrobe made up of cheaper living and work space staples and started to invest in quality versatile pieces, this trend is particularly strong among the over 45s.
03 Jun Sep Dec 04 Mar Jun Sep Dec 05 Mar Jun Sep Dec 06 Mar Jun Sep Dec 07 Mar Jun Sep Dec 08 Mar Jun Sep Dec 09 Mar Jun Sep Dec 10 Mar To find out more, visit marksandspencer.
com annualreport2010 15 Overview p01 Performance & KPIs p14 Brand & marketplace CONSUMER CONFIDENCE INDEX Operating & financial review p26 10 5 Governance p50 0 -5 Financial statements p78 -10 -15 -20 -25 -30 -35 -40 -45 Source: CFK Consumer Confidence Index March 2010.
FOOD MARKET TREnDS FUTURE TREnDS M&S FOOD RESPONSE Over the year price inflation has worked its As we move into 2010 11, macro-economic In 2008 09 a demand for value saw many way out of the market to the point of deflation, conditions will continue to influence food retailers attempt to reposition themselves with falling food prices masking the fact UK consumer behaviour.
However, our as low cost providers.
However, we invested in margins to provide customers with better customers were buying more.
current research suggests the following value, without compromising quality.
This has trends are likely: Deals continued to be a key driver, with 30% served us well as customers began to trade up.
Quality remains the point of difference of the market sold on promotion.
However, The pace of mobile technology and growing between our Dine In promotion and market copycat deals across the market meant acceptance of its intrusion into everyday imitations.
To keep the promotion fresh we consumers responded well where quality lives, means consumers will expect brands regularly include our newest products, mainly and innovation were the point of difference, to be ready to interact when they want, from our Cook!
as they looked for deals that offered requiring brands to be on 24 7. something new and or special.
Retailers that allow consumers to have input As confidence improved consumers started into product development will be well placed to trade up to an alternative supermarket or in the future.
Increasingly consumers want to switched to better, premium ranges within personalise purchases, through colour, style their supermarket of choice.
and functionality, as well as providing feedback to both retailers and peers about Consumers also began to treat themselves how they believe products and services again, resulting in growth in confectionery could be enhanced.
They also adopted a sense of nostalgia, creating a revival in retro Changes to family dynamics mean UK products with a modern update.
consumers are looking for alternative communities, either real or virtual to achieve a sense of belonging.
In the retail space, OnlInE MARKET TREnDS this may lead to more brands setting M&S ONLINE RESPONSE Online market growth remains strong at up community pages or forums.
M&S is committed to becoming a multi-channel around 20%, but the rate of growth has retailer, integrating its online business with begun to stabilise as the market matures.
We launched Shop Your Way, explained fully on page 28, Consumers now expect a more engaging to offer customers more flexible purchasing experience from online shopping, as retailers and delivery options.
We have also appointed add more editorial, interactive content a Director of Multi-channel Development to to sites.
help us exploit the opportunity in this area.
TRUST Developing technologies have meant Above: Share your views To consumers expect greater flexibility and provide a more interactive experience tailored choices in both purchase and we increased the prominence of delivery options.
customer product reviews on our website.
Customers have responded The strongest opportunity for growth lies well to the peer-to-peer feedback with retailers that can integrate an online and conversion rates have increased offer with other shopping channels, such as a result.
as stores and call centres, to provide a multi-channel service.
Average customer rating 03 Jun Sep Dec 04 Mar Jun Sep Dec 05 Mar Jun Sep Dec 06 Mar Jun Sep Dec 07 Mar Jun Sep Dec 08 Mar Jun Sep Dec 09 Mar Jun Sep Dec 10 Mar
