32 Marks and Spencer Group plc Annual report and financial statements 2010 Directors report Where we sell International SERvICE above: product tailoring In India we sell polo shirts in three times the number of colour variations as we do in the UK, to cater for the local markets taste for bright colours.
during 2009 10 sales in our International business grew by 5.7%, accounting M&S International sales for 10.2% of total Group revenues.
this year we have focused on developing 949.4m our partnership in India and growing our Central and eastern european business.
over the last 12 months we have invested in our operational 5.7% capabilities, resulting in a better product offer, tailored to meet the needs of specific markets, as well as building a platform for future growth.
M&S International as a share of Group revenue 10.2% 0.3% pts Growing our international business Improvements in our supply chain have enabled us to move products through In 2007 08 we set a target to grow our our network faster and more efficiently.
International business to between 15 to 20% We now move over 21% of our stock of total Group Revenue within five years and through our four international hubs in Hong over the last 12 months we have focused Kong, Singapore, Sri Lanka and Istanbul on four key elements to help us achieve direct to their destination, as opposed to this namely: shipping international stock via the UK.
growing our Central and Eastern European SERvICE partnerships: partly owned above: International mystery shopping building sustainable businesses in India This year we rolled out our successful mystery and China: Indian subcontinent shopping programme to our international stores.
accelerating growth with our franchise We produced a tailored service manual and have partners: and Expanding our Indian operation with our seen continued improvement across the year, with scores now at 80% and we will be keeping continuing to explore new opportunities.
partner Reliance Retail has enabled us to up this momentum with regular visits.
transform our position in the market.
This year we have continued to expand our Under our previous franchise relationship global footprint.
We now have 327 stores in we were a small premium retailer selling UK 41 territories includes Republic of Ireland, products at higher prices from small stores.
with the average square footage of our Through our partnership with Reliance Retail international stores increasing from 10,773 we have been able to open larger stores and to 11,129. realign our prices by locally sourcing up to Our International business model is made 38% of our products, with an aim to reach up of partly and wholly-owned subsidiaries over 60% by 2012.
Local sourcing provides and franchises.
This broad spread of us with the flexibility to respond to market ownership models and countries has enabled needs, for example in India pockets on us to perform well throughout a difficult shirts are common, as jackets are rarely global economic environment even when worn in the heat, so we add these to locally individual markets have been impacted.
above: Fresh food Trading from 1,400 sq ft, We have opened four new stores in Improving efficiency the new standalone food store in Wan Chai, Hong India this year, giving us a total of 16 stores.
Kong offers over 800 food and drink products.
We now have a strong platform in place from Operational efficiency is key to building a 300 of these are fresh chilled foods, including platform for growth.
The introduction of our which to significantly expand our presence a choice of traditional British and international ready meals such as Italian and Indian.
International Range Planner last year has also boasts an in-store bakery that freshly bakes improved our ability to tailor the product India presents us with a huge opportunity pastries and bread each day.
with a population of 1.2 billion and economic offer for individual markets.
It enables us to plan for regional variations and accurately GDP growth at 7.2%.
With the right product and the right partner we are well placed to stock the right colours and sizes to meet the specific needs of our international customers, take advantage of this.
responding to seasonal requirements in Russia or greater colour variations in India for example.
To find out more, visit marksandspencer.
com annualreport2010 33 overview p01 performance & KpIs p14 Brand & marketplace p20 operating & financial review our International operations Governance p50 A net total of 34 new stores in 2009 10.
Mediterranean and Islands Southern and Financial statements p78 eastern europe 23 stores 160 stores republic of Ireland and Channel Islands 30 stores Far east Middle east 74 stores 23 stores Indian subcontinent 1 6 stores other: Bermuda 1 store SERvICE eastern europe The potential in China is similar to that of India, with a large population and economic above: Isha tambe is store manager of our In 2008 we bought controlling stakes in our Mumbai store our first store in India with partners GDP growth at 8.7%.
This year we have Czech and Greek businesses and since then Reliance Retail, which opened in April 2009. focused on adapting our product to suit the we have strengthened the management needs of the local market.
For example, we teams on the ground to create the right have introduced size 6 and size 4 across mixture of local and M&S knowledge.
womenswear to cater for smaller size Over the last 12 months our business requirements and are developing Asian fit Al-Futtaim, our partner in the Gulf, has had with our Czech partner has grown, opening a tougher year.
Our stores there performed bras for the market.
We will continue to 10 new stores across the Czech group in improve our product tailoring, through strongly until the autumn, when the Dubai Poland, Slovakia and Estonia, taking the economy faltered.
However, we remain increased local sourcing.
Over the next year, we Our Hong Kong stores have delivered a confident about this market there is an will continue to develop our presence in affluent customer base and we have a strong performance, despite the economic these regions, focusing on key cities in the pressures in the region.
Following the strong property portfolio, including a number Czech Republic, Poland and The Baltics.
of larger stores, enabling us to showcase successful Food to Go trial, in May 2010 Greece has been hit hard by the we opened our first standalone food store more of the product range.
But we continue to We have a long established franchise in Hong Kong.
The new store offers a work closely with our partner Marinopoulos comprehensive range of chilled products, a business in The Channel Islands, with the Group to keep stocks tight and manage rest of our franchise business located in first for M&S in the international market.
We the business, to give us more flexibility in now have 11 stores in the region and plan to a variety of locations, including Tenerife, this environment.
Marbella, Gibraltar, Bermuda, Cyprus open a further store later in 2010. and Hungary.
wholly-owned republic of Ireland looking ahead The economic environment in Republic of the Far east Ireland continued to be challenging.
We want to build a platform for long-term In 2008 09 we opened our first store in However, our pricing remains competitive growth and to do this we know we must Shanghai.
Since its opening, we have and we responded to the changes in alcohol continue our international expansion at a developed our knowledge of local trading duty and vAT, offering an immediate sensible pace.
Emerging markets represent and put in place an infrastructure to support reduction to our customers ahead of our a great opportunity for M&S and we will sustainable growth in this market, including competitors.
focus on creating sustainable businesses a new warehouse and a strong head office in these countries.
In the short-term, we will focus on FranChISInG products are right, editing ranges to suit our developing our presence in Shanghai and markets and responding to the unique price Our franchise operations now account for plan to open a second store in the city in architecture of each country, locally sourcing around 31% of total International sales.
summer 2010, with an aim of opening a wherever possible.
We will continue to With Fiba, our franchise partner in third by the end of the 2010 11. grow our property footprint, increasing Turkey, the Ukraine and Russia, we have the average square footage of our stores.
had a very good year and have opened All of this will be underpinned by an efficient eight new stores.
