28 Marks and Spencer Group plc Annual report and financial statements 2010 Directors report How we sell Multi-channel Multi-channel: This year we have brought all of our shopping channels under the Our Stores, Total UK Portfolio: same management to allow us to focus on becoming a seamless multi-channel 690 business, providing customers with the same high quality service every time and whichever way they choose to shop with us.
Weve delivered another 1 0 Premiere strong performance in our Direct business, increasing sales by 27% to 413.3m and remain on target to achieve 500m by 2010 11.
This year weve also 42 Major launched Shop Your Way, to provide customers with more flexibility and 242 High Street choice in their delivery options.
46 Outlets 1 56 Simply Food wholly-owned Driving a Multi-channel business Online 1 94 Simply Food franchises Customers shop with M&S in many ways.
In October 2009 we relaunched our website, Whether they are shopping in store, at responding to customer demands for a new UK stores opened in 2009 10 home, in the office or over the phone, more engaging, interactive web experience.
our aim is that every customer receives The refresh included the introduction 30 the same consistently high level of of catwalk videos and rotating images to Total square footage service from purchase through to delivery.
enable customers to see clothes from every angle.
We also introduced a more powerful 1 5.4m Shop Your Way and flexible search facility allowing customers M&S Direct Sales to search by department for faster and more Launched on a trial basis in July 2009, our accurate results.
The upgrade includes Shop your Way service enables customers 413.3m stock availability information to help avoid to place clothing, beauty and homeware disappointment.
A pop-up shopping basket 27% orders either in stores, online or over the means customers can now automatically phone.
They can then opt for delivery to Includes: Website, home catalogue, flower view and buy their selection without being either a nominated address or free to their and wine delivery, Food to Order party catering diverted from their shopping page.
service, lunchtogo and call centres nearest store for collection.
Following the upgrade, the site was Since roll-out, the latter has proved very ranked the uKs most user-friendly retail popular, with around 13% of customers who website in the 2009 Webcredible survey, order online choosing to collect in store and up from eighth in 2008.
The improvements driving footfall as a result.
have also increased revenues, with Shop your Way has been welcomed conversion rates up 9% since launch.
by smaller stores, as the service brings the Online clothing market share has also wider M&S product catalogue to their local increased from 5.3% to 5.6%.
Weekly orders now stand at 2.5m and following the successful trial, Shop your Way has been rolled-out to over 300 uK stores, with a roll-out to Simply Food stores underway in 2010.
SERVICE Above: Catwalk style Customers told us they loved shopping online with us, but that static images made it hard to tell if an item of clothing would suit them.
As a result, weve introduced catwalk style videos so customers can view the QuALITy product from every angle and better envisage how it might look on them.
Left: Swatch this space As part of our website upgrade customers can now view actual fabric swatches for products across our Home range.
The high clarity images provide a more accurate depiction of colour and pattern, giving customers greater confidence in their purchase.
Since launch Home sales online have increased by 20%.
To find out more, visit marksandspencer.
com annualreport2010 29 Green stores In line with our Plan A Overview p01 commitments all our new stores are built to the highest environmental standards.
Performance & KPIs p14 Our Westfield store featured below includes a displacement ventilation system, low energy lighting accompanied Brand & marketplace p20 by sensors and controls and CO food 2 refrigeration.
Operating & financial review Governance p50 Find out more at marksandspencer.
com Financial statements p78 30 Marks and Spencer Group plc Annual report and financial statements 2010 Directors report How we sell Multi-channel continued Launched in February 2009, M&S TV is part Home catalogue of our website and uses video to showcase The circulation of our Home Catalogue our latest products and services, using M&S continues to grow, reaching over 1.6 million experts to give advice on everything from customers this year and acting as a source how to accessorise an outfit to cooking the of ideas and inspiration.
Given the square perfect Christmas dinner.
footage requirements of furniture, its not M&S TV features a Click-to-Buy function possible to showcase our full Home offer that allows customers to quickly buy what in all stores but our Home catalogue is an they see on screen, with click-through rates opportunity for customers to view the entire as high as 30%.
M&S TV content has range at their leisure.
appeared on Facebook and Twitter and in M&S Home Catalogue was named December we launched a youTube channel, Best Catalogue at the 2009 Association to further extend the reach.
of Publishing Agencies APA International QuALITy Customer Publishing Awards.
Talking to customers Above: Wine Club The M&S Wine Club has gained a loyal following since its launch in 2008, As part of the site refresh we also increased International delivery with over 10,000 subscribers.
Our Wine Plan now the prominence of our customer product offers customers the choice of a contemporary or In October 2009 we expanded our ratings and reviews.
We know our customers premium plan, providing a hand picked selection of international delivery service and we now value these independent views and that they fine wines conveniently delivered direct to their door deliver to 80 international destinations, from on a monthly basis.
can boost conversation rates, as customers France, Germany and Spain to Africa, uSA, that have read a product review are twice New Zealand, Australia and Canada.
as likely to buy than customers that havent.
We have also embraced broader social Store strategy networking opportunities such as Facebook and Twitter.
We currently have over 112,000 Our stores remain the most popular way for fans on our Facebook site, which provides customers to shop with M&S, with 21 million the ideal forum for us to test new product customers visiting us each week.
There are ideas and tap into the opinions of an five main elements to our store strategy: engaged customer base.
add new and extend existing major out of town stores enhance our position in major cities extend our presence in retail parks continue and complete our high street modernisation strategy and review stores that underperform continue to build on our successful longterm Simply Food business.
INNOVATION & SERVICE Left: M&S goes mobile As traditional online retail matures, mobile is expected to become the growth area for internet retailing and in May 2010 M&S become the first major uK high street retailer to launch a mobile shopping site.
Customers on the move are able to search, browse and buy easily from any web-enabled mobile phone or device.
The site is always in sync with the main M&S website so that customers can log into their regular online account and manage their shopping basket from their mobile.
com annualreport2010 31 Overview p01 Performance & KPIs p14 Brand & marketplace p20 Operating & financial review Governance p50 Financial statements p78 SERVICE Above: Putting customers first Customer service has improved throughout the year, according to our mystery shopper scores, which are up 5% on last year to 89%.
Our stores our Simply Food offer into hospital In September 2009 we announced plans sites, opening three successful stores for a dedicated e-commerce warehouse, Over the last five years we have conducted at St Georges in Tooting, St Thomas due to open in 2012. you can find more on an extensive modernisation programme and in London and the Royal Berkshire the improvements we have made in this to date almost 80% of the M&S chain has in Reading.
area on page 34 of the IT & logistics section been updated.
Our aim is to deliver a bright, Our cafs and restaurants now offer of this report.
contemporary shopping environment where coffee and snacks as well as a sit down goods are easy to find and where a range of meal.
They are inviting and encourage Looking ahead hospitality options are on offer.
our customers to relax and spend longer Where possible we have added additional Our aim is to make shopping with M&S as in our stores.
space to our existing sites.
Over the last convenient as possible for our customers 12 months we have undertaken major from the way they buy through to the way Service in store developments of both our Liverpool store products are delivered.
By bringing together and Pudsey store in Leeds, adding over We are committed to maintaining the our channels we will provide them with even 27,000 sq ft to these two sites alone.
highest standards of customer service and greater flexibility and choice, allowing them to This year we obtained planning to do so, all of our stores are visited once a shop in the way that best suits their lifestyle.
permission for a new 150,000 sq ft store month twice in the case of flagship stores Integrating the channels also represents in Cheshire Oaks.
Due to open in autumn by mystery shoppers.
Staff are scored on a significant opportunity for us, if we can 2012, Cheshire Oaks will be a state of the a number of factors, such as service at the grow the number of people that shop online art store, designed in line with our point of sale, body language and how they with us to be equal to the number that shop environmental credentials.
It will be our welcome customers into store.
We will continue to capitalise on this largest store outside London our flagship 12 months customer service has improved, opportunity by developing our services in line Marble Arch store pictured above is with an average mystery shopper score of with changing shopping habits and emerging 170,000 sq ft, whereas an average M&S 89%, up 5% on last year.
The M&S brand values also store is around 45,000 sq ft. put us in a strong position to grow and We have responded to the popularity Foundations for growth develop in this area, as trust is essential in of retail park shopping, opening at four remote purchasing, be it via a mobile or on Our distribution network supports all of our new retail park sites in Swindon, Bristol, the internet.
Our customers trust us to shopping channels, ensuring we can fulfil Cheltenham and Aberdeen.
We now have deliver, whichever way they shop with us.
customer orders and deliver efficiently.
30 stores in retail parks and plan to open new stores at Haverford West and Tunbridge Wells during 2010 11.
Our Simply Food stores, which are a mixture of wholly-owned and franchised stores, continue to perform well.
With our franchise partner SSP we have expanded INNOVATION Right: Cheshire Oaks At 150,000 sq ft Cheshire Oaks store will be the largest new store built by Marks & Spencer for over 10 years.
Due to open in autumn 2012 the store will offer extensive hospitality options, including a M&S caf, restaurant and deli.
It will also feature a 950-space car park.
