To find out more, visit marksandspencer.
com annualreport2010 07 Overview Performance & KPIs p14 Brand & Marketplace p20 Operating & Financial review p26 Governance p50 Financial statements p78 Introduction 12 Marks & Spencer is a great brand and I am very proud to have the opportunity to lead a company 11 with such a unique heritage.
Since I arrived in May I have been getting to know the business and our customers and I am looking forward to working with the team as we continue to build on the strong foundations that have been put in place by Stuart.
Marc Bolland Chief Executive Joined 1 May 2010 In May 2010, Ian Dyson resigned from his It has been a great pleasure and a privilege position as Group Finance & Operations to lead your very special business over Director to join Punch Taverns plc as its the past six years.
I am confident that with Group Chief Executive.
On behalf of the strong foundations in place, our core M&S Board, I would like to thank Ian for the values revitalised and a brand that inspires significant contribution he has made to M&S confidence and recognition worldwide, M&S over the last five years and wish him well is poised for an exciting new era of growth with his future career.
under the direction of a new Chief Executive.
Our management team has worked together throughout the recession, focusing on both our long and short-term priorities, enabling the business to emerge stronger and Sir Stuart Rose Chairman ready to capitalise as the economy recovers.
The progress we have made would not have been possible without the hard work and commitment of our dedicated workforce particularly during the challenge of a recession.
I am delighted that we have been able to pay all our staff a bonus this year.
I would like to say a personal thank you to all of them.
QUALITY Above: Super sweet carrots M&S organic carrots are grown exclusively by Steven Jack on the wild Moray coast in the shadow of the Grampian Mountains.
Long daylight hours in the summer mean sweeter, better tasting carrots and the light sandy soils ensure carrots with a fine skin that just need a gentle brushing before cooking, so there is no need to peel them.
