34 Marks and Spencer Group plc Annual report and financial statements 2010 Directors report Efficient delivery IT, Logistics & Supply Chain In october under project 2020 we set out a clear plan to deliver long-term plan a TEAR DROP TRUCKS sustainable growth through creating a more efficient It and supply chain The fuel used in logistics transport accounts for infrastructure.
In recent years we have invested in upgrading the inefficient, around 8% of our operational carbon emissions.
20 year old systems that supported the business.
this year we have begun Weve already achieved our 2012 Plan A target to accelerate the pace of activity to fundamentally transform the way M&S a 20% improvement in delivery fuel efficiency does business.
to our stores and this year extended it to a 35% improvement by 2015.
Weve introduced a number of initiatives to help as achieve this such as a dual fuel trial for our Tear drop trucks.
Over the last 12 months we have focused Consolidation of warehouses Weve also adopted loose loading, enabling on our immediate priorities restructuring us to increase the stock carried on each truck by One of our biggest projects is the 50%, reducing the number of journeys required.
our supply chain, implementing new consolidation of our GM warehouse information systems and improving network, moving from 110 smaller operational execution.
These investments warehouses to a small number of super will lay down the foundations for future warehouses, based in prime central growth, especially in Multi-channel and locations and a dedicated e-commerce International, as well as delivering tangible distribution centre in the Midlands.
customer benefits, such as better availability This is a long-term project but the first and more flexible delivery options.
phase is well underway and we have begun the closure of 21 sites.
Work has progressed Supply chain quickly and the first of the new super Our business operations have changed warehouses, a 1 million sq ft site in Bradford, For more information about plan a see p36 or visit marksandspencer.
com plana dramatically in the last decade there are is due to open in summer 2010.
Our faster lead times, a wider range of products e-commerce site in the Midlands has been and extensive growth in both our identified and we plan to start construction International and e-commerce businesses.
All of our new warehouses will QUALITy & TRUST This year, we set out plans to restructure our have a state of the art design, with the aim supply chain to better support these of achieving an excellent rating under Below: the Cape flora bouquet is arranged from seasonal flowers sustainably harvested from changes.
Our aim is to build a simpler supply BREEAM, a voluntary measurement rating the Agulhas region of South Africa.
The Cape floral chain that will improve customer availability for green buildings.
kingdom is the smallest plant kingdom in the world and create a more efficient platform for but contains the highest known concentration of growth.
In addition these changes will deliver Simplification plant species more than 9,000 plant species make up the region, 6,000 of which are found annual savings of 150m.
In addition to our consolidation programme, nowhere else on Earth.
We have made good progress in 2009 10 we have simplified operating processes in and have saved 35m by consolidating some our warehouses to enable us to move of our warehouses and implementing a products through our supply chain more number of efficiency projects.
We have done this in two ways, firstly by streamlining day-to-day processes To find out more, visit marksandspencer.
com annualreport2010 35 overview p01 performance & KpIs p14 Brand & marketplace p20 operating & financial review p26 Governance Financial statements p78 SERvICE SERvICE above: on shelf service Staff across our above: our new GM warehouse in Bradford stores are receiving training on the new stock is 1 million sq ft it could fit 12 Wembley pitches management software, which provides real time inside and its a one mile walk around the outside data to help us improve on shelf availability.
In the service yard there is a 2.1 metre diameter rainwater storage tank, which when full holds 4 million litres of water.
such as reviewing the floor layout of stores are receiving training in the new looking ahead warehouses to reduce picking times and system and this will be rolling-out during Our work to date has already achieved cost introducing a loose loading initiative, which 2010.
The new centralised system provides savings and efficiencies.
But there is still has enabled us to carry more products on real-time data from stores to a head office more we need to do to build an infrastructure our trucks and secondly by reducing the team, providing an accurate picture of stock that will enable us to meet our ambitions number of times we handle stock.
Currently levels at all times.
of becoming a truly multi-channel retailer, all stock goes to a sorting centre and then a with a stronger international presence.
regional distribution centre before being Business Foundation programme We are confident we have an moved to a store.
Following a successful Having reviewed the operational processes experienced team in place to implement trial this year, all stock will go via just one across the business we established that our these changes, without disruption to the place in the future.
old core head office systems were no longer day-to-day running of the business.
suitable to support the business needs.
The result will be a simplified, more efficient our international supply chain We decided the best way to solve this was business that can respond flexibly to To support future international growth, to launch a Business Foundation Programme, changing customer demands and give over the next three years we will make our rolling out a new integrated software M&S a solid platform for growth.
international supply chain more cost efficient application called SAP Retail.
and deliver more products direct to our The roll out of the new system will mean international partners as opposed to going that M&S data is held in just one centralised via the UK.
This year we have made good location, replacing a myriad of old systems progress and delivered 9.8 million singles and will standardise core business processes direct to our overseas stores, our plan is to across Clothing, Home and Food.
The new increase this to 30 million by 2013. systems will improve our visibility of sales, stock and margin data leading to better It and systems decision making and improvements in the way we manage our promotional spend.
This year we completed the in-store pilot of a To ensure a smooth transition the project new Point of Sale System POS and will begin is being phased in and to date, we have the roll-out to all stores later this year.
The new successfully implemented SAP software system is not only more cost efficient but also across finance, purchasing and International.
helps deliver a better customer experience, through a simplified process for transactions and refunds.
Following another pilot, we have introduced new software to improve stock management.
Staff representatives from all SERvICE right: Meeting customers needs Shop your Way is underpinned by our new improved customer ordering system, delivering greater flexibility to customers and improving fulfilment.
