BUsINess revIeW CoNtINUeD Marstons Pub Company Under the Retail Agreement, Marstons shares responsibility with the self-employed retailer, utilising the expertise, systems and resources of our managed pub infrastructure.
alistair Darby Managing Director, Marstons Pub Company Performance As at 2 October 2010 the tenanted and leased pub estate revenue m comprised 1,664 pubs.
Total revenue decreased by 2.8% to 170.8 million, reflecting lower 170.8 10 volumes of beer, wines and spirits sold to tenants and lessees.
The performance of the UK tenanted and leased pub sector has been 175.8 09 weak, with overall volumes across the sector estimated to be down by around 7%.
Underlying operating profit was 78.8 million, a 186.4 08 reduction of 3.7% with the rate of decline improving throughout the year.
Average profit per pub reduced by 2.1% from 48k to 47k.
200.9 07 Many of our tenanted and leased operators have adapted 178.8 06 successfully to capitalise on longer-term market trends.
This is evident from the fact that profits from the 86% of our tenanted and leased pubs, let on substantive agreements, generated profit growth in 2010 despite the poor performance of the operating Profit m market overall.
Our long held approach to fair rents, sustainability, transparency and a fair share of risks and rewards remains at the 78.8 10 heart of our relationship with our licensees.
81.8 09 Operating margin for the division was 0.4% lower at 46.1%, primarily due to the development of Retail Agreements.
Capital 88.0 investment in 2010 was 22 million including around 6 million in 08 Retail Agreement pubs.
Our expenditure on maintenance capital, 13 million, was consistent with previous years and reflects our 90.8 07 objective to maintain the estate to a high quality.
80.3 06 Development of pub estate Although many operators of tenanted and leased pubs have responded well to significant regulatory and market pressures average profit per pub k including taxation, increased price competition, market trends such as the increasing importance of food sales and the effects of the weak UK economy, a significant minority have not.
47 10 We believe that these trends will continue for the foreseeable 48 09 future and, as indicated in the Interim Results, we have begun to implement plans to make significant changes to the operation of 51 08 our tenanted and leased estate as described below.
co. uk 18528.04 3 12 2010 Proof 7 MARSTOnS PerForMaNCe PUB COMPAnY 1.
Over the next three years, we expect to increase the number of pubs being operated under the Retail Agreement to around 600 pubs.
The Retail Agreement is a franchise-style arrangement.
Marstons shares responsibility for the consumer proposition in partnership with the self-employed retailer, utilising the expertise, systems and resources of our managed retail agreement pub infrastructure within Marstons Inns and Taverns.
Darrall Bebbington and his team of 20 staff opened As a consequence, we aim to realise a number of benefits The Robin Hood near Congleton before Easter as a as follows: food-led Retail Agreement.
The eighteenth-century coaching inn was completely refurbished with Sustained increase in revenue and volume: extensive work carried out to the kitchen.
The pub Increased profitability a targeted annual profit now takes between 10,000 and 12,000 per week.
improvement of 10k per pub: Improved retailer stability: Marstons pays the bills with me responsible for Better qualified retailers: and the staff and the insurance, Darrall said.
Ive run Improved consumer appeal and competitive position managed pubs and a tenancy and I enjoy this way of for the pub.
Ive got more freedom to do what I want to do and make the business work.
Its the In rolling out the Retail Agreement we expect to invest around best thing I ever did.
For me, this is by far the best 50k per pub.
I get a percentage of the takings and I make a decent living for very little risk.
Approximately 1,000 pubs will continue to be operated under longer-term lease agreements which include agreements that offer licensees the opportunity to buy beer, wines and spirits at the same prices available to our free trade customers, and a genuine free-of-tie option.
We anticipate the disposal of around 60 pubs from the estate over the next 18 months.
In 2010 we combined a number of commercial support teams from Marstons Beer Company and Marstons Pub Company, recognising that many of the challenges and opportunities are similar for tenants and lessees, and independent operators.
This has helped us to be more effective in deploying promotions, offering training courses for licensees, and in identifying opportunities for licensees to cut a range of costs by exploiting Marstons buying power, including those for food, energy and consumables.
Pictured: The Mustard Pot, Chapel Allerton Marstons Pub Company Pub of the Year 2010 We also launched our new accredited Code of Conduct in response to the recommendations of the Business Innovation and Skills Committee inquiry.
This Code will increase the transparency of our agreements and provide a greater understanding of the rent setting process.
We anticipate that it will also contribute to the success of our licensees and increase licensee stability and tenure.
MarstoNs PLC Annual Report 2010 15 www.
