Board of Directors Iain J G Napier Chris D Bull Richard J Armitage Colin D Smith Robert A Lee Christine A Bogdanowicz-Bindert Iain J G Napier Chris D Bull Richard J Armitage Non-Executive Chairman Chief Executive Group Finance Director Chairman of the Nomination and member Member of the Nomination sub-committee Richard Armitage was appointed Group Finance of the Remuneration sub-committees Chris Bull was appointed Chief Executive of Director of McBride in November 2009.
Richard Iain Napier was appointed Non-Executive McBride in May 2010.
Chris joined us from was previously Finance Director of Premier Foods Chairman of McBride in July 2007.
He is also Unilever plc where he had most recently been Grocery Division.
Prior to that, he spent 16 years Non-Executive Chairman of Imperial Tobacco Chief Customer officer.
He has had an extensive in the chemical industry, working for ICI and Group plc, Chairman of John Menzies plc and a international career with Unilever covering Courtaulds in a number of senior financial Non-Executive Director of William Grant & Sons 25 years and from 2003-07 was CEO of Unilever management positions.
Holdings Limited and Molson Coors Brewing Poland and Baltics.
He has been CEO of sizeable Company a US quoted company.
He was divisions in Unilever, and in his earlier career Christine A Bogdanowicz-Bindert previously Group Chief Executive of Taylor managed manufacturing operations, building Independent Non-Executive Director Woodrow plc from 2002 to 2006.
As a former main on his qualication as a graduate engineer.
Member of the Audit, Remuneration and Board Director of Bass plc, he was Chief Executive Nomination sub-committees of Bass Leisure and then Chief Executive of Christine Bogdanowicz-Bindert has been Robert A Lee Bass Brewers and Bass International Brewers.
a Non-Executive Director of McBride since Independent Non-Executive Director Following the sale of the Bass beer business September 2003.
She has also been a NonChairman of the Remuneration and member in 2000, he became Vice President UK and Executive Director and member of the Audit of the Nomination and Audit sub-committees Ireland for Interbrew SA until August 2001. committee of FCE Bank plc Ford Financial Bob Lee has been a Non-Executive Director of Europe since 2005.
Christine is an experienced McBride since September 2003.
Bob has over Colin D Smith international nancier having held senior 35 years experience in the petrochemical and Senior Independent Non-Executive Director positions in banking and financial institutions in allied industries.
He was employed by Dow Chairman of the Audit and member Europe and the US for over 35 years.
She started Chemicals for 28 years in various international of the Nomination and Remuneration her career as a risk analyst in Germany, was an senior management roles.
In 1997, Bob joined sub-committees economist at the International Monetary Fund in the management team that led the demerger Colin Smith has been a Non-Executive Director of Washington DC, and was a Senior Vice President of Octel Corp now Innospec Inc to become McBride since April 2002.
His previous experience at Shearson Lehman Hutton Inc in New York.
an independent NYSE-listed petroleum additive includes 20 years at Safeway plc, the last six years In 1990, after the Iron Curtain came down, company.
Since 2000, he has been running as Chief Executive and, before that, as Finance she started a corporate finance boutique a private packaging technology company, Director.
Colin is also Chairman of Poundland covering Poland.
Advanced Plastics Technologies Luxembourg S. A.
Group Holdings Ltd. Colin is McBrides Senior Independent Director.
McBride plc Annual report and accounts 2010 Passionate about Private Label 48
