Statutory information Principal activity Directors The Groups principal activity is the production, distribution and sale The Directors who held ofce during the year were: of Private Label Household and Personal Care products to leading Mr I J G Napier Non-Executive Chairman retailers in the UK and Continental Europe.
The Board expects the Mr M W Roberts Chief Executive Group to continue focusing on the current core business and main resigned 30 April 2010 product categories in which it currently operates.
Mr C D Bull Chief Executive appointed 4 May 2010 Business review Mr R J Armitage Group Finance Director The Group is required to produce a business review complying with appointed 1 November 2009 the requirements of section 417 of the Companies Act 2006.
The Mrs C A Bogdanowicz-Bindert Independent Non-Executive Group has complied with this requirement in the Business Review, Director which is presented on pages 10 to 55 of this Directors Report.
This Mr R A Lee Independent Non-Executive incorporates a detailed review of the Groups activities, its business Director performance and developments during the year and an indication Mr C D Smith Senior Independent Non-Executive of likely future developments.
Director Group results and dividends Biographical details of the Directors holding ofce at the date of this The results for the year are set out in the consolidated income report appear on page 48. statement on page 78 and a discussion of the Groups financial performance and progress are set out in the Business Review Information on Directors remuneration and service contracts is on pages 10 to 55.
A summary of the results for the year, together given in the Remuneration Report on pages 70 to 76. with financial key performance indicators is set out below.
Figures in m unless otherwise stated 2010 2009 Directors and their interests Revenue 812.2 792.4 The beneficial interests of the Directors none of the Directors had 1 2 Organic revenue growth 0% 4% any non-beneficial interests during the year in the share capital Operating profit 35.2 27.4 of the Company in terms of shares, options and conditional share 3 Adjusted operating profit 50.0 36.2 awards at 1 July 2009 and 30 June 2010 were: 12.1p Diluted earnings per share 9.1p At 1 July 2009 1 3 Adjusted diluted earnings per share 18.1p 12.8p Conditional Dividend per share 6.8p 6.0p share 1 2 3 1 2 Director Shares Options awards Return on capital employed 25.9% 17.1% Mr I J G Napier 34,807 1 Indicates Group key performance indicator.
Mr M W Roberts 9,500 509,615 755,017 2 The calculation of organic revenue growth and return on capital employed is explained Mr I R Johnson 10,000 on page 11.
3 Before amortisation of intangible assets and exceptional items.
Details of exceptional Mrs C A Bogdanowicz-Bindert 20,000 items are set out in note 3 to the consolidated financial statements on page 90.
Mr R A Lee 5,000 Mr C D Smith 100,000 The Board recommends that a final dividend of 4.8 pence Mr H Talerman 36,068 2009: 4.3p per ordinary share be paid on 26 November 2010 to shareholders on the register at the close of business on 29 October At 30 June 2010 Conditional 2010.
Combined with the interim dividend already paid, total share dividends for the year are 6.8 pence 2009: 6.0p per ordinary share.
1 2 Director Shares Options awards Further details of dividends are shown in note 10 to the consolidated Mr I J G Napier 44,807 3 financial statements on page 95.
Mr M W Roberts 4 Mr C D Bull 250,000 4 20,000 61,922 Mr R J Armitage Mrs C A Bogdanowicz-Bindert 20,000 Mr R A Lee 5,000 Mr C D Smith 100,000 1 The options include those held under the 1995 International Executive Share Option Scheme Unapproved and the 2002 Unapproved Discretionary Share Option Scheme.
2 The conditional share awards are awards made under the McBride Long-Term Incentive Plan.
3 At the date of resignation.
4 Shares acquired and conditional share awards granted during the year.
McBride plc Annual report and accounts 2010 Passionate about Private Label 65 The figures Our governance Business review Overview of the year Passionate about Private Label Statutory information Continued There have been no changes in the Directors interests in the shares We operate a Company-wide First-Line Management programme of the Company from those detailed above between 30 June 2010 which extends over seven modules, with a new eighth module in and 1 September 2010.
None of the Directors had any interest in the development.
All sites have their own training professionals.
We shares of any subsidiary company.
Further details of options and acknowledge that team working is invaluable in helping to deliver conditional share awards held by the Directors are set out in the our goals and this is actively encouraged through cross-fertilisation Remuneration Report on pages 70 to 76. of ideas both across functions and across territories so that best practice is shared at every opportunity.
We have wide-ranging Re-election of Directors employee policies in place to help provide guidance and to set the Details of all Directors offering themselves for election or standards expected of our employees in all their business dealings.
re-election can be found in the Corporate Governance Report These policies are made available to employees on a regular basis.
We are committed to employee consultation by way of regular Related party transactions briengs, partnership councils, listening groups, information Except for Directors service contracts, the Company did not have bulletins and newsletters.
Many departments also hold annual any material transactions or transactions of an unusual nature away days which provide the opportunity for a cross-section of with, and did not make loans to, related parties in the periods in colleagues to contribute to the development and realisation of which any Director is or was materially interested.
business plans for their departments, and we have bi-annual conferences for managers.
Members of the senior management indemnification of Directors teams regularly visit the sites.
They also attend our management In accordance with the Articles of Association Articles, the development programmes for Q&A sessions.
These exercises Company has the power at its discretion to grant an indemnity provide the opportunity for open questioning from employees and to the Directors in respect of liabilities incurred as a result of their encourage two-way dialogue.
Most sites are actively engaged in ofce.
In respect of those liabilities for which Directors may not be involvement initiatives to allow all employees to understand and indemnified, the Company maintained a Directors and ofcers relate to our business goals and many sites hold open days to allow liability insurance policy throughout the period.
Although their employees families to see the environment in which their family defence costs may be met, neither the Companys indemnity nor members work.
the insurance policy provides cover in the event that the Director is proved to have acted fraudulently or dishonestly.
Following Reward and recognition changes to company law, the Company is also permitted to advance Eligible employees participate in performance-related bonus costs to Directors for their defence in investigations or legal actions.
schemes and some senior management participate in a Long-Term No claims or qualifying indemnity provisions and no qualifying Incentive Plan LTIP.
Local incentive schemes relating to site pension scheme indemnity provisions have been made either performance are available to most site based employees and during the year or by the time of approval of this Directors Report.
in 2009 the Company offered a three-year Save As You Earn Scheme to eligible employees based in the UK.
Employment policies employees Involvement of employees We respect the right of employees to join trade unions and Our continued success depends on having a skilled and motivated appropriate representative bodies where they choose to do so.
We endeavour to create a culture whereby employees We have in place formal arrangements with recognised national are recognised as a valuable asset.
The Company is continuing to unions where this is deemed appropriate and Partnerships or implement initiatives to engage employees with the business and Works Councils joint management employee consultation to ensure they feel valued in an environment where they can make groups operate at all UK and Western Continental Europe facilities.
There is a focus on helping employees to Where these arrangements include nomination of employee give of their best at work and to achieve their full career potential representatives, they are not discriminated against and they through the provision of training and development opportunities are allowed reasonable time and facilities to carry out their and to enhance individual performance we have a coaching representative duties.
programme as an element of our training resource.
Our appraisal system is extended to all employees and helps to ensure that Employment of disabled persons individuals performance is assessed objectively and their training We aim to provide a working environment and to offer terms and and development is dened systematically and in relation to conditions of service which allow disabled people with the necessary business needs.
There is a structured talent review process across skills and qualications to obtain employment with the Group.
If the Group which seeks to identify those of potential on a fully employees become disabled during the course of their employment, inclusive basis.
The outcomes are re-assessed every year and the they will continue to be employed, wherever practicable in the same process is used to obtain peer group feedback and draw up tailored job, or, if this is not practicable, every effort is made to nd and personal development plans.
We continue to run our own innovative provide appropriate retraining and redeployment.
Disabled people Management Development Programme supported by specic are afforded equal opportunities in recruitment and promotion modular training which is available to all relevant employees.
The and full and fair consideration is given to providing opportunities content of the programme itself is regularly reviewed to ensure it for training and development of people with disabilities according keeps pace with changing business needs.
to their skills and capabilities.
McBride plc Annual report and accounts 2010 Passionate about Private Label 66 Equal opportunities Financial instruments It is our policy to ensure equal opportunity in recruitment, selection, Information on the Groups financial risk management objectives, promotion, employee development, training and reward policies policies and activities and on the exposure of the Group to and we have an Equal Opportunities and Diversity policy in place relevant risks in respect of financial instruments is set out on which is monitored through the HR function.
It is a key objective page 46 and in note 21 to the consolidated financial statements to ensure that successful candidates for appointment and on pages 103 to 106. promotion are selected taking account of individual ability, skills and competencies without regard to age, gender, race, religion, Share capital disability or sexual orientation.
We place great emphasis on Details of the Companys share capital are shown in note 22 to the establishing and maintaining a safe working environment for consolidated financial statements on page 106.
Pursuant to the our employees.
If an employee is injured during the course of his Companies Act 2006 the Act from 1 October 2009 a company employment, the incident is thoroughly investigated and, where is no longer required to have an authorised share capital and appropriate, rehabilitation support is provided to help the employee consequently the Company has removed this requirement from the to return to work as soon as possible.
The ordinary shares of the Company carry equal rights to programme is undertaken, great care is taken to ensure that all dividends, voting and return of capital on the winding-up of the relevant communications, consultations and support and guidance Company.
There are no restrictions on the transfer of securities in are provided and every effort is taken to ensure that compulsory the Company other than following service of a notice under section redundancies are minimised.
792 of the Act and there are no restrictions on any voting rights or deadlines, other than those prescribed by law, nor is the Company Charitable and political donations aware of any arrangements between holders of its shares which may The Group made donations to charities of 1,500 2009: 21,000 result in restrictions on the transfer of securities or on voting rights.
It is the Groups policy not to make political Participants in employee share schemes have no voting or other donations and, accordingly, there were no payments to political rights in respect of the shares subject to those awards until the organisations during the year 2009: nil.
allocations are exercised, at which time the shares rank pari passu in all respects with shares already in issue.
No such schemes have Environment any rights with regard to control of the Company.
The Group recognises the importance of responsible environmental management and its obligations to protect the environment.
Share repurchases The Group therefore gives high priority to all environmental At the 2009 AGM, shareholder approval was granted to allow the matters relevant to its business.
Further information appears in the Company to repurchase up to 18,028,000 ordinary shares.
The Corporate Social Responsibility Report on pages 50 to 55 and in the existing authority will expire on the date of the 2010 AGM when separate Sustainability Report available from the Groups website the Directors will be seeking authority from shareholders to buy at www.
co. uk back shares which will be cancelled or may be held as Treasury shares for the purpose of meeting obligations under LTIP and Research and development employee share schemes.
The Group recognises the importance of investing in research and development which brings new product development support for At the beginning of the financial year the Company held 752,019 its customers, research into new products and materials and further ordinary shares as Treasury shares.
During the financial year development of existing products.
Research and development 674,570 shares, representing 0.4% of called-up and fully-paid share expenditure in the year was 6.9 million 2009: 6.6m.
capital, were repurchased for a paid consideration of 1,368,000 and 602,091 shares were transferred: at the end of the year Supplier payment policy and practice 824,498 shares remained held in Treasury.
Group companies do not comply with any payment code but agree terms and conditions under which business transactions with their suppliers are conducted.
Payments are then made in accordance with those terms, provided that suppliers also comply with all relevant terms and conditions.
At 30 June 2010, the amount the Group owed its suppliers represented 83 days purchases 2009: 74 days.
The Company is a holding company and therefore does not have any trade creditors.
McBride plc Annual report and accounts 2010 Passionate about Private Label 67 The figures Our governance Business review Overview of the year Passionate about Private Label Statutory information Continued Substantial shareholdings Statement of Directors responsibilities in respect of the On 1 September 2010 being the latest practical date prior to the Annual report and the financial statements date of this report, the Company had been notied of the following The Directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Report and interests amounting to 3% or more of its issued share capital.
the Group and parent company financial statements in accordance Number of with applicable law and regulations.
Shareholder shares % Invesco Perpetual 30,104,620 16.7 Company law requires the Directors to prepare Group and parent Aberdeen Asset Management 14,790,922 8.2 company financial statements for each financial year.
Under that Franklin Templeton 14,004,452 7.8 law they are required to prepare the Group financial statements in Aviva Investors 11,922,530 6.6 accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the EU and applicable law and Allianz Global Investors 10,858,273 6.0 have elected to prepare the parent company financial statements Legal & General Investment Management 7,062,127 3.9 in accordance with UK Accounting Standards and applicable law All the above are institutional holders.
UK Generally Accepted Accounting Practice.
significant agreements takeovers directive Under company law the Directors must not approve the financial There are a number of agreements that take effect, alter or statements unless they are satisfied that they give a true and fair terminate upon a change of control of the Group such as commercial view of the state of affairs of the Group and parent company and contracts, bank loan agreements and employee share schemes.
of their profit or loss for that period.
In preparing each of the Group None of these are deemed to be significant in terms of their and parent company financial statements, the Directors are potential impact on the business of the Group as a whole.
required to: Articles of Association select suitable accounting policies and then apply them The Articles give power to the Board to appoint Directors, but also consistently: require Directors to retire and submit themselves for election at make judgements and estimates that are reasonable the first AGM following their appointment.
Specic information and prudent: regarding the re-election of Directors is contained in the Corporate for the Group financial statements, state whether they have Governance Report on page 56. been prepared in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the EU: for the parent company financial statements, state whether The Articles place a general prohibition on a Director voting in applicable UK Accounting Standards have been followed, respect of any contract or arrangement in which he has a material subject to any material departures disclosed and explained in interest other than by virtue of his interest in shares in the Company.
the parent company financial statements: and prepare the financial statements on the going concern basis In addition, the Act requires a director of a company who is in any unless it is inappropriate to presume that the Group and the way interested in a contract or proposed contract with the Company parent company will continue in business.
to declare the nature of his interest at a meeting of the Directors of the company.
The denition of interest includes the interests of The Directors are responsible for keeping adequate accounting spouses, children, companies and trusts.
The Act also requires that records that are sufficient to show and explain the parent companys a director must avoid a situation where a director has, or could have, transactions and disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the a direct or indirect interest that conicts, or possibly may conict, financial position of the parent company and enable them to ensure with the Companys interests.
The Act allows Directors of public that its financial statements comply with the Companies Act 2006. companies to authorise such conicts where appropriate, if a They have general responsibility for taking such steps as are Companys Articles so permit.
The Companys Articles do permit reasonably open to them to safeguard the assets of the Group and such authorisation.
to prevent and detect fraud and other irregularities.
The Board of Directors may exercise all the powers of the Company Under applicable law and regulations, the Directors are also subject to the provisions of relevant statutes and the Articles.
The responsible for preparing a Directors Report, Directors Articles, for instance, contain specic provisions and restrictions Remuneration Report and Corporate Governance Statement that regarding the Companys power to borrow money.
Powers relating complies with that law and those regulations.
to the issuing and buying back of shares are also currently included in the Articles and such authorities are renewed by shareholders The Directors are responsible for the maintenance and integrity of each year at the AGM.
The power relating to the buying back of the corporate and financial information included on the Companys shares is no longer needed and the shareholders authorised the website www.
Legislation in the UK governing the relevant changes to the Articles at the 2009 AGM.
A copy of the preparation and dissemination of financial statements may differ Articles is available from the Groups website at www.
co. uk from legislation in other jurisdictions.
McBride plc Annual report and accounts 2010 Passionate about Private Label 68 The Directors confirm that to the best of their knowledge and belief: Directors statement regarding disclosure of information to auditors the financial statements in this document, prepared in The Directors who held ofce at the date of approval of this accordance with the applicable set of accounting standards, Directors Report confirm that, so far as they are each aware, there give a true and fair view of the assets, liabilities, financial is no relevant audit information of which the Companys auditor position and profit of the Company and of the Group as is unaware.
Each Director has taken all the steps he or she ought a whole: and to have taken as a Director to make himself or herself aware of any the Directors Report, including the Business Review, includes relevant audit information that is, information needed by the a fair view of the development and performance of the auditors in connection with preparing their report and to establish business and the position of the Company and of the Group that the Companys auditors are aware of that information.
as a whole, including a description of the principal risks and uncertainties that they face.
Annual General Meeting The notice convening the Companys 2010 AGM at Centre Point, Signed on behalf of the Board 103 New Oxford Street, London, WC1A 1DD on 25 October 2010 at 2.30 pm is set out in a separate document issued to shareholders.
Chris Bull Chief Executive The annual report and accounts for the year ended 30 June 2010 are 1 September 2010 available from the Groups website at www.
co. uk or can be obtained free of charge from the Companys registered ofce.
Going concern The Groups business activities, together with the factors likely Auditors to affect its future development, performance and position are On the recommendation of the Audit Committee, in accordance set out in the Business Review on pages 16 to 47.
The financial with Section 489 of the Act, resolutions are to be proposed at the position of the Group, its cash ows, liquidity position and borrowing AGM for the reappointment of KPMG Audit Plc as auditors of the facilities are described in the Financial Review on pages 40 to 43.
Company and to authorise the Board to x their remuneration.
In addition note 21 to the financial statements includes the Groups The remuneration of the auditors for the year ended 30 June 2010 objectives, policies and processes for managing its capital: its is fully disclosed in note 7 to the consolidated financial statements financial risk management objectives: details of its financial on page 92. instruments and hedging activities: and its exposures to credit and liquidity risks.
Signed on behalf of the Board The Group meets its funding requirements through strong cash R J Beveridge generation and bank facilities, most of which are committed until Company Secretary June 2015 as described in note 21 to the financial statements.
The 1 September 2010 Groups forecasts and projections, taking account of reasonably possible changes in trading performance, show that the Group will be able to operate comfortably within its current bank facilities.
Following preliminary discussions with its bankers, the Directors are confident that the Group will be able to extend or renance these facilities as and when required.
The Group has a robust business model and conservative balance sheet.
As a result, the Directors believe that the Group is well placed to manage its business risks successfully despite the current uncertain economic outlook.
After making enquiries, the Directors have a reasonable expectation that the Company and the Group have adequate resources to continue in operational existence for the foreseeable future.
Accordingly, they continue to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the financial statements.
McBride plc Annual report and accounts 2010 Passionate about Private Label 69 The figures Our governance Business review Overview of the year Passionate about Private Label
