The role of the Group Management Team is to develop and implement the Group strategy and Group Management Team Group-wide culture, monitor results and allocate resources.
The Group Management Team comprises three Divisional Managing Directors and the functional heads of finance, purchasing, human resources and business development.
Colin McIntyre Andrea Barbier Grzegorz Krol Thibaut Eissautier Tim Seaman Malcolm Allan Chris Bull Chief Executive see Board of Directors Richard Armitage Group Finance Director see Board of Directors Colin McIntyre Andrea Barbier Grzegorz Greg Krol UK Divisional Managing Director Western Continental Europe Central and Eastern Europe Colin joined McBride in 1990 and has progressed Divisional Managing Director Divisional Managing Director though the Company to his current position Andrea joined McBride in May 2009 as the Greg joined McBride in February 2009 as the over the past 20 years.
He was formerly General Divisional Managing Director for our Western Divisional Managing Director for the Central Manager of the Burnley factory, UK Logistics Continental European division.
Andrea is an Italian and Eastern European division.
Greg is a Polish Director and most recently Operations Director citizen and has an MBA from Bocconi University citizen and has a PhD from the London School of the Western Continental European division.
and a Law degree from Milan.
Most recently he was Managing He was appointed as the Divisional Managing Andrea was President and CEO of Yves St Laurent, Director for Nestl UK Chilled Foods.
He has Director for the UK division in July 2008.
Paris, and prior to this was General Manager, Latin extensive experience internationally including Colin previously worked for Milliken Industries America, for LOral Paris.
His early career was in assignments covering Austria and Germany.
and he has a degree in Chemistry.
sales and marketing with Kraft Foods in Italy.
Malcolm Allan Thibaut Eissautier Tim Seaman Group HR Director Group Purchasing Director Strategic Development Director Malcolm joined McBride in 1987, and has had Thibaut was appointed Group Purchasing Director Tim has worked for McBride for 25 years.
and spells in purchasing, distribution and Total Quality of McBride in July 2007.
Prior to joining McBride, has responsibility for developing business outside Management as well as HR.
He has been Group HR Thibaut was Vice President International our core markets, including our growing Far East Director since 1993, is also responsible for Health, Purchasing at Scotts Miracle-Gro for four years, Operations.
Prior to this Tim was Managing Safety and Environmental issues and is Chairman and before that he worked for 15 years at Procter Director for our UK division for seven years.
of the Pension Fund Trustees.
He has held & Gamble in numerous global and regional Tim is a Chartered Management Accountant previous HR positions in Central Government, purchasing roles.
Thibaut is a French citizen and ACMA and holds a degree in Business Studies.
RHM and Foseco Minsep and holds a degree has broad international experience.
MBA from the University of Chicago and a BA in Economics from Rider College.
McBride plc Annual report and accounts 2010 Passionate about Private Label 49 The figures Our governance Business review Overview of the year Passionate about Private Label
