Business performance Governance Financials Shareholder information Notice of Annual General Meeting THIS DOCUMENT IS IMPORTANT AND REQUIRES YOUR IMMEDIATE ATTENTION.
IF YOU ARE IN ANY DOUBT AS TO THE ACTION YOU SHOULD TAKE, YOU SHOULD CONSULT YOUR STOCKBROKER, BANK, SOLICITOR, ACCOUNTANT, FUND MANAGER OR OTHER APPROPRIATE INDEPENDENT FINANCIAL ADVISOR.
If you have sold or otherwise transferred all of your shares a nd so that the Directors may impose any limits or in Melrose PLC you should send this document as soon as restrictions and make any arrangements which they possible to the purchaser or transferee or to the stockbroker, consider necessary or appropriate to deal with treasury bank or other agent through whom the sale or transfer was shares, fractional entitlements, record dates, legal, effected, for delivery to the purchaser or transferee.
regulatory or practical problems in, or under the laws of, any territory or any other matter, Notice is hereby given that the eighth Annual General Meeting of the Company will be held at Barber-Surgeons Hall, Monkwell s uch authorities to apply until the end of the Companys next Square, Wood Street, London, EC2Y 5BL at 11.00 am on Annual General Meeting after this resolution is passed or, if 12 May 2011 for the following purposes.
Resolutions 1 to 8 earlier, until the close of business on 30 June 2012 but, in will be proposed as ordinary resolutions and resolutions 9 to 11 each case, so that the Company may make offers and enter as special resolutions.
into agreements before the authority expires which would, or might, require shares to be allotted or rights to subscribe for Ordinary resolutions or convert securities into shares to be granted after the 1.
To receive the Companys audited financial statements for authority expires and the Directors may allot shares or grant the financial year ended 31 December 2010, together with rights under any such offer or agreement as if the authority the Directors report and the auditors report on those had not expired.
To approve the Directors Remuneration report contained 9.
That, in substitution for all existing powers and subject to in the Companys Annual Report and financial statements the passing of resolution 8, the Directors be generally for the year ended 31 December 2010. empowered to allot equity securities as defined in the Act for cash pursuant to the authority granted by resolution 8 3.
To declare a final dividend of 7.0p per ordinary share for the year ended 31 December 2010. and or to sell Ordinary Shares of 0.2 pence each in the capital of the Company Ordinary Shares held by the 4.
To re-elect Mr Simon Peckham, who retires by rotation, Company as treasury shares for cash in each case free as a Director of the Company.
of the restriction in section 561 1 of the Act, such power to be limited: 5.
To re-elect Mr Perry Crosthwaite, who retires by rotation, as a Director of the Company.
A to the allotment of equity securities and sale of treasury shares for cash in connection with an offer of equity 6.
To re-elect Mr Geoffrey Martin, who retires by rotation, securities but in the case of an allotment pursuant to as a Director of the Company.
the authority granted by paragraph B of resolution 8, 7.
To re-appoint Deloitte LLP as auditor of the Company such power shall be limited to the allotment of equity to hold office from the conclusion of this meeting until the securities in connection with an offer by way of a rights conclusion of the next Annual General Meeting of the issue only : Company at which accounts are laid and to authorise i to Ordinary Shareholders in proportion as nearly as the Directors to determine their remuneration.
may be practicable to their existing holdings: and 8.
That, in substitution for all existing authorities, the Directors ii t o holders of other equity securities, as required by be generally and unconditionally authorised to exercise all the rights of those securities or, subject to such rights, the powers of the Company to allot shares in the Company as the Directors otherwise consider necessary, and grant rights to subscribe for, or to convert any security into, shares in the Company: a nd so that the Directors may impose any limits or restrictions and make any arrangements which they A up to an aggregate nominal amount of 331,724: and consider necessary or appropriate to deal with treasury B comprising equity securities as defined in section shares, fractional entitlements, record dates, legal, 560 1 of the Companies Act 2006 the Act up to an regulatory or practical problems in, or under the laws aggregate nominal amount of 663,449 such amount of, any territory or any other matter: and to be reduced by the aggregate nominal amount of any B to the allotment otherwise than in the circumstances set allotments or grants made under paragraph A of this out in paragraph A of this resolution 9 of equity resolution 8 in connection with an offer by way of a securities pursuant to the authority granted by paragraph rights issue: A of resolution 8 and or the sale of treasury shares for i to Ordinary Shareholders in proportion as nearly as cash up to a nominal amount of 49,758, may be practicable to their existing holdings: and s uch power to apply until the end of the Companys next ii to holders of other equity securities as required by the Annual General Meeting after this resolution is passed or, if rights of those securities or, subject to such rights, as earlier, until the close of business on 30 June 2012 but so the Directors otherwise consider necessary, that the Company may make offers and enter into agreements before the power expires which would, or might, require equity securities to be allotted and treasury shares to be sold after the power expires and the Directors may allot equity securities and sell treasury shares under any such offer or agreement as if the power had not expired.
Annual Report 2010 Melrose PLC 97 Notice of Annual General Meeting continued 10.
That the Company be generally and unconditionally Notes authorised to make one or more market purchases within 1.
The holders of Ordinary Shares and 2009 Incentive Shares the meaning of section 693 of the Act of Ordinary Shares in the Company are entitled to attend the Annual General provided that: Meeting, but only holders of Ordinary Shares are entitled to vote.
A member entitled to attend and vote may appoint a A the maximum aggregate number of Ordinary Shares proxy to exercise all or any of its rights to attend, speak and authorised to be purchased is 49,758,677 representing vote at a general meeting of the Company.
Such a member 10% of the issued Ordinary Share capital : may appoint more than one proxy, provided that each proxy is appointed to exercise the rights attached to different B the minimum price which may be paid for an Ordinary Share is 0.2 pence: shares.
A proxy need not be a member of the Company.
C the maximum price which may be paid for an Ordinary 2.
A form of proxy is enclosed with this notice.
To be effective, a form of proxy must be completed and returned, together Share is not more than the higher of: with any power of attorney or authority under which it is i 105 per cent of the average of the middle market completed or a certified copy of such power or authority, so quotation for an Ordinary Share as derived from the that it is received by the Companys registrars at the address London Stock Exchange plcs Daily Official List for the specified on the form of proxy not less than 48 hours five business days immediately preceding the day on excluding any part of a day that is not a working day before which the Ordinary Share is purchased: and the time for holding the meeting.
Returning a completed form of proxy will not preclude a member from attending the ii the higher of the price of the last independent trade meeting and voting in person.
and the highest current independent bid on the trading venue where the purchase is carried out, 3.
Any person to whom this notice is sent who is a person nominated under section 146 of the Companies Act 2006 in each case, exclusive of expenses: the Act to enjoy information rights a Nominated Person D this authority will expire at the end of the next Annual may, under an agreement between him and the shareholder General Meeting of the Company following the passing by whom he was nominated, have a right to be appointed of this resolution or, if earlier, at the close of business or to have someone else appointed as a proxy for the on 30 June 2012 : Annual General Meeting.
If a Nominated Person has no such proxy appointment right or does not wish to exercise it, he E the Company may make a contract to purchase Ordinary may, under any such agreement, have a right to give Shares under this authority before expiry of the authority instructions to the shareholder as to the exercise of voting which will or may be executed wholly or partly after the rights.
The statement of the rights of shareholders in relation expiry of that authority, and may make a purchase of to the appointment of proxies in paragraphs 1 and 2 above Ordinary Shares in pursuance of any such contract: and does not apply to Nominated Persons.
The rights described F any Ordinary Shares purchased pursuant to this in paragraphs 1 and 2 can only be exercised by shareholders authority may either be held as treasury shares or of the Company.
cancelled by the Company, depending on which course 4.
T o be entitled to attend and vote at the Annual General of action is considered by the Directors to be in the best Meeting and for the purposes of the determination by the interests of shareholders at the time.
Company of the number of votes they may cast, members 11.
That a general meeting other than an Annual General must be entered on the Companys register of members by Meeting may be called on not less than 14 clear days notice.
6.00 pm on 10 May 2011 or, in the event of an adjournment, on the date which is two days before the time of the adjourned meeting.
Changes to entries on the register of members after this time shall be disregarded in determining the rights of any person to attend or vote at the meeting.
As at 4 April 2011 being the last business day prior to the By order of the Board Registered office publication of this notice the Companys issued share Precision House capital consists of 497,586,779 Ordinary Shares, carrying Garry Barnes Arden Road one vote each, and 50,000 2009 Incentive Shares, which do Company Secretary Alcester not carry votes.
Therefore, the total voting rights in the 5 April 2011 B49 6HN Company as at 4 April 2011 are 497,586,779.
CREST members who wish to appoint a proxy or proxies through the CREST electronic proxy appointment service may do so by using the procedures described in the CREST Manual.
CREST Personal Members or other CREST sponsored members, and those CREST members who have appointed a service provider s, should refer to their CREST sponsor or voting service provider s, who will be able to take the appropriate action on their behalf.
98 Melrose PLC Annual Report 2010 Business performance Governance Financials Shareholder information 7.
In order for a proxy appointment or instruction made using 12.
A ny member attending the meeting has the right to ask the CREST service to be valid, the appropriate CREST questions.
The Company must cause to be answered any message a CREST Proxy Instruction must be properly such question relating to the business being dealt with at the authenticated in accordance with Euroclear UK & Ireland meeting but no such answer need be given if a to do so Limiteds specifications, and must contain the information would interfere unduly with the preparation for the meeting required for such instruction, as described in the CREST or involve the disclosure of confidential information, b the Manual available via www.
answer has already been given on a website in the form of The message, regardless of whether it constitutes the an answer to a question, or c it is undesirable in the appointment of a proxy or is an amendment to the interests of the Company or the good order of the meeting instruction given to a previously appointed proxy must, that the question be answered.
in order to be valid, be transmitted so as to be received by 13.
A copy of this notice, and other information required the issuers agent ID RA19 by 11.00am on 10 May 2011. by section 311A of the Act, can be found at For this purpose, the time of receipt will be taken to be the www.
time as determined by the time stamp applied to the message by the CREST Application Host from which the 14.
You may not use an electronic address provided in either issuers agent is able to retrieve the message by enquiry to this Notice of Annual General Meeting or any related CREST in the manner prescribed by CREST.
After this time documents including the Proxy Form to communicate any change of instructions to proxies appointed through with the Company for any purposes other than those CREST should be communicated to the appointee through expressly stated.
T he following documents will be available for inspection at 8.
CREST members and, where applicable, their CREST the Companys registered office during normal business sponsors, or voting service providers should note that hours Saturdays, Sundays and public holidays excepted Euroclear UK & Ireland Limited does not make available from the date of this notice until the date of the Annual special procedures in CREST for any particular message.
General Meeting and at the place of the Annual General Normal system timings and limitations will, therefore, apply Meeting for 15 minutes prior to and during the meeting: in relation to the input of CREST Proxy Instructions.
It is the A copies of all service agreements under which Directors responsibility of the CREST member concerned to take of the Company are employed by the Company or any or, if the CREST member is a CREST personal member, subsidiaries: and or sponsored member, or has appointed a voting service provider, to procure that his CREST sponsor or voting B a copy of the terms of appointment of the non-executive service provider s take s such action as shall be necessary Directors of the Company.
to ensure that a message is transmitted by means of the CREST system by any particular time.
In this connection, CREST members and, where applicable, their CREST sponsors or voting system providers are referred, in particular, to those sections of the CREST Manual concerning practical limitations of the CREST system and timings.
The Company may treat as invalid a CREST Proxy Instruction in the circumstances set out in Regulation 35 5 a of the Uncertificated Securities Regulations 2001.
Any corporation which is a member can appoint one or more corporate representatives who may exercise on its behalf all of its powers as a member provided that they do not do so in relation to the same shares.
Under section 527 of the Act members meeting the threshold requirements set out in that section have the right to require the Company to publish on a website a statement setting out any matter relating to: i the audit of the Companys accounts including the auditors report and the conduct of the audit that are to be laid before the Annual General Meeting: or ii any circumstance connected with an auditor of the Company ceasing to hold office since the previous meeting at which annual accounts and reports were laid in accordance with section 437 of the Act.
The Company may not require the shareholders requesting any such website publication to pay its expenses in complying with sections 527 or 528 of the Act.
Where the Company is required to place a statement on a website under section 527 of the Act, it must forward the statement to the Companys auditor not later than the time when it makes the statement available on the website.
The business which may be dealt with at the Annual General Meeting includes any statement that the Company has been required under section 527 of the Act to publish on a website.
