CAUTIONARY STATEMENT Cautionary statement The Business Review has been prepared solely to provide additional information to shareholders to assess the companys strategies and the potential for those strategies to succeed.
The Business Review contains certain forward-looking statements.
These statements are made by the Directors in good faith based on the information available to them up to the time of their approval of this report and such statements should be treated with caution due to the inherent uncertainties, including both economic and business risk factors underlying any such forward-looking information.
Directors responsibilities The directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Report and the financial statements in accordance with applicable laws and regulations.
Company law requires the directors to prepare such financial statements for each financial year.
Under that law the directors are required to prepare group financial statements in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs as adopted by the European Union and Article 4 of the lAS Regulation and have also chosen to prepare the parent company financial statements under IFRSs as adopted by the European Union.
Under company law the directors must not approve the accounts unless they are satis ed that they give a true and fair view of the state of affairs of the company and of the pro t or loss of the company for that period.
In preparing these financial statements, the directors are required to: properly select and apply accounting policies: present information, including accounting policies, in a manner that provides relevant, reliable, comparable and understandable information: provide additional disclosures when compliance with the speci c requirements in lFRSs are insuf cient to enable users to understand the impact of particular transactions, other events and conditions on the entitys financial position and financial performance: and make an assessment of the companys ability to continue as a going concern.
The directors are responsible for keeping proper accounting records that are suf cient to show and explain the companys transactions and disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the financial position of the company and enable them to ensure that the financial statements comply with the Companies Act 2006.
They are also responsible for safeguarding the assets of the company and hence for taking reasonable steps for the prevention and detection of fraud and other irregularities.
The directors are responsible for the maintenance and integrity of the corporate and financial information included on the companys website.
Legislation in the United Kingdom governing the preparation and dissemination of financial statements may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
Directors responsibility statement We con rm to the best of our knowledge: 1. the financial statements, prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards as adopted by the EU, give a true and fair view of the assets, liabilities, financial position and pro t or loss of the company and the undertakings included in the consolidation taken as a whole: and 2. the Business Review, which is incorporated into the directors report, includes a fair review of the development and performance of the business and the position of the company and the undertakings included in the consolidation taken as a whole, together with a description of the principal risks and uncertainties that they face.
On behalf of the Board S Ingham S Puckett Chief Executive Group Finance Director 4 March 2011 4 March 2011 Michael Page International 105 Explanatory notes: MICHAEL PAGE INTERNATIONAL PLC 1.
Every holder has the right to appoint some other person s of their choice, who AGM Attendance Card need not be a shareholder as his proxy to exercise all or any of his rights, to attend, speak and vote on their behalf at the meeting.
If you wish to appoint a person other than the Chairman, please insert the name of your chosen proxy To be held at: 12:00 noon on 20 May 2011 at Page House, holder in the space provided.
If the proxy is being appointed in relation to less The Bourne Business Park, 1 Dashwood Lang Road, Addlestone, than your full voting entitlement, please enter in the box next to the proxy holders Weybridge, Surrey KT15 2QW.
name the number of shares in relation to which they are authorised to act as your proxy.
If left blank your proxy will be deemed to be authorised in respect of your full voting entitlement or if this proxy form has been issued in respect of a designated account for a shareholder, the full voting entitlement for that designated account.
To appoint more than one proxy, an additional proxy form s may be obtained by photocopying this form.
Please indicate in the box next to the proxy holders name the number of shares in relation to which they are authorised to act as your proxy.
All forms must be signed and should be returned together in the same envelope.
The Vote Withheld option below is provided to enable you to abstain on any particular resolution.
However, it should be noted that a Vote Withheld is not a vote in law and will not be counted in the calculation of the proportion of the votes If you wish to attend this meeting in your capacity as a holder of For and Against a resolution.
Ordinary Shares, please sign this card and on arrival hand it to the 4.
Pursuant to regulation 41 of the Uncertificated Securities Regulations 2001, Companys registrars.
This will facilitate entry to the meeting.
entitlement to attend and vote at the meeting and the number of votes which may be cast thereat will be determined by reference to the Register of Members of the Company at 6pm on the day which is two days before the day of the meeting or adjourned meeting.
Changes to entries on the Register of Members after that Signature: time shall be disregarded in determining the rights of any person to attend and vote at the meeting.
In respect of CREST voting, please refer to notes 6 and 7 to the notice of Date: meeting.
The above is how your address appears on the Register of Members.
If this information is incorrect please ring the Registrars helpline on UK 0871 664 0300 calls cost 10p per minute plus network extras, overseas 44 0 20 8639 3399 Bar Code: to request a change of address form.
Lines are open Monday to Friday, 8.30am to 5.30pm.
The completion and return of this form will not preclude a member from attending Investor Code: the meeting and voting in person.
MICHAEL PAGE INTERNATIONAL PLC Bar Code: Form of Proxy AGM I We, being a member of the company hereby appoint the Chairman of the meeting or see note 1 Investor Code: Name No of of Proxy shares Event Code: as my our proxy to vote on my our behalf at the Annual General Meeting of the Company to be held at 12:00 noon on 20 May 2011 and at any adjournment thereof.
I have indicated with a how I we wish my our votes to be cast on the following resolution: Please indicate by ticking the box if this proxy appointment is one of multiple appointments being made For the appointment of one or more proxy, please refer to explanatory note 2 above.
Please mark to indicate how you wish to vote Vote Vote Resolutions For Against withheld Resolutions For Against withheld 1 To receive the Accounts and the reports of the 10 To elect Reg Sindall as a director of the Company.
11 To receive and approve the report on Directors 2 To declare a final dividend.
3 To re-elect Sir Adrian Montague as a director of the 12 To re-appoint Deloitte LLP as auditors.
13 To authorise the directors to determine the 4 To re-elect Steve Ingham as a director of the remuneration of the auditors.
14 To authorise the Company and its subsidiaries to make 5 To re-elect Charles-Henri Dumon as a director of the political donations in accordance with S366 and S367 Company.
6 To re-elect Ruby McGregor-Smith as a director of the Company.
15 To authorise the Directors to allot shares pursuant to section S551 of the Companies Act 2006 7 To re-elect Dr Tim Miller as a director of the Company.
8 To re-elect Stephen Puckett as a director of the 17 Company.
To authorise the Company to purchase its own shares.
9 To re-elect Hubert Reid as a director of the Company.
18 Length of notice to convene general meetings.
To assist with arrangements, if you intend attending the meeting in person please place a in the box opposite Signature Date Business Reply Licence Number RSBH-UXKS-LRBC PXS 34 Beckenham Road BECKENHAM BR3 4TU Specialists in Global Recruitment www.
