FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONSOLIDATED INCOME STATEMENT Contents CONSOLIDATED INCOME STATEMENT 71 CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF COMPREHENSIVE INCOME 72 CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF FINANCIAL POSITION 73 CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF CHANGES IN EQUITY 75 CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF CASH FLOWS 76 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 78 COMPANY BALANCE SHEET 141 NOTES TO THE COMPANY FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 142 71 MiLLenniUM & CoptHorne HoteLs pLC Annual Report & Accounts 2010 CONSOLIDATED INCOME STATEMENT For the year ended 31 December 2010 Restated 2010 2009 Notes m m Revenue 5 743.7 654.0 Cost of sales 303.4 279.0 Gross profit 440.3 375.0 Administrative expenses 6 350.3 299.8 Other operating income 7 9.3 Other operating expense 7 5.2 0.2 94.1 75.0 Share of profit of joint ventures and associates 15 24.8 14.2 operating profit 118.9 89.2 Analysed between: Headline operating profit 144.1 98.0 Goodwill written-off in respect of Beijing 7 8.1 Net revaluation gain deficit of investment properties 7 4.1 0.2 Impairment 7 15.2 2.2 Redundancy costs 7 1.7 Separately disclosed items share of joint ventures and associates 7 6.9 0.6 Share of interest, tax and non-controlling interests of joint ventures and associates 15 11.2 7.0 non-operating income 15.6 Analysed between: Gain on dilution of interest in associate 7 7.2 Gain arising in respect of step up acquisition of Beijing 7 8.4 Finance income 8.8 3.0 Finance expense 14.7 10.3 net finance expense 9 5.9 7.3 profit before tax 128.6 81.9 Income tax expense 10 30.7 7.3 profit for the year 97.9 74.6 Attributable to: Equity holders of the parent 96.2 70.1 Non-controlling interests 1.7 4.5 97.9 74.6 Basic earnings per share pence 11 30.9p 22.9p Diluted earnings per share pence 11 30.7p 22.9p The financial results above derive from continuing activities.
Notes on page 78 to 140 form an integral part of these financial statements.
Refer to note 2 for details.
71 MiLLenniUM & CoptHorne HoteLs pLC Annual Report & Accounts 2010 CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF COMPREHENSIVE INCOME CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF FINANCIAL POSITION For the year ended 31 December 2010 Restated 2010 2009 Notes m m profit for the year 97.9 74.6 other comprehensive income: Foreign currency translation differences foreign operations 97.3 43.6 Foreign currency translation differences equity accounted investees 33.5 18.2 Net loss gain on hedge of net investments in foreign operations 16.9 18.1 Defined benefit plan actuarial gains losses 23 1.1 6.5 Share of associates other reserve movements 0.3 Effective portion of changes in fair value of cashflow hedges 0.8 Income tax on income and expenses recognised directly in equity 1.2 3.0 other comprehensive income expense for the year, net of tax 113.0 46.9 total comprehensive income for the year 210.9 27.7 Total comprehensive income attributable to: Equity holders of the parent 199.9 17.1 Non-controlling interests 11.0 10.6 total comprehensive income for the year 210.9 27.7 Refer to note 2 for details.
72 73 MiLLenniUM & CoptHorne HoteLs pLC Annual Report & Accounts 2010 MiLLenniUM & CoptHorne HoteLs pLC Annual Report & Accounts 2010 CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF COMPREHENSIVE INCOME CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF FINANCIAL POSITION As at 31 December 2010 Restated Restated 2010 2009 2008 Notes m m m non-current assets Property, plant and equipment 12 2,185.7 2,045.1 2,138.2 Lease premium prepayment 13 71.5 25.2 26.1 Investment properties 14 94.9 83.3 79.3 Investments in joint ventures and associates 15 396.8 326.4 338.7 Other financial assets 16 6.9 6.4 6.7 2,755.8 2,486.4 2,589.0 Current assets Inventories 17 4.5 4.2 4.9 Development properties 18 103.3 72.3 63.2 Lease premium prepayment 13 1.8 0.6 0.5 Trade and other receivables 19 68.0 56.1 62.9 Cash and cash equivalents 20 251.9 135.5 212.1 429.5 268.7 343.6 total assets 3,185.3 2,755.1 2,932.6 non-current liabilities Interest-bearing loans, bonds and borrowings 21 323.7 233.0 415.1 Employee benefits 23 16.7 18.1 12.8 Provisions 24 0.4 0.6 0.9 Other non-current liabilities 25 165.1 112.2 118.6 Deferred tax liabilities 26 251.8 230.6 258.1 757.7 594.5 805.5 Current liabilities Interest-bearing loans, bonds and borrowings 21 93.9 105.0 82.1 Trade and other payables 27 181.5 122.0 133.3 Other current financial liabilities 1.3 Provisions 24 0.2 0.2 0.3 Income taxes payable 32.0 29.7 30.5 308.9 256.9 246.2 total liabilities 1,066.6 851.4 1,051.7 net assets 2,118.7 1,903.7 1,880.9 Notes on page 78 to 140 form an integral part of these financial statements.
72 73 MiLLenniUM & CoptHorne HoteLs pLC Annual Report & Accounts 2010 MiLLenniUM & CoptHorne HoteLs pLC Annual Report & Accounts 2010 CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF FINANCIAL POSITION CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF CHANGES IN EQUITY As at 31 December 2010 Restated Restated 2010 2009 2008 m m m equity Issued share capital 94.0 92.9 90.7 Share premium 844.7 845.6 847.7 Translation reserve 290.4 185.8 230.8 Cash flow hedge reserve 0.8 Treasury share reserve 2.2 Retained earnings 721.4 628.0 568.3 total equity attributable to equity holders of the parent 1,947.5 1,752.3 1,737.5 Non-controlling interests 171.2 151.4 143.4 total equity 2,118.7 1,903.7 1,880.9 These financial statements were approved by the Board of Directors on 15 February 2011 and were signed on its behalf by: Kwek Leng Beng Wong Hong ren CHAIRMAN DIRECTOR 74 75 MiLLenniUM & CoptHorne HoteLs pLC Annual Report & Accounts 2010 MiLLenniUM & CoptHorne HoteLs pLC Annual Report & Accounts 2010 CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF FINANCIAL POSITION CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF CHANGES IN EQUITY For the year ended 31 December 2010 total Cash excluding transflow treasury nonnonshare lation share hedge share retained controlling controlling total capital premium reserve reserve reserve earnings interests interests equity m m m m m m m m m Balance at 1 January 2009 90.7 847.7 235.6 563.5 1,737.5 143.4 1,880.9 Profit 70.1 70.1 4.5 74.6 Total other comprehensive income 49.8 3.2 53.0 6.1 46.9 Total comprehensive income for the year 49.8 66.9 17.1 10.6 27.7 transactions with owners, recorded directly in equity Contributions by and distributions to owners Dividends paid to equity holders 19.0 19.0 19.0 Issue of shares in lieu of dividends 2.2 2.2 15.0 15.0 15.0 Dividends paid non-controlling interests 2.6 2.6 Share-based payment transactions 1.6 1.6 1.6 Share options exercised 0.1 0.1 0.1 Total contributions by and distributions to owners 2.2 2.1 2.4 2.3 2.6 4.9 Total transactions with owners 2.2 2.1 2.4 2.3 2.6 4.9 Balance as at 31 December 2009 92.9 845.6 185.8 628.0 1,752.3 151.4 1,903.7 Balance at 1 January 2010 92.9 845.6 185.8 628.0 1,752.3 151.4 1,903.7 Profit 96.2 96.2 1.7 97.9 Total other comprehensive income 104.6 0.8 0.1 103.7 9.3 113.0 Total comprehensive income for the year 104.6 0.8 96.1 199.9 11.0 210.9 transactions with owners, recorded directly in equity Contributions by and distributions to owners Dividends paid to equity holders 19.4 19.4 19.4 Issue of shares in lieu of dividends 1.1 1.1 15.3 15.3 15.3 Own shares purchased 2.2 2.2 2.2 Dividends paid non-controlling interests 2.6 2.6 Share-based payment transactions net of tax 1.4 1.4 1.4 Share options exercised 0.2 0.2 0.2 Total contributions by and distributions to owners 1.1 0.9 2.2 2.7 4.7 2.6 7.3 Total changes in ownership interests in subsidiaries: Non-controlling interests arising on acquisition of 40% interest in Beijing with a change in control 11.4 11.4 Total contributions by and distributions to owners 11.4 11.4 Total transactions with owners 1.1 0.9 2.2 2.7 4.7 8.8 4.1 Balance as at 31 December 2010 94.0 844.7 290.4 0.8 2.2 721.4 1,947.5 171.2 2,118.7 74 75 MiLLenniUM & CoptHorne HoteLs pLC Annual Report & Accounts 2010 MiLLenniUM & CoptHorne HoteLs pLC Annual Report & Accounts 2010 CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF CASH FLOWS CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF CASH FLOWS For the year ended 31 December 2010 2010 2009 m m Cash flows from operating activities Profit for the year 97.9 74.6 Adjustments for: Depreciation and amortisation 32.7 32.1 Share of profit of joint ventures and associates 24.8 14.2 Separately disclosed items Group 5.3 2.4 Loss on sale of property, plant and equipment 0.4 Equity settled share-based transactions 0.8 1.6 Finance income 8.8 3.0 Finance expense 14.7 10.3 Income tax expense 30.7 7.3 operating profit before changes in working capital and provisions 146.9 111.5 Increase decrease in inventories, trade and other receivables 7.9 3.8 Increase in development properties 21.4 2.7 Increase decrease in trade and other payables 79.6 0.1 Decrease in provisions and employee benefits 1.2 1.3 Cash generated from operations 196.0 111.2 Interest paid 7.0 10.3 Interest received 2.0 2.3 Income tax paid 24.1 19.8 net cash generated from operating activities 166.9 83.4 Cash flows from investing activities Proceeds from sale of property, plant and equipment 0.1 Dividends received from associates 15.2 12.5 Increase in loan to joint venture 2.3 Increase in investment in joint ventures and associates 20.1 2.9 Acquisitions of subsidiary, net of cash acquired 12.6 Acquisition of property, plant and equipment, and lease premium prepayment 18.9 17.5 net cash used in investing activities 36.4 10.1 Balance carried forward 130.5 73.3 76 77 MiLLenniUM & CoptHorne HoteLs pLC Annual Report & Accounts 2010 MiLLenniUM & CoptHorne HoteLs pLC Annual Report & Accounts 2010 CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF CASH FLOWS CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF CASH FLOWS For the year ended 31 December 2010 2010 2009 m m Balance brought forward 130.5 73.3 Cash flows from financing activities Proceeds from issue of share capital 0.2 0.1 Repayment of borrowings 90.2 170.0 Drawdown of borrowings 71.1 36.2 Payment of transaction costs related to loans and borrowings 1.3 Repurchase of own shares 2.2 Dividends paid to non-controlling interests 2.6 2.6 Dividends paid to equity holders of the parent 4.1 4.0 net cash used in financing activities 29.1 140.3 net increase decrease in cash and cash equivalents 101.4 67.0 Cash and cash equivalents at the beginning of year 134.9 209.3 Effect of exchange rate fluctuations on cash held 15.2 7.4 Cash and cash equivalents at end of year 251.5 134.9 reconciliation of cash and cash equivalents Cash and cash equivalents shown in the consolidated statement of financial position 251.9 135.5 Bank overdrafts included in borrowings 0.4 0.6 Cash and cash equivalents for cash flow statement purposes 251.5 134.9 76 77 MiLLenniUM & CoptHorne HoteLs pLC Annual Report & Accounts 2010 MiLLenniUM & CoptHorne HoteLs pLC Annual Report & Accounts 2010 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 1 CorporAte inForMAtion The consolidated financial statements of the Group for the year ended 31 December 2010 were authorised for issue in accordance with a resolution of the directors on 15 February 2011.
The Company is a limited company incorporated in Great Britain whose shares are publicly traded.
The registered office is located at Victoria House, Victoria Road, Horley, Surrey, RH6 7AF, United Kingdom.
2.1 BAsis oF prepArAtion The consolidated financial statements are prepared on the historical cost basis except that investment properties and, from 1 January 2005, derivative financial instruments, financial instruments held for trading and financial instruments classified as available-forsale, are stated at their fair value.
Hotel properties are stated at cost or deemed cost.
Deemed cost is calculated based on the hotels frozen valuation as at 1 January 2004.
Non-current assets held for sale are stated at the lower of carrying amount and fair value less costs to sell.
The Groups income statement and segmental analysis separately identifies headline operating profit, other operating income and expense, non-operating income and other separately disclosed items of the Group together with separately disclosed items of joint ventures and associates.
This is in accordance with the IAS 1 Presentation of Financial Statements and is consistent with the way that financial performance is measured by management and assists in providing a meaningful analysis of the trading results of the Group.
Headline operating profit may not be comparable to similarly fitted measures used by other companies.
The Directors intend to follow such presentation on a consistent basis in the future.
The financial statements are presented in the Companys functional currency of sterling, rounded to the nearest hundred thousand.
Statement of compliance The consolidated financial statements of the Group have been prepared in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the EU.
Basis of consolidation Basis of consolidation from 1 January 2010 The consolidated financial statements comprise the financial statements of the Group and its subsidiaries as at 31 December 2010. i Subsidiaries Subsidiaries are entities controlled by the Group.
The financial statements of subsidiaries are included in the consolidated financial statements from the date that control commences until the date that control ceases.
The accounting policies of subsidiaries have been changed when necessary to align them with the policies adopted by the Group.
ii Investments in associates and jointly controlled entities equity accounted investees The Groups investment in its associates and joint ventures is accounted for using the equity method.
An associate is an entity in which the Group has significant influence but not control over the financial and operating policies.
Joint ventures are those entities over whose activities the Group has joint control, established by contractual agreement.
Under the equity method, the investment in associates and joint ventures is carried in the consolidated statement of financial position at cost plus post acquisition changes in the Groups share of net assets of the associate and joint venture.
Goodwill relating to the associate and joint venture is included in the carrying amount of the investment and is neither amortised nor individually tested for impairment.
The income statement reflects the share of the results of operations of the associate and joint venture.
Where there has been a change recognised directly in the equity of the associate and joint venture, the Group recognises its share of any changes and discloses this, when applicable, in the consolidated statement of changes in equity.
Unrealised gains and losses resulting from transactions between the Group and the associate or joint venture are eliminated to the extent of the interest in the associate or joint venture.
The share of profit of associates and joint ventures is shown on the face of the income statement.
This is the profit attributable to equity holders of the associate and joint venture and therefore is profit after tax and non-controlling interests in the subsidiaries of the associates and joint ventures.
The financial statements of the associates and joint ventures are prepared for the same reporting period as the parent company.
Where necessary, adjustments are made to bring the accounting policies in line with those of the Group.
78 79 MiLLenniUM & CoptHorne HoteLs pLC Annual Report & Accounts 2010 MiLLenniUM & CoptHorne HoteLs pLC Annual Report & Accounts 2010 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2.1 BAsis oF prepArAtion ContinUeD After application of the equity method, the Group determines whether it is necessary to recognise an additional impairment loss on the Groups investment in its associates and joint ventures.
The Group determines at each reporting date whether there is any objective evidence that the investment in the associate and joint venture is impaired.
If this is the case the Group calculates the amount of impairment as the difference between the recoverable amount of the associates and joint ventures and its carrying value and recognises the amount in the income statement.
Upon loss of significant influence over associates and joint ventures, the Group measures and recognises any remaining investment at its fair value.
Any differences between the carrying amount of the associate or joint venture upon loss of significant influence and the fair value of the remaining investment and proceeds from disposal are recognised in profit or loss.
Upon loss of joint control and provided the former joint control entity does not become a subsidiary or associate, the Group measures and recognises its remaining investment at its fair value.
Any difference between the carrying amount of the former joint controlled entity upon loss of joint control and the fair value of the remaining investment and proceeds from disposal is recognised in profit or loss.
When the remaining investment constitutes significant influence, it is accounted for as investment in an associate.
iii Transactions eliminated on consolidation Intra-group balances and transactions, and any unrealised income and expenses arising from intra-group transactions, are eliminated in preparing the consolidated financial statements.
Unrealised gains arising from transactions with equity accounted investees are eliminated against the investment to the extent of the Groups interest in the investee.
Unrealised losses are eliminated in the same way as unrealised gains, but only to the extent that there is no evidence of impairment.
2.2 CHAnGes in ACCoUntinG poLiCY AnD DisCLosUres The accounting policies adopted are consistent with those of the previous financial year except for the following new and amended IFRS and IFRIC interpretations as of 1 January 2010: Amendment to IFRS 2 Share-based payments IFRS 3 Revised 2008 Business Combinations IAS 27 Amended 2008 Consolidated and Separate Financial Statements Amendments to IAS 39 Financial Instruments IFRIC 16 Hedges of a Net Investment in a Foreign Operation Improvements to IFRSs issued April 2009 Improvement to IFRSs issued April 2009 included amendments to IAS 17 Leases.
IAS 17 was amended so that leases of land with an indefinite economic life need not be classified as an operating lease.
A land lease with a lease term of several decades may be classified as a finance lease, even if at the end of the lease term title does not pass to the lessee.
Certain land leases had been reclassified from operating leases to finance leases.
Previously these operating leases had a lease premium prepayment held on the Statement of Financial Position, which were amortised over the lease term.
With the amendment to IAS 17, the lease premium prepayments have been reclassified to Land and Buildings and the 2009 and 2008 comparative consolidated statements of financial position have been restated accordingly.
As at 31 December 2009 cost of 95.9m 31 December 2008 96.4m and accumulated amortisation of 26.7m 31 December 2008 25.9m was reclassified from non-current and current lease premium prepayment to property plant and equipment.
There was no effect on the consolidated income statement, consolidated statement of changes in equity and consolidated statement of cash flows.
The 2009 comparatives for the consolidated income statement have been restated to present information to enhance the readers understanding of the Groups performance for the year whereby operating profit is now analysed into more appropriate captions with no impact on overall operating profit.
IFRS 3 revised was applied to the acquisition of Beijing Fortune Co. Ltd. Further details can be found on note 31.
78 79 MiLLenniUM & CoptHorne HoteLs pLC Annual Report & Accounts 2010 MiLLenniUM & CoptHorne HoteLs pLC Annual Report & Accounts 2010 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2.3 sUMMArY oF siGniFiCAnt ACCoUntinG poLiCies A Business combinations and goodwill Business combinations are accounted for using the acquisition method.
The cost of an acquisition is measured as the aggregate of the consideration transferred, measured at acquisition date fair value and the amount of any non-controlling interest in the acquiree.
For each business combination, the acquirer measures the non-controlling interest in the acquiree either at fair value or at the proportionate share of the acquirees identifiable net assets.
Acquisition costs incurred are expensed.
When the Group acquires a business, it assesses the financial assets and liabilities assumed for appropriate classification and designation in accordance with the contractual terms, economic circumstances and pertinent conditions as at the acquisition date.
This includes the separation of embedded derivatives in host contracts by the acquiree.
If the business combination is achieved in stages, the acquisition date fair value of the acquirers previously held equity interest in the acquiree is remeasured to fair value as at the date through profit and loss.
Any contingent consideration to be transferred by the acquirer will be recognised at fair value at the acquisition date.
Subsequent changes to the fair value of the contingent consideration which is deemed to be an asset or liability will be recognised in accordance with IAS 39 either in profit or loss or as change to other comprehensive income.
If the contingent consideration is classified as equity, it shall not be remeasured and its subsequent settlement shall be accounted for within equity.
Goodwill is initially measured at cost being the excess of the consideration transferred over the Groups net identifiable assets acquired and liabilities assumed and is allocated to each of the Groups hotels that are expected to benefit from the combination.
If the consideration is lower than the fair value of the net assets of the subsidiary acquired, the difference is recognised in profit or loss.
Transaction costs directly attributable to the acquisition are charged to the income statement.
B Foreign currency i Foreign currency translation The financial statements of each of the Groups businesses are prepared in the functional currency applicable to that business.
Transactions in foreign currencies other than the functional currency are translated at the foreign exchange rate ruling at the date of the transaction.
Monetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies at the balance sheet date are translated into sterling at the foreign exchange rate at that date.
Foreign exchange differences arising on translation are recognised in the income statement.
Nonmonetary assets and liabilities that are measured in terms of historical cost in a foreign currency are translated at the date of the transaction.
Non-monetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies that are stated at fair value are translated into sterling at foreign exchange rates ruling at the dates the fair value was determined.
ii Financial statements of foreign operations On consolidation, the assets and liabilities of foreign operations, including fair value adjustments arising on consolidation, are translated to sterling at foreign exchange rates ruling at the balance sheet date.
The revenues and expenses of foreign operations are translated to sterling at rates approximating to the foreign exchange rates ruling at the dates of the transactions.
Foreign exchange differences arising on retranslation are recognised directly in equity in the foreign currency translation reserve.
When a foreign operation is disposed of, in part or in full, the relevant amount in the translation reserve is transferred to profit or loss.
iii Net investment in foreign operations Exchange differences arising from the translation of the net investment in foreign operations, and of related hedges are taken to translation reserve.
They are released into the income statement upon disposal of the foreign operation.
80 81 MiLLenniUM & CoptHorne HoteLs pLC Annual Report & Accounts 2010 MiLLenniUM & CoptHorne HoteLs pLC Annual Report & Accounts 2010 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2.3 sUMMArY oF siGniFiCAnt ACCoUntinG poLiCies ContinUeD C Derivative financial instruments The Group uses derivative financial instruments to hedge its exposure to foreign exchange and interest rate risks arising from operational, financing and investment activities.
In accordance with its treasury policy, the Group does not hold or issue derivative financial instruments for trading purposes.
However, derivatives that do not qualify for hedge accounting are accounted for as trading instruments.
Derivative financial instruments are recognised initially at fair value.
Subsequent to initial recognition, derivative financial instruments are stated at fair value.
The gain or loss on re-measurement to fair value is recognised immediately in profit or loss.
However, where derivatives qualify for hedge accounting, recognition of any resultant gain or loss depends on the nature of the item being hedged.
The fair value of interest rate swaps is the estimated amount that the Group would receive or pay to terminate the swap at the balance sheet date, taking into account current interest rates and the current creditworthiness of the swap counterparties.
The fair value of forward exchange contracts is their quoted market price at the balance sheet date, being the present value of the quoted forward price.
D Hedges i Cash flow hedges When a derivative financial instrument is designated as a hedge of the variability in cash flows of a recognised asset or liability, or a highly probable transaction, the effective part of any gain or loss on the derivative financial instrument is recognised directly in equity.
When the forecast transaction subsequently results in the recognition of a non-financial asset or non-financial liability, the associated cumulative gain or loss is removed from equity and included in the initial cost or other carrying amount of the nonfinancial asset or liability.
If a hedge of a forecast transaction subsequently results in the recognition of a financial asset or a financial liability, then the associated gains and losses that were recognised directly in equity are reclassified to the income statement in the same period or periods during which the asset acquired or liability assumed affects the income statement i. e. when interest income or expense is recognised.
For cash flow hedges, other than those covered by the preceding two policy statements, the associated cumulative gain or loss is removed from equity and recognised in profit or loss in the same period or periods during which the hedged forecast transaction affects profit or loss.
The ineffective part of any gain or loss is recognised immediately in the income statement.
When a hedging instrument expires or is sold, terminated or exercised, or the entity revokes designation of the hedge relationship but the hedged forecast transaction is still expected to occur, the cumulative gain or loss at that point remains in equity and is recognised in accordance with the above policy when the transaction occurs.
If the hedged transaction is no longer expected to take place, then the cumulative unrealised gain or loss recognised in equity is recognised immediately in the income statement.
ii Hedge of monetary assets and liabilities When a derivative financial instrument is used as an economic hedge of the foreign exchange exposure of a recognised monetary asset or liability, hedge accounting is not applied and any gain or loss on the hedging instrument is recognised in the income statement.
iii Hedge of net investment in foreign operation The portion of the gain or loss on an instrument used to hedge a net investment in a foreign operation that is determined to be an effective hedge is recognised directly in equity within translation reserve.
The ineffective portion is recognised immediately in the income statement.
80 81 MiLLenniUM & CoptHorne HoteLs pLC Annual Report & Accounts 2010 MiLLenniUM & CoptHorne HoteLs pLC Annual Report & Accounts 2010 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2.3 sUMMArY oF siGniFiCAnt ACCoUntinG poLiCies ContinUeD e property, plant, equipment and depreciation i Recognition and measurement Land and buildings other than investment properties are stated at cost, except as allowed under IFRS 1 transition rules, less depreciation and any provision for impairment.
All other property, plant and equipment is stated at cost less depreciation and any provision for impairment.
Any impairment of such properties below depreciated historical cost is charged to the income statement.
Under the transition provisions of IFRS 1, land and buildings which were previously revalued under UK GAAP are measured on the basis of their deemed cost, being their UK GAAP carrying value, including revaluations, as at 1 January 2004. ii Depreciation Freehold land is not depreciated.
All other assets are depreciated to their residual values on a straight-line basis over their estimated useful lives as follows: Building core 50 years or lease term if shorter Building surface, finishes and services 30 years or lease term if shorter Plant and machinery 15 20 years Furniture and equipment 10 years Soft furnishings 5 7 years Computer equipment 5 years Motor vehicles 4 years No residual values are ascribed to building surface finishes and services.
Residual values ascribed to building core depend on the nature, location and tenure of each property.
iii Subsequent costs Capital expenditure on major projects is recorded separately within property, plant and equipment as capital work in progress.
Once the project is complete the balance is transferred to the appropriate fixed asset categories.
Capital work in progress is not depreciated.
Interest attributable to funds used to finance the construction or acquisition of new hotels or major extensions to existing hotels is capitalised gross of tax relief and added to the cost of the hotel core.
Operating supplies, which include china, linen, glass and silverware, are stated at their deemed costs as at 1 January 2008 and subsumed into the costs of the hotel buildings.
Subsequent renewals and replacements of such stocks and new supplies upon initial hotel opening are written off as incurred to the income statement.
F Leases i Leased assets Leases where the Group assumes substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership are classified as finance leases.
The leased asset is initially recorded at the lower of fair value and the present value of minimum lease payments.
The equivalent liability, categorised as appropriate, is included within current or non-current liabilities.
Assets are depreciated over the shorter of the lease term and their useful economic lives.
Finance charges are allocated to accounting periods over the period of the lease to produce constant rates of return on the outstanding balance.
As a result of the adoption of the amendment to IAS17 Leases, a number of land leases previously categorised in lease premium prepayment are determined to be finance leases were transferred to property, plant and equipment.
Rentals payable by the Group under operating leases are charged to the income statement on a straight line basis over the lease term even if payments are not made on the same basis.
In cases where rents comprise a fixed and a variable element, the fixed element only is charged to the income statement on a straight line basis with the variable amounts being charged as they become due.
Lease incentives received are recognised as an integral part of the total lease expense.
82 83 MiLLenniUM & CoptHorne HoteLs pLC Annual Report & Accounts 2010 MiLLenniUM & CoptHorne HoteLs pLC Annual Report & Accounts 2010 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2.3 sUMMArY oF siGniFiCAnt ACCoUntinG poLiCies ContinUeD F Leases continued Rentals receivable by the Group as lessor under operating leases, including the sub-letting of retail outlets within hotel properties, are credited to the income statement on a straight line basis over the lease term even if the receipts are not made on such a basis.
Costs, including depreciation incurred in earning the lease income are recognised as an expense.
ii Lease premium On occasion the Group makes and receives initial payments on entering both into long and short leases of land and buildings.
Where payment for leased land is equivalent to the purchase of the freehold interest the lease is classified as a finance lease.
All other payments for leases of land are classified as operating.
On the statement of financial position, financial lease payment attributable to the land is recorded on as property plant and equipment and those for operating leases, the land is recorded as a lease premium prepayment.
Both lease types are charged to the income statement on a straight line basis over the term of the lease.
Interest attributable to funds to finance the purchase of lease of land is capitalised gross of tax relief and added to the cost of lease.
In the case of lease premiums received, these are reflected on the statement of financial position as deferred income, appropriately classified between current and non-current liabilities and are credited to income statement on a straight line basis over the term of the lease.
G impairment The carrying amounts of the Groups assets, other than investment properties, inventories, employee benefit assets and deferred tax assets are reviewed to determine whether there is any indication of impairment.
If any such indication exists, the assets recoverable amount is estimated.
The recoverable amount of assets is the greater of their net selling price and value in use.
In assessing value in use, the estimated future cash flows are discounted to their present value using a pre-tax discount rate that reflects current market assessments of the time value of money and the risks specific to the asset.
Impairment is recognised in the income statement whenever the carrying amount of an asset or its cash-generating unit exceeds its recoverable amount.
Impairment losses are reversed if there has been a change in the estimates used to determine the recoverable amount.
Where permissible under IFRS, an impairment loss is reversed only to the extent that the assets carrying amount does not exceed the carrying amount that would have been determined, net of depreciation or amortisation, if no impairment had been recognised.
In the case of equity investments classified as available-for-sale, a significant or prolonged decline in fair value of the asset below its cost is considered in determining whether the asset is impaired.
If any such evidence exists for available-for-sale financial assets, the cumulative loss measured as the difference between acquisition cost and the current fair value, less any impairment loss on that financial asset previously recognised in the income statement is removed from equity and recognised in the income statement.
H investment properties Investment properties held by the Group are properties which are held either to earn rental income or for capital appreciation or both.
Investment properties are stated at fair value.
Any increase or decrease in the fair value on annual revaluation is recognised in the income statement in accordance with IAS 40: Investment Property.
As a result of the adoption of the amendment to IAS 40, as at 1 January 2009 the Group has reclassified investment properties under construction from property, plant and equipment to investment properties.
An external independent valuer, having an appropriate recognised professional qualification and recent experience in the location and category of the property being valued, values the portfolio annually.
The fair values are based on market values, being the estimated amount for which a property could be exchanged on the date of valuation between a willing buyer and a willing seller in an arms length transaction after proper marketing wherein the parties had each acted knowledgeably, prudently and without compulsion.
82 83 MiLLenniUM & CoptHorne HoteLs pLC Annual Report & Accounts 2010 MiLLenniUM & CoptHorne HoteLs pLC Annual Report & Accounts 2010 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2.3 sUMMArY oF siGniFiCAnt ACCoUntinG poLiCies ContinUeD H investment properties continued The Groups associate undertaking, CDLHT, holds hotel assets which are leased to both the Group and external third parties with lease rentals and related charges varying according to the agreements involved.
For the purposes of the preparation of the Groups financial statements, to the extent that these assets held by CDLHT qualify to be accounted for as investment properties in accordance with IAS 40, the Group equity accounts for its share of CDLHTs fair value change within its overall share of profits from associates.
Such share of fair value change is recorded as a share of other operating income expenses of associates in the Groups income statement.
Where in the Groups view, the indicators of the lease arrangement are of an owner-occupied property, the property is accounted for in the Groups financial statements as part of CDLHTs property, plant and equipment with the Groups share of CDLHTs results for the period incorporating an appropriate depreciation charge.
i inventories Inventories are recorded at the lower of cost and net realisable value.
Net realisable value is the estimated selling price in the ordinary course of business, less the estimated costs of completion and selling expenses.
J Development properties Development properties are stated at the lower of cost and net realisable value and are held-for-sale in the short-term and are therefore classified as current assets.
The cost of development properties includes interest and other related expenditure incurred in order to get the asset ready for its intended use.
K Cash and cash equivalents Cash and cash equivalents comprise cash balances and call deposits with an original maturity of three months or less.
Bank overdrafts that are repayable on demand and form an integral part of the Groups cash management are included as a component of cash and cash equivalents for the purpose of the statement of cash flows.
L Borrowings Borrowings are recognised initially at fair value, net of transaction costs incurred.
Borrowings are subsequently stated at amortised cost: any difference between proceeds net of transaction costs and the redemption value is recognised in the income statement over the period of the borrowings using the effective interest method.
M income tax Income tax on profit or loss comprises current and deferred tax.
Income tax is recognised in the income statement except to the extent that it relates to items recognised directly in equity, in which case it is recognised in equity.
Current tax is the expected tax payable on the taxable income for the year, using tax rates enacted or substantively enacted at the balance sheet date and any adjustment to tax payable in respect of previous years.
Deferred tax is provided for using the balance sheet method, providing for temporary differences between the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities for financial reporting purposes and the amounts used for taxation purposes.
The following temporary differences are not provided for: i the initial recognition of assets or liabilities that affect neither accounting nor taxable profit: and ii differences relating to investments in subsidiaries to the extent that they will probably not reverse in the foreseeable future.
The amount of deferred tax provided is based on the expected manner of realisation or settlement of the carrying amount of assets and liabilities, using tax rates enacted or substantively enacted at the balance sheet date.
A deferred tax asset is recognised only to the extent that it is probable that future taxable profits will be available against which the asset can be utilised.
Deferred tax assets are reduced to the extent that it is no longer probable that the benefit will be realised.
Deferred tax assets and liabilities are offset only to the extent that: i the Group has a legally enforceable right to offset current tax assets against current tax liabilities: ii the Group intends to settle net: and iii the deferred tax assets and the deferred tax liabilities relate to income taxes levied by the same taxation authority.
84 85 MiLLenniUM & CoptHorne HoteLs pLC Annual Report & Accounts 2010 MiLLenniUM & CoptHorne HoteLs pLC Annual Report & Accounts 2010 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2.3 sUMMArY oF siGniFiCAnt ACCoUntinG poLiCies ContinUeD n employee benefits i Defined contribution plans Obligations for contributions to defined contribution pension plans are recognised as an expense in the income statement.
ii Defined benefit plans The Groups net obligation in respect of defined benefit post-employment plans, including pension plans, is calculated separately for each plan by estimating the amount of future benefit that employees have earned in return for their service in the current and prior periods.
That benefit is discounted to determine its present value, and the fair value of any plan assets is deducted.
The discount rate is the yield at the balance sheet date on AA credit rated bonds that have maturity dates approximating the terms of the Groups obligations.
The calculation is performed by a qualified actuary using the projected unit credit method.
When the benefits of a plan are improved, the portion of the increased benefit relating to past service by employees is recognised as an expense in the income statement on a straight-line basis over the average period until the benefits become vested.
To the extent that the benefits vest immediately, the expense is recognised immediately in the income statement.
The Group recognises actuarial gains and losses within the Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income in the period in which they occur.
iii Long-term service benefits The Groups net obligation in respect of long-term service benefits, other than post-employment plans, is the amount of future benefit that employees have earned in return for their service in the current and prior periods.
The obligation is calculated using the projected unit credit method and is discounted to its present value and the fair value of any plan assets is deducted.
iv Share-based payment transaction The share-based incentive schemes allow the Groups employees to acquire shares of Millennium & Copthorne Hotels plc.
The cost of equity-settled transaction with employees for awards granted after 7 November 2002 is measured by reference to the fair value at the date on which they are granted.
The fair value is determined by using an appropriate pricing model, further details of which are given in note 23.
The cost of equity-settled transaction is recognised, together with a corresponding increase in equity, over the period in which the performance and or service conditions are fulfilled.
The cumulative expense recognised for equity-settled transactions at each reporting date until the vesting date reflects the extent to which the vesting period has expired and the Groups best estimate of the number of equity instruments that will ultimately vest.
The income statement expense or credit for a period represents the movement in cumulative expense recognised as at the beginning and end of that period.
No expense is recognised for awards that do not ultimately vest, except for equity-settled transactions where vesting is conditional upon a market or non-vesting condition, which are treated as vesting irrespective of whether or not the market or non-vesting condition is satisfied, provided that all other performance and or service conditions are satisfied.
Where the terms of an equity-settled transaction award are modified, the minimum expense recognised is the expense as if the terms had not been modified, if the original terms of the award are met.
An additional expense is recognised for any modification that increases the total fair value of the share-based payment transaction, or is otherwise beneficial to the employee as measured at the date of modification.
84 85 MiLLenniUM & CoptHorne HoteLs pLC Annual Report & Accounts 2010 MiLLenniUM & CoptHorne HoteLs pLC Annual Report & Accounts 2010 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2.3 sUMMArY oF siGniFiCAnt ACCoUntinG poLiCies ContinUeD n employee benefits continued iv Share-based payment transaction continued Where an equity-settled award is cancelled, it is treated as if it vested on the date of cancellation, and any expense not yet recognised for the award is recognised immediately.
This includes any award where non-vesting conditions within the control of either the entity or the employee are not met.
However, if a new award is substituted for the cancelled award, and designated as a replacement award on the date that it is granted, the cancelled and new awards are treated as if they were a modification of the original award, as described in the previous paragraph.
All cancellations of equity-settled transaction awards are treated equally.
The dilutive effect of outstanding options is reflected as additional share dilution in the computation of diluted earnings per share further details are given in note 11. o provisions A provision is recognised on the balance sheet when the Group has a present legal or constructive obligation as a result of a past event, and it is probable that an outflow of economic benefits will be required to settle the obligation.
If the effect is material, provisions are determined by discounting the expected future cash flows at a pre-tax rate that reflects current market assessments of the time value of money and, when appropriate, the risks specific to the liability.
A provision for onerous contracts is recognised when the expected benefits to be derived by the Group from a contract are lower than the unavoidable cost of meeting its obligations under the contract.
p revenue and its recognition Revenue comprises: Income from the ownership and operation of hotels recognised at the point at which the accommodation and related services are provided: Management fees earned from hotels managed by the Group, usually under long-term contracts with the hotel owner.
Management fees include a base fee, which is generally a percentage of hotel revenue, and or an incentive fee, which is generally based on the hotels profitability: recognised when earned on an accrual basis under the terms of the contract: Franchise fees received in connection with licensing of the Groups brand names, usually under long-term contracts with the hotel owner.
The Group charges franchise royalty fees as a percentage of room revenue: recognised when earned on an accrual basis under the terms of the agreement: REIT managers management fees earned from CDLHT and recognised on an accrual basis based on the applicable formula as described in note 34: Income from property rental recognised on a straight line basis over the lease term, lease incentives granted are recognised as an integral part of the total rental income: and Land, development property and property sales recognised when legal title transfers provided the related significant risk and rewards of ownership have passed by that date.
Q Dividend distribution Dividend distribution to the shareholders is recognised as a liability in the Groups financial statements in the period in which the dividends are appropriately authorised and approved for payment and are no longer at the discretion of the Company.
Unpaid dividends that do not meet these criteria are disclosed in the notes to the financial statements.
86 87 MiLLenniUM & CoptHorne HoteLs pLC Annual Report & Accounts 2010 MiLLenniUM & CoptHorne HoteLs pLC Annual Report & Accounts 2010 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2.3 sUMMArY oF siGniFiCAnt ACCoUntinG poLiCies ContinUeD r operating segment information Disclosure of segmental information is principally presented in respect of the Groups geographical segments.
The segments reported reflect the operating information included in internal reports that the Chief Operating Decision Maker CODM, the Board, regularly reviews.
Further details are given in note 5.
An operating segment is a component of the Group that engages in business activities from which it may earn revenues and incur expenses, including revenues and expenses that relate to transactions with any of the Groups other components.
Discrete financial information is reported to and is reviewed by the CODM on a geographical basis.
A Chief Operating Officer COO or equivalent is responsible for one or more geographical segments and is accountable for the functioning of the segment and who maintains regular contact with executive members of the CODM to discuss the operational and financial performance.
The CODM makes decisions about allocation of resources to the regions managed by the COO.
Segment results that are reported to the CODM include items directly attributable to a segment as well as those that can be allocated on a reasonable basis.
Unallocated items principally comprise: interest-bearing loans, borrowings, cash and cash equivalents, net finance expense, taxation balances and corporate expenses.
Segment capital expenditure is the total cost incurred during the period to acquire property, plant and equipment, and intangible assets other than goodwill.
s non-current assets held-for-sale Non-current assets or disposal groups comprising assets and liabilities that are expected to be recovered primarily through sale rather than through continuing use are classified as held-for-sale.
Generally the assets or disposal group are measured at the lower of their carrying amount and fair value less cost to sell.
Any impairment loss on a disposal group is first allocated to property, plant and equipment and lease premium prepayment, and then to remaining assets and liabilities on pro rata basis, except that no loss is allocated to inventories, financial assets, deferred tax assets, employee benefit assets and investment property, which continue to be measured in accordance with the Groups accounting policies.
Impairment losses on initial classification as held-for-sale and subsequent gains or losses on remeasurement are recognised in the income statement.
Gains are not recognised in excess of any cumulative impairment loss.
t other financial assets and liabilities Trade investments are classified as available-for-sale assets and are included under non-current assets within other financial assets.
They are recorded at market value with movements in value taken to equity.
Any impairment to value is recorded in the income statement.
Trade and other receivables are stated at their nominal amount discounted if material less impairment.
Trade and other payables are stated at their nominal amount discounted if material.
U related parties For the purpose of these financial statements, parties are considered to be related to the Group if the Group has the ability directly or indirectly, to control the party or exercise significant influence over the party making financial and operating decisions, or vice versa, or where the Group and the party are subject to common control or common significant influence.
Related parties may be individuals or other entities.
86 87 MiLLenniUM & CoptHorne HoteLs pLC Annual Report & Accounts 2010 MiLLenniUM & CoptHorne HoteLs pLC Annual Report & Accounts 2010 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 3.
ACCoUntinG estiMAtes AnD JUDGeMents Management discussed with the Audit Committee on the selection and disclosure of the Groups critical accounting policies and estimates and the application of these policies and estimates.
The preparation of financial statements under IFRS requires the Group to make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities and the disclosure of contingencies and the reported amount of revenue and expenses during the year.
The Group evaluates its estimates and assumptions on an ongoing basis.
Such estimates and judgements are based upon historical experience and other factors it believes to be reasonable under the circumstances, which form the basis for making judgements about the carrying value of assets and liabilities that are not readily apparent from other sources.
Certain critical accounting policies, among others, affect the Groups more significant estimates and assumptions used in preparing the consolidated financial statements.
Actual results could differ from the Groups estimates and assumptions.
Key estimates and judgements have been made in the following areas: Asset carrying values Management performs an assessment at each balance sheet date of assets across the Group where risk of impairment has been identified.
Key judgement areas include the carrying values of land and buildings, investments in and loans to associates and joint ventures and development properties.
The recovery of these assets is dependent on future cash flows receivable and the provision of future services or goods by third parties.
Where risk of impairment has been identified an impairment review has been performed on property, plant and equipment, lease premium prepayments and investments in and loans to joint ventures and associates held across the Group on a cash generating basis.
Where appropriate, external evaluations are also undertaken.
The impairment review is performed on a value in use basis which requires estimation of future net operating cash flows, the time period over which they will occur, an appropriate discount rate and appropriate growth rates.
The discount rates used reflect appropriate sensitivities involved in the assessment.
Discount rates used for impaired properties are disclosed in note 12.
Going concern The Groups business activities, together with the factors likely to affect its future development, performance and position are set out in the Business Review on pages 31 to 39.
The financial position of the Group, its cash flows, liquidity position and borrowing facilities are described in the Business Review on pages 31 to 39.
In addition, note 22 to the financial statements include the Groups objectives, policies and processes for managing its capital: its financial risk management objectives: details of its financial instruments and hedging activities: and its exposures to credit risk and liquidity risk.
The Group has considerable financial resources and has plans to renew its expiring facilities, Cash flow forecasts for the Group have been prepared for a period in excess of twelve months from the date of approval of these consolidated financial statements.
These forecasts reflect an assessment of current market conditions.
The forecasts completed on this basis show that the Group will be able to operate within the current committed debt facilities and show continued compliance with the financial covenants.
In addition, management has considered various mitigating actions that could be taken in the event that market conditions are worse than their current assessment.
Such measures include further reduction in costs and in capital expenditure.
On the basis of the exercise as described above and the available committed debt facilities, the Directors have a reasonable expectation that the Group and Company have adequate resources to continue in operational existence for the foreseeable future.
Accordingly, they continue to adopt a going concern basis in preparing the financial statements of the Group and the Company.
88 89 MiLLenniUM & CoptHorne HoteLs pLC Annual Report & Accounts 2010 MiLLenniUM & CoptHorne HoteLs pLC Annual Report & Accounts 2010 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 3.
ACCoUntinG estiMAtes AnD JUDGeMents ContinUeD Defined benefit pension plans The Group operates a number of defined benefit pension plans.
As set out in note 23, the calculation of the present value of the Groups defined benefit obligations at each period end is subject to significant estimation.
An appropriately qualified, independent actuary is used to undertake this calculation.
The assumptions made by the actuary are the best estimates chosen from a range of possible actuarial assumptions, which due to the timescale covered, may not necessarily be borne out in practice.
The valuation of scheme assets is based on their fair value at the balance sheet date.
As these assets are not intended to be sold in the shortterm, their values may be subject to significant change before they are realised.
In reviewing the work of the independent actuary, management was required to exercise judgement to satisfy themselves that appropriate weight had been afforded to macroeconomic factors.
Details of the assumptions used are set out in note 23.
Taxation The Group has, from time-to-time, contingent tax liabilities arising from trading and corporate transactions.
After taking appropriate external professional advice, the Group makes provision for these liabilities based on the probable level of economic loss that may be incurred and which is reliably measureable.
Investment in CDLHT In 2006 the Group acquired a 39.1% interest in CDLHT, a stapled security listed on the Singapore Exchange Securities Trading Limited, comprising a hotel real estate investment trust REIT and a business trust.
The business trust is dormant.
The Groups interest in CDLHT at 31 December 2010 was 34.9%.
CDLHT is not considered to be a special purpose entity under Standing Interpretations Committee 12: Consolidation Special Purpose Entities and the Group does not have, by virtue of its unit holdings, the power to control a majority of the voting rights of the units of CDLHT.
However, as further noted in note 34, the Group acts as REIT Manager through a wholly owned company, under the terms of the trust deed constituting the REIT.
The Directors have therefore given careful consideration to the Groups interest in and relationship with CDLHT for the purposes of assessing whether it should be consolidated in accordance with IAS 27: Consolidation and Separate Financial Statements.
A subsidiary of the Group, M&C REIT Management Limited, in its capacity as REIT Manager, has the power to govern the financial and operating policies of the REIT.
However, there are certain substantive kick-out rights that prevent the Group from exercising the power to control the majority of the Board of the REIT Manager so as to be able to govern the financial and operating policies of the REIT.
Management have judged that the Group does not therefore control CDLHT and it is not a subsidiary of the Group.
Because of the significant influence that the Group has by way of its holding of 34.9% of CDLHT units and representation on the Board of the REIT Manager, the Group equity accounts for its interest in CDLHT as an associate.
Lease backs from CDLHT As part of the transactions with CDLHT in 2006, the Group entered into sale and lease back arrangements in respect of three hotels in Singapore.
As further explained in note 34 the Group entered into 20 year leases with CDLHT for each of the hotel buildings with variable rent based on the hotels performance but subject to a fixed minimum rental, and with an option granted to the Group to renew for a further 20 years on the same rental terms.
Although the Group has the option to lease the building assets for a total of 40 years, there remains a substantial proportion of the assets economic lives for which the Group will not benefit from the assets.
In addition, the present value of the minimum lease payments for the 40-year potential term of the three leases do not constitute substantially all of the fair value of the leased assets, and the variable rent structure is such that the Group does not retain significant risks and rewards of ownership of the assets.
Accordingly, the Group has classified the lease back arrangements as operating leases in accordance with IAS 17: Leases.
The prepaid operating land lease income is recognised on the statement of financial position as deferred income, and is being amortised over the 75 years of the lease.
At 31 December 2010 an amount of 119.0m is recognised on the statement of financial position as deferred income, 117.3m in non-current liabilities and 1.7m in current creditors and an amount of 1.7m has been credited to the 2010 income statement.
ACCoUntinG estiMAtes AnD JUDGeMents ContinUeD Lease backs from CDLHT continued In addition, the Groups lease of the Grand Copthorne Waterfront Hotel from CDLHT as part of the 2006 transactions entered with CDLHT has also been similarly accounted for by the Group as an operating lease for the same reasons noted above.
Investment property The Group holds a number of investment properties and accounts for such properties in accordance with the accounting policy set out on pages 83 and 84.
CDLHT owns hotel assets which are leased to both the Group and external third parties with lease rentals and related charges varying according to the agreement involved.
The Group accounts for such hotel assets in its financial statements in accordance with the accounting policy set out on pages 83 and 84.
Judgement is required in assessing whether the relevant hotel assets held by CDLHT are owner-occupied or not, for the purposes of assessing whether IAS 40, Investment Property is applicable and whether therefore, accounting for the relevant hotels as investment properties is appropriate for the purposes of the Groups financial statements.
The question of whether or not a property is owneroccupied is a matter of judgement, involving consideration of various factors such as, the length of the agreement involved, the powers of intervention and level of influence on financial and operating decisions held by the Group or CDLHT, and the extent of the Group or CDLHTs interest in the profits and cash flows generated by the relevant properties.
Where the indicators are such that on balance, CDLHT is, in the Groups opinion, shown to be a passive investor, the relevant hotel property is accounted for in accordance with IAS 40 and the Group accounts for its share of the fair value change through the income statement as a share of other operating income expense of the associate.
Where indicators are of an owner-occupied property, the hotel is classified as part of CDLHTs property, plant and equipment with the Groups share of CDLHTs results for the period incorporating an appropriate depreciation charge.
Land leases classification Improvement to IFRSs issued April 2009 included amendments to IAS 17 Leases.
IAS 17 was amended so that Leases of land with an indefinite economic life need not be classified as an operating lease.
A Land lease with a lease term of several decades may be classified as a finance lease, even if at the end of the lease term title does not pass to the lessee.
In determining the lease of land status as to finance or operating lease the following factors were considered: transfer of ownership purchase options present value of minimum lease payments in comparison to fair value of land 4. neW stAnDArDs AnD interpretAtions not Yet ADopteD A number of new standards, amendments to standards and interpretations have been issued but not yet effective.
These include: Amendments to IAS 32 Financial Instruments: Disclosure and Presentation IFRIC 19 Extinguishing Financial Liabilities with Equity Instruments IAS 24 revised 2009 Related Party Disclosures Amendments to IFRIC 14 Prepayments of a Minimum Funding Requirement None of these are expected to have a significant impact on the consolidated financial statements of the Group.
90 91 MiLLenniUM & CoptHorne HoteLs pLC Annual Report & Accounts 2010 MiLLenniUM & CoptHorne HoteLs pLC Annual Report & Accounts 2010 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 5. operAtinG seGMent inForMAtion Disclosure of segmental information is principally presented in respect of the Groups geographical segments.
Segment results, assets and liabilities include items directly attributable to a segment as well as those that can be allocated on a reasonable basis.
Geographical Segments The principal activity of the Group is the ownership and management of hotels around the world.
The hotel and operations are managed on a worldwide basis and operate in seven principal geographical areas: New York Regional US London Rest of Europe Singapore Rest of Asia Australasia The segments reported reflect the operating segment information included in the internal reports that the Chief Operating Decision Maker CODM, the Board, regularly reviews.
90 91 MiLLenniUM & CoptHorne HoteLs pLC Annual Report & Accounts 2010 MiLLenniUM & CoptHorne HoteLs pLC Annual Report & Accounts 2010 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 5. operAtinG seGMent inForMAtion ContinUeD The reportable segments are aligned with the structure of the Groups internal organisation which is based according to geographical region.
A Chief Operating Officer COO or equivalent is responsible for one or more geographical segments, is accountable for the functioning of the segment and maintains regular contact with executive members of the CODM to discuss the operational and financial performance.
The CODM makes decisions about allocation of resources based on all five reported segment profits contained in the segmental results to the regions managed by the COO.
Segment results 2010 regional rest of rest of Central total new York Us London europe singapore Asia Australasia Costs Group m m m m m m m m m revenue Hotel 102.3 116.0 93.5 94.6 140.9 137.6 49.1 734.0 Property operations 1.5 2.4 0.1 5.7 9.7 total revenue 102.3 117.5 93.5 94.6 143.3 137.7 54.8 743.7 Hotel Gross operating profit 28.4 20.0 50.1 25.3 76.1 53.8 18.6 272.3 1 Hotel fixed charges 18.1 19.2 13.0 21.1 41.5 16.6 8.2 137.7 Hotel operating profit 10.3 0.8 37.1 4.2 34.6 37.2 10.4 134.6 Property operations operating profit loss 0.7 2.7 1.9 1.5 Central costs 18.1 18.1 Share of joint ventures and associates 13.1 12.0 4.0 29.1 Headline operating profit loss 10.3 0.1 37.1 4.2 45.0 49.2 16.3 18.1 144.1 Add back depreciation and amortisation 5.0 8.8 4.8 3.8 2.1 5.3 2.0 0.9 32.7 2 Headline eBitDA 15.3 8.9 41.9 8.0 47.1 54.5 18.3 17.2 176.8 Depreciation and amortisation 32.7 Share of interest, tax and noncontrolling interests of joint ventures and associates operating profit 9.7 Net finance expense 5.9 Headline profit before tax 128.5 Separately disclosed items 3 Group 5.3 Separately disclosed items Share of joint ventures and associates 6.9 Separately disclosed items Share of interest, tax and noncontrolling interests of joint ventures and associates 1.5 profit before tax 128.6 1 Hotel fixed charges include depreciation, amortisation of lease premium prepayments, property rent, taxes and insurance, operating lease rentals and management fees.
2 Earnings before interest, tax, depreciation and amortisation 3 Included within separately disclosed items Group is a 15.2 million impairment charge.
An impairment charge of 8.8 million was made in relation to 6 Regional UK hotels in Rest of Europe and 5.8 million was made in relation to 6 hotels in Regional US.
Also a 0.6 million impairment charge was made within Rest of Asia on additional shareholder loan and interest in the Groups 50% investment in Bangkok.
92 93 MiLLenniUM & CoptHorne HoteLs pLC Annual Report & Accounts 2010 MiLLenniUM & CoptHorne HoteLs pLC Annual Report & Accounts 2010 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 5. operAtinG seGMent inForMAtion ContinUeD Segment results 4 2009 restated Regional Rest of Rest of Central Total 3 New York US London Europe Singapore Asia Australasia Costs Group m m m m m m m m m revenue Hotel 95.6 110.8 88.0 92.9 102.8 116.1 40.7 646.9 Property operations 1.5 2.3 0.1 3.2 7.1 total revenue 95.6 112.3 88.0 92.9 105.1 116.2 43.9 654.0 Hotel Gross operating profit 24.3 18.3 46.4 23.8 51.2 42.2 15.3 221.5 1 Hotel fixed charges 19.0 21.8 12.7 22.2 29.3 15.5 5.6 126.1 Hotel operating profit loss 5.3 3.5 33.7 1.6 21.9 26.7 9.7 95.4 Property operations operating profit loss 1.2 1.7 0.1 0.8 1.2 Central costs 19.2 19.2 Share of joint ventures and associates 11.3 8.0 1.3 20.6 Headline operating profit loss 5.3 4.7 33.7 1.6 34.9 34.6 11.8 19.2 98.0 Add back depreciation and amortisation 5.2 9.4 5.2 3.9 0.3 5.3 1.7 1.1 32.1 2 Headline eBitDA 10.5 4.7 38.9 5.5 35.2 39.9 13.5 18.1 130.1 Depreciation and amortisation 32.1 Share of interest, tax and noncontrolling interests of joint ventures and associates operating profit 6.5 Net finance expense 7.3 Headline profit before tax 84.2 Separately disclosed items 3 Group 2.4 Separately disclosed items Share of joint ventures and associates 0.6 Separately disclosed items Share of interest, tax and noncontrolling Interest of joint ventures and associates 0.5 profit before tax 81.9 1 Hotel fixed charges include depreciation, amortisation of lease premium prepayments, property rent, taxes and insurance, operating lease rentals and management fees.
2 Earnings before interest, tax, depreciation and amortisation 3 Included within separately disclosed items Group is a 2.2 million impairment charge.
An impairment charge of 0.9 million Rest of Asia was made in relation to land in India and a 1.3 million impairment charge was made on additional shareholder loan and interest in the Groups 50% investment in Bangkok.
4 Operations of the REIT in Australasia of 1.3m previously recorded in the Singapore segment have been reclassified.
92 93 MiLLenniUM & CoptHorne HoteLs pLC Annual Report & Accounts 2010 MiLLenniUM & CoptHorne HoteLs pLC Annual Report & Accounts 2010 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 5. operAtinG seGMent inForMAtion ContinUeD Segmental assets, liabilities and capital expenditure 2010 regional rest of rest of total new York Us London europe singapore Asia Australasia Group m m m m m m m m Hotel operating assets 354.2 297.3 439.7 207.7 245.2 634.9 157.1 2,336.1 Hotel operating liabilities 9.9 30.5 22.8 31.1 153.1 61.3 9.1 317.8 Investment in and loans to joint ventures and associates 173.2 160.7 62.9 396.8 total hotel operating net assets 344.3 266.8 416.9 176.6 265.3 734.3 210.9 2,415.1 Property operating assets 29.0 87.6 9.8 74.1 200.5 Property operating liabilities 0.1 42.2 4.4 0.7 47.4 total property operating net assets 28.9 45.4 5.4 73.4 153.1 Deferred tax liabilities 251.8 Income taxes payable 32.0 Net debt 165.7 net assets 2,118.7 Capital expenditure 0.4 3.8 0.9 1.7 7.7 4.7 2.2 21.4 Excludes 108.9m of property, plant and equipment and lease premium prepayment acquired on acquisition of Beijing Fortune Co. Ltd. 2009 New Regional Rest of Rest of Total York US London Europe Singapore Asia Australasia Group m m m m m m m m Hotel operating assets 346.9 295.8 443.5 216.6 210.5 480.1 140.6 2,134.0 Hotel operating liabilities 9.8 29.5 22.8 25.5 125.0 33.1 5.1 250.8 Investment in and loans to joint ventures and associates 175.3 131.6 19.5 326.4 total hotel operating net assets 337.1 266.3 420.7 191.1 260.8 578.6 155.0 2,209.6 Property operating assets 33.0 50.8 8.1 67.3 159.2 Property operating liabilities 0.1 1.3 0.9 2.3 total property operating net assets 32.9 49.5 8.1 66.4 156.9 Deferred tax liabilities 230.6 Income taxes payable 29.7 Net debt 202.5 net assets 1,903.7 Capital expenditure 0.9 2.8 1.1 0.8 7.9 1.4 0.7 15.6 94 95 MiLLenniUM & CoptHorne HoteLs pLC Annual Report & Accounts 2010 MiLLenniUM & CoptHorne HoteLs pLC Annual Report & Accounts 2010 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 5. operAtinG seGMent inForMAtion ContinUeD Geographic information 2010 2009 m m revenue from external customers United States 219.8 207.9 Singapore 143.3 105.1 United Kingdom 141.7 136.7 New Zealand 53.5 42.8 Taiwan 51.3 43.9 South Korea 50.3 43.7 Germany 27.5 26.2 Malaysia 16.3 14.4 France 15.9 15.0 Philippines 9.7 8.5 Indonesia 5.4 4.2 Other 9.0 5.6 total revenue per consolidated income statement 743.7 654.0 The revenue information above is based on the location of the business.
The 743.7m 2009: 654.0m revenue is constituted by 734.0m 2009: 646.9m of hotel revenue and by 9.7m 2009: 7.1m from property operations.
The property operations revenue comprises 5.7m 2009: 3.2m from New Zealand, 2.4m 2009: 2.3m from Singapore and other countries 1.6m 2009: 1.6 m. 2010 2009 m m non-current assets United States 659.7 659.2 United Kingdom 582.6 599.9 Singapore 475.2 429.0 Taiwan 240.4 214.8 China 180.5 51.1 New Zealand 164.0 151.8 South Korea 144.6 139.8 Hong Kong 89.7 80.5 Malaysia 70.0 60.9 Australia 45.6 0.4 France 43.5 46.9 Philippines 38.7 35.9 Indonesia 16.1 11.5 Other 5.2 4.7 total non-current assets per consolidated statement of financial position 2,755.8 2,486.4 Non-current assets for this purpose consist of property, plant and equipment, lease premium prepayment, investment properties, investments in joint ventures and associates and other financial assets.
94 95 MiLLenniUM & CoptHorne HoteLs pLC Annual Report & Accounts 2010 MiLLenniUM & CoptHorne HoteLs pLC Annual Report & Accounts 2010 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 6.
ADMinistrAtiVe eXpenses The following items are included within administrative expenses: 2010 2009 m m a Included in administrative expenses is the auditors remuneration, for audit and non-audit services as follows: Auditors remuneration Statutory audit services: Annual audit of the Company and consolidated accounts 0.4 0.4 Audit of subsidiary companies 1.2 0.8 1.6 1.2 Non-audit related services: Further assurance services relating to accounting advice 0.2 0.2 Other services relating to taxation 0.4 0.4 0.6 0.6 2.2 1.8 In addition to the above, fees in respect of the annual audit of the Millennium & Copthorne UK pension plan were 0.1m 2009: 0.1m.
b Impairment note 7 15.2 2.2 c Repairs and maintenance 34.9 33.0 d Depreciation 31.3 31.0 e Lease premium amortisation 1.4 1.1 f Rental paid payable under operating leases land and buildings 45.8 37.3 plant and machinery 5.6 5.6 Rental paid payable under operating leases with regard to land and buildings include rentals relating to the lease arrangements with CDLHT on four Singapore hotels and a conference centre.
Details of these lease arrangements and rents payable thereon are given in note 34.
96 97 MiLLenniUM & CoptHorne HoteLs pLC Annual Report & Accounts 2010 MiLLenniUM & CoptHorne HoteLs pLC Annual Report & Accounts 2010 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 7. sepArAteLY DisCLoseD iteMs 2010 2009 Notes m m other operating income Revaluation gain of investment properties a 9.3 other operating expense Revaluation deficit of investment properties a 5.2 0.2 separately disclosed items included in administrative expenses Goodwill written-off in respect of Beijing b 8.1 Impairment c 15.2 2.2 Redundancy costs d 1.7 25.0 2.2 non-operating income Gain on dilution of interest in associate e 7.2 Gain arising in respect of step up acquisition of Beijing b 8.4 15.6 separately disclosed items Group 5.3 2.4 separately disclosed items share of joint ventures and associates Provision for asset write-off and legal costs in FSCL f 2.3 Revaluation gain of investment properties g 9.2 0.6 6.9 0.6 a Revaluation of investment properties At end of 2010, the Groups investment properties were subject to external professional valuation on an open market existing use basis.
Tanglin Shopping Centre recorded uplift in value of 9.3m whereas Biltmore Court & Tower and Sunnyvale residences recorded decreases in value of 1.9m and 3.3m respectively.
In 2009 Tanglin Shopping Centre recorded a decrease in value of 0.2m and both Biltmore Court & Tower and Sunnyvale residences recorded no change.
b Gain on acquisition of subsidiary On 15 November 2010, Beijing Fortune Co. Ltd. Beijing Fortune which owns and operates the Grand Millennium Hotel Beijing became a 70% owned subsidiary following the Group exercising an option to buy an additional 40% interest from Beijing Xiangjiang Xinli Real Estate Development Co. Ltd.
The Group previously held a 30% interest in Beijing Fortune and accounted for its share of the results and net assets in accordance with IAS 31, Interests in Joint Ventures.
A 0.3m net gain arose on the transaction which consisted of a 8.4m gain from revaluing the previously held 30% interest net of a 8.1m write-off of goodwill arising from the acquired 40% interest.
c Impairment The Directors undertook an annual review of the carrying value of hotels and property assets for indication of impairment and where appropriate, external valuations were also undertaken see note 12.
An impairment charge of 14.6m was made in relation to 6 hotels each in Regional UK and Regional US and a 0.6m impairment charge made on additional shareholder loan and interest in the Groups 50% investment in Bangkok.
In 2009, an impairment charge of 0.9m was made in relating to land in India and 1.3m on additional shareholder loan and interest in Bangkok.
In the previous year end review of those hotels now being impaired, the value of those hotels was based on a planned recovery of trading post the economic downturn in 2008 and 2009.
With trading recovery not as strong as expected in Regional US and Regional UK, this has resulted in an impairment charge for a number of our hotels.
96 97 MiLLenniUM & CoptHorne HoteLs pLC Annual Report & Accounts 2010 MiLLenniUM & CoptHorne HoteLs pLC Annual Report & Accounts 2010 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 7. sepArAteLY DisCLoseD iteMs ContinUeD d Redundancy costs Following a decision to redevelop the Orchid Hotel Singapore into apartments, a 1.7m provision was recorded in relation to redundancy costs announced to its workforce during 2010, associated with its closure anticipated during the first quarter of 2011. e Gain on dilution of interest in associate On 1 July 2010, CDLHT announced the issue of 116,960,000 new stapled securities, priced at S$1.71 each, pursuant to a private placement, and raising net proceeds of S$196.7m S$200.0m gross.
Proceeds were applied to pay down debt.
The Groups interest in CDLHT fell to 34.77% from its pre-issuance interest of 39.03%, which resulted in a non-cash gain of S$15.0m 7.2m.
The gain arises from the Groups share of proceeds being greater than its share of net tangible assets diluted by the issue.
f Provision for asset write-off and legal costs in FSCL The 2.3m charge represents the Groups share of provision against assets write-off and legal costs in First Sponsor Capital Limited FSCL.
g Revaluation gain of investment properties At end of 2010, the investment properties of CDL Hospitality Trusts CDLHT, the Groups associate in a Singapore-listed REIT, and those of First Sponsor Capital Limited FSCL were subject to external professional valuation on an open market existing use basis.
The Groups share of CDLHTs and FSCLs net revaluation surplus of investment properties was 4.4m and 4.8m respectively.
In 2009, the Groups share of FSCLs revaluation surplus of investment properties was 0.6m and CDLHT recorded no change.
8. personneL eXpenses 2010 2009 m m Wages and salaries 226.9 208.4 Compulsory social security contributions 33.3 31.3 Contributions to defined contribution schemes 9.2 9.1 Defined benefit pension credit cost recorded in the statement of comprehensive income 1.1 6.5 Defined benefit pension costs recorded in the income statement 2.5 2.0 Equity settled share-based payment transactions 0.8 1.6 270.0 258.9 The average number of employees employed by the Group including Directors during the year analysed by category was as follows: 2010 2009 number Number Hotel operating staff 8,960 8,809 Management administration 1,219 1,255 Sales and marketing 500 519 Repairs and maintenance 553 548 11,232 11,131 Directors remuneration Details of Directors remuneration, share options, long-term incentive schemes and Directors pension entitlements and interests in shares are disclosed in the Directors Remuneration Report on pages 59 to 65.
98 99 MiLLenniUM & CoptHorne HoteLs pLC Annual Report & Accounts 2010 MiLLenniUM & CoptHorne HoteLs pLC Annual Report & Accounts 2010 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 9. net FinAnCe eXpense 2010 2009 m m Interest income 2.2 2.0 Interest receivable from joint ventures 0.5 0.4 Foreign exchange gain 6.1 0.6 Finance income 8.8 3.0 Interest expense 8.5 9.7 Foreign exchange loss 6.2 0.6 Finance expense 14.7 10.3 net finance expense 5.9 7.3 10. inCoMe tAX eXpense 2010 2009 m m Current tax Corporation tax charge for the year 29.6 23.0 Adjustment in respect of prior years 4.5 3.1 Total current tax expense 25.1 19.9 Deferred tax note 26 Origination and reversal of timing differences 5.1 3.4 Effect of change in tax rate on opening deferred taxes 7.4 9.9 Benefits utilisation of tax losses recognised 0.2 3.1 Change in tax legislation 11.9 Under over provision in respect of prior years 6.0 3.0 Total deferred tax charge credit 5.6 12.6 total income tax charge in the income statement 30.7 7.3 UK 7.1 7.8 Overseas 23.6 0.5 total income tax charge in the income statement 30.7 7.3 The Group recorded a tax expense of 30.7m 2009: 7.3m excluding the tax relating to joint ventures and associates, giving rise to an effective rate of 29.6% 2009: 10.8%.
The higher effective rate is due primarily to the impact of a change in legislation in New Zealand, which removed the ability to depreciate buildings for tax purposes, resulting in an increased deferred tax liability.
This is partly offset by the impact of reduced tax rates applied to brought forward net deferred tax liabilities in Taiwan, New Zealand and the UK.
Excluding the impact of separately disclosed items of the Group within profit before tax, changes in corporate tax rates on brought forward deferred taxes, changes in tax legislation and adjustments in respect of previous years, the Groups underlying effective tax rate is 28.9% 2009: 33.2%.
A tax charge of 4.4m 2009: 2.3m relating to joint ventures and associates is included in the reported profit before tax.
Major adjustment factors affecting the 2010 tax expense: Effect of changes in tax rates The credit of 7.4m relates to reduction in tax rate in Taiwan, New Zealand and the UK on opening deferred taxes.
98 99 MiLLenniUM & CoptHorne HoteLs pLC Annual Report & Accounts 2010 MiLLenniUM & CoptHorne HoteLs pLC Annual Report & Accounts 2010 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 10. inCoMe tAX eXpense ContinUeD Adjustments in respect of prior years The Groups tax charge on ordinary activities is the sum of the total current and deferred tax charges.
The calculation of the Groups total tax charge necessarily involves a degree of estimation and judgement in respect of certain items whose tax treatment cannot be finally determined until resolution has been reached with the relevant tax authority or, as appropriate, through a formal legal process.
The final resolution of some of these items may give rise to material profit and loss and or cash flow variances.
The geographical complexity of the Groups structure makes the degree of estimation and judgement more challenging.
The resolution of issues is not always within the control of the Group and it is often dependent on the efficacy of the legal processes in the relevant tax jurisdictions in which the Group operates.
Income tax reconciliation 2010 2009 m m Profit before income tax in income statement 128.6 81.9 1 Less share of profits of joint ventures and associates 24.8 14.2 Profit on ordinary activities excluding share of joint ventures and associates 103.8 67.7 Income tax on ordinary activities at the standard rate of UK tax of 28.0% 2009: 28.0% 29.1 19.0 Tax exempt income 5.3 1.6 Non deductible expenses 4.8 5.1 Recognition of deferred tax on share of undistributed associates profit 0.2 Current year losses for which no deferred tax asset was recognised 0.7 0.8 Unrecognised deferred tax assets 1.0 1.3 Recognition of previously unrecognised tax losses 0.2 1.0 Effect of higher tax rates on other operating expense 3.0 Other effect of tax rates in foreign jurisdictions 2.2 0.3 Effect of change in tax rates on opening deferred taxes 7.4 9.9 Changes in tax legislation 11.9 2 Other adjustments to tax charge in respect of prior years 1.5 6.1 30.7 7.3 1 The effective rate of tax for joint ventures and associates before other operating expense income is 16.9% 2009: 12.5%.
This is lower than the standard rate of UK tax of 28.0% 2009: 28.0%, due to lower rates of corporation tax being applicable in the jurisdictions in which the entities operate and the effects of tax exempt income.
2 Comprising 4.5m credit 2009: 3.1m credit in respect of current tax and 6.0m charge 2009: 3.0m credit in respect of deferred tax.
Income tax on income and expense recognised directly in equity 2010 2009 m m Taxation expense credit arising on defined benefit pension schemes 0.5 1.5 Taxation expense arising from cash flow hedging 0.2 Taxation expense other 0.5 1.2 1.5 100 101 MiLLenniUM & CoptHorne HoteLs pLC Annual Report & Accounts 2010 MiLLenniUM & CoptHorne HoteLs pLC Annual Report & Accounts 2010 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 11. eArninGs per sHAre Earnings per share are calculated using the following information: All amounts in m unless otherwise stated 2010 2009 a Basic Profit for year attributable to holders of the parent m 96.2 70.1 Weighted average number of shares in issue m 311.8 306.1 Basic earnings per share pence 30.9p 22.9p b Diluted Profit for year attributable to holders of the parent m 96.2 70.1 Weighted average number of shares in issue m 311.8 306.1 Potentially dilutive share options under Groups share option schemes m 1.2 0.6 Weighted average number of shares in issue diluted m 313.0 306.7 Diluted earnings per share pence 30.7p 22.9p c Headline earnings per share pence Profit for year attributable to holders of the parent m 96.2 70.1 Adjustments for: Separately disclosed items Group net of tax and non-controlling interests m 1.6 2.0 Share of separately disclosed items of joint ventures and associates net of tax and non-controlling interests m 5.4 0.1 Changes in tax rates on opening deferred tax m 7.4 9.9 Changes in tax legislation m 11.9 Adjusted profit for the year attributable to holders of the parent m 93.7 62.1 Weighted average number of shares in issue m 311.8 306.1 Headline earnings per share pence 30.1p 20.3p d Diluted headline earnings per share pence Adjusted profit for the year attributable to the holders of the parent m 93.7 62.1 Weighted average number of shares in issue diluted m 313.0 306.7 Diluted headline earnings per share pence 29.9p 20.2p 100 101 MiLLenniUM & CoptHorne HoteLs pLC Annual Report & Accounts 2010 MiLLenniUM & CoptHorne HoteLs pLC Annual Report & Accounts 2010 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 12. propertY, pLAnt AnD eQUipMent plant and Land Capital Fixtures, machinery and work in fittings and and buildings progress equipment vehicles total Notes m m m m m Cost Balance at 31 December 2008 as previously stated 2,022.5 30.4 104.0 199.3 2,356.2 Reclassification from lease premium prepayment a 96.4 96.4 Balance at 31 December 2008 restated 2,118.9 30.4 104.0 199.3 2,452.6 Balance at 1 January 2009 restated 2,118.9 30.4 104.0 199.3 2,452.6 Additions 1.5 9.1 2.4 2.6 15.6 Transfer to investment properties b 15.9 15.9 Transfers 1.3 0.9 0.4 0.8 Disposals 0.3 0.4 17.1 17.8 Foreign exchange adjustments 61.3 0.7 3.7 8.7 74.4 Balance at 31 December 2009 restated 2,060.1 22.0 102.7 175.3 2,360.1 Balance at 1 January 2010 2,060.1 22.0 102.7 175.3 2,360.1 Additions 6.9 5.1 2.2 7.2 21.4 Acquisition c 46.2 10.8 6.9 63.9 Transfers 12.2 18.3 1.5 4.6 Disposal 0.2 5.2 7.2 12.6 Foreign exchange adjustments 96.7 4.0 6.3 10.6 117.6 Balance at 31 December 2010 2,222.1 12.6 118.3 197.4 2,550.4 Depreciation Balance as at 31 December 2008 as previously stated 98.6 7.4 30.3 152.2 288.5 Reclassification from lease premium prepayment a 25.9 25.9 Balance at 31 December 2008 restated 124.5 7.4 30.3 152.2 314.4 Balance at 1 January 2009 restated 124.5 7.4 30.3 152.2 314.4 Transfer to investment properties b 5.6 5.6 Charge for year 10.6 4.4 16.9 31.9 Impairment f 0.9 0.9 Disposals 0.4 16.8 17.2 Foreign exchange adjustments 3.4 0.1 0.3 6.2 9.4 Balance at 31 December 2009 restated 132.6 1.7 34.6 146.1 315.0 Balance at 1 January 2010 132.6 1.7 34.6 146.1 315.0 Charge for the year 11.3 4.0 16.8 32.1 Impairment d 14.6 14.6 Transfer 1.7 1.7 Disposal 5.2 7.0 12.2 Foreign exchange adjustments 3.7 6.2 5.3 15.2 Balance at 31 December 2010 163.9 39.6 161.2 364.7 Carrying amounts At 31 December 2010 2,058.2 12.6 78.7 36.2 2,185.7 At 31 December 2009 restated 1,927.5 20.3 68.1 29.2 2,045.1 At 1 January 2009 restated 1,994.4 23.0 73.7 47.1 2,138.2 At 31 December 2008 restated 1,994.4 23.0 73.7 47.1 2,138.2 a Reclassification from lease premium prepayment As a result of amendments to IAS 17 Leases, a number of land leases previously categorised in lease premium prepayment are determined to be finance leases and were transferred to property, plant and equipment.
102 103 MiLLenniUM & CoptHorne HoteLs pLC Annual Report & Accounts 2010 MiLLenniUM & CoptHorne HoteLs pLC Annual Report & Accounts 2010 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 12. propertY, pLAnt AnD eQUipMent ContinUeD b Transfer to investment properties In 2009, as a result of the adoption of the amendment to IAS 40, the Group reclassified investment properties under construction Sunnyvale residences to investment properties at a net book value of 10.3m.
c Acquisition In November 2010, Beijing Fortune Co. Ltd became a 70.0% owned subsidiary following an option to buy an additional 40.0%.
The acquired assets have been accounted for at fair value refer to note 31. d Impairment Property, plant and equipment are reviewed for impairment based on each cash generating unit CGU.
The CGUs are individual hotels.
The carrying value of individual hotels was compared to the recoverable amount of the hotels, which was predominantly based on value-in-use.
For 2010, where indicators of impairment were present, the Group estimated value-in-use through creation of discounted cash flow models, based on future trading performance expected by management.
The underlying basis for the impairment model involves each hotels projected cash flow for the financial year ending 31 December 2011, extrapolated to incorporate individual assumptions in respect of revenue growth principally factoring in room rate and occupancy growth and major expense lines.
Where appropriate, the Directors sought guidance on value through a registered independent appraiser with an appropriately recognised professional qualification and recent experience in location and category of the hotel being valued.
On the basis of both external and internal valuations in 2010, the Group recorded an impairment charge of 15.2m within administrative expenses as shown in note 6 and comprises a 14.6m charge relating to property, plant and equipment and a 0.6m charge relating to impairment of additional shareholder loan and interest in 50% owned joint venture investment in Thailand.
The 14.6m impairment charge was made in relation to 6 hotels in the regional UK and 6 hotels in the regional US.
For 2009, the Group recorded an impairment charge of 0.9m within administrative expenses in relation to land in India based on an external valuation.
The 2010 impairment charge and the estimated recoverable amount was based on the properties value in use, determined using discount rates ranging from 6.5% to 14.5%.
In the previous year end review of those hotels now being impaired, the value of the hotels was based on a planned recovery of trading post the economic downturn in 2008 and 2009.
With recovery not as strong as expected in Regional US and Regional UK, this has resulted in an impairment charge for a number of our hotels.
e Land and buildings Land and buildings includes long leasehold building assets with a book value of 463.6m 2009 restated : 420.5m of which assets held under finance leases have a net book value of 68.6m 2009: 69.2m.
The net book value of land and buildings held under short leases was 67.9m 2009: 21.6m, in respect of which depreciation of 2.6m 2009: 1.7m was charged during the year.
Interest of nil 2009: 0.1m has been capitalised within land and buildings during the year.
The cumulative interest within land and buildings is 4.4m 2009: 4.4m.
f Pledged assets At year-end, the net book value of assets pledged as collateral for secured loans was 265.3m 2009: 262.6m.
The security for the loans is by way of charges on the properties of Group companies concerned.
102 103 MiLLenniUM & CoptHorne HoteLs pLC Annual Report & Accounts 2010 MiLLenniUM & CoptHorne HoteLs pLC Annual Report & Accounts 2010 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 12. propertY, pLAnt AnD eQUipMent ContinUeD Key assumptions used by the external appraisers The key assumptions used were: Pre-tax discount rate The discount rate is based on the country in which the hotel is located and adjusted for risks associated with the hotel.
Discount rates ranged from 9.75% to 13.5% in the United States, 10.0% to 11.25% in Europe, 6.5% to 8.5% in Asia and, 8.75% to 10.25% in New Zealand.
Revenue growth The revenue annual compound growth rates ranged from 3.8% to 9.0% in the United States, 2.7% to 3.7% in Europe, 2.6% to 9.3% in Asia and, 0.7% to 2.9% in New Zealand.
Sensitivities The Groups impairment review is sensitive to changes in the key assumptions used, most notably the discount rates and revenue growth assumptions.
Based on the Groups sensitivity analysis, a reasonable possible change in a single factor could result in impairment in a small number of our hotels in Regional UK and Regional US as their fair value currently exceeds their carrying value only by a small percentage.
LeAse preMiUM prepAYMent Restated 2010 2009 m m Cost Balance at 1 January 28.1 125.0 Reclassification to property, plant and equipment 96.4 Balance at 1 January restated 28.1 28.6 Acquisition note b 45.0 Foreign exchange adjustments 3.4 0.5 Balance at 31 December 76.5 28.1 Amortisation Balance at 1 January 2.3 27.9 Reclassification to property, plant and equipment 25.9 Balance at 1 January restated 2.3 2.0 Charge for the year 0.6 0.2 Foreign exchange adjustments 0.3 0.1 Balance at 31 December 3.2 2.3 Carrying amount 73.3 25.8 Analysed between: Amount due after more than one year included in non-current assets 71.5 25.2 Amount due within one year included in current assets 1.8 0.6 a Reclassification to property plant and equipment As a result of amendments to IAS 17 Leases, a number of land leases determined to be finance leases were transferred to property, plant equipment.
b Acquisition The addition represents the acquisition of leasehold land in acquiring a 70% interest in Beijing Fortune Co Ltd refer to note 31.
104 105 MiLLenniUM & CoptHorne HoteLs pLC Annual Report & Accounts 2010 MiLLenniUM & CoptHorne HoteLs pLC Annual Report & Accounts 2010 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 14. inVestMent properties Investment properties owned by the Group comprises offices and a shopping-cum-office complex together with a land site allocated for the future construction of condominiums Sunnyvale residences.
Movements in the year analysed as: 2010 2009 investment Investment Completed property Completed property investment under investment under property construction total property construction Total m m m m m m Balance at 1 January 73.7 9.6 83.3 79.3 79.3 Transfers from property, plant and equipment see note below 10.3 10.3 Adjustment to fair value 7.4 3.3 4.1 0.2 0.2 Foreign exchange adjustment 7.2 0.3 7.5 5.4 0.7 6.1 Balance at 31 December 88.3 6.6 94.9 73.7 9.6 83.3 Analysed as: 2010 2009 offices and Ofces and a shoppinga shoppingcum-office cum-ofce complex residential total complex Residential Total m m m m m m Completed investment property 88.3 88.3 73.7 73.7 Investment property under construction 6.6 6.6 9.6 9.6 Balance at 31 December 88.3 6.6 94.9 73.7 9.6 83.3 In general the carrying amount of investment property is the fair value of the property as determined by a registered independent appraiser having an appropriate recognised professional qualification and recent experience in the location and category of the property being valued.
Fair values were determined having regard to recent market transactions for similar properties in the same location as the Groups investment property.
note As a result of the adoption of the amendment to IAS 40, as at 1 January 2009 the Group has reclassified investment properties under construction Sunnyvale residences from property, plant and equipment to investment properties, at net book value of 10.3 million, which represents the net book value as at 31 December 2009.
104 105 MiLLenniUM & CoptHorne HoteLs pLC Annual Report & Accounts 2010 MiLLenniUM & CoptHorne HoteLs pLC Annual Report & Accounts 2010 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 14. inVestMent properties ContinUeD At the end of 2010, those Group investment properties were subject to external professional valuation on an open market existing use basis by the following accredited independent valuers: Property Valuer Tanglin Shopping Centre, Singapore DTZ Debenham Tie Leung Biltmore Court & Tower, Los Angeles Sequoia Hotel Advisors, LLC Sunnyvale residences Sequoia Hotel Advisors, LLC Tanglin Shopping Centre recorded uplift in value of 9.3m whereas Biltmore Court & Tower and Sunnyvale residences recorded decreases in value of 1.9m and 3.3m respectively.
Further details in respect of investment property rentals are given in note 32.
15. inVestMents in Joint VentUres AnD AssoCiAtes The Group has the following significant investments in joint ventures and associates: Effective Group interest 2010 2009 Joint Ventures New Unity Holdings Limited 50.0% 50.0% Fena Estate Company Limited 50.0% 50.0% Beijing Fortune Hotel Co. Ltd transferred to subsidiary undertaking in November 2010 when effective interest increased to 70% 30.0% Associates CDL Hospitality Trusts CDLHT see note a below 34.9% 39.5% First Sponsor Capital Limited FSCL 41.2% 39.8% 106 107 MiLLenniUM & CoptHorne HoteLs pLC Annual Report & Accounts 2010 MiLLenniUM & CoptHorne HoteLs pLC Annual Report & Accounts 2010 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 15. inVestMents in Joint VentUres AnD AssoCiAtes ContinUeD Joint Joint Ventures Associates total Ventures Associates Total 2010 2010 2010 2009 2009 2009 m m m m m m share of net assets cost Balance at 1 January 80.3 246.1 326.4 82.8 255.9 338.7 Share of profits for the year 6.3 18.5 24.8 3.0 11.2 14.2 Additions see note b below 20.1 20.1 2.9 2.9 Gain on dilution of investment see note c below 7.2 7.2 Gain on revaluation of step acquisition refer to note 31 8.4 8.4 Reclassification as a subsidiary see note d below 8.4 8.4 Capitalisation of loan 1.0 1.0 Dividends received 15.2 15.2 12.5 12.5 Foreign exchange adjustments 2.9 30.6 33.5 6.5 11.7 18.2 Other movements 0.3 0.3 Balance at 31 December 89.5 307.3 396.8 80.3 246.1 326.4 Share of profit for the year Operating profit before separately disclosed items 12.2 16.9 29.1 7.8 12.8 20.6 Separately disclosed items see note e below 6.9 6.9 0.6 0.6 Interest, tax and non-controlling interests 5.9 5.3 11.2 4.8 2.2 7.0 Analysed between: Interest 0.1 2.9 3.0 0.8 2.0 2.8 Tax 2.1 2.3 4.4 1.6 0.7 2.3 Non-controlling interests 3.7 0.1 3.8 2.4 0.5 1.9 6.3 18.5 24.8 3.0 11.2 14.2 notes a CDLHT is quoted on the Singapore Exchange Securities Trading Limited and as at 31 December 2010 its share price was S$2.08 2009: S$1.75.
For the Groups 34.9% 2009: 39.5% interest, this equates to a market capitalisation of 348.0m 2009: 257.4m.
b Additions associates The Group received stapled units in CDLHT in lieu of payment of management fees amounting to 3.7m in 2010 2009: 2.9m and in 2010 invested 16.4m 2009: nil in FSCL.
c Gain on dilution of investment On 1 July 2010, CDLHT announced the issue of 116,960,000 new stapled securities, priced at S$1.71 each, pursuant to a private placement, and raising net proceeds of S$196.7m S$200.0m gross.
d On 15 November 2010 the Group gained control of Beijing Fortune Co. Ltd and from this date was consolidated as a subsidiary.
At end of 2010, the investment properties of CDL Hospitality Trusts CDLHT, the Groups associate in a Singapore-listed REIT, and those of First Sponsor Capital Limited FSCL were subject to external professional valuation on an open market existing use basis.
The Groups share of CDLHTs and FSCLs net revaluation surplus of investment properties were 4.4m 2009: nil, and 4.8m 2009: 0.6m respectively.
In addition the Groups share of provision against asset write off and legal costs in FSCL were 2.3m 2009: nil.
106 107 MiLLenniUM & CoptHorne HoteLs pLC Annual Report & Accounts 2010 MiLLenniUM & CoptHorne HoteLs pLC Annual Report & Accounts 2010 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 15. inVestMents in Joint VentUres AnD AssoCiAtes ContinUeD 2010 2009 m m summary information on joint ventures 100% Revenue 90.9 76.8 Expenses 78.2 70.7 Profit for the year 12.7 6.1 Assets Non-current assets 315.8 403.6 Current assets 64.1 58.6 Total assets 379.9 462.2 Liabilities Non-current liabilities 111.6 219.1 Current liabilities 26.4 35.6 Total liabilities 138.0 254.7 Total assets less total liabilities 241.9 207.5 Less non-controlling share of net assets 62.4 53.2 net assets 100% 179.5 154.3 2010 2009 m m summary information on associates 100% Revenue 78.4 60.5 Surplus on revaluation of investment properties 22.2 1.8 Other operating expense 4.6 Expenses 45.1 34.4 Profit loss for the year 50.9 27.9 Assets Non-current assets 906.4 702.6 Current assets 205.1 73.1 Total assets 1,111.5 775.7 Liabilities Non-current liabilities 204.3 137.2 Current liabilities 75.5 30.6 Total liabilities 279.8 167.8 Total assets less total liabilities 831.7 607.9 Less non-controlling share of net assets 15.7 16.2 net assets 100% 816.0 591.7 At 31 December 2010 the Groups share of the total capital commitments of joint ventures amounted to 0.2m 2009: nil.
At 31 December 2010, joint ventures and associates had no significant contingent liabilities 2009: nil.
108 109 MiLLenniUM & CoptHorne HoteLs pLC Annual Report & Accounts 2010 MiLLenniUM & CoptHorne HoteLs pLC Annual Report & Accounts 2010 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 16. otHer FinAnCiAL Assets 2010 2009 m m Other financial assets included within non-current assets comprise: Unquoted equity investments available-for-sale 4.6 4.4 Deposits receivable 2.3 2.0 6.9 6.4 17. inVentories 2010 2009 m m Consumables 4.5 4.2 18.
DeVeLopMent properties 2010 2009 m m Development properties comprise: Development land for resale New Zealand landbank 43.1 38.5 Kuala Lumpur 9.1 7.8 Development property Zenith 29.9 26.0 Glyndebourne redevelopment of Copthorne Orchid hotel 21.2 103.3 72.3 19. trADe AnD otHer reCeiVABLes 2010 2009 m m Trade receivables due from joint ventures and associates 0.6 1.3 Trade receivables 30.6 28.7 Other receivables 11.7 7.2 Prepayments and accrued income 25.1 18.9 68.0 56.1 Trade receivables are shown net of an impairment allowance of 1.1m 2009: 1.2m and arise from likely insolvencies of customers.
The Groups exposure to credit and currency risks and impairment losses related to trade and other receivables are disclosed in note 22.
108 109 MiLLenniUM & CoptHorne HoteLs pLC Annual Report & Accounts 2010 MiLLenniUM & CoptHorne HoteLs pLC Annual Report & Accounts 2010 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 20.
CAsH AnD CAsH eQUiVALents 2010 2009 m m Cash at bank and in hand 77.6 52.0 Short term deposits 174.3 83.5 Cash and cash equivalents on the statement of financial position 251.9 135.5 Bank overdrafts included in borrowings 0.4 0.6 Cash and cash equivalents shown in the cash flow statement 251.5 134.9 The Groups exposure to interest rate risk and a sensitivity analysis for financial assets are disclosed in note 22.
21. interest-BeArinG LoAns, BonDs AnD BorroWinGs 2010 2009 m m Included within non-current liabilities: Bank loans 139.5 59.8 Bonds payable 184.2 173.2 323.7 233.0 2010 2009 m m Included within current liabilities: Bank loans and overdrafts 34.3 56.8 Notes payable 26.0 Bonds payable 59.6 22.2 93.9 105.0 Further details in respect of financial liabilities are given in note 22.
110 111 MiLLenniUM & CoptHorne HoteLs pLC Annual Report & Accounts 2010 MiLLenniUM & CoptHorne HoteLs pLC Annual Report & Accounts 2010 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 22.
FinAnCiAL instrUMents Overview The Group has exposure to the following risks from its use of financial instruments: credit risk liquidity risk market risk This note presents information about the Groups exposure to each of the above risks, and the Groups policies and processes for measuring and managing risk.
a Credit Risk Credit risk is the risk of financial loss to the Group if a customer or counterparty to a financial instrument fails to meet its contractual obligations, and arises principally from the Groups receivables from customers and investment securities.
Exposure to credit risk is monitored on an ongoing basis, credit checks being performed on all clients requiring credit over certain amounts.
Credit is not extended beyond authorised limits, established where appropriate through consultation with a professional credit vetting organisation.
Credit granted is subject to regular review, to ensure it remains consistent with the clients current credit worthiness and appropriate to the anticipated volume of business.
Investments are allowed only in liquid short-term instruments within approved limits, with investment counterparties approved by the Board, such that the exposure to a single counterparty is minimised.
The maximum exposure to credit risk is represented by the carrying value of each financial asset on the balance sheet, these being spread across the various currencies and jurisdictions in which the Group operates.
The maximum exposure to credit risk at the reporting date was: Carrying value 2010 2009 m m Cash at bank and in hand see note 20 77.6 52.0 Short-term deposits see note 20 174.3 83.5 Unquoted equity investments available-for-sale see note 16 4.6 4.4 Deposits receivable see note 16 2.3 2.0 Trade receivables see note 19 30.6 28.7 Trade receivables due from joint ventures and associates see note 19 0.6 1.3 Other receivables see note 19 11.7 7.2 301.7 179.1 110 111 MiLLenniUM & CoptHorne HoteLs pLC Annual Report & Accounts 2010 MiLLenniUM & CoptHorne HoteLs pLC Annual Report & Accounts 2010 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 22.
FinAnCiAL instrUMents ContinUeD The maximum exposure to credit risk for trade receivables at the reporting date by geographic region was: Carrying value 2010 2009 m m New York 5.2 4.5 Regional US 3.3 2.5 London 0.3 0.3 Rest of Europe 6.0 6.7 Singapore 7.1 5.1 Rest of Asia 5.1 4.3 Australasia 3.6 5.3 Total Group 30.6 28.7 The ageing of trade receivables at the reporting date was: Gross Receivable Impairment Allowance Carrying value 2010 2009 2010 2009 2010 2009 m m m m m m Not past due 16.1 12.3 0.1 16.1 12.2 Past due 0 30 days 10.8 10.6 10.8 10.6 Past due 31 60 days 3.0 3.4 0.3 3.0 3.1 Past due 61 90 days 0.9 0.7 0.4 0.3 0.5 0.4 More than 90 days 0.9 2.9 0.7 0.5 0.2 2.4 Total Group 31.7 29.9 1.1 1.2 30.6 28.7 The movement in the allowance for impairment in respect of trade receivables during the year was as follows: 2010 2009 m m Balance at 1 January 1.2 1.9 Impairment write-back recognised 0.1 Written-off 0.1 0.6 Balance at 31 December 1.1 1.2 112 113 MiLLenniUM & CoptHorne HoteLs pLC Annual Report & Accounts 2010 MiLLenniUM & CoptHorne HoteLs pLC Annual Report & Accounts 2010 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 22.
FinAnCiAL instrUMents ContinUeD Contractual maturities of financial assets 2010 6 months 6 months 1-5 More than total or less 1 year years 5 years m m m m m Financial Assets Fixed rate: Sterling 22.2 22.2 US dollar 5.0 5.0 Korean won 15.0 15.0 Singapore dollar 75.9 75.9 New Taiwan dollar 34.4 34.4 Australian dollar 11.8 11.8 New Zealand dollar 7.7 7.7 Malaysian ringgit 9.2 9.2 Euro 7.9 7.9 Others 5.7 5.7 Non-interest bearing: Sterling 1.5 1.5 US dollar 22.3 17.7 4.6 Korean won 0.1 0.1 Singapore dollar 23.3 21.0 2.3 New Taiwan dollar 0.5 0.5 Malaysian ringgit 1.0 1.0 Euro 9.3 9.3 Chinese renminbi 2.7 2.7 Others 3.3 3.3 total 258.8 251.9 6.9 Represented by: Cash and cash equivalents 251.9 Other financial assets non-current 6.9 258.8 112 113 MiLLenniUM & CoptHorne HoteLs pLC Annual Report & Accounts 2010 MiLLenniUM & CoptHorne HoteLs pLC Annual Report & Accounts 2010 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 22.
FinAnCiAL instrUMents ContinUeD Contractual maturities of financial assets 2009 6 months 6 months 1-5 More than Total or less 1 year years 5 years m m m m m Financial Assets Fixed rate: Sterling 11.3 11.3 US dollar 6.2 6.2 Korean won 9.6 9.6 Singapore dollar 10.2 10.2 New Taiwan dollar 24.8 24.8 Australian dollar 9.6 9.6 New Zealand dollar 5.2 5.2 Malaysian ringgit 2.1 2.1 Euro 11.5 11.5 Others 5.5 5.5 Non-interest bearing: Sterling 2.0 2.0 US dollar 18.0 13.6 4.4 Korean won 0.1 0.1 Singapore dollar 15.4 13.4 2.0 New Taiwan dollar 0.4 0.4 Malaysian ringgit 1.5 1.5 Euro 3.3 3.3 Others 5.2 5.2 total 141.9 135.5 6.4 Represented by: Cash and cash equivalents 135.5 Other financial assets non-current 6.4 141.9 b Liquidity Risk Liquidity risk is the risk that the Group will not be able to meet its financial obligations as they fall due.
The Groups approach to managing liquidity is to ensure, as far as possible, that it will always have sufficient liquidity to meet its liabilities when due, under both normal and stressed conditions, without incurring unacceptable losses or risking damage to the Groups reputation.
114 115 MiLLenniUM & CoptHorne HoteLs pLC Annual Report & Accounts 2010 MiLLenniUM & CoptHorne HoteLs pLC Annual Report & Accounts 2010 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 22.
FinAnCiAL instrUMents ContinUeD The following are the contractual maturities of financial liabilities, including estimated interest payments using the interest rates prevailing as at the reporting date.
Contractual maturities of financial liabilities Carrying Contractual 6 months 6-12 1-2 2-5 More than amount cash flows or less months years years 5 years 31 December 2010 m m m m m m m Floating rate Financial Liabilities Secured loans 83.9 104.9 6.3 25.8 3.7 11.0 58.1 Unsecured loans 89.5 91.4 0.5 3.6 71.0 16.3 Unsecured bonds 243.8 247.5 60.6 0.7 77.0 109.2 Bank overdrafts 0.4 0.4 0.4 trade and other payables Trade payables 21.1 21.1 21.1 Amounts owed to associates 3.2 3.2 3.2 Other creditors 8.9 8.9 8.9 Interest rate swaps designated as cash flow hedges 0.5 0.5 0.5 Forward cross currency contracts designated as cash flow hedges 0.8 0.8 0.8 other non-current liabilities 6.3 6.3 0.8 4.8 0.7 458.4 485.0 100.6 31.0 152.5 142.1 58.8 Contractual maturities of financial liabilities Carrying Contractual 6 months 6-12 1-2 2-5 More than amount cash flows or less months years years 5 years 31 December 2009 m m m m m m m Floating rate Financial Liabilities Secured loans 25.2 26.7 2.0 0.4 22.4 1.9 Unsecured loans 90.8 92.1 0.4 55.0 18.8 17.9 Secured notes 26.0 26.1 26.1 Unsecured bonds 173.2 210.0 1.0 1.0 56.1 151.9 Bank overdrafts 0.6 0.6 0.6 Fixed rate Financial Liabilities Unsecured bonds 22.2 22.5 22.5 trade and other payables Trade payables 17.8 17.8 17.8 Amounts owed to associates 2.8 2.8 2.8 Other creditors 5.6 5.6 5.6 other non-current liabilities 6.6 6.6 1.0 0.3 5.3 370.8 410.8 78.2 58.0 97.6 177.0 114 115 MiLLenniUM & CoptHorne HoteLs pLC Annual Report & Accounts 2010 MiLLenniUM & CoptHorne HoteLs pLC Annual Report & Accounts 2010 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 22.
FinAnCiAL instrUMents ContinUeD Undrawn committed borrowing facilities Undrawn borrowing facilities are available to the Group with the maturities as set out in the following table.
The conditions precedents to the availability of these facilities are all satisfied at the balance sheet date.
2010 2009 m m Expiring in one year or less 70.9 31.8 Expiring after more than one year but not more than two years 25.6 65.3 Expiring after more than two years but not more than five years 55.9 81.7 Total undrawn committed borrowing facilities 152.4 178.8 Security Included within the Groups total bank loans and overdrafts of 173.8m 2009: 116.6m are 84.3m 2009: 25.8m of secured loans and overdrafts.
Of total bonds and notes payable of 243.8m 2009: 221.4m, nil 2009: 26.0m are secured notes.
Loans, bonds and notes are secured on land and buildings with a carrying value of 265.3m 2009: 262.6m and an assignment of insurance proceeds in respect of insurances over the mortgaged properties.
At 31 December 2010, the Group had 152.4m of undrawn and committed facilities available, comprising committed revolving credit facilities which provide the Group with financial flexibility.
Of the Groups total facilities of 620.3m, 213.7m matures during 2011, comprising 81.2m committed facilities of which 70.8m is currently undrawn, 49.2m of uncommitted facilities and overdrafts subject to annual renewal, 59.6m unsecured bonds and 23.7m secured term loans.
Plans for refinancing of maturing facilities are underway.
c Market Risk Market risk is the risk that changes in market prices, such as foreign exchange rates, interest rates and equity prices will affect the Groups income or the value of its holdings of financial instruments.
The primary objectives of the treasury function are to provide secure and competitively priced funding for the activities of the Group and to identify and manage financial risks, including exposure to movements in interest and foreign exchange rates arising from those activities.
If appropriate, the Group uses financial instruments and derivatives to manage these risks, as set out below: i Foreign currency risk The Group is exposed to foreign currency risk on revenue, purchases, borrowings and cash deposits denominated in currencies other than the functional currencies of the respective Group entities.
The currencies giving rise to this risk are primarily US dollars, Singapore dollars, New Zealand dollars, New Taiwan dollars and Korean won.
The Groups principal policy, wherever possible, is to maintain a natural hedge whereby liabilities are matched with assets denominated in the same currency.
Foreign currency investment exposure is also minimised by borrowing in the currency of the investment.
To mitigate foreign currency translation exposure, an appropriate proportion of net assets are designated as hedged against corresponding financial liabilities in the same currency.
116 117 MiLLenniUM & CoptHorne HoteLs pLC Annual Report & Accounts 2010 MiLLenniUM & CoptHorne HoteLs pLC Annual Report & Accounts 2010 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 22.
FinAnCiAL instrUMents ContinUeD Net investment hedging The group has US$213.2m 2009: US$229m US dollar loans and S$208.5m 2009: S$219.0m Singapore dollar loans designated as hedges of corresponding respective proportions of its net investment in foreign operations whose functional currency is US dollars and Singapore dollars.
The risk being hedged is the foreign currency exposure on the carrying amount of the net assets of the foreign operation upon consolidation.
The fair value of the hedging instruments as at 31 December 2010 was 242.9m 2009 : 241.1m.
There was no ineffectiveness recognised in the Consolidated Income Statement that arose from hedges of net investments in foreign operations.
An analysis of borrowings by currency and their fair values as at the balance sheet date is given below: 31 December 2010 31 December 2009 Book value Fair value Book value Fair value m m m m Singapore dollar 108.2 108.2 97.1 97.1 US dollar 225.1 225.1 189.1 189.1 New Zealand dollar 24.1 24.1 24.0 24.0 Korean won 26.0 26.0 Malaysian ringgit 1.8 1.8 Chinese renminbi 60.2 60.2 417.6 417.6 338.0 338.0 Exchange differences arising on foreign currency loans during each accounting period are recognised as a component of equity, to the extent that the hedge is effective.
The foreign exchange exposure arising on the Groups net investment in its subsidiaries is expected to be highly effective in offsetting the exposure arising on the Groups foreign currency borrowings.
Foreign currency transaction exposure is primarily managed through funding of purchases from operating income streams arising in the same currency.
Hedging of transaction exposure is undertaken with approved counterparties and within designated limits, using spot or short-term forward contracts to buy or sell the currency concerned, once the timing and the underlying amount of exposure have been determined.
Foreign exchange derivatives may also be used to hedge specific transaction exposure where appropriate.
Further details of foreign exchange derivatives in place at 31 December 2010 2009: nil are provided below: Cash flow hedges During the year, a number of forward cross currency swaps were executed to hedge the foreign currency risk in respect of the repayment in February 2013 of a US$30m loan using Korean Won.
This loan was extended to a subsidiary in Korea, whose functional currency is Korean Won.
The proceeds of the US dollar loan were converted into Korean Won on inception, and the risk being hedged is the variability of the cash flow associated with the repayment of the US$30m loan principal on its maturity date in February 2013, arising from movement of Korean Won against the US dollar over that 3-year period.
The hedge is designated as a cash flow hedge, which is considered to be highly effective.
The carrying value of the hedging instruments is restated to its fair value at each reporting date, with the effective portion of changes in fair value since inception being taken to a cash flow hedge reserve.
The loss recognised in Other Comprehensive Income during the year in respect of the change in fair value of these hedging instruments was 0.4m 2009: nil.
FinAnCiAL instrUMents ContinUeD Amounts recognised in equity are recycled to the income statement to offset gains and losses when the underying debt instrument is retranslated at the exchange rate applicable at each period end, and there was no ineffectiveness recognised in the year as a charge in the Consolidated Income Statement.
The following significant exchange rates applied during the year: Average rate Closing rate Sterling 2010 2009 2010 2009 US dollar 1.547 1.553 1.541 1.596 Singapore dollar 2.111 2.257 1.993 2.245 New Taiwan dollar 48.531 51.654 45.461 51.081 New Zealand dollar 2.149 2.461 2.021 2.253 Malaysia ringgit 5.004 5.472 4.753 5.473 Korean won 1,792.11 1,969.72 1,757.5 1,847.74 Euro 1.164 1.114 1.172 1.110 Chinese renminbi 10.446 10.613 10.132 10.845 Sensitivity analysis With respect to the Groups foreign currency translation exposure, and assuming that all other variables, in particular interest rates, remain constant, it is estimated that a 25% strengthening of sterling against the following currencies at 31 December 2010 31 December 2009: 25% would have decreased equity and profit or loss before tax by the amounts shown below: 31 December 2010 31 December 2009 profit Profit equity before tax Equity before tax m m m m US dollar 103.4 0.7 100.4 0.7 Singapore dollar 80.1 15.5 66.1 7.5 New Taiwan dollar 44.8 2.5 38.3 1.7 New Zealand dollar 34.8 2.2 29.6 2.2 Malaysia ringgit 15.6 1.3 11.6 1.0 Korean won 27.4 3.4 21.2 2.7 Euro 8.4 0.6 10.2 1.5 Chinese renminbi 21.9 0.2 336.4 23.4 277.4 12.9 A 25 percent weakening of sterling against the above currencies at 31 December 2010 31 December 2009: 25 percent would have had the equal but opposite effect on the above currencies to the amounts shown above, on the basis that all other variables remain constant.
ii Interest rate risk and interest rate swaps The Group adopts a policy of ongoing review of its exposure to changes in interest rates on its borrowings, taking into account market expectations with regard to the perceived level of risk associated with each currency, the maturity profile and cash flows of the underlying debt, and the extent to which debt may potentially be either prepaid prior to its maturity or refinanced at reduced cost.
The Groups policy is to maintain a mixture of its financial liabilities on a fixed and floating-rate basis with a greater emphasis on floating rates presently as this flexibility is being considered to be appropriate in the context of the Groups overall geographical diversity, investment and business cycle and the stability of the income streams, cash balances and loan covenants.
118 119 MiLLenniUM & CoptHorne HoteLs pLC Annual Report & Accounts 2010 MiLLenniUM & CoptHorne HoteLs pLC Annual Report & Accounts 2010 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 22.
FinAnCiAL instrUMents ContinUeD Interest rate derivatives are used to manage interest rate risk, to the extent that the perceived cost is considered to outweigh the benefit from the flexibility of variable rate borrowings, and the Group actively monitors the need and timing for such derivatives.
Where used, interest rate derivatives are classified as cash flow, hedges and stated at fair value within the Groups balance sheet.
Further details of interest rate derivatives in place at 31 December 2010 2009: nil are provided below: Cash flow hedge Borrowings at floating rates expose the Group to interest rate risk.
During the year, the Group entered into a number of interest rate swaps to fix the interest relating to the payment of quarterly interest charges arising on floating rate unsecured bonds totalling US$50m, and designated it as a cash flow hedge.
The risk being hedged is the variability of cash flows arising from movements in interest rates.
The hedge is in place until the loans mature in March 2013.
The fair value of the interest rate swaps as at 31 December 2010 was a 0.5m liability 2009: nil.
The cash flows occur on a quarterly basis until the loan balance matures in March 2013 and the hedge is designated as a cash flow hedge, which is considered to be highly effective.
There was no ineffectiveness recognised in the Consolidated Income Statement that arose from this cash flow hedge.
Cash flow sensitivity analysis for variable rate instruments Assuming that all other variables, in particular foreign currency rates, remain constant, a change of one percentage point in the average interest rates applicable to variable rate instruments for the year would have increased decreased the Groups profit before tax for the year as shown below: Year ended Year ended 31 December 2010 31 December 2009 1% 1% 1% 1% increase decrease increase decrease m m m m Variable rate financial assets 0.9 0.9 1.1 1.1 Variable rate financial liabilities 3.6 3.6 4.3 4.3 Cash flow sensitivity net 2.7 2.7 3.2 3.2 118 119 MiLLenniUM & CoptHorne HoteLs pLC Annual Report & Accounts 2010 MiLLenniUM & CoptHorne HoteLs pLC Annual Report & Accounts 2010 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 22.
FinAnCiAL instrUMents ContinUeD d Fair Value Set out below is a comparison of the fair and book values of all the Groups financial instruments by category.
Fair values are determined by reference to market values, where available, or calculated by discounting cash flows at prevailing interest rates.
2010 2010 2009 2009 Book Fair Book Fair Value Value Value Value m m m m Financial Assets Cash and cash equivalents Cash at bank and in hand 77.6 77.6 52.0 52.0 Short term deposits 174.3 174.3 83.5 83.5 Available for sale financial assets Unquoted equity investments available for sale 4.6 4.6 4.4 4.4 Loans and receivables Deposits receivable 2.3 3.1 2.0 2.2 Trade receivables 30.6 30.6 28.7 28.7 Trade receivables due from joint ventures and associates 0.6 0.6 1.3 1.3 Other receivables 11.7 11.7 7.2 7.2 301.7 302.5 179.1 179.3 Financial Liabilities Bank overdrafts 0.4 0.4 0.6 0.6 Short-term loans, bonds and borrowings 93.5 93.5 104.4 104.4 Long-term loans, bonds and borrowings 323.7 323.7 233.0 233.0 Trade payables 21.1 21.1 17.8 17.8 Amounts owed to associates 3.2 3.2 2.8 2.8 Other creditors 8.9 8.9 5.6 5.6 Other non-current liabilities 6.3 6.2 6.6 6.1 457.1 457.0 370.8 370.3 Estimation of fair values The following summarises the major methods and assumptions used in estimating the fair values of financial instruments reflected in the table.
Derivatives Forward exchange contracts are either marked to market using listed market prices or by discounting the contractual forward price and deducting the current spot rate.
For interest rate swaps bank valuations are used.
Interest bearing loans and borrowings Fair value is calculated based on discounted expected future principal and interest cash flows.
Finance lease liabilities The fair value is estimated as the present value of future cash flows, discounted at market interest rates for similar lease agreements.
The estimated fair values reflect changes in interest rates.
Trade and other receivables payables For receivables payables with a remaining life of less than one year, the notional amount is deemed to reflect the fair value.
All other receivables payables are discounted to determine the fair value.
120 121 MiLLenniUM & CoptHorne HoteLs pLC Annual Report & Accounts 2010 MiLLenniUM & CoptHorne HoteLs pLC Annual Report & Accounts 2010 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 22.
FinAnCiAL instrUMents ContinUeD Interest rates used for determining fair value Prevailing market interest rates are used to discount cash flows to determine the fair value of financial assets and liabilities.
Available-for-sale financial assets unquoted equity investments Fair value is estimated using appropriate valuation techniques.
Fair value hierarchy As at 31 December 2010, the Group held certain financial instruments measured at fair value.
The Group uses the following hierarchy for determining and disclosing the fair value of financial instruments by valuation technique: Level 1: quoted unadjusted prices in active markets for identical assets or liabilities Level 2: other techniques for which all inputs which have a significant effect on the recorded fair value are observable, either directly or indirectly Level 3: techniques that use inputs which have a significant effect on the recorded fair value that are not based on observable market data 2010 Level 1 Level 2 Level 3 Assets measured at fair value m m m m Available for sale financial assets Unquoted equity investments available for sale 4.6 4.6 2009 Level 1 Level 2 Level 3 m m m m Available for sale financial assets Unquoted equity investments available for sale 4.4 4.4 2010 Level 1 Level 2 Level 3 Liabilities measured at fair value m m m m Other current financial assets Interest rate swaps designated as cash flow hedges 0.5 0.5 Forward cross currency contracts designated as cash flow hedges 0.8 0.8 1.3 1.3 There are no liabilities measured at fair value for 2009.
During the reporting period ended 31 December 2010, there were no transfers between Level 1 and Level 2 fair value measurements, and no transfers into and out of Level 3 fair value measures.
Capital management The Boards policy is to maintain a strong capital base so as to maintain investor, creditor and market confidence and to sustain future development of the business.
The Companys objective for managing its capital is to ensure that Group entities will be able to continue as a going concern while maximising the return to shareholders, as well as sustaining the future development of its business.
In order to maintain or adjust the capital structure, the Group may alter the total amount of dividends paid to shareholders, return capital to shareholders, issue new shares, draw down additional debt or reduce debt.
The Groups capital structure consists of debt, which includes the loans and borrowings disclosed in note 21, cash and cash equivalents note 20 and the equity attributable to the parent, comprising share capital, reserves and retained earnings, as disclosed in the consolidated statement of changes in equity.
The Group seeks to maintain a balance between the higher returns that might be possible with higher levels of borrowings and the advantages and security afforded by a sound capital position.
Neither the Company nor any of its subsidiaries are subject to externally imposed capital requirements.
120 121 MiLLenniUM & CoptHorne HoteLs pLC Annual Report & Accounts 2010 MiLLenniUM & CoptHorne HoteLs pLC Annual Report & Accounts 2010 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 23. eMpLoYee BeneFits Pension arrangements The Group operates various funded pension schemes which are established in accordance with local conditions and practices within the countries concerned.
The most significant funds are described below: United Kingdom The Group operates a pension scheme the Millennium & Copthorne Pension Plan for their UK employees, which was set up in 1993.
The scheme is a funded defined benefit arrangement with different categories of membership.
As appointed by the Trustee of the Plan, Newton Investment Management Limited, Legal & General Investment Management Limited and Ignis Asset Management Limited were investment managers of the Plan.
The assets of the Plan are held separately from those of the Group.
The contributions required are determined by a qualified actuary on the basis of triennial valuations using the projected unit credit method.
The last full actuarial valuation of this scheme was carried out by a qualified independent actuary as at 6 April 2008 and this has been updated on an approximate basis to 31 December 2010.
The contributions of the Group during the year were 21.6% of pensionable salary, plus enhanced contributions of 1.4m per annum to remove the Plans deficit.
As the defined benefit section is closed to new entrants, the current service cost, as a percentage of pensionable payroll is likely to increase as the membership ages, although it will be applied to a decreasing pensionable payroll.
The assumptions which have the most significant effect on the results of the valuation are those relating to mortality, the discount rate and the rates of increase in salaries and pensions.
Korea The Group operates a defined benefit pension plan for its employees in Korea.
The contributions required are determined by an external qualified actuary using the projected unit credit method.
The most recent valuation was carried out on 31 December 2010.
The contributions of the Group were 9.9% 2009: 5.2% of the employees earnings.
The assumptions which have the most significant effect on the results of the valuations are those relating to the discount rate and rate of increase in salaries.
Taiwan The Group operates a defined benefit pension plan for its employees in Taiwan.
The contributions of the Group were 6% 2009: 6% of the employees earnings.
The assets of each scheme have been taken at market value and the liabilities have been calculated using the following principal assumptions: 2010 2010 2010 2009 2009 2009 UK Korea taiwan UK Korea Taiwan Inflation rate 3.6% 3.7% Discount rate 5.4% 5.0% 1.75% 5.7% 6.0% 2.25% Rate of salary increase 4.1% 4.0% 2.5% 4.2% 4.0% 2.5% Rate of pension increases 3.6% 3.7% Annual expected return on plan assets 6.4% 5.0% 1.75% 6.7% 5.0% 2.25% The assumptions used by the actuaries are the best estimates chosen from a range of possible actuarial assumptions, which due to the timescale covered, may not be necessarily borne out in practice.
The present values of the schemes liabilities are derived from cash flow projections over long periods and are inherently uncertain.
The expected annual return on UK plan assets for 2010 of 6.4% 2009: 6.7% has been calculated using a 6.8% 2009: 7.1% return on equity representing 72% 2009: 73% of plan assets and a 5.4% 2009: 5.7% return on bonds representing 28% 2009: 27% of plan assets.
The discount rate used in respect of the UK pension scheme of 5.4% 2009: 5.7% was based on the yield of the Merrill Lynch over-15 year AA rated corporate bond index.
122 123 MiLLenniUM & CoptHorne HoteLs pLC Annual Report & Accounts 2010 MiLLenniUM & CoptHorne HoteLs pLC Annual Report & Accounts 2010 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 23. eMpLoYee BeneFits ContinUeD The fair values of plan assets in each category are as follows: 2010 2010 2010 2010 2010 2009 2009 2009 2009 2009 UK Korea taiwan other total UK Korea Taiwan Other Total m m m m m m m m m m Equity 18.7 18.7 16.1 16.1 Bonds 7.2 7.2 6.0 6.0 Cash 0.2 6.2 2.5 8.9 0.1 5.7 2.1 7.9 26.1 6.2 2.5 34.8 22.2 5.7 2.1 30.0 The expense recognised in the income statement is as follows: 2010 2010 2010 2010 2010 2009 2009 2009 2009 2009 UK Korea taiwan other total UK Korea Taiwan Other Total m m m m m m m m m m Current service cost 0.6 0.9 0.3 0.1 1.9 0.4 1.0 0.3 0.1 1.8 Interest cost on obligation 1.9 0.3 0.2 2.4 1.7 0.4 0.1 0.1 2.1 Expected return on plan assets 1.5 0.3 1.8 1.5 0.3 0.1 1.9 1.0 0.9 0.5 0.1 2.5 0.6 1.1 0.3 2.0 2010 2009 Total cost is recognised within the following items in the income statement: m m Cost of sales 1.0 1.0 Administrative expenses 1.4 1.0 2.5 2.0 The expense income recognised in the consolidated statement of comprehensive income is as follows: 2010 2010 2010 2010 2010 2009 2009 2009 2009 2009 UK Korea taiwan other total UK Korea Taiwan Other Total m m m m m m m m m m Actual return less expected return on plan assets 2.3 2.3 0.9 0.9 Experience gains losses on plan liabilities 0.8 0.2 0.1 0.5 0.5 0.1 0.2 0.8 Changes in demographic and financial assumptions underlying the present value of plan liabilities 1.1 0.5 1.6 6.9 0.3 6.6 2.0 0.2 0.6 1.2 6.5 0.1 0.3 0.2 6.5 2010 2009 Actuarial losses recognised directly in equity are as follows: m m Cumulative as at 1 January 12.0 5.5 Actuarial gains losses recognised during the year 1.2 6.5 Cumulative as at 31 December 10.8 12.0 124 125 MiLLenniUM & CoptHorne HoteLs pLC Annual Report & Accounts 2010 MiLLenniUM & CoptHorne HoteLs pLC Annual Report & Accounts 2010 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 23. eMpLoYee BeneFits ContinUeD The principal causes for the UK Plan actuarial gains in 2010 as a decrease in inflation, a rise in equity values, a change to Consumer Prices Index from Retail Prices Index to determine pension increases offset by a fall in bond yields.
The principal cause for actuarial losses in 2009 was an increase in inflation, a fall in bond yields and equity values.
Mortality rates used reflect an industry wide recognition that life expectancy has increased.
The life expectancies underlying the value of the accrued liabilities for the UK Plan, based on retirement age of 65, are as follows: 2010 2009 Years Years Males 25 25 Females 28 28 Trend analysis 2010 2010 2010 2010 2010 UK Korea taiwan other total m m m m m Present value of funded obligations 35.9 5.8 8.9 0.9 51.5 Fair value of plan assets 26.1 6.2 2.5 34.8 Plan deficit surplus 9.8 0.4 6.4 0.9 16.7 Actuarial losses on plan liabilities 0.3 0.2 0.6 1.1 Experience gains on plan assets 2.3 2.3 Trend analysis continued 2009 2009 2009 2009 2009 UK Korea Taiwan Other Total m m m m m Present value of funded obligations 34.7 5.4 7.3 0.7 48.1 Fair value of plan assets 22.2 5.7 2.1 30.0 Plan deficit surplus 12.5 0.3 5.2 0.7 18.1 Actuarial losses gains on plan liabilities 7.4 0.1 0.3 0.2 7.4 Experience gains on plan assets 0.9 0.9 2008 2008 2008 2008 2008 UK Korea Taiwan Other Total m m m m m Present value of funded obligations 26.6 5.8 7.7 0.6 40.7 Fair value of plan assets 19.3 6.6 2.0 27.9 Plan deficit surplus 7.3 0.8 5.7 0.6 12.8 Actuarial gains on plan liabilities 6.7 0.4 7.1 Experience losses on plan assets 6.1 0.1 6.2 124 125 MiLLenniUM & CoptHorne HoteLs pLC Annual Report & Accounts 2010 MiLLenniUM & CoptHorne HoteLs pLC Annual Report & Accounts 2010 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 23. eMpLoYee BeneFits ContinUeD 2007 2007 2007 2007 2007 UK Korea Taiwan Other Total m m m m m Present value of funded obligations 31.5 5.3 6.4 0.5 43.7 Fair value of plan assets 22.8 6.3 1.7 30.8 Plan deficit surplus 8.7 1.0 4.7 0.5 12.9 Actuarial gains losses on plan liabilities 1.4 0.1 1.3 Experience losses on plan assets 0.6 0.6 2006 2006 2006 2006 2006 UK Korea Taiwan Other Total m m m m m Present value of funded obligations 31.5 5.9 6.3 0.4 44.1 Fair value of plan assets 21.3 6.3 1.5 29.1 Plan deficit surplus 10.2 0.4 4.8 0.4 15.0 Actuarial gains losses on plan liabilities 0.5 1.1 0.2 1.8 Experience gains on plan assets 0.4 0.4 share-based payments The Group operates a number of share option schemes which are designed to link remuneration to the future performance of the Group.
Details of these schemes are given in the Directors Remuneration Report.
In accordance with the Groups accounting policy N iv, on share-based payment transactions, the fair value of share options and long-term incentive awards are recognised as an employee expense with a corresponding increase in equity.
The fair value is measured at grant date and spread over the period during which the employees become unconditionally entitled to the share options and long-term incentive awards.
The credit to the income statement for the year was 0.8m 2009: charge of 1.6m.
The Group applied IFRS 2 to its active employee share-based payment arrangements at 1 January 2005 except for arrangements granted before 7 November 2002. i Millennium & Copthorne Hotels plc Long-Term Incentive Plan Performance Share Awards under this scheme are awarded to executive Directors and senior management of the Group.
Awards Awards Awards Awards Awards Awards outstanding Credited Credited outstanding awarded vested forfeited expired as at to share to share as at 1 Jan during the during the during the during the 31 Dec capital premium Vesting Date of Award 2010 year year year year 2010 000 000 date 27.03.2007 105,057 105,057 27.03.2010 18.09.2007 28,675 28,675 18.09.2010 25.06.2008 588,344 80,758 507,586 25.06.2011 30.03.2009 1,497,206 288,399 1,208,807 30.03.2012 16.09.2010 700,212 45,170 655,042 16.09.2013 2,219,282 700,212 548,059 2,371,435 126 127 MiLLenniUM & CoptHorne HoteLs pLC Annual Report & Accounts 2010 MiLLenniUM & CoptHorne HoteLs pLC Annual Report & Accounts 2010 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 23. eMpLoYee BeneFits ContinUeD ii Millennium & Copthorne Hotels plc 2003 Executive Share Option Scheme Share options under this scheme are granted to executive Directors and senior management of the Group.
The options outstanding at the year end have an exercise price in the range 1.54 to 5.20 and a weighted average contractual life of 1.82 years.
Measurement of fair value The fair value of services received in return for share options and performance share awards granted are measured by reference to the fair value of share options and performance share awards granted.
The estimate of the fair value of services received is measured on a stochastic model.
126 127 MiLLenniUM & CoptHorne HoteLs pLC Annual Report & Accounts 2010 MiLLenniUM & CoptHorne HoteLs pLC Annual Report & Accounts 2010 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 23. eMpLoYee BeneFits ContinUeD The option pricing model involves six variables: Exercise price Share price at grant Expected life Expected volatility of share price Risk-free interest rate Expected dividend yield Measurement of fair value continued The following awards were granted in the current year and comparative year: share price prevailing Awards on date of exercise expected expected risk free Date of options grant price Fair value term expected dividend interest 2010 Award grant granted years volatility yield rates LTIP Directors 16.09.2010 56,936 5.25 5.07 3.00 1.19% LTIP non-Directors 16.09.2010 643,276 5.25 5.07 3.00 1.19% Sharesave Scheme 3 year 01.04.2010 47,025 4.90 3.30 2.24 3.25 48.0% 1.27% 1.91% Sharesave Scheme 5 year 01.04.2010 18,088 4.90 3.30 2.33 5.25 39.8% 1.27% 2.76% Share price prevailing Awards on date of Exercise Expected Risk free Date of options grant price Fair value Expected Expected dividend interest 2009 Award grant granted term years volatility yield rates LTIP Directors 30.03.2009 653,120 1.70 1.52 3.00 3.69% LTIP non-Directors 30.03.2009 950,607 1.70 1.52 3.00 3.69% Sharesave Scheme 3 year 01.04.2009 210,168 1.81 1.54 0.55 3.25 43.3% 3.45% 1.73% Sharesave Scheme 5 year 01.04.2009 61,575 1.81 1.54 0.54 5.25 36.0% 3.45% 2.34% 24. proVisions 2010 2009 m m Balance at 1 January 0.8 1.2 Utilised during the year 0.2 0.4 Balance at 31 December 0.6 0.8 Analysed as: Non-current 0.4 0.6 Current 0.2 0.2 0.6 0.8 The provision relates to an onerous lease and it will be released over the life of the lease until 2014.
128 129 MiLLenniUM & CoptHorne HoteLs pLC Annual Report & Accounts 2010 MiLLenniUM & CoptHorne HoteLs pLC Annual Report & Accounts 2010 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 25. otHer non-CUrrent LiABiLities 2010 2009 m m Deferred income 158.8 105.6 Other liabilities 6.3 6.6 165.1 112.2 Note 3 section entitled Lease backs from CDLHT explains how prepaid operating land lease income is recognised as deferred income.
At 31 December 2010 an amount of 119.0m is recognised in the statement of financial position as deferred income, 117.3m in non-current liabilities and 1.7m in trade and other payables see note 27.
In addition, at 31 December 2010 41.5m 2009: nil was received as deposits for sale of condominiums under the future redevelopment of the Copthorne Orchid hotel which is due for completion by 2015.
DeFerreD tAXAtion Movements in deferred tax liabilities and assets prior to offsetting balances during the year are as follows: Charged credited to income statement Other At adjustment Charged At 1 January Change in Change in to opening Current year credited to Exchange on 31 December 2 3 2010 tax rate legislation provision movement reserves Acquisition translation 2010 m m m m m m m m m Deferred tax liabilities 1 Property assets 252.8 7.9 11.9 5.9 4.4 3.9 12.5 274.7 Share of profits of associate 0.3 0.2 0.1 252.8 7.9 11.9 6.2 4.6 3.9 12.5 274.8 Deferred tax assets Tax losses 9.7 0.1 3.7 0.2 0.2 12.9 4 Employee benefits 6.4 0.3 0.3 0.1 1.7 8.0 Others 6.1 0.1 3.8 0.6 0.7 2.1 22.2 0.5 0.2 0.3 1.0 0.2 23.0 Deferred tax liabilities 230.6 7.4 11.9 6.0 4.9 1.0 3.9 12.7 251.8 1 Property assets comprise plant, property and equipment, lease premium prepayment and investment properties.
2 11.9m of deferred tax arises from a change in New Zealand tax legislation which removed the ability to depreciate buildings for tax purposes, resulting in an increased deferred tax liability.
3 6.0m of deferred tax has been charged due to under provisions in respect of prior years, the conclusion of reviews by tax authorities and other timing differences.
4 Employee benefits comprise defined benefit pension schemes and share-based payment arrangements.
In relation to 1.7m credited to reserves in 2010, there is a 0.5m charge relating to defined benefit pension schemes and a 2.2m credit relating to share-based payment arrangements.
Deferred tax assets and liabilities are offset when there is a legally enforceable right to set off current tax assets against current tax liabilities and when deferred taxes relate to the same taxation authority.
Deferred tax assets have not been recognised in respect of the following items because it is not probable that future taxable profit will be available against which the Group can utilise the benefits.
128 129 MiLLenniUM & CoptHorne HoteLs pLC Annual Report & Accounts 2010 MiLLenniUM & CoptHorne HoteLs pLC Annual Report & Accounts 2010 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 26.
DeFerreD tAXAtion ContinUeD 2010 2009 m m Deductible temporary differences 1.0 1.3 Tax losses 0.5 0.1 1.5 1.2 Adjustments due to: Deductible temporary differences in respect of prior year 4.7 3.6 Tax losses in subsidiary acquired 3.6 Tax losses in respect of prior year 10.6 10.0 20.4 14.8 The deductible temporary differences do not expire under current tax legislation.
The tax losses are subject to agreement by the tax authorities and compliance with tax regulations in the respective countries in which certain subsidiaries operate.
The gross tax losses with expiry dates are as follows: 2010 2009 m m Expiry dates: within 1 year 17.7 2.3 after 5 years 2.0 no expiry date 57.0 54.4 76.7 56.7 At 31 December 2010, a deferred tax liability of 6.3m 2009: 3.7m relating to undistributed reserves of overseas subsidiaries, associates and joint ventures of 504.1m 2009: 481.9m has not been recognised because the Group controls whether the liability will be incurred and it is satisfied that it will not be incurred in the foreseeable future.
130 131 MiLLenniUM & CoptHorne HoteLs pLC Annual Report & Accounts 2010 MiLLenniUM & CoptHorne HoteLs pLC Annual Report & Accounts 2010 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 27. trADe AnD otHer pAYABLes 2010 2009 m m Trade payables 21.1 17.8 Amounts owed to associates 3.2 2.8 Other creditors including taxation and social security Social security and other taxes 5.0 4.7 Value added tax and similar sales taxes 11.5 8.7 Other creditors 8.9 5.6 Accruals 103.3 67.9 Deferred income 13.2 11.0 Rental and other deposits 3.1 3.5 Deposit on sale of land 4.4 Contingent consideration refer to note 31 7.8 181.5 122.0 As explained in note 25, included in deferred income is an amount of 1.7m 2009: 1.5m relating to prepaid operating land lease income by CDLHT.
The Groups exposure to currency and liquidity risks related to trade and other payables are disclosed in note 22.
DiViDenDs 2010 2009 2010 2009 pence pence m m Final ordinary dividend paid 4.17 12.6 Second interim dividend paid 4.17 12.9 Interim ordinary dividend paid 2.08 2.08 6.5 6.4 6.25 6.25 19.4 19.0 After 31 December 2010, the Directors declared the following final ordinary dividend, which has not been provided for: 2010 2009 2010 2009 pence pence m m Second interim ordinary dividend declared 4.17 12.9 Final ordinary dividend 7.92 24.8 In respect of dividends paid in 2010 totalling 19.4m 2009: 19.0m, the Group offered shareholders the option of a scrip dividend.
This resulted in dividend cash payments in 2010 of 4.1m 2009: 4.0m.
The balance of 15.3m 2009: 15.0m has been credited to reserves upon issue of the related share capital.
The Group will again be offering shareholders the option of a scrip dividend for the final ordinary declared dividend of 7.92p per share.
130 131 MiLLenniUM & CoptHorne HoteLs pLC Annual Report & Accounts 2010 MiLLenniUM & CoptHorne HoteLs pLC Annual Report & Accounts 2010 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 29. sHAre CApitAL Number of 30p shares allotted, called up and fully paid Balance at 1 January 2010 309,717,254 Issue of ordinary shares on exercise of share options 79,127 Issue of ordinary shares in lieu of dividends 3,490,364 Balance at 31 December 2010 313,286,745 All of the share capital is equity share capital.
Ordinary shares issued in lieu of dividends have been accounted for as a bonus issue of shares.
At the year end options over 733,023 ordinary shares remain outstanding and are exercisable between now and 31 January 2016 at exercise prices between 1.54 and 5.20.
In addition, awards made under the Long-Term Incentive Plan over 2,371,435 ordinary shares remain unvested and may potentially vest between 25 June 2011 and 16 September 2013.
During the year Millennium & Copthorne Hotels plc issued invitations to UK employees under the Sharesave Scheme to enter into a five-year savings contract or a three-year savings contract with an option to purchase shares at an option price of 330p on expiry of the savings contract.
30. reserVes Cash flow hedge reserve The hedging reserve comprises the effective portion of the cumulative net change in the fair value of cash flow instruments related to the hedged transactions that have not yet occurred net of tax.
Translation reserve The translation reserve comprises all foreign exchange differences arising from the translation of the financial statements of foreign operations, as well as from the translation of liabilities that hedge the companys net investment in foreign operations net of tax.
Treasury share reserve An employee benefit trust established by the Group held 400,952 shares at 31 December 2010 2009: nil shares to satisfy the vesting of awards under the Long-Term Incentive Plan.
During the year 400,952 shares were purchased by the trust.
At 31 December 2010, the cost of shares held by the trust was 2,182,986 2009: nil, whilst the market value of these shares at 31 December 2010 was 2,367,622 2009: nil.
Shares held by the trust are treated as treasury shares, are deducted from equity, do not receive dividends and are excluded from the calculations of earnings per share.
ACQUisitions Beijing Fortune Co. Limited On 15 November 2010, Beijing Fortune Co. Ltd. Beijing Fortune which owns and operates the Grand Millennium Hotel Beijing became a 70% owned subsidiary following the Group exercising an option to buy an additional 40% interest from Beijing Xiangjiang Xinli Real Estate Development Co. Ltd.
Consideration paid for the additional equity was RMB 189m 18.4m.
At 31 December 2008 the Group impaired the full carrying value of its investment in Beijing Fortune following a review of the difficult economic conditions and over-supplied hotel situation in Beijing post the 2008 Olympics and it ceased to equity account for the Groups share of Beijing Fortune results up to the date it acquired the additional 40% interest.
132 133 MiLLenniUM & CoptHorne HoteLs pLC Annual Report & Accounts 2010 MiLLenniUM & CoptHorne HoteLs pLC Annual Report & Accounts 2010 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 31.
ACQUisitions ContinUeD Accounting policy Fair value Book value alignments adjustments Fair value m m m m Property, plant and equipment 63.3 0.4 0.2 63.9 Lease premium prepayments long term 28.7 15.1 43.8 Inventories 0.2 0.2 Lease premium prepayment short term 0.8 0.4 1.2 Trade and other receivables 1.3 1.3 Cash and cash equivalents 5.8 5.8 Trade and other payables 12.0 12.0 Borrowings 62.4 62.4 Deferred tax liabilities 3.9 3.9 25.7 0.4 11.8 37.9 Non-controlling interests based on share of net assets 7.7 0.1 3.6 11.4 Net assets acquired 18.0 0.3 8.2 26.5 Goodwill footnote 1 8.1 Fair value of net assets acquired and goodwill arising 34.6 Components of costs of acquisitions Fair value of consideration for initial 30% shareholding in 2006 14.4 Losses under equity method of initial 30% shareholding 2.2 Impairment of investment at 31 December 2008 12.2 Carrying value before step acquisition Gain on revaluation of step acquisition footnote 2 8.4 Tax indemnity to former shareholders of the 40% shareholding in 2010 footnote 3 7.8 Cash paid on acquisition of 40% shareholding in 2010 18.4 Total cost of acquisition 34.6 Consideration satisfied by: Cash paid on acquisition of 40% shareholding in 2010 18.4 Fair value of the tax indemnity to former shareholders of the 40% shareholding in 2010 footnote 3 7.8 Fair value of net assets contributed to Beijing Fortune joint venture for initial 30% shareholding in 2006 8.4 Total cost of acquisition 34.6 Footnote 1 In 2006 when the initial 30% interest in Beijing Fortune was acquired and in 2007 when the option price for the additional 40% interest and the subsequent tax indemnity see footnote 3 was agreed, the ultimate value of the Groups interest in the hotel was expected to be considerably in excess of its cost.
However, after the opening of the hotel in April 2008 and the difficult economic conditions and over supplied hotel situation in Beijing post 2008 Olympics, the trading and value of the hotel fell.
Although the hotels value has subsequently increased, as reflected in the revaluation gain on step up see Note 2, it has not yet attained the level originally anticipated.
Upon completion of the acquisition, management conducted an impairment review on the goodwill arising of 8.1m which is allocated to the hotel acquired along with the hotels property, plant and equipment and lease premium prepayments.
It was determined that the recoverable value of the acquired business should be based on the aggregate of the fair value of the hotels identifiable assets and liabilities as shown on the table above which supported their carrying value.
The goodwill arising from the acquisition reflects the strategic development opportunities in this region and is not supported by the recoverable value of the hotel.
The goodwill has accordingly been written-off and charged to the income statement.
ACQUisitions ContinUeD Footnote 2 The 8.4m gain on step up has been credited to the income statement.
The gain is derived from the fair value of net assets acquired of 11.4m, being 30% of 37.9m adjusted to exclude a control premium, less the carrying cost of the original investment of nil.
Footnote 3 The 7.8m represents the fair value of a liability for additional costs of securing the land on which the hotel is sited.
The transfer of land attracts land appreciation tax and foreign enterprise income tax not originally factored into the land sale price.
A definitive framework agreement to purchase the original 30% interest and then take up an option to purchase an additional 40% interest was later supplemented in September 2007 with a deed of indemnity to remedy the tax issue.
Under the terms of that indemnity, it is only applicable in the event that the Groups interest steps up to 70% and represents 70% of the total tax liability.
summary impact of acquisition of additional 40% interest on income statement m Gain on revaluation of step acquisition 8.4 Goodwill written-off 8.1 Credit to income statement 0.3 Transaction costs of 0.2m have been included in administration expenses.
Adjustments made to identifiable assets and liabilities on acquisition are to reflect their fair value and are not provisional.
Results of acquisition from date of acquisition until 31 December 2010 Headline Operating Revenue profit profit m m m Beijing Fortune Company Limited 2.0 0.1 0.6 If the acquisition had occurred on 1 January 2010 the results of the Group for the period would have been as follows: Headline Operating Revenue profit profit m m m Group results for the period 743.7 144.1 128.6 Beijing Fortune Company Limited 14.8 1.5 5.6 Group results for the period if acquisition had occurred on 1 January 2010 758.5 142.6 123.0 134 135 MiLLenniUM & CoptHorne HoteLs pLC Annual Report & Accounts 2010 MiLLenniUM & CoptHorne HoteLs pLC Annual Report & Accounts 2010 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 32.
FinAnCiAL CoMMitMents 2010 2009 m m a Capital commitments at the end of the financial year which are contracted but not provided for 1.7 9.0 The Groups share of the capital commitments of joint ventures are shown in note 15 on page 108. b Total commitments under non-cancellable operating lease rentals are payable by the Group as follows: less than one year 30.3 30.3 between one and five years 98.0 90.4 more than five years 289.2 278.3 417.5 399.0 Included in the above are the following commitments of the Group to CDLHT under non-cancellable operating lease rentals that relate to the fixed portion due to CDLHT over the remaining tenure of the initial 20-year lease term that commenced in July 2006 in respect of the four REIT hotels and the fixed rental for the remaining term of a 5-year lease from July 2006 in respect of a conference centre.
The amounts due are as follows: 2010 2009 m m less than one year 13.5 11.9 between one and five years 53.1 47.1 more than five years 139.5 135.8 206.1 194.8 c The Group leases out its properties under operating leases.
The future minimum lease rentals receivable by the Group under non-cancellable leases are as follows: less than one year 1.9 1.9 between one and five years 3.0 3.0 more than five years 5.8 7.7 10.7 12.6 During the year ended 31 December 2010 5.3m was recognised as rental income in the income statement 2009: 5.0m and 0.5m in respect of repairs and maintenance was recognised as an expense in the income statement relating to investment property 2009: 0.5m.
ContinGenCies AnD sUBseQUent eVents a In the course of its operations the Group is routinely exposed to potential liabilities for claims made by employees and contractual or tortious claims made by third parties.
No material losses are anticipated from such exposures.
There were no contingent liabilities or guarantees other than those arising in the ordinary course of business and on these no material losses are anticipated.
The Group has insurance cover up to certain limits for major risks on property and major claims in connection with legal liabilities arising in the course of its operations.
Otherwise the Group generally carries its own risk.
The Group believes that the accruals and provisions carried on the balance sheet are sufficient to cover these risks.
b There are no events subsequent to the balance sheet date which either requires adjustment to or disclosure within these consolidated financial statements.
134 135 MiLLenniUM & CoptHorne HoteLs pLC Annual Report & Accounts 2010 MiLLenniUM & CoptHorne HoteLs pLC Annual Report & Accounts 2010 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 34. reLAteD pArties Identity of related parties Transactions between the Company and its subsidiaries have been eliminated on consolidation and are not disclosed in this note.
Details of transactions between the Group and other related parties are disclosed below.
All transactions with related parties were entered into in the normal course of business and at arms length.
The Group has a related party relationship with certain subsidiaries, joint ventures, associates and with its Directors and executive officers.
Transactions with ultimate holding company, and other related companies The Group has a related party relationship with certain subsidiaries of Hong Leong Investment Holdings Pte Ltd Hong Leong, which is the ultimate holding and controlling company of Millennium & Copthorne Hotels plc and holds 53% 2009: 53% of the Companys shares via City Developments Limited CDL the intermediate holding company of the Company.
During the year ended 31 December 2010 the Group had the following transactions with those subsidiaries of Hong Leong as noted below: The Group deposited certain surplus cash with Hong Leong Finance Limited, a subsidiary undertaking of Hong Leong, on normal commercial terms.
Interest income of 0.002m 2009: 0.02m was received during the year.
As at 31 December 2010 15.5m 2009: 3.5m of cash was deposited with Hong Leong Finance Limited.
Rents of 0.3m 2009: 0.3m were paid to CDL in respect of office space used by Millennium and Copthorne International Limited in the Kings Centre in Singapore.
In the same property, rentals were also paid to CDL in respect of the Grand Shanghai restaurant amounting to 0.2m 2009: 0.2m.
Property management fees of 0.08m 2009: 0.07m were paid to CDL in respect of property management and accounting services provided in relation to the Tanglin Shopping Centre in Singapore.
For the year ended 31 December 2010, fees of 1.6m was paid to CDL Management Service Pte Ltd, a wholly-owned subsidiary of CDL for services n respect of marketing, project management and accounting and administrative services for the Glyndebourne project.
In addition, legal fees of 0.0003m was paid to Messrs Foo & Quek in respect of the said project.
A controlling partner of Messrs Foo & Quek is a director of CDL.
Richfield Hospitality Inc RHI, a 85% owned company of City e-Solutions Limited a subsidiary of Hong Leong and 15% by the Group, provided reservations, accounting and information technology services to the Group.
A total of 0.2m 2009: 0.2m was charged by RHI during the period and as at 31 December 2010, 0.07m 2009: 0.02m was due to RHI.
For the year ended 31 December 2010, fees paid payable by the Group to Hong Leong Management Services Pte Ltd HLMS, a subsidiary of Hong Leong amounted to 0.5m 2009: 0.6m.
At 31 December 2010, 0.5m 2009: 0.6m of fees payable was outstanding.
Management fees totalling 0.2m 2009: 0.03m were received from CDL in respect of maintenance: fees and expenses of 0.1m 2009: 0.05m relating to car parking, leasing commission and professional services were paid to CDL.
The Group provided hotel maintenance services to HL Global Enterprises Limited, a subsidiary of Hong Leong.
A total of 0.02m 2009: 0.02m was charged during the year and as at 31 December 20101 0.002m 2009: 0.003m was due to the Group.
136 137 MiLLenniUM & CoptHorne HoteLs pLC Annual Report & Accounts 2010 MiLLenniUM & CoptHorne HoteLs pLC Annual Report & Accounts 2010 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 34 reLAteD pArties ContinUeD Transactions between the Group and its associates and joint ventures are disclosed below: In July 2006 the Group completed the sale of long leasehold interests in three of its Singapore hotels to CDLHT, an associate.
Refer to note 3 for a further description of the principal activities of CDLHT.
These hotels were the Orchard Hotel including the connected shopping centre, and M Hotel which were both sold on 75-year leases and Copthorne Kings Hotel for the remaining 61 years of a 99-year lease.
CDLHT also acquired the Grand Copthorne Waterfront Hotel, a Group managed hotel from CDL under a 75 year lease.
All four hotels excluding the shopping centre were leased back to the Group for an initial term of 20 years, each renewable at the Groups option for an additional term of 20 years.
Under the terms of the master lease agreements for the four hotels, the Group is obliged to pay CDLHT an annual rental for the duration of the term initial and extended term comprising the following: A fixed rent and a service charge for each hotel: and A variable rent computed based on the sum of 20% of each hotels revenue for the prevailing financial year and 20% of each hotels gross operating profit for the prevailing financial year, less the sum of the fixed rent and the service charge.
Should the calculation of the variable rent yield a negative figure, the variable rent is deemed to be zero.
In addition to the lease of the four hotels mentioned above, the Group also leased a conference centre from CDLHT at a fixed annual rent of 0.2m 2009: 0.2m.
This lease is for 5 years from July 2006.
The rents paid payable under the leases referred to above for the year are as follows: total Total 2010 2009 m m Copthorne Kings Hotel 4.2 3.1 Orchard Hotel 12.7 9.8 M Hotel 7.3 5.4 Grand Copthorne Waterfront Hotel 10.3 8.0 34.5 26.3 The Group acts as H-REIT manager and HBT Trustee manager with their fees having a performance-based element.
The H-REIT manager is entitled to receive a base fee of 0.25% per annum of the value of the H-REIT Deposited Property as well as additional performance fee of 5% per annum of H-REITs Net Property Income in the relevant financial year.
80% of the H-REIT Managers fees will be paid in stapled securities for the first five years.
For the year to 31 December 2010 the fees paid in stapled securities totalled 3.7m 2009: 2.9m.
The balance payable in cash was 1.0m 2009: 0.7m of which 0.2m 2009: 0.1m was outstanding at 31 December 2010.
In addition acquisition fees are payable, in stapled securities and or cash at a rate of 1.0% of the value of new properties deposited with H-REIT.
Acquisition fees of 1.0m 2009: nil were paid in cash.
Interest receivable of 0.04m 2009: 0.1m accrued in the year on the rent deposit paid to the REIT.
Ltd, a 100% subsidiary of the Group, provided a shareholder loan facility of 503m Thai Baht 10.8m 2009: 500m Thai Baht 9.4m to Fena Estate Company Limited Fena, its 50% owned joint venture.
At 31 December 2010, 503m Thai Baht 10.8m 2009: 499m Thai Baht 9.4m had been drawn on this facility.
The loan attracts interest at 4.5% 2009: 4.5% per annum and interest of 0.6m 2009: 0.4m was accrued for in the financial year.
This interest is rolled up into the carrying value of the loan.
In addition, the Group provided a further US$2.0m 1.5m operator loan facility to Fena which was fully drawn down as at 31 December 2010.
The loan attracts interest of 0.75% per annum 2009: 0.75% to 2.5%.
The interest is rolled up into the carrying value of the loan.
Management fees were charged to Fena in respect of Grand Millennium Sukhumvit Bangkok totalling 0.4m 2009: 0.3m.
136 137 MiLLenniUM & CoptHorne HoteLs pLC Annual Report & Accounts 2010 MiLLenniUM & CoptHorne HoteLs pLC Annual Report & Accounts 2010 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 34. reLAteD pArties ContinUeD The Group provided hotel management services to Beijing Fortune Hotel Co. Ltd BFHC, a 30% owned joint venture up to 15 November 2010 when the Group acquired an additional 40% interest.
A total of 0.5m 2009: 0.5m was charged to BFHC during the year.
In addition, as at 31 December 2009 BFHC owed 0.1m to the Group on account of certain hotel operating and other related expenses that had been paid by the Group on its behalf to third parties.
The Group has a related party relationship with Mr Ali Al Zaabi, a non-controlling shareholder of its operations in the Middle East.
Expenses of 0.2m 2009: 0.2m were charged to the Group in respect of Mr Al Zaabis remuneration and other expenses of which nil 2009: nil was outstanding at 31 December 2010.
In addition 0.2m 2009: 0.3m of incentive management fees and sales and marketing fees were charged to the Kingsgate Abu Dhabi Hotel which is owned by Mr Al Zaabi.
At 31 December 2010, 0.4m of fees relating to 2010 and 2009 were outstanding 2009: 0.2m.
Transactions with key management personnel The beneficial interest of the Directors in the ordinary shares of the Company was 0.044% 2009: 0.048%.
In addition to their salaries, the Group also provides non-cash benefits to Directors and executive officers, and contributes to a post-employment defined benefit plan on their behalf or a defined contribution plan depending on the date of commencement of employment.
In accordance with the terms of the defined benefit plan, executive officers retire at the age of 65 and are entitled to receive annual payments equivalent to 1 60th of their pensionable salary, subject to the earnings cap, for each year of pensionable service until the date of retirement.
The defined contribution plan does not have a specified pension payable on retirement and benefits are determined by the extent to which the individuals fund can buy an annuity in the market at retirement.
Executive officers also participate in the Groups share option programme, Long-Term Incentive Plan and the Groups sharesave schemes.
The key management personnel compensations are as follows: 2010 2009 m m Short-term employee benefits 5.3 3.6 Other long-term benefits 0.1 0.2 Share-based payment 0.8 1.5 4.6 5.3 2010 2009 m m Directors 2.4 1.7 Executives 2.2 3.6 4.6 5.3 The Directors remuneration reported in the Directors Remuneration Report on pages 59 to 65 focuses, so far as concerns pension benefits, on changes in accrued benefits rather than the income statement charge for individuals.
In the context of this analysis, the amount above reflects benefits paid.
35 siGniFiCAnt inVestMents The companies listed below are those which were part of the Group at 31 December 2010 and which, in the opinion of the Directors, significantly affected the Groups results and net assets during the year.
The Directors consider that those companies not listed are not significant in relation to the Group as a whole.
These companies operate principally in the country in which they are incorporated and are held indirectly unless stated otherwise.
138 139 MiLLenniUM & CoptHorne HoteLs pLC Annual Report & Accounts 2010 MiLLenniUM & CoptHorne HoteLs pLC Annual Report & Accounts 2010 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Effective Country of Principal Group interest incorporation Activity Anchorage-Lakefront Limited Partnership 100% USA Hotel owner Beijing Fortune Co. Ltd 70% China Hotel owner and operator Bostonian Hotel Limited Partnership 100% USA Hotel owner CDL New York LLC 100% USA Hotel owner CDL Hotels Chelsea Limited 100% England and Wales Hotel owner and operator CDL Hotels Korea Limited 100% Republic of Korea Hotel owner and operator CDL Hotels Malaysia Sdn.
100% Malaysia Hotel owner and operator CDL Hotels UK Limited 100% England and Wales Hotel owner and operator CDL Hotels USA Inc 100% USA Hotel investment holding company CDL Investments New Zealand Limited 45% New Zealand Investment and property management company CDL West 45th Street LLC 100% USA Hotel owner Chicago Hotel Holdings, Inc 100% USA Hotel owner and operator City Hotels Pte Ltd 100% Singapore Hotel operator and investment holding company Copthorne Hotel Birmingham Limited 100% England and Wales Hotel owner and operator Copthorne Hotel Gatwick Limited 100% England and Wales Hotel owner and operator Copthorne Hotel Manchester Limited 100% England and Wales Hotel owner and operator Copthorne Hotel Newcastle Limited 94% England and Wales Hotel owner and operator Copthorne Hotel Slough Limited 100% England and Wales Hotel owner and operator Copthorne Hotels Limited 100% England and Wales Hotels investment holding company Copthorne Hotel Holdings Limited 100% England and Wales Hotels investment holding company Copthorne Orchid Hotel Singapore 100% Singapore Hotel owner and operator Pte Ltd Gateway Regal Holdings LLC 100% USA Hotel owner and operator Grand Plaza Hotel Corporation 66% Philippines Hotel owner and operator and investment holding company Harbour View Hotel Pte Ltd 100% Singapore Hotel operator Hong Leong Hotel Development Limited 81% Taiwan Hotel owner and operator Hong Leong Hotels Pte Ltd 100% Cayman Islands Investment holding company Hospitality Group Limited 49% New Zealand Holding company Hospitality Holdings Pte Ltd 100% Singapore Investment holding company Kings Tanglin Shopping Pte Ltd 100% Singapore Property owner London Britannia Hotel Limited 100% England and Wales Hotel owner and operator London Tara Hotel Limited 100% England and Wales Hotel owner and operator M&C Crescent Interests, LLC 100% USA Property owner M&C Hotel Interest, Inc 100% USA Hotel management services company M&C Hotels France SAS 100% France Hotel owner M&C REIT Management Limited 100% Singapore REIT investment management services Millennium & Copthorne Hotels New Zealand Limited 70% New Zealand Hotel investment holding company Millennium & Copthorne International 100% Singapore Hotels and resorts management Limited 138 139 MiLLenniUM & CoptHorne HoteLs pLC Annual Report & Accounts 2010 MiLLenniUM & CoptHorne HoteLs pLC Annual Report & Accounts 2010 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Effective Country of Principal Group interest incorporation Activity Millennium & Copthorne Middle East 51% Hong Kong Hotel management service Holdings Limited company Quantum Limited 49% New Zealand Holding company Republic Hotels & Resorts Limited 100% Singapore Hotel operator and investment holding company Republic Iconic Hotel Pte Ltd 100% Singapore Hotel owner and operator RHM-88, LLC 100% USA Hotel owner and operator WHB Biltmore LLC 100% USA Hotel owner and operator Joint ventures New Unity Holdings Limited 50% British Virgin Islands Investment holding company Fena Estate Company Limited 50% Thailand Investment holding company Associates CDL Hospitality Trusts 34.9% Singapore See note below First Sponsor Capital Limited 41.2% British Virgin Islands Investment holding company Due to non-controlling interest shareholdings held within intermediary parent undertakings, the Groups effective shareholding in certain subsidiary undertakings in which it has control is less than 50%.
A full listing of subsidiaries will be included in the Millennium & Copthorne Hotels plc Annual Return.
note CDL Hospitality Trusts is a stapled group comprising CDL Hospitality Real Estate Investment Trust H-REIT, a real estate investment trust, and CDL Hospitality Business Trust HBT, a business trust.
H-REIT has an investment strategy of investing directly or indirectly, in a diversified portfolio of income-producing real estate which is primarily used for hospitality and or hospitality-related purposes, whether wholly or partially, and real-estate related assets in relation to the foregoing.
HBT is a business trust which is dormant.
It exists primarily as a master lessee of last resort and will become active if H-REIT is unable to appoint a master lessee for any of the hotels in its portfolio at the expiry of the relevant master lease agreement or for a newly acquired hotel.
HBT may also become active if it undertakes certain hospitality and hospitality-related development projects, acquisitions and investments which may not be suitable for H-REIT.
140 MiLLenniUM & CoptHorne HoteLs pLC Annual Report & Accounts 2010 COMPANY BALANCE SHEET As at 31 December 2010 Restated 2010 2009 Notes m m Fixed assets Investments D 1,718.4 1,673.3 Current assets Amounts owed by subsidiary undertakings falling due within one year 50.1 5.7 Other debtors 0.9 4.4 Cash at bank and in hand 22.5 7.5 73.5 17.6 Creditors: amounts falling due within one year E 78.6 74.9 Net current liabilities 5.1 57.3 Creditors: amounts falling due after more than one year F 652.4 586.1 Net assets 1,060.9 1,029.9 Capital and reserves Called up share capital G, H 94.0 92.9 Share premium account H 844.7 845.5 Profit and loss account H 124.4 91.5 Own share reserve H 2.2 Shareholders funds H 1,060.9 1,029.9 These financial statements were approved by the Board of Directors on 15 February 2011 and were signed on its behalf by: Kwek Leng Beng Wong Hong ren CHAIRMAN DIRECTOR 141 MiLLenniUM & CoptHorne HoteLs pLC Annual Report & Accounts 2010 NOTES TO THE COMPANY FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTES TO THE COMPANY FINANCIAL STATEMENTS A ACCoUntinG poLiCies The following accounting policies have been applied consistently in dealing with items which are considered material in relation to the Companys financial statements.
Basis of accounting The financial statements have been prepared on the going concern basis which assumes that the Company will continue in operational existence for the foreseeable future.
Accounting convention and basis of preparation The financial statements have been prepared under the historical cost convention and in accordance with applicable accounting standards in the United Kingdom UK GAAP.
The Company has taken advantage of the exemption under Section 408 of the Companies Act 2006 from presenting its own profit and loss account.
The profit after tax dealt with in the accounts of Millennium & Copthorne Hotels plc, determined in accordance with the Act was 37.4m 2009: 19.0m.
Under Financial Reporting Standard No 1 revised, the Company is exempt from the requirement to prepare a cash flow statement as its cash flows are included within the published consolidated cash flow statement of Millennium & Copthorne Hotels plc.
The consolidated financial statements of the Group contain financial instruments disclosures and comply with FRS 29 Financial Instruments Disclosures.
Consequently the Company has taken advantage of certain exemptions in FRS 29 from the requirement to present separate financial instrument disclosures for the Company.
The Company is also exempt under the terms of the revised FRS 8 Related Party Disclosures from disclosing related party transactions with wholly-owned subsidiaries within the Group.
investments In the Companys accounts, investments in subsidiary and associated undertakings are stated at cost less provision for impairment.
Dividends received and receivable are credited to the Companys profit and loss account.
Cash and liquid resources Cash, for the purpose of the cash flow statement, comprises cash in hand and deposits repayable on demand less overdrafts payable on demand.
taxation The charge for taxation is based on the profit for the year and takes into account taxation deferred because of timing differences between the treatment of certain items for taxation and accounting purposes.
Except as otherwise required by accounting standards, full provision without discounting is made for all timing differences, which have arisen but not reversed at the balance sheet date.
Timing differences arise when items on income and expenditure are included in tax computations in periods different from their inclusion in the financial statements.
Foreign currency Transactions in foreign currencies are translated at the foreign exchange rate ruling at the date of the transaction.
Monetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies at the balance sheet date are translated to sterling at the foreign exchange rate ruling at that date.
Non-monetary assets and liabilities that are measured in terms of historical cost in a foreign currency are translated using the exchange rate at the date of the transaction.
Non-monetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies that are stated at fair value are translated at foreign exchange rates ruling at the dates the fair value was determined.
142 143 MiLLenniUM & CoptHorne HoteLs pLC Annual Report & Accounts 2010 MiLLenniUM & CoptHorne HoteLs pLC Annual Report & Accounts 2010 NOTES TO THE COMPANY FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTES TO THE COMPANY FINANCIAL STATEMENTS A ACCoUntinG poLiCies ContinUeD The Company uses a fair value hedging model to designate bank loans and bonds held in overseas currencies as hedging instruments against designated overseas investments held in the same currency.
Under such fair value hedges, both the hedged item and the hedging instrument are retranslated with the exchange differences in both cases being recorded in the profit and loss account as they arise at each period end.
The Directors reviewed the accounting treatment of the unhedged part of the investment and decided it is appropriate to recognise this at historical cost.
The retranslation previously recognised in reserves has been reclassified accordingly.
share-based payment With the amendments to FRS 20, the Company has changed its accounting policy in respect of group settled arrangements.
Where the Company is the settling entity for employees of subsidiaries, who receive share based payments, but the beneficiary of the services is the subsidiary, the Company has recognised this as an increase in investment in the subsidiary.
Accordingly the comparative for investments has been restated.
Dividend distribution Dividend distribution to the shareholders is recognised as a liability in the Groups financial statements in the period in which the dividends are appropriately authorised and approved for payment and are no longer at the discretion of the Company.
Unpaid dividends that do not meet these criteria are disclosed in the financial statements.
treasury shares held by employee benefit trust Transactions of the company sponsored employee benefits trust are included in the parent company financial statements.
In particular, the trusts repurchase of shares in the company are debited directly to equity.
B DireCtors reMUnerAtion AnD eMpLoYees Details of Directors remuneration in the current and prior year is given on pages 59 to 65 of the Directors Remuneration Report.
The Company had no employees.
Details of share options issued by the Company are given in note 23 to the consolidated financial statements and note G. The Company is the principal employer of the UK Group pension scheme, the Millennium & Copthorne Pension Plan, which provides benefits based on final pensionable pay.
As the Company is unable to identify its share of the scheme assets and liabilities on a consistent and reasonable basis, the scheme has been accounted for, in these financial statements as if it were a defined contribution scheme as permitted by FRS 17 Retirement benefits.
Details of the plan are given in note 23 to the consolidated financial statements.
C DiViDenDs Details of dividends paid and proposed in the current and prior year are given in note 28 to the consolidated financial statements.
D inVestMents Shares in Loans to Group Subsidiary subsidiary settled undertakings undertakings arrangements Total m m m m Cost and net book value at 1 January 2010 1,299.8 368.3 1,668.1 Investment relating to share-based payments 5.2 5.2 Restated 1,299.8 368.3 5.2 1,673.3 Additions 24.0 2.8 26.8 Capital contributions relating to share-based payments 0.8 0.8 Foreign exchange adjustments 18.2 0.9 19.1 At 31 December 2010 1,342.0 372.0 4.4 1,718.4 There were no provisions made against investments in subsidiary undertakings.
142 143 MiLLenniUM & CoptHorne HoteLs pLC Annual Report & Accounts 2010 MiLLenniUM & CoptHorne HoteLs pLC Annual Report & Accounts 2010 NOTES TO THE COMPANY FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTES TO THE COMPANY FINANCIAL STATEMENTS D inVestMents ContinUeD The Companys subsidiary undertakings at 31 December 2010 are listed below.
All of the subsidiary undertakings have coterminous year ends.
Effective Country of Principal Subsidiary Name Interest Incorporation Activity Millennium & Copthorne Austrian Holdings Limited 100% England and Wales Investment holding Millennium Hotel Holdings EMEA Limited 100% England and Wales Investment holding Hotel investment holding company Copthorne Hotel Holdings Limited 100% England and Wales Millennium & Copthorne Share Trustee Limited 100% England and Wales Trustee company Millennium Hotels London Limited 100% England and Wales Hotel investment M&C Hotels Holdings Limited 100% England and Wales Investment holding M&C Hotels Holdings USA Limited 100% Cayman Islands Investment holding Millennium & Copthorne Jersey Limited 0.01% Jersey Investment holding e CreDitors: AMoUnts FALLinG DUe WitHin one YeAr 2010 2009 m m Bank loans 44.9 Bonds payable 59.6 22.2 Amounts owed to subsidiary undertakings 12.3 3.9 Other payables 0.3 Corporation tax 3.7 1.7 Accruals and deferred income 2.7 2.2 78.6 74.9 F CreDitors: AMoUnts FALLinG DUe AFter More tHAn one YeAr 2010 2009 m m Bank loans 70.7 18.0 Bonds payable 184.2 173.2 Amounts owed to subsidiary undertakings 397.5 394.9 652.4 586.1 Bank loans and bonds are repayable as follows: 2010 2009 m m Between one and two years 43.2 54.4 Between two and five years 212.2 136.8 255.4 191.2 144 145 MiLLenniUM & CoptHorne HoteLs pLC Annual Report & Accounts 2010 MiLLenniUM & CoptHorne HoteLs pLC Annual Report & Accounts 2010 NOTES TO THE COMPANY FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTES TO THE COMPANY FINANCIAL STATEMENTS G sHAre CApitAL Number of 30p shares, allotted, called up and fully paid Balance at 1 January 2010 309,717,254 Issue of ordinary shares on exercise of share options 79,127 Issue of ordinary shares in lieu of dividends 3,490,364 Balance at 31 December 2010 313,286,745 The authorised share capital stood at 300,000,000 throughout the year.
All of the share capital is equity share capital.
H reConCiLiAtion oF MoVeMents in sHAreHoLDers FUnDs Restated Share Share profit and Own total Total capital premium loss account share reserve 2010 2009 m m m m m m Balance at 1 January 92.9 845.6 91.5 1,030.0 1,028.1 Share-based payment transactions 3.7 Restated 92.9 845.6 91.5 1,030.0 1,031.8 Profit for the financial year 37.4 37.4 19.0 Dividends 4.1 4.1 19.0 Issue of shares in lieu of dividends 1.1 1.1 15.0 Share options exercised 0.2 0.2 0.1 Own share purchased 2.2 2.2 Share-based payment transactions 0.8 0.8 1.5 Foreign exchange adjustments 0.4 0.4 18.4 Balance at 31 December 94.0 844.7 124.4 2.2 1,060.9 1,030.0 i ContinGent LiABiLities, CoMMitMents AnD sUBseQUent eVents In the course of managing its investments the Company is routinely exposed to potential liabilities for contractual or tortious claims by third parties.
The Company has insurance cover up to certain limits for major claims in connection with legal liabilities in the course of its operations.
Otherwise the Company carries its own risk.
The Company believes that the provisions carried on the balance sheet are sufficient to cover these risks.
The Company had no capital commitments at the end of the financial year for which no provision has been made.
There are no events subsequent to the balance sheet date which require adjustment to or disclosure within these financial statements.
144 145 MiLLenniUM & CoptHorne HoteLs pLC Annual Report & Accounts 2010 MiLLenniUM & CoptHorne HoteLs pLC Annual Report & Accounts 2010 NOTES TO THE COMPANY FINANCIAL STATEMENTS KEY OPERATING STATISTICS J ULtiMAte HoLDinG AnD ControLLinG CoMpAnY The Directors consider the ultimate holding and controlling company to be Hong Leong Investment Holdings Pte.
Ltd. which is incorporated in the Republic of Singapore.
The accounts of the ultimate holding company, which heads the largest group in which the results of the Company are consolidated, are available to the public at the Accounting and Corporate Regulatory Authority, 10 Anson Road #05-10 15, International Plaza, Singapore 079903.
The intermediate holding company is City Developments Limited, a company incorporated in Singapore, which also heads the smallest group in which the results of the Company are consolidated.
The consolidated accounts are available to the public and may be obtained from 36 Robinson Road, #04-01 City House, Singapore 068877.
K reLAteD pArties For the year ended 31 December 2010, fees paid payable by the Company to HLMS, a subsidiary of Hong Leong amounted to 0.5m 2009: 0.6m.
146 147 MiLLenniUM & CoptHorne HoteLs pLC Annual Report & Accounts 2010 MiLLenniUM & CoptHorne HoteLs pLC Annual Report & Accounts 2010
