Accounting policies Overview Business review Basis of preparation These features would need to be included in the grant date fair The consolidated financial statements have been prepared in value for transactions with employees and others providing similar accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs services: they would not impact the number of awards expected to and International Financial Reporting Interpretations Committee vest or valuation thereof subsequent to grant date.
All cancellations, IFRIC interpretations as adopted by the European Union EU whether by the entity or by other parties, should receive the same and with those parts of the Companies Act 2006 that are applicable accounting treatment.
The Group has adopted IFRS 2 amendment to companies reporting under IFRS.
The Group, in addition to from 1 June 2009.
The amendment does not have a material impact complying with its legal obligation to apply IFRSs as adopted by on the Group or Companys financial statements.
the European Union, has also applied IFRSs as issued by the Amendment to IAS 23 Borrowing costs applies to borrowing costs International Accounting Standards Board.
relating to qualifying assets for which the commencement date The Group has adopted the following new and amended IASs and is on or after 1 January 2009.
IFRSs as of 1 June 2009: IFRS 5 amendment Non-current assets held for sale and Amendment to IFRS 7 Financial instruments disclosures has been discontinued operations is effective from 1 June 2009.
The applied by the Group from 1 June 2009.
The amendment requires amendment provides clarification that IFRS 5 specifies the enhanced disclosures about fair value measurement and liquidity disclosures required in respect of non-current assets or disposal risk.
In particular, the amendment requires disclosure of fair value groups classified as held for sale or discontinued operations.
It also measurements by level of a fair value measurement hierarchy.
The clarifies that the general requirements of IAS 1 still apply, particularly amendment does not have a material impact on the Groups results paragraph 15 to achieve a fair presentation and paragraph 125 or financial position.
sources of estimation uncertainty of IAS 1.
It is expected to have a material impact on the Group and Companys financial statements IAS 1 revised Presentation of financial statements effective next year if the proposed disposal of Allscripts is completed.
The revised standard prohibits the presentation of items of income and expenses that is, non-owner changes in IAS 1 amendment Presentation of financial statements has been equity in the statement of changes in equity, requiring non-owner applied by the Group from 1 June 2009.
The amendment provides changes in equity to be presented separately from owner changes clarification that the potential settlement of a liability by the issue of in equity in a statement of comprehensive income.
As a result, the equity is not relevant to its classification as current or non-current.
Group presents in the consolidated statement of changes in equity By amending the definition of current liability, the amendment permits all owner changes in equity, whereas all non-owner changes in a liability to be classified as non-current provided that the entity equity are presented in the consolidated statement of comprehensive has an unconditional right to defer settlement by transfer of cash income.
As the change in accounting policy only impacts or other assets for at least 12 months after the accounting period presentation aspects, there is no impact on earnings per share.
notwithstanding the fact that the entity could be required by the counterparty to settle in shares at any time.
It is not expected to have IFRS 8 Operating segments which replaced IAS 14 has been a material impact on the Group or Companys financial statements.
adopted by the Group from 1 June 2009.
IFRS 8 adopts a management approach under which segmental information is The following IFRSs and IFRIC interpretations and amendments presented on the same basis as that used for internal reporting have been adopted by the Group but none had any material impact purposes.
Accordingly, the segmental information presented in note on the Group results or financial position: 1 has been prepared in accordance with the requirements of IFRS 8.
Amendments to IFRS 2 Share-based payments Amendment to IAS 36 Impairment of assets has been adopted by Amendment to IAS 23 Borrowing costs the Group from 1 June 2009.
Where fair value less costs to sell is Amendment to IAS 28 Investments in associates and calculated on the basis of discounted cash flows, disclosures consequential amendment to IAS 32 Financial instruments: presentation equivalent to those for a value-in-use calculation should be made.
The Group has applied the amendment and provided the required Amendments to IAS 32 and IAS 1 Puttable financial instruments and obligations arising on liquidation disclosure where applicable.
Amendments to IAS 39 and IFRS 7 Reclassification of financial Amendment to IAS 38 Intangible assets has been adopted by the instruments Group from 1 June 2009.
The amendment clarifies guidance in Improvements to IFRSs May 2008 measuring the fair value of an intangible asset acquired in a business IFRIC 15 Agreements for the construction of real estate combination and it permits the grouping of intangible assets as IFRIC 16 Hedges of a net investment in foreign operations a single asset if each asset has similar useful economic lives.
The IFRIC 18 Transfer of assets to customers amendment has not resulted in a material impact on the Groups Amendment to IAS 19 Employee benefits was issued in May 2008 financial statements.
Amendment to IAS 39 Financial instruments: recognition and measurement was issued in May 2008 Amendment to IFRS 2 Share-based payment effective 1 January Amendment to IFRS 7 Improving disclosure about financial 2009 deals with vesting conditions and cancellations.
It clarifies instruments that vesting conditions are service conditions and performance Amendment to IFRIC 9 and IAS 39 Embedded derivatives conditions only.
Other features of a share-based payment are not IFRIC 13 Customer loyalty programmes vesting conditions.
76 Misys plc | Annual Report 2010 Corporate governance Financial statements The financial effect of IFRS 3 revised, IAS 27 revised, IFRS 5 The purchase method of accounting is used to account for the amended, IAS 28 amended and IAS 36 amended will be acquisition of subsidiaries by the Group.
dependent on the circumstances surrounding the future transactions The cost of an acquisition is measured as the fair value of the assets to which they will apply that are at present unknown.
given, equity instruments issued and liabilities incurred or assumed The following interpretations and amendments to existing standards at the date of exchange.
Identifiable assets acquired and liabilities have been published and are mandatory for the Groups accounting and contingent liabilities assumed in a business combination periods beginning on or after 1 January 2010 or later periods but the are measured initially at their fair values at the acquisition date, Group has not early adopted them: irrespective of the extent of any minority interest.
IFRS 3 Business combinations revised is required to be Inter-company transactions, balances and unrealised gains on implemented prospectively to business combinations on or after transactions between Group companies are eliminated.
Unrealised 1 June 2010. losses are also eliminated but considered an impairment indicator of the asset transferred.
Annual improvements to IFRSs 2009 most amendments effective 1 January 2010 and 2010 Critical accounting estimates and judgements Estimates and judgements are continually evaluated and are based IFRS 9, Financial instruments not yet endorsed by the EU on historical experience and other factors, including expectation of future events that are believed to be reasonable under the IFRIC 19, Extinguishing financial liabilities with equity instruments.
Due to inherent uncertainty involved in making estimates and assumptions, actual outcomes could differ from those A summary of the Groups accounting policies is given below.
The critical judgements that have been made in arriving at the amounts recognised in the Groups financial Accounting convention statements and the key sources of estimation uncertainty that have The consolidated financial information has been prepared under a significant risk of causing a material adjustment to the carrying the historical cost convention, except for certain items which are values of assets and liabilities within the next financial year are measured at fair value, as disclosed in the accounting policies discussed below.
These accounting policies have been consistently applied to all the years presented, unless otherwise stated.
Revenue recognition The revenue and profit of fixed price global services contracts is Basis of consolidation recognised on a percentage of completion basis when the outcome The Groups financial statements consolidate the financial statements of a contract can be estimated reliably.
Management exercises of Misys plc the Company and its subsidiary undertakings.
judgement in determining whether a contracts outcome can be On acquisition, the assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities of a estimated reliably.
Management also makes some estimates in the subsidiary are measured at their fair value at the date of acquisition.
calculation of future contract costs, fair values of contracts, the value of discounts given, the value of upgrade clauses in contracts Any excess of the cost of acquisition over the fair values of the which are used in determining the value of amounts recoverable identifiable net assets acquired is recognised as goodwill.
Prior to on contracts and timing of revenue recognition.
Estimates are the adoption of IFRS, goodwill arising on acquisition was taken to continually revised based on changes in the facts relating to each reserves in accordance with UK GAAP.
Any deficiency of the cost contract.
of acquisition below the fair values of identifiable net assets acquired i. e. discount on acquisition is credited to income in the period of Impairment of goodwill and intangible assets acquisition.
Goodwill is reviewed annually for impairment and other intangible assets are reviewed for impairment whenever events or changes Subsidiary undertakings acquired during the period are included in circumstances indicate that the carrying amount may not be in the financial statements from the date of acquisition.
An impairment review requires an estimate to be made undertakings disposed of are included in the financial statements of the value in use or the fair value less costs to sell as appropriate.
up to the date of disposal.
Accordingly, the consolidated income The value in use calculation includes estimates about the future statement, the consolidated statement of comprehensive income financial performance of the cash generating units, including and the consolidated cash flow statement include the results and managements estimates of long-term operating margins and cash flows for the period of ownership.
Subsidiaries are all entities over which the Group has the power to govern the financial and operating policies generally accompanying a shareholding of more than one half of the voting rights.
The existence and effect of potential voting rights that are currently exercisable or convertible are considered when assessing whether the Group controls another entity.
Annual Report 2010 | Misys plc 77 Accounting policies Overview Business review Capitalisation of development costs Revenue recognition Expenditure on developed software is capitalised when the Group Revenue represents the fair value of consideration received or is able to demonstrate all of the following: the technical feasibility receivable from clients for goods and services provided by the of the resulting asset: the ability and intention to complete the Group, net of discounts and sales taxes.
Revenue is recognised development and use or sell it: how the asset will generate probable when a signed contract exists, delivery to a customer has occurred future economic benefits: and the ability to measure reliably the with no significant vendor obligations remaining and where the expenditure attributable to the asset during its development.
collection of the resulting receivable is considered probable.
Management estimates the future sales and long-term operating Where these circumstances exist but no invoice to the customer has margins of the asset.
been raised, under the terms of the contract, revenue is recognised Onerous property contracts as normal but the corresponding receivable is shown as accrued The property provisions require an estimate to be made of the net income on the balance sheet.
present value of the future costs of vacant and sublet properties.
Initial licence fees ILF comprise the revenue generated when The calculation includes estimates of future cost involved, including Misys sells the right to use a software product, including significant managements estimates of the long-term letting potential of the upgrades, and when a fee is payable for a significant variation of an properties.
ILF from sales of standard, unmodified software Taxation are recognised when a signed contract exists, delivery to a customer The Group is subject to income taxes in numerous jurisdictions.
has occurred with no significant vendor obligations remaining and Management is required to exercise significant judgement in where the collection of the resulting receivable is considered determining the worldwide provision for income taxes.
In instances where a significant vendor obligation exists, transactions require the use of estimates and judgements to revenue recognition is delayed until the obligation has been satisfied.
determine the financial effect where the ultimate tax determination No revenue is recognised for multiple deliveries or multiple element is uncertain.
When the final outcome of such matters is different, or products if an element of the contract remains undelivered and is expected to be different, from previous estimates, such differences essential to the functionality of the elements already delivered.
will impact income tax in the period in which the determination Licence and installation fees from sales of standard software sold is made.
on an Application Service Provider ASP model are recognised The Group recognises deferred tax assets on temporary differences over the expected life of the contract.
where it is probable that future profits will be available against which Revenue from global services, such as implementation, training the deferred tax asset can be utilised.
Where the future results differ and consultancy, is recognised as the services are performed.
from expectations, such differences will impact the deferred tax In certain circumstances, the percentage of completion method asset recognised in the period in which the determination is made.
is used to determine the degree of completion of a contract.
This Discontinued operations and assets held for sale involves a comparison of the costs incurred on the contract to date Where the Group expects to recover the carrying amount of a group with the total expected costs of the contract.
Losses on contracts of assets through a sale transaction rather than through continuing are recognised as soon as a loss is foreseen by reference to the use, and a sale is considered highly probable at the balance sheet estimated costs of completion.
date, the assets are classified as held for sale and measured at the Initial licence fees on sales of bespoke or heavily customised lower of carrying value or fair value less costs to sell.
software, together with revenue from the associated global services Segmental reporting contract, are recognised on a percentage of completion basis over The Groups segmental analysis is by business sector which reflects the period from the commencement of performance on the contract the basis on which operations are reported to the Chief Operating to customer acceptance.
The business sectors are defined by distinctly Maintenance fees are recognised rateably over the period of the separate product offerings or markets.
Revenue from Electronic Data Interchange EDI and and liabilities include items directly attributable to a segment as well remote processing services transaction processing is recognised as those that can be allocated on a reasonable basis.
as the services are performed.
Hardware revenue is recognised when the risks and rewards of ownership have transferred upon delivery to the customer.
78 Misys plc | Annual Report 2010 Corporate governance Financial statements Share incentive schemes Taxation The Group operates several equity-settled, share-based compensation Current tax for the current and prior periods is provided at the plans.
The fair value of the employee services received in exchange amount expected to be paid or recovered using the tax rates and for the grant of the options is recognised as an expense.
tax laws that have been enacted or substantively enacted by the balance sheet date.
The total amount to be expensed over the vesting period is determined by reference to the fair value of the options granted, Deferred tax is provided in full on timing differences which result in excluding the impact of any non-market vesting conditions for an obligation at the balance sheet date to pay more tax, or the right example, profitability and sales growth targets.
Non-market vesting to pay less tax, at a future date, at tax rates expected to apply when conditions are included in assumptions about the number of options the timing differences reverse based on tax rates and tax laws that that are expected to become exercisable.
have been enacted or substantively enacted by the balance sheet date.
Timing differences arise from the inclusion of items of income At each balance sheet date, a revised estimate is made of the and expenditure in taxation computations in periods different from number of options that are expected to become exercisable.
If the those in which they are included in the financial statements.
revised estimate differs from the original estimate, the charge to the income statement is adjusted over the remaining vesting period of Deferred tax assets are recognised to the extent that it is regarded the options.
as more likely than not that they will be recovered.
Deferred tax assets and liabilities are not discounted.
Pensions The Group operates a number of defined contribution pension Resultant deferred tax assets are recognised only to the extent that schemes covering the majority of its employees.
The costs of these it is probable that there will be sufficient taxable profits from which pension schemes are charged to the income statement as incurred.
the underlying temporary differences can be deducted, or where In addition, the Group has a closed funded defined benefit pension there are deferred tax liabilities against which the assets can be scheme in the UK, as well as a number of other smaller defined recovered.
benefit arrangements outside the UK.
Deferred tax is measured on an undiscounted basis at the tax rates The remaining active members of the closed UK defined benefit that are expected to apply in the periods in which the related scheme now contribute to a defined contribution section of the deferred tax asset is realised or the deferred tax liability is settled scheme.
Full independent actuarial valuations are carried out on based on tax rates and laws enacted at the balance sheet date.
a regular basis and updated to each balance sheet date.
The assets of the schemes are held separately from those of the Group.
Current and deferred tax is recognised in the income statement except when the tax relates to items charged or credited directly Pension scheme assets are measured using market values.
to equity, in which case the tax is also recognised in equity.
Pension scheme liabilities are measured using a projected unit Foreign currencies method and discounted at the current rate of return on a high quality Items included in the financial statements of Group companies are corporate bond of equivalent term and currency to the liability.
The measured using the currency of the primary economic environment pension scheme surplus to the extent that it is recoverable or deficit in which each entity operates their functional currency.
The is recognised in full on the balance sheet.
Any current or past service consolidated financial statements are presented in sterling.
cost is recognised in the income statement.
The net of the expected increase in the present value of the schemes liabilities, and the Each subsidiary translates foreign currency transactions into their Groups long-term expected return on its schemes assets, are own functional currency at rates ruling at the date of each included in the income statement.
Foreign currency monetary assets and liabilities are retranslated at rates ruling at the balance sheet date and currency Any difference arising from experience or assumption changes and translation differences are recognised in the income statement.
differences between the expected return on assets and those actually achieved are charged or credited to the statement of total On consolidation, the results of overseas operations are translated recognised income and expense as they arise.
to sterling at the average exchange rate for the period.
Assets and liabilities of overseas operations are translated at exchange rates Leases prevailing on the balance sheet date.
The currency translation Leases are classified as finance leases whenever the terms of the differences arising on both elements are recognised in the lease transfer substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership to translation reserve.
All other leases are classified as operating leases.
Property, plant and equipment held under finance leases is capitalised in the balance sheet at the lower of cost or present value of the minimum lease payments and is depreciated over its useful life.
The capital elements of future obligations under leases are included as liabilities in the balance sheet.
The interest elements of the lease obligations are charged to income on an actuarial basis over the period of the lease.
Rentals paid under operating leases are charged to income on a straight line basis over the lease term.
Annual Report 2010 | Misys plc 79 Accounting policies Overview Business review Exchange gains and losses on foreign currency borrowings used Contingent consideration to finance an equity investment in an overseas operation are offset Where part or the entire amount of purchase consideration is in reserves against the exchange differences arising on the contingent on future events, the cost of acquisition initially recorded retranslation of the net investment, up to the level of the investment.
is a reasonable estimate of the fair value of amounts expected The exchange differences on any ineffective portion are recognised to be payable in the future.
The cost of acquisition is adjusted when revised estimates are made, Goodwill and fair value adjustments arising on the acquisition of with corresponding adjustments continuing to be made to goodwill a foreign entity are treated as assets and liabilities of the foreign until the ultimate outcome is known.
These liabilities are reported entity and translated at the closing rate.
under provisions in the balance sheet.
When a foreign operation is disposed of, the cumulative translation Discontinued operations and assets held for sale differences that relate to it, including changes to any long-term Where the Group expects to recover the carrying amount of a group intra-group borrowing, are removed from equity and recognised of assets through a sale transaction rather than through continuing in the income statement as part of the gain or loss on disposal.
use, and a sale is considered highly probable at the balance sheet date, the assets are classified as held for sale and measured at The Group hedges its exposure to certain foreign exchange risks lower of cost and fair value less costs to sell.
No depreciation or using derivatives and foreign currency borrowings.
amortisation is charged in respect of non-current assets classified as held for sale.
Details of the accounting policies in respect of these items are given in the derivative financial instruments and hedge accounting section.
If the group of assets constitutes a separate major line of business, it is classified as a discontinued operation.
Business combinations Goodwill arising on consolidation represents the consideration, Other intangible assets and research and development including acquisition costs, less the Groups interest in the fair value expenditure of the identifiable assets and liabilities acquired.
Research expenditure, including the cost of in-house software research, is expensed in the period in which it is incurred.
Goodwill is recognised as an intangible asset.
It is not amortised but is reviewed for impairment annually and whenever there is a potential Expenditure on developed software is capitalised when the Group indicator of impairment.
Any impairment is recognised immediately is able to demonstrate all of the following: the technical feasibility in the income statement and is not subsequently reversed.
of the resulting asset: the ability and intention to complete the development and use or sell it: how the asset will generate probable On acquisition, specific intangible assets are identified and future economic benefits: and the ability to measure reliably the recognised separately from goodwill and then amortised over their expenditure attributable to the asset during its development.
These include such items as brand names, customer relationships and complete technology, to which value is Development costs which do not meet these criteria are recognised first attributed at the time of acquisition.
The capitalisation of these in the income statement as incurred and are not subsequently assets and related amortisation charges are based on judgements capitalised.
about the value and economic life of such items.
These economic lives for intangible assets are estimated at between four and twenty Capitalised expenditure on developed software is normally years for acquisition intangibles.
amortised on a straight line basis over the useful economic life, once the related software product is available for use.
On the disposal of a previously acquired subsidiary, the attributable amount of goodwill is included in the determination of the gain or loss Intangible assets purchased separately, such as software licences on disposal.
that do not form an integral part of related hardware, are capitalised at cost and amortised over their useful economic lives on a straight Transaction costs line basis.
Intangible assets acquired through a business Acquisition costs incurred in respect of acquisition of subsidiaries combination are initially measured at fair value and amortised over are included in the cost of investment.
Where the disposal of their useful economic lives.
a subsidiary is not considered highly probable at the balance sheet date, related disposal costs are recognised in the income statement Estimated useful lives by major class of assets are as follows, with as incurred.
This will change prospectively with the introduction amortisation made on a straight line basis: of IFRS 3 revised.
Acquired intangibles 4 20 years Developed software 3 5 years Third party software 3 7 years It is proposed that future strategic developments such as BankFusion will be amortised in line with their expected future benefits.
80 Misys plc | Annual Report 2010 Corporate governance Financial statements Property, plant and equipment Trade and other receivables Property, plant and equipment is stated at cost less accumulated Trade receivables are recognised initially at fair value and depreciation.
Depreciation is calculated on a straight line basis so as subsequently measured at amortised cost using the effective interest to write off the cost, less estimated residual value of each asset, over method, less provision for impairment.
Where there is objective evidence that there is an impairment loss, The residual values and useful economic lives of property, plant and the amount of loss is measured as the difference between the equipment are reviewed annually.
carrying amount and the present value of the estimated future cash flows discounted at the effective interest rate.
The amount of loss is The useful lives by major class of asset applied from the date of recognised in the income statement within administrative and other purchase are: operating charges The carrying amount of a receivable is reduced by appropriate allowances for estimated irrecoverable amounts Long leasehold property 50 years or lease term if shorter through the use of an allowance account for trade receivables.
Amounts charged to the allowance account are written off when Short leasehold property over lease term 1 13 years there is no expectation of further recovery.
Subsequent recoveries Computer and other equipment 4 10 years of amounts previously written off are credited against administrative and other operating charges in the income statement.
Impairment of assets Assets that are subject to depreciation or amortisation are reviewed Investments for impairment whenever events or changes in circumstances Equity instruments that do not have a quoted market price in an indicate that the carrying amount may not be recoverable.
active market and whose fair value cannot be reliably measured are stated at cost, subject to review for impairment.
Impairment losses Goodwill and developed software not yet brought into use are recognised in the income statement on equity instruments are not reviewed for impairment annually.
An impairment loss is recognised subsequently reversed through the income statement.
for the amount by which the assets carrying amount exceeds its recoverable amount.
The recoverable amount is the higher of an Financial liabilities and equity assets fair value less costs to sell and its value in use.
Financial liabilities and equity instruments are classified according to the substance of the contractual arrangements entered into.
For the purposes of assessing impairment, assets are grouped at the An equity instrument is any contract that evidences a residual lowest levels for which there are separately identifiable cash flows interest in the assets of the Group after deducting all of its liabilities.
Bank loans and overdrafts An asset is derecognised upon disposal or when no future economic Bank loans and overdrafts are initially recognised at fair value less benefits are expected from its future use or disposal.
directly attributable transaction costs and are subsequently measured at amortised cost using the effective interest rate method.
Any gain or loss arising on derecognition of the asset is included in The difference between the proceeds net of transaction costs and the income statement in the year the asset is derecognised.
the redemption value is recognised in the income statement, within finance costs, over the period of the borrowings.
Borrowings are Financial assets classified as current liabilities unless the Group has an unconditional Financial assets are classified in the following categories: at fair right to defer settlement of the liability for at least 12 months after value through profit or loss: loans and receivables: and available the balance sheet date.
Trade payables Financial assets at fair value through profit or loss are financial Trade payables are recognised initially at fair value and subsequently assets held for trading.
Derivatives are also classified as held for measured at amortised cost using the effective interest method.
trading unless they are designated as hedges.
Gains and losses arising from changes in fair value of financial assets at fair value Equity instruments through profit or loss are included in the income statement in the Ordinary shares are classified as equity.
Incremental costs directly period in which they arise.
Financial assets at fair value through profit attributable to the issue of new shares or options are shown in equity or loss are subsequently held at fair value.
as a deduction, net of tax, from the proceeds.
Loans and receivables are non-derivative financial assets with fixed Where any Group company purchases the Companys equity share or determinable payments that are not quoted in an active market capital treasury shares, the consideration paid including any and are carried at amortised cost.
directly attributable costs net of income taxes is deducted from equity attributable to the Companys equity holders until the shares Available for sale financial assets are measured at fair value.
Unrealised gains and losses are recognised in equity except for impairment losses, interest and dividends arising from those assets which are recognised in the consolidated income statement.
Annual Report 2010 | Misys plc 81 Accounting policies Overview Business review Derivative financial instruments and hedge accounting Embedded derivatives Derivative financial instruments are initially recognised at fair value Certain long-term software licensing contracts are priced in on the date a derivative is entered into and are subsequently currencies usually US dollars, sterling or euros other than those remeasured at fair value.
The method of recognising the resulting of the functional currencies of the entities entering into the contracts.
gain or loss depends on whether the derivative is designated as Under IAS 39, such contracts may contain an embedded foreign a hedging instrument and, if so, the nature of the item being hedged.
currency derivative which must be extracted from the host contract Changes in the fair value of derivative financial instruments, where and measured separately at each balance sheet date.
Gains or they are not designated as hedging instruments, are recognised losses on these derivatives are charged or credited to the income in the income statement.
The contracts are generally of up to 10 years duration and this is therefore the period over which the assets and liabilities Hedge accounting recognised in the balance sheet are expected to crystallise.
The business activities of the Group expose it to financial risks that arise from changes in both foreign exchange rates and interest rates.
Provisions The Group uses forward currency contracts and interest rate swaps Provisions are recognised when the Group has a present legal or to hedge these exposures.
In accordance with its treasury policy, constructive obligation as a result of past events and it is probable the Group does not enter into derivatives for speculative purposes.
that an outflow of resources will be required to settle the obligation and if this amount is capable of being reliably estimated.
If such an The Group designates certain derivatives as either: obligation is not capable of being reliably estimated, no provision is recognised and the item is disclosed as a contingent liability a hedges of the fair value of recognised assets or liabilities or where material.
a firm commitment fair value hedges : b hedges of a particular risk associated with a recognised asset Onerous property contracts or liability or a highly probable forecast transaction cash flow Provision for onerous lease commitments on property contracts hedge : or is based on an estimate of the net unavoidable lease and other c hedges of a net investment in a foreign operation.
payments in respect of these properties including dilapidation costs.
These comprise rental and other property costs payable, plus any Changes in the fair value of derivative financial instruments that are termination costs, less any income expected to be derived from designated and effective as hedges of future cash flows are the properties being sublet.
The provisions are discounted at an recognised directly in equity and any ineffective portion is appropriate rate to take into account the effect of the time value recognised immediately in the income statement.
If the item being hedged is a non-financial asset or liability, the Exceptional items gains or losses on the associated derivative that had previously Where certain expense or revenue items recorded in a period are been recognised in equity are included in the measurement of the material by their nature, size or incidence, these are disclosed asset or liability at the time it is recognised.
as exceptional within a separate line on the income statement.
Examples of items classified as exceptional include: Conversely, if the item being hedged is a financial asset or liability, any amounts arising from changes in fair value that are deferred a profit or loss on the disposal of a business: in equity are subsequently recognised in the income statement b restructuring costs including those associated with the in the same accounting period in which the hedged item affects turnaround programme: net income.
c acquisition integration costs: and d transaction costs.
Hedge accounting of a transaction is discontinued when the hedging instrument is sold, terminated or exercised or when the hedging Cash and cash equivalents instrument no longer qualifies for hedge accounting.
Cash and cash equivalents include cash held at bank and in hand together with short-term highly liquid investments with an original Under these circumstances, any cumulative gain or loss on the maturity of less than three months that are readily convertible hedging instrument, which has already been recognised in equity, to known amounts of cash and subject to an insignificant change is retained in equity until the transaction occurs.
a hedged transaction is no longer expected to occur, any net cumulative gain or loss that has already been recognised in equity Inventories is immediately transferred to the income statement.
Inventories are stated at the lower of cost and net realisable value.
Cost includes expenditure incurred in acquiring inventories and bringing them to their existing location and condition.
