Statement of Directors responsibilities Overview Business review The Directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Report, The Directors are responsible for the maintenance and integrity of the Directors remuneration report and the financial statements the Companys website.
Legislation in the United Kingdom governing in accordance with applicable law and regulations.
the preparation and dissemination of financial statements may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
Company law requires the Directors to prepare financial statements for each financial year.
Under that law, the Directors have prepared Each of the Directors, whose names and functions are listed in Board the Group financial statements in accordance with International of Directors section, confirm that, to the best of their knowledge: Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs as adopted by the European the Group financial statements, which have been prepared in Union and the parent Company financial statements in accordance accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the EU, give a true and with United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice fair view of the assets, liabilities, financial position and profit United Kingdom Accounting Standards and applicable law.
Under of the Group: company law, the Directors must not approve the financial the Company financial statements, which have been prepared statements unless they are satisfied that they give a true and fair view in accordance with United Kingdom Accounting Standards give of the state of affairs of the Group and the Company and of the profit a true and fair view of the assets, liabilities, financial position and or loss of the Group for that period.
In preparing those financial loss of the Company: and statements, the Directors are required to: the financial review and principal risks and uncertainties sections select suitable accounting policies and then apply them include a fair review of the development and performance consistently: of the business and the position of the Group, together with make judgements and accounting estimates that are reasonable a description of the principal risks and uncertainties that it faces.
and prudent: state whether IFRSs as adopted by the European Union and applicable United Kingdom Accounting Standards have been followed, subject to any material departures disclosed and explained in the Group and parent Company financial statements respectively: and prepare the financial statements on the going concern basis unless it is inappropriate to presume that the Group will continue in business.
The Directors are responsible for keeping adequate accounting records that are sufficient to show and explain the Companys transactions and to disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the financial position of the Company and the Group and to enable them to ensure that the financial statements and the Directors remuneration report comply with the Companies Act 2006 and as regards the Group financial statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
They are also responsible for safeguarding the assets of the Company and the Group and hence for taking reasonable steps for the prevention and detection of fraud and other irregularities.
70 Misys plc | Annual Report 2010 Audit opinion for the Misys plc Group Corporate governance Financial statements Independent auditors report to the members of Misys plc Opinion on other matters prescribed by the Companies Act 2006 In our opinion, the information given in the Directors report for the Introduction financial year for which the Group financial statements are prepared We have audited the Group financial statements of Misys plc for the is consistent with the Group financial statements.
year ended 31 May 2010 which comprise the consolidated income Matters on which we are required to report by exception statement, the consolidated statement of comprehensive income, We have nothing to report in respect of the following: the consolidated statement of cash flows, the consolidated balance sheet, the consolidated statement of changes in equity, the Under the Companies Act 2006, we are required to report to you if, accounting policies and the related notes.
The financial reporting in our opinion: framework that has been applied in their preparation is applicable law and International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs as certain disclosures of Directors remuneration specified by law adopted by the European Union.
are not made: or we have not received all the information and explanations we Respective responsibilities of Directors and auditors require for our audit.
As explained more fully in the Directors responsibilities statement set out on page 70, the Directors are responsible for the preparation Under the Listing Rules, we are required to review: of the Group financial statements and for being satisfied that they give a true and fair view.
Our responsibility is to audit the Group the Directors statement, set out on page 70, in relation to going financial statements in accordance with applicable law and concern: and International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland.
Those the part of the Corporate Governance Statement relating to the standards require us to comply with the Auditing Practices Boards Companys compliance with the nine provisions of the June 2008 Ethical Standards for Auditors.
Combined Code specified for our review.
This report, including the opinions, has been prepared for and only Other matters for the Companys members as a body in accordance with Chapter 3 We have reported separately on the Company financial statements of Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006 and for no other purpose.
of Misys plc for the year ended 31 May 2010 and on the information We do not, in giving these opinions, accept or assume responsibility in the Directors remuneration report that is described as having for any other purpose or to any other person to whom this report is been audited.
shown or into whose hands it may come save where expressly agreed by our prior consent in writing.
Giles Hannam Senior Statutory Auditor for and on behalf of  LLP Scope of the audit of the financial statements Chartered Accountants and Statutory Auditors An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts and London disclosures in the financial statements sufficient to give reasonable 26 July 2010 assurance that the financial statements are free from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or error.
This includes an assessment of: whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the Groups circumstances and have been consistently applied and adequately disclosed: the reasonableness of significant accounting estimates made by the Directors: and the overall presentation of the financial statements.
Opinion on financial statements In our opinion, the Group financial statements: give a true and fair view of the state of the Groups affairs as at 31 May 2010 and of its profit and cash flows for the year then ended: have been properly prepared in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the European Union: and have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006 and Article 4 of the lAS Regulation.
