Business Overview Business Review Management Corporate Responsibility Corporate Governance Financial Statements General Shareholder Information Registered office and registered number Enquiring about your shareholding Moneysupermarket House If you want to ask, or need any information, about your shareholding, please contact our registrar see contact details on the left.
St Davids Park Alternatively, if you have internet access, you can access the Groups Ewloe shareholder portal at www.
com where you Chester CH5 3UZ can, amongst other things, view details of your shareholding, set up or No.
6160943 amend a dividend mandate and update your address details.
Telephone: 44 0 1244 665700 Investor relations website Website: www.
com The investor relations section of our website, www.
com, provides further information for anyone Company Secretary interested in the Group.
In addition to the Annual Report and share price, Darren Drabble Company announcements including the half year and full year results announcements and associated presentations are also published there.
Financial advisors stockbrokers Credit Suisse Securities Europe Limited Dividend mandates One Cabot Square If you wish to have dividends paid directly into a bank or building society London E14 4QJ account, you should contact our registrar see contact details on the left or visit the Groups shareholder portal at www.
com where you can set up or amend a dividend mandate.
This 1 Finsbury Avenue method of payment removes the risk of delay or loss of dividend cheques London EC2M 2PP in the post and ensures that your account is credited on the due date.
Auditors Dividend reinvestment plan DRIP KPMG Audit Plc You can choose to reinvest dividends received to purchase further shares St James Square in the Company through a DRIP.
A DRIP application form is available Manchester M2 6DS from our registrar see contact details on the left.
Solicitors Share dealing service Herbert Smith You can buy or sell the Companys shares in a simple and convenient way Exchange House via the Capita share dealing service either online www.
com Primrose Street or by telephone 0871 664 0445.
Calls cost 10p per minute plus network London EC2A 2HS extras.
Addleshaw Goddard Please note that the Directors of the Company are not seeking to encourage shareholders to either buy or sell shares in the Company.
100 Barbirolli Square Shareholders in any doubt about what action to take are recommended Manchester M2 3AB to seek financial advice from an independent financial advisor authorised by the Financial Services and Markets Act 2000.
Principal bankers Lloyds Banking Group plc Electronic communications City Office You can elect to receive shareholder communications electronically by PO Box 1000, BX1 1LT writing to our registrar, Capita Registrars, Freepost RLYX-GZTU-KRRG, SAS, The Registry, 34 Beckenham Road, Beckenham, BR3 9ZA.
This will Financial PR save on printing and distribution costs, creating environmental benefits.
Tulchan Communications When you register, you will be sent a notification to say when shareholder Sixth Floor communications are available on our website and you will be provided Kildare House with a link to that information.
3 Dorset Rise London EC4Y 8EN Cautionary note regarding forward looking statements This Annual Report includes statements that are forward looking Registrar in nature.
Forward looking statements involve known and unknown Capita Registrars risks, assumptions, uncertainties and other factors which may cause The Registry the actual results, performance or achievements of the Group to 34 Beckenham Road be materially different from any future results, performance or Beckenham achievements expressed or implied by such forward looking statements.
Kent BR3 4TU Except as required by the Listing Rules, Disclosure and Transparency Rules and applicable law, the Company undertakes no obligation to Telephone: 0871 664 0300 UK update, revise or change any forward looking statements to reflect events or developments occurring on or after the date of this Calls cost 10p per minute plus network Annual Report.
Lines are open 8.30am-5.30pm Monday-Friday 44 0 208 639 3399 overseas E-mail: moneysupermarket@capitaregistrars.
com Group PLC 71 Annual Report 2010
