144 Antofagasta plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2010 Other Information Glossary and Denitions Business, Financial and Accounting ADASA Aguas fide Antofagasta S. A. a wholly-owned subsidiary of the Group Duluth Duluth Metals Limited, incorporated in Canada which owns the Nokomis incorporated in Chile andoperating the Water concession in Chiles deposit in Minnesota, United States.
Antofagasta Region acquired from ECONSSA.
EBITDA Earnings Before Interest, Tax, Depreciation and Amortisation.
ECONSSA Empresa Concesionaria fide Servicios Sanitarios S. A. the Chilean AIFR All Injury Frequency Rate.
state-owned company which previously operated the regulated and non-regulated water distribution business in Chiles Antofagasta Region AMSA Antofagasta Minerals S. A. a wholly-owned subsidiary of the Group formerly known as ESSAN.
incorporated in Chile which acts as the corporate centre for the mining division.
El Tesoro Minera El Tesoro, a 70%-owned subsidiary of the Group incorporated in Chile Annual Report The Annual Report and Financial Statements 2010 of Antofagasta plc.
a wholly-owned subsidiary of the Group until 25 August 2008, before the Marubeni transaction.
Antomin Antomin Limited, a wholly-owned subsidiary of the Group incorporated in Jersey a51%-ownedsubsidiary until 25 August 2008.
ENAP Empresa Nacional del Petrleo, the 40% joint venture partner of the Group inEnerga Andina S. A. Antucoya Copper project located approximately 45 kilometres east of Michilla.
Energa Andina Energa Andina S. A. a 60%-owned joint venture entity of the Group ATI Antofagasta Terminal Internacional S. A. a 30%-owned associate of the S. A. incorporated in Chile.
Group incorporated inChile and operating the port in the city of Antofagasta.
Equatorial Equatorial Mining Limited, a wholly-owned subsidiary of the Group Banco fide Chile Banco fide Chile, a subsidiary of Quienco.
Barrick Gold Barrick Gold Corporation, the joint venture partner of the Group in Tethyan.
Esperanza Minera Esperanza, a 70%-owned subsidiary of the Group incorporated Board The Directors of Antofagasta plc who collectively have responsibility for the inChile a wholly-owned subsidiary of the Group until 25 August 2008, before the Marubeni transaction.
conduct of the Groups business.
ESSAN Empresa fide Servicios Sanitarios S. A. former name of ECONSSA.
Capex Capital expenditure s. EU European Union.
Caracoles Compaa Contractual Minera Caracoles, a wholly-owned subsidiary of theGroup incorporated inChile 81.5% owned prior to February 2009 FCA Empresa Ferroviaria Andina S. A. a 50%-owned subsidiary of the Group seeNote 31. incorporated in Bolivia.
Cash Costs A measure of the cost of operational production expressed in terms of FCAB Ferrocarril fide Antofagasta a Bolivia, the Chilean name for the Antofagasta centsper pound of payable copper produced.
Cash costs are stated net Railway Company plc, a wholly-owned subsidiary of the Group ofby-product credits and include tolling charges for concentrates for incorporatedin the United Kingdom and operating arail network in Chiles LosPelambres.
Cash costs exclude depreciation, financial income and Antofagasta Region.
expenses, hedging gains and losses, exchange gains and losses and corporation tax.
Franconia Franconia Minerals Corporation, incorporated in the United States which has a 70% interest in the Birch Lake Joint Venture.
CCU Compaa fide Cerveceras Unidas S. A. an associate of Quienco.
FTSE 100 Index A  weighted index representing the performance of the Chilean peso Chilean currency.
100 largest UK-domiciled blue chip companies.
2008 The revised Combined Code on Corporate Governance published by the FTSE All-Share A  weighted index representing the performance of all Combined Financial Reporting Council in June 2008 and applicable to listed companies Index eligible companies listed on the London Stock Exchanges main market.
Code for reporting years beginning on or after 29 June 2008.
GAAP Generally Accepted Accounting Practice or Generally Accepted Compaa Compaa Minera Milpo S. A.
A. of Peru is a former owner of a 18.5% AccountingPrinciples.
Minera Milpo interestin Caracoles, acquired by the Group in February 2009.
Government The Government of the Republic of Chile.
Companies Principal legislation for United Kingdom company law.
Act 2006 Group Antofagasta plc and its subsidiaries companies.
Hedge Accounting treatment for derivatives financial instrument permitted under Accounting IAS 39 Financial Instruments: Recognition and Measurement, which Desalant Desalant S. A. former owner of a desalination plant located in Antofagasta recognises the offsetting effects on profit orloss of changes in the fair and acquired by the Group through ADASA.
valuesof a hedging instrument and the hedged item.
Directors The Directors of the Company.
Strategic Review Operational Review Financial Review Governance Financial Statements Other Information Antofagasta plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2010 145 IASB International Accounting Standards Board.
Reko Diq Reko Diq is a substantial copper-gold porphyry district in south-west Pakistan which is held through Tethyan Copper Company Limited, a 50-50 joint IFRIC International Financial Reporting Interpretations Committee.
venture with Barrick Gold Corporation ofCanada, with the Government of Balochistan holding a 25% interest in the main exploration licence, giving IFRS International Financial Reporting Standards.
Inversiones Inversiones Hornitos S. A. a 40%-owned associate of the Group incorporated Ro Figueroa Ro Figueroa, an exploration project located in Chiles Atacama Region.
Hornitos in Chile which owns the 150MW Hornitos thermoelectric power plant in Mejillones under construction in ChilesAntofagasta Region.
Sierra Gorda Copper district located in the Antofagasta Region of Chile, where El Tesoro District and Esperanza arelocated.
IVA Impuesto al Valor Agregado, or Chilean Value Added Tax Chilean VAT.
Key Management Persons with authority and responsibility for planning, directing and Personnel controlling the activities ofthe Group.
Sunridge Sunridge Gold Corp, an 18%-owned associate of the Group which has a base and precious metals project in Eritrea.
SVS Superintendencia fide Valores y Seguros fide Chile, the Chilean securities LIBOR London Inter Bank Offer Rate.
TEAL Teal Exploration & Mining Incorporated, a company listed on the Toronto Stock Exchange with exploration and project interests on the Zambian Los Pelambres Minera Los Pelambres, a 60%-owned subsidiary of the Group incorporated Copper belt in Africa.
Telgrafo Copper prospect located in the Sierra Gorda District held through Esperanza.
Tethyan Tethyan Copper Company Limited, a 50%-owned joint venture entity of the LTIFR Lost Time Injury Frequency Rate.
Madeco Madeco S. A. a subsidiary of Quienco.
TSR Total Shareholder Return, being the movement in the Companys share price Marubeni Marubeni Corporation, the Groups 30% minority partner in El Tesoro plus reinvested dividends.
Turnbull The revised guidance on internal control for directors on Combined Code Metallica Minera Metallica Resources Chile Limitada, a subsidiary of New Gold Inc.
Guidance issued by the Turnbull Review Group in October 2005.
Resources formerly Metallica Resources Inc., a company with exploration interests Twin Metals Twin Metals Minnnesota LLC, a 40%-owned subsidiary of the Group Chile Limitada inthe Ro Figueroa Project.
Michilla Minera Michilla S. A. a 74.2%-owned subsidiary of the Group incorporated UK United Kingdom.
Mirador Copper prospect located in the Sierra Gorda District.
UKLA United Kingdom Listing Authority.
Mulpun Coal gasication project located near Valdivia in southern Chile.
US dollars United States currency.
Provisional A sales term in several copper and molybdenum concentrate sale Pricing agreements and cathodes saleagreements which provides for provisional pricing of sales at the time of shipment, with nalpricing being based on the monthly average LME copper price or monthly average molybdenum price for specic future periods, normally ranging from 30 to 180 days after delivery to the customer.
For the purposes of IAS 39, the provisional sale is considered to contain an embedded derivative i. e. the forward contract for which the provisional sale is subsequently adjusted which is separated from the host contract i. e. the sale of metals contained in the concentrate or cathode at the provisional invoice price less tolling charges deducted.
Quienco Quienco S. A. a Chilean financial and industrial conglomerate under the control of the Luksic family and listed on the Santiago Stock Exchange.
Realised Prices Effective sale price achieved comparing revenues grossed up for tolling charges for concentrate with sales volumes.
146 Antofagasta plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2010 Other Information Glossary and Denitions continued Mining Industry Browneld A development or exploration project in the vicinity of an Ore Reserves Part of Mineral Resources for which appropriate assessments have been Project existing operation.
carried out to demonstrate at a given date extraction could be reasonably justied and which include consideration of and modication by realistically By-products Products obtained as result of copper processing.
The Los Pelambres assumed mining, metallurgical, economic, marketing, legal, environmental, credits in copper mine produces molybdenum concentrate and also receives credit for social and governmental factors.
concentrates thegold and silver content in the copper concentrate sold.
Oxide and Different kinds of ore containing copper.
Oxide ore occurs on the Concentrate The product of a physical concentration process, such as otation Sulphide Ores weathered surface of ore-rich lodes and normally results in the production orgravity concentration, whichinvolves separating ore minerals from of cathode copper through a heap-leaching process.
Sulphide ore comes unwanted wasted rock.
Concentrates require subsequent processing from an unweathered parent ores process and normally results in such as smelting or leaching to break down or dissolve the ore theproduction of concentrate through a otation process which then mineralsand obtain the desired elements, usually metals.
requires smelting and rening to produce cathode copper.
Contained The proportion or quantity of copper contained in a given quantity Payable Copper The proportion or quantity of contained copper for which payment is Copper oforeorconcentrate.
Copper Cathode Rened copper produced by electrolytic rening of impure copper Porphyry A large body of rock which contains disseminated chalcopyrite and other byelectro-winning.
Sucha deposit is mined in bulk on a large scale, generally in open pits, for copper and its by-product molybdenum.
Cut-off Grade The lowest grade of mineralised material considered economic to process and used in the calculation of ore reserves and mineral resources.
Price Part of the tolling charges for copper concentrate under a sales agreement, Participation usually in addition toTC RCs and calculated as a percentage of the Flotation A process by which chemicals are added to materials in a solution which difference between the copper price at final pricingand an agreed are attracted to bubblesand oat, whilst other materials sink, resulting in reference copper price, and which may result in an increase or decrease the production of concentrate.
Grade A Copper Highest quality copper cathode LME registered and certicated in the Price Sharing Tolling charges calculated under a sales agreement as an agreed Cathode case of Michilla and ElTesoro.
percentage of the price for themetal contained in copper concentrate, Greeneld The development or exploration of a new project not previously examined.
asan alternative to TC RCs and or price participation.
Project Run-of-Mine A process for the recovery of copper from ore, typically used for low-grade Heap Leaching A process for the recovery of copper from ore.
The crushed material is ROM ores.
The mined, uncrushed ore is leached with a chemical solution.
laid on a slightly sloping, impermeable pad and leached by uniformly Themetal is then recovered from the solutionthrough the SX-EW process.
trickling gravity fed chemical solution through the beds to ponds.
Stockpile Material extracted and piled for future use.
Themetal is then recovered from the solution through the SX-EW process.
A process for extracting metal JORC Joint Ore Reserves Committee of Australia.
from an ore and producingpure metal.
First the metal is leached into Leaching The process by which a soluble mineral can be economically recovered solution: the resulting solution is then puried in the solvent-extraction by dissolution.
process: the solution is then treated in an electro chemical process electro-winning torecover cathode copper.
LOM or The remaining life of a mine expressed in years, calculated by reference LifeOfMine to scheduled productionrates i. e. comparing the rate at which ore is Tailings Dam Construction used to deposit the rock waste which remains as a result expected to be extracted from the mine to current dened reserves.
ofthe concentrating process after the recoverable minerals have been extracted in concentrate form.
Mineral Material of intrinsic economic interest occurring in such form and quantity Resources that there are reasonable prospects for eventual economic extraction.
TC RCs Treatment and rening charges, being terms used to set the smelting and Mineral resources are stated inclusive ofore reserves, as dened by JORC.
rening charge or margin for processing copper concentrate and normally set either on an annual basis or on aspot basis.
MW Megawatts one million watts.
Tolling Charges Charges or margins for converting concentrate into nished metal.
Open Pit Mine working or excavation which is open to the surface.
Theseinclude TC RCs, priceparticipation and price sharing for copper Ore Rock from which metal s or mineral s can be economically and concentrate and roasting charges for molybdenum concentrate.
Tpd Tonnes per day, normally with reference to the quantity of ore processed Ore Grade The relative quantity, or the percentage, of metal content in an ore body over a given period oftime expressed as a daily average.
Underground Mine Natural or man-made excavation under the surface of the Earth.
Strategic Review Operational Review Financial Review Governance Financial Statements Other Information Antofagasta plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2010 147 Currency Abbreviations Denitions and Conversion of Weights and Measures US cents Cents of US dollars.
Chemical Symbols CH$000 Thousand Chilean pesos.
