92 Antofagasta plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2010 Financial Statements Notes to the Financial Statements 1 Basis of Preparation 2 Principal Accounting Policies a Accounting standards applied a Accounting convention The financial statements have been prepared in accordance with International Financial These financial statements have been prepared under the historical cost convention as modied Reporting Standards IFRS and with those parts of the Companies Act 2006 applicable to by the use of fair values to measure certain financial instruments, principally provisionally priced companies reporting under IFRS.
For these purposes, IFRS comprise the Standards issued by the sales as explained in Note 2 d and financial derivative contracts as explained in Note 2 t. International Accounting Standards Board IASB and Interpretations issued by the International b Basis of consolidation Financial Reporting Interpretations Committee IFRIC that have been endorsed by the European The financial statements comprise the consolidated financial statements of Antofagasta plc Union EU.
theCompany and its subsidiaries collectively the Group.
The financial statements have been prepared on the going concern basis.
Details of the factors i Subsidiaries A subsidiary is an entity over which the Group has power to govern the which have been taken into account in assessing the Groups going concern status are set out operating and financial policies in order to obtain benets from its activities.
The consolidated on page 67 of the Financial Review.
financial statements include all the assets, liabilities, revenues, expenses and cash ows of The prior year balance sheet reects a reclassication of certain balances between cash and the Company and its subsidiaries after eliminating inter-company balances and transactions.
cash equivalents and liquid investments to better reect the maturity terms of the underlying For partly-owned subsidiaries, the net assets and net earnings attributable to non-controlling instruments.
At 31 December 2009 this results in a cash and cash equivalents balance of shareholders are presented as Non-controlling interests in the consolidated balance sheet US$2,590.5 million and a new liquid investments balance of US$631.8 million 31 December and consolidated income statement.
This has resulted in certain reclassications ii Associates An associate is an entity over which the Group is in a position to exercise within the cash ow statement.
significant inuence, but not control or joint control, through the power to participate in the At the date of authorisation of these financial statements, the following Standards and financial and operating policy decisions of that entity.
The Groups share of the net assets, Interpretations which have not been applied in these financial statements were in issue but not the results post-tax and post-acquisition reserves of associates are included in the financial yet effective: statements.
This requires recording the investment initially at cost to the Group and then, in subsequent periods, adjusting the carrying amount of the investment to reect the Groups IFRS 9 Financial Instruments share of the associates results less any impairment of goodwill and any other changes to IAS 24 amended Related Party Disclosures the associates net assets such as dividends.
IAS 32 amended Classication of Rights Issue iii Jointly controlled entities A jointly controlled entity is an entity in which the Group holds IFRIC 19 Extinguishing Financial Liabilities with Equity Instruments a long-term interest and shares joint control over the operating and financial decisions with IFRIC 14 amended Prepayments of a Minimum Funding Requirement one or more other venturers under a contractual arrangement.
Jointly controlled entities are Improvements to IFRSs May 2010 accounted for using proportionate consolidation, which combines the Groups share of the The adoption of IFRS 9 will have an effect on the classication and measurement of the Groups results of the jointly controlled entity on a line-by-line basis with similar items in the Groups financial assets.
The Group does not expect that the adoption of the other standards listed above financial statements.
will have a material impact on the financial statements of the Group in future periods.
iv Other investments The accounting treatment of investments which are not b Adoption of new accounting standards subsidiaries, associates or jointly controlled entities is set out in Note 2 t relating to In the current financial year the Group has adopted the following standards that have affected othernancial instruments.
thepresentation and disclosure in these financial statements: v Acquisitions and disposals Acquisitions and disposals are treated as explained in IFRS 3 Business Combinations 2008.
In the current year the Group has adopted IFRS 3 Note2 e relating to business combinations and goodwill.
Business Combinations 2008 for accounting for business combinations.
The change in c Currency translation accounting policy has been applied prospectively.
For acquisitions on or after 1 January 2010, The functional currency for each entity in the Group is determined as the currency of the primary the Group measures goodwill as the fair value of the consideration transferred and the economic environment in which it operates.
Transactions other than those in the functional recognised amount of any non-controlling interests in the acquiree, less the net recognised currency of the entity are translated at the exchange rate ruling at the date of the transaction.
amount of the identiable assets acquired and liabilities assumed, all measured as of the Monetary assets and liabilities denominated in currencies other than the functional currency are acquisition date.
Transaction costs, other than those associated with the issue of debt or equity retranslated at year end exchange rates.
Gains and losses on retranslation are included in net securities, that the Group incurs in connection with a business combination are expensed as profit or loss for the period within other finance items.
The revised standard was applied to the acquisition of the 40% controlling interest in The presentational currency of the Group and the functional currency of the Company is the Twin Metals Minnesota LLC.
See Note 31 for further details of this business combination which USdollar.
On consolidation, income statement items for entities with a functional currency other occurred in 2010. than the US dollar are translated into US dollars at average rates of exchange.
Balance sheet IAS 27 Consolidated and Separate Financial Statements 2008.
In the current year the Group items are translated at period-end exchange rates.
Exchange differences on translation of the has adopted IAS 27 Consolidated and Separate Financial Statements 2008 for accounting netassets of such entities are taken to equity and recorded in a separate currency translation foracquisitions of non-controlling interests.
The change in accounting policy has been applied reserve.
Cumulative translation differences arising after the transition date to IFRS are prospectively and there was no impact on the Groups results in the current year.
From 1 January recognisedas income or as expenses in the income statement in the period in which an 2010 a change in the ownership interest of a subsidiary without loss of control is accounted for operation isdisposed.
On consolidation, exchange gains and losses which arise on balances between Group entities The following standards and interpretations are effective but have not had any significant impact are taken to reserves where that balance is, in substance, part of the net investment in a foreign on the financial statements: operation, i. e. where settlement is neither planned nor likely to occur in the foreseeable future.
IFRS 2 amended Group Cash-settled Share-based Payment Transactions Allother exchange gains and losses on Group balances are dealt with in the income statement.
IFRIC 17 Distributions of Non-cash Assets to Owners Fair value adjustments and any goodwill arising on the acquisition of a foreign entity are treated as assets of the foreign entity and translated at the period-end rate.
d Revenue recognition Revenue represents the value of goods and services supplied to third parties during the year.
Revenue is measured at the fair value of consideration received or receivable, and excludes anyapplicable sales tax.
Strategic Review Operational Review Financial Review Governance Financial Statements Other Information Antofagasta plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2010 93 A sale is recognised when the significant risks and rewards of ownership have passed.
This is f Intangible assets generally when title and any insurance risk has passed to the customer, and the goods have i Concession rights In 2003, the Groups wholly owned subsidiary, Aguas fide Antofagasta been delivered to a contractually agreed location or when any services have been provided.
S. A. was awarded a 30-year concession to operate the water rights and facilities in the Antofagasta Region of Chile previously controlled by Empresa Concesionaria fide Servicios Revenue from mining activities is recorded at the invoiced amounts with an adjustment for Sanitarios S. A. ECONSSA.
All infrastructure assets relating to the Water concession provisional pricing at each reporting date, as explained below.
For copper and molybdenum arerecorded within intangible assets, as part of the concession rights.
The concession concentrates, which are sold to smelters and roasting plants for further processing, the invoiced rights also includes an amount recognised in respect of the right to use those assets amount is the market value of the metal payable by the customer, net of deductions for tolling notrecognised as their lives extend substantially beyond the period of the concession.
Revenue includes amounts from the sale of by-products.
Theconcession rights is measured as the difference between the cost of the concession Copper and molybdenum concentrate sale agreements and copper cathode sale agreements andthe fair values of the assets and liabilities recognised on acquisition plus the fair value of generally provide for provisional pricing of sales at the time of shipment, with final pricing based any further assets transferred to the Group by way of concession subsequent to acquisition.
on the monthly average London Metal Exchange LME copper price or the monthly average ii Exploration licences In 2006, the Group acquired Tethyan Copper Company Limited market molybdenum price for specified future periods.
This normally ranges from 30 to 120 days Tethyan, a company with copper-gold interests in Pakistan, and entered into a joint after delivery to the customer.
Such a provisional sale contains an embedded derivative which is venture over Tethyans mineral interests with Barrick Gold Corporation through the disposal required to be separated from the host contract.
The host contract is the sale of metals contained of a 50% interest in Tethyan.
An intangible asset has been recognised for the Groups in the concentrate or cathode at the provisional invoice price less tolling charges deducted, and proportionate share of the full unencumbered value attributed to the interest in the the embedded derivative is the forward contract for which the provisional sale is subsequently exploration licences held by Tethyan in Pakistan, along with related rights acquired adjusted.
At each reporting date, the provisionally priced metal sales together with any related subsequently.
In addition, the intangible asset balance also includes amounts relating tolling charges are marked-to-market, with adjustments both gains and losses being recorded tointerests in other prospecting licences.
in revenue in the consolidated income statement and in trade debtors in the balance sheet.
Forward prices at the period end are used for copper concentrate and cathode sales, while g Exploration and evaluation expenditure period-end average prices are used for molybdenum concentrate sales due to the absence Exploration and evaluation are expensed in the year in which it is incurred.
istaken that a mining project is commercially viable normally when the project has reached Interest income is accrued on a time basis, by reference to the principal outstanding and the thefeasibility stage all further directly attributable pre-production expenditure is capitalised.
effective interest rate applicable, which is the rate that exactly discounts estimated future cash Capitalisation of pre-production expenditure ceases when commercial levels of production receipts through the expected life of the financial asset to that assets net carrying amount.
Dividend income from investments is recognised when the shareholders right to receive h Property, plant and equipment payment has been established.
The costs of mining properties and leases, which include the costs of acquiring and developing mining properties and mineral rights, are capitalised as property, plant and equipment in the year e Business combinations and goodwill in which they are incurred, when a decision has been taken that a mining project is commercially i Acquisitions The results of businesses acquired during the year are brought into the viable normally when the project has reached the feasibility stage.
consolidated financial statements from the effective date of acquisition.
The identiable assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities of a subsidiary, joint venture entity or an associate The cost of plant, property and equipment comprises the purchase price and any costs directly which can be measured reliably are recorded at their provisional fair values at the date attributable to bringing the asset to the location and condition necessary for it to be capable of ofacquisition.
Provisional fair values are nalised within 12 months of the acquisition date.
operating in the manner intended.
Once a project has been established as commercially viable, Acquisition-related costs are expensed as incurred.
On an  basis, related development expenditure is capitalised.
This includes costs incurred in preparing the site the Group recognises any non-controlling interest in the acquiree either at fair value for mining operations, including pre-stripping costs.
Capitalisation ceases when the mine is oratnon-controlling interests proportionate share of the acquirers net assets.
capable of commercial production, with the exception of development costs which give rise toafuture benefit.
ii Goodwill Goodwill arising in a business combination is recognised as the excess of the sum of the consideration transferred, the amount of any non-controlling interest in the Interest on borrowings directly related to construction or development of projects is capitalised, acquiree and the fair value of the acquirers previously held equity interest in the acquiree until such time as the assets are substantially ready for their intended use or sale which, in the ifany over the next identiable assets acquired and liabilities assumed.
Any goodwill on the case of mining properties, is when they are capable of commercial production.
acquisition of subsidiaries is separately disclosed, while any goodwill on the acquisition of i Depreciation of property, plant and equipment and amortisation of intangible assets associates is included within investments in equity accounted entities.
Internally generated Property, plant and equipment is depreciated over its useful life, or over the remaining life of the goodwill is not recognised.
Where the fair values of the identiable net assets acquired operation if shorter, to residual value.
The major categories of property, plant and equipment are exceed the sum of the consideration transferred, the surplus which represents the discount depreciated as follows: on the acquisition is credited to the income statement in the period of acquisition.
i Land freehold land is not depreciated.
Any leasehold land is depreciated on a straight-line iii Transactions with non-controlling interests The Group treats transactions with basis over the life of the lease.
non-controlling interests as transactions with equity owners of the Group.
For purchases ii Mining properties mining properties, including capitalised nancing costs, are from non-controlling interests, the difference between any consideration paid and the depreciated on a unit of production basis, in proportion to the volume of ore extracted in relevant share acquired of the carrying value of net assets of the subsidiary is recorded in theyear compared with total proven and probable reserves at the beginning of the year.
When the Group ceases to have control or significant inuence, any retained interest in the entity is remeasured to its fair value, with the change in carrying amount recognised iii Buildings and infrastructure straight-line basis over 10 to 25 years.
The fair value is the initial carrying amount for the purposes of subsequent iv Railway track including trackside equipment straight-line basis over 20 to 25 years.
accounting for the retained interest as an associate, joint venture or financial asset.
v Wagons and rolling stock straight-line basis over 10 to 20 years.
Anyamounts previously recognised in other comprehensive income in respect of that vi Machinery, equipment and other assets straight-line basis over 5 to 10 years.
entityare reclassied to profit and loss.
vii Assets under construction no depreciation until asset is available for use.
iv Disposals The results of businesses sold during the year are included in the consolidated financial statements for the period up to the effective date of disposal.
Gains or losses on viii Assets held under finance lease are depreciated over the shorter of the lease term disposal are calculated as the difference between the sales proceeds net of expenses andtheir useful life.
andthe net assets attributable to the interest which has been sold.
Where a disposal represents a separate major line of business or geographical area of operations, the net results attributable to the disposed entity are shown separately in the income statement.
94 Antofagasta plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2010 Financial Statements Notes to the Financial Statements continued Current tax is based on taxable profit for the year.
Taxable profit may differ from net profit as 2 Principal Accounting Policies continued reported in the income statement because it excludes items of income or expense that are Residual values and useful lives are reviewed, and adjusted if appropriate, at least annually, taxable and deductible in different years and also excludes items that are not taxable or andchanges to residual values and useful lives are accounted for prospectively.
The liability for current tax is calculated using tax rates for each entity in the The concession right is amortised on a straight-line basis over the life of the concession, consolidated financial statements which have been enacted or substantively enacted at the ortheuseful life of any component part if less.
j Impairment of property, plant and equipment and intangible assets Deferred tax is the tax expected to be payable or recoverable on temporary differences excludinggoodwill i. e. differences between the carrying amount of assets and liabilities in the financial statements Property, plant and equipment and nite life intangible assets are reviewed for impairment if and the corresponding tax basis used in the computation of taxable profit.
Deferred tax is there is any indication that the carrying amount may not be recoverable.
If any such indication accounted for using the balance sheet liability method and is provided on all temporary exists, the recoverable amount of the asset is estimated in order to determine the extent of the differences with certain limited exceptions as follows: impairment if any.
Where the asset does not generate cash ows that are independent from i tax payable on undistributed earnings of subsidiaries, associates and joint ventures is other assets, the Group estimates the recoverable amount of the cash-generating unit to which provided except where the Group is able to control the remittance of profits and it is probable the asset belongs.
Any intangible asset with an indefinite useful life is tested for impairment that there will be no remittance of past profits earned in the foreseeable future: annually and whenever there is an indication that the asset may be impaired.
ii deferred tax is not provided on the initial recognition of an asset or liability in a transaction Recoverable amount is the higher of fair value less costs to sell and value in use.
In assessing that does not affect accounting profit or taxable profit and is not a business combination: nor value in use, the estimated future cash ows are discounted to their present value, using a is deferred tax provided on subsequent changes in the carrying value of such assets and pre-tax discount rate that reects current market assessments of the time value of money and liabilities, for example where they are depreciated: and the risks specic to the asset for which estimates of future cash ows have not been adjusted.
iii the initial recognition of any goodwill.
For mining properties, estimates of future cash ows are based on assumptions as to expected Deferred tax assets are recognised only to the extent that it is probable that they will be production levels, commodity prices, cash costs of production and capital expenditure.
recovered through sufficient future taxable profit.
The carrying amount of deferred tax assets IAS36Impairment of Assets includes a number of restrictions on the future cash ows that isreviewed at each balance sheet date.
can be recognised in respect of future restructurings and improvement-related expenditure.
Deferred tax is calculated at the tax rates that are expected to apply in the period when the When calculating value in use, it also requires that calculations should be based on exchange liability is settled or the asset is realised.
Deferred tax is charged or credited in the income rates current at the time of assessment.
For operations with a functional currency other than statement, except when it relates to items charged or credited directly to equity, in which theUS dollar, the impairment review is conducted in the relevant functional currency.
casethe deferred tax is also taken directly to equity.
If the recoverable amount of an asset or cash-generating unit is estimated to be less than its n Provisions for decommissioning and restoration costs carrying amount, the carrying amount is reduced to the recoverable amount.
An impairment An obligation to incur decommissioning and restoration costs occurs when environmental charge is recognised in the income statement immediately.
Where an impairment subsequently disturbance is caused by the development or ongoing production of a mining property.
Costs are reverses, the carrying amount is increased to the revised estimate of recoverable amount, but so estimated on the basis of a formal closure plan and are subject to regular formal review.
that the increased carrying amount does not exceed the carrying value that would have been determined if no impairment had previously been recognised.
A reversal is recognised in the Such costs arising from the installation of plant and other site preparation work, discounted to income statement immediately.
their net present value, are provided and capitalised at the start of each project, as soon as the obligation to incur such costs arises.
These decommissioning costs are charged against profits k Investment property over the life of the mine, through depreciation of the asset and unwinding or amortisation of the Investment property is property held to earn rentals and or for capital appreciation and includes discount on the provision.
Depreciation is included in operating costs while the unwinding of the land held for a currently undetermined future use.
The Group has elected to adopt the cost model discount is included as nancing costs.
Changes in the measurement of a liability relating to the in IAS 40 Investment Property.
Accordingly, investment property is measured initially at cost, decommissioning of plant or other site preparation work are added to, or deducted from, the cost which includes transaction costs for the acquisition of the property and, as detailed in Note 2 i of the related asset in the current period.
relating to property, plant and equipment, is not depreciated.
The costs for restoration of site damage, which is created on an ongoing basis during production, l Inventory are provided for at their net present values and charged against operating profits as extraction Inventory and work-in-progress are valued at the lower of cost and net realisable value.
Changes in the measurement of a liability relating to site damage created during Netrealisable value represents estimated selling price less all estimated costs of completion production is charged against operating profit.
andcosts to be incurred in marketing, selling and distribution.
The production cost of inventory o Provision for termination of Water concession includes an appropriate proportion of depreciation and production overheads.
Raw materials andconsumables are valued at cost on a weighted average basis.
Finished products are Under the terms of the Water concession from ECONSSA, certain items of working capital valuedat raw material cost, plus labour cost and a proportion of production overhead recognised by Aguas fide Antofagasta as described in Note 2 f above are to be transferred to expensesincluding depreciation.
thestate-owned operator ECONSSA at the end of the concession period for nil consideration.
Provision is made for the estimated net present value of these assets and liabilities which are m Taxation expected to be in existence when the concession comes to an end.
The unwinding of the Tax expense comprises the charges or credits for the period relating to both current and discount is charged within nancing costs.
Strategic Review Operational Review Financial Review Governance Financial Statements Other Information Antofagasta plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2010 95 p Post-employment benets iv Borrowings loans and preference shares Interest-bearing loans and bank overdrafts are initially recorded at the proceeds received, net of direct issue costs.
They are The Group operates dened contribution schemes for a limited number of employees.
For such subsequently measured at amortised cost using the effective interest method, with interest schemes, the amount charged to the income statement is the contributions paid or payable expense recognised on an effective yield basis.
The effective interest method is a method of inthe year.
calculating the amortised cost of a financial liability and of allocating interest expense over Employment terms may also provide for payment of a severance indemnity when an employment the relevant period.
The effective interest rate is the rate that exactly discounts estimated contract comes to an end.
This is typically at the rate of one month for each year of service future cash payments through the expected life of the financial liability, or, where appropriate, subject in most cases to a cap as to the number of qualifying years of service and based on a shorter period.
Finance charges, including premiums payable on settlement or redemption final salary level.
The severance indemnity obligation is treated as an unfunded dened benefit and direct issue costs, are accounted for on an accruals basis using the effective interest plan, and the calculation is based on valuations performed by an independent actuary using the rate method.
Amounts are either recorded as nancing costs in the income statement or projected unit credit method which are regularly updated.
The obligation recognised in the capitalised in accordance with the accounting policy set out in Note 2 h. Finance charges balance sheet represents the present value of the severance indemnity obligation.
Actuarial gains are added to the carrying amount of the instrument to the extent that they are not settled in and losses are immediately recognised in the income statement within operating cost.
the period in which they arise.
The sterling-denominated preference shares issued by the q Cash and cash equivalents Company carry a xed rate of return without the right to participate in any surplus.
They are Cash and cash equivalents comprise cash on hand, deposits held on call with banks, highly liquid accordingly classied within borrowings and translated into US dollars at period-end rates investments that are readily convertible into known amounts of cash and which are subject to ofexchange.
Preference share dividends are included within finance costs.
insignicant risk of changes in value, net of bank overdrafts which are repayable on demand.
v Equity instruments Equity instruments issued are recorded at the proceeds received, net Cash and cash equivalents normally have a maturity period of 90 days or less.
Equity instruments of the Company comprise its sterling denominated r Liquid investments issued ordinary share capital and related share premium.
As explained in Note 2 c, thepresentational currency of the Group and the functional currency of the Company Liquid investments represent highly liquid current asset investments that do not meet the IAS 7 isUSdollars, and ordinary share capital and share premium are translated into US dollars denition of cash and cash equivalents, normally because even if readily accessible, the athistorical rates of exchange based on dates of issue.
underlying investments have an average maturity prole greater than 90 days.
These assets aredesignated as fair value through profit or loss.
vi Derivative financial instruments As explained in Note 25 e, the Group uses derivative financial instruments to reduce exposure to foreign exchange, interest rate and commodity s Leases price movements.
The Group does not use such derivative instruments for trading purposes.
Rental costs under operating leases are charged to the income statement account in equal The Group applies the hedge accounting provisions and changes in the fair value of annual amounts over the term of the lease.
derivative financial instruments that are designated and effective as hedges of future cash Assets under finance leases are recognised as assets of the Group at inception of the lease ows are recognised directly in equity, with such amounts subsequently recognised in the atthe lower of fair value or the present value of the minimum lease payments derived by income statement in the period when the hedged item affects profit or loss.
Any ineffective discounting at the interest rate implicit in the lease.
The interest element is charged within portion is recognised immediately in the income statement.
Realised gains and losses on nancing costs so as to produce a constant periodic rate of interest on the remaining balance commodity derivatives recognised in the income statement are recorded within revenue.
Thetime value element of changes in the fair value of derivative options is excluded from t Other financial instruments thedesignated hedging relationship, and is therefore recognised directly in the income statement within other finance items.
Derivatives embedded in other financial instruments Financial assets and financial liabilities are recognised on the Groups balance sheet when the orother host contracts are treated as separate derivatives when their risks and Group becomes a party to the contractual provisions of the instrument.
characteristics are not closely related to those of host contracts and the host contracts are i Investments Investments which are not subsidiaries, associates or joint ventures are not carried at fair value.
Changes in fair value are reported in the income statement for the initially measured at cost, including transaction costs.
The treatment of embedded derivatives arising from provisionally-priced commodity Investments are classied as either held for trading or available-for-sale, and are normally sales contracts is set out in further detail in Note 2 d relating to revenue.
measured at subsequent reporting dates at fair value.
Fair value is determined in the manner vii Impairment of financial assets Financial assets, other than those at fair value through described in Note 25 b.
Investments in equity instruments that do not have a quoted market profit or loss, are assessed for indicators of impairment at each balance sheet date.
Financial price in an active market and whose fair value cannot be reliably measured are measured at assets are impaired where there is objective evidence that as a result of one or more events cost.
Securities are classied as held-for-trading when they are acquired principally for the that occurred after the initial recognition of the financial asset the estimated future cash purpose of sale in the short-term, and gains and losses arising from changes in fair value ows of the investment have been impacted.
For loans and receivables the amount of the are included in the income statement for the period.
Other investments are classied as impairment is the difference between the assets carrying value and the present value of available-for-sale, and gains and losses arising from changes in fair value are recognised estimated future cash ows, discounted at the original effective interest rate.
Any impairment directly in equity, within the Fair value reserve, until the security is disposed of or is loss is recognised in the income statement immediately.
determined to be impaired, at which time the cumulative gain or loss previously recognised The carrying amount of the financial asset is reduced by the impairment loss directly for all in equity is included in the income statement for the period.
Dividends on available-for-sale financial assets with the exception of trade receivables.
equity investments are recognised in the income statement when the right to receive With the exception of available-for-sale equity instruments, if, in a subsequent period, the payment is established.
amount of the impairment loss decreases and the decrease can be related objectively to an ii Trade and other receivables Trade and other receivables do not generally carry any event occurring after the impairment was recognised, the previously recognised impairment interest and are normally stated at their nominal value less any impairment.
Impairment loss is reversed through the income statement immediately to the extent that the carrying losses on trade receivables are recognised within an allowance account unless the Group amount of the investment at the date the impairment is reversed does not exceed what the considers that no recovery of the amount is possible, in which case the carrying value of the amortised cost would have been had the impairment not been recognised.
In respect of asset is reduced directly.
available-for-sale equity instruments, any increase in fair value subsequent to an impairment iii Trade and other payables Trade and other payables are generally not interest-bearing loss is recognised directly in equity.
and are normally stated at their nominal value.
96 Antofagasta plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2010 Financial Statements Notes to the Financial Statements continued Management necessarily applies its judgement in allocating assets to CGUs, in estimating the 3 Critical Accounting Judgements and Key Sources of Estimation probability, timing and value of underlying cash ows and in selecting appropriate discount rates Uncertainty to be applied within the value in use calculation.
The key assumptions are set out in Note 2 j and Determining many of the amounts included in the financial statements involves the use of Note 5.
Subsequent changes to CGU allocation or estimates and assumptions in the value in use judgement and or estimation.
These judgements and estimates are based on managements calculation could impact the carrying value of the respective assets.
best knowledge of the relevant facts and circumstances having regard to prior experience, but actual results may differ from the amounts included in the financial statements.
Information c Provisions for decommissioning and site restoration costs about such judgements and estimates is included in the principal accounting policies in Note 2 As explained in Note 2 n, provision is made, based on net present values, for decommissioning or the other notes to the financial statements, and the key areas are set out below.
and site rehabilitation costs as soon as the obligation arises following the development or ongoing production of a mining property.
The provision is based on a closure plan prepared with a Useful economic lives of property, plant and equipment and ore reserves estimates the assistance of external consultants.
As explained in Note 2 i, mining properties, including capitalised nancing costs, are depreciated in proportion to the volume of ore extracted in the year compared with total proven and probable Management uses its judgement and experience to provide for and in the case of capitalised reserves at the beginning of the year.
decommissioning costs amortise these estimated costs over the life of the mine.
The ultimate cost of decommissioning and site rehabilitation cost is uncertain and cost estimates can vary in There are numerous uncertainties inherent in estimating ore reserves, and assumptions that response to many factors including changes to relevant legal requirements, the emergence of were valid at the time of estimation may change when new information becomes available.
new restoration techniques or experience at other mine sites.
These include assumptions as to grade estimates and cut-off grades, recovery rates, commodity prices, exchange rates, production costs, capital costs, processing and reclamation costs and The expected timing and extent of expenditure can also change, for example in response to discount rates.
The actual volume of ore extracted and any changes in these assumptions could changes in ore reserves or processing levels.
As a result, there could be significant adjustments affect prospective depreciation rates and carrying values.
to the provisions established which would affect future financial results.
The majority of other items of property, plant and equipment are depreciated on a straight-line d Post-employment benets basis over their useful economic lives.
Management reviews the appropriateness of useful As explained in Note 2 p, the expected costs of severance indemnities relating to employee economic lives at least annually and, again, any changes could affect prospective depreciation service during the period are charged to the income statement.
Any actuarial gains or losses, rates and asset carrying values.
which can arise from differences between expected and actual outcomes or changes in actuarial assumptions, are recognised immediately within operating costs in the income statement.
b Impairment of assets As explained in Note 2 j, the Group reviews the carrying value of its intangible assets and Assumptions in respect of the expected costs are set in consultation with an independent property, plant and equipment to determine whether there is any indication that those assets are actuary.
These include the selection of the discount rate used, service lives and expected rates impaired.
In making assessments for impairment, assets that do not generate independent cash ofsalary increases.
While management believes the assumptions used are appropriate, a change ows are allocated to an appropriate cash-generating unit CGU.
The recoverable amount in the assumptions used would impact the earnings of the Group.
ofthose assets, or CGU, is measured at the higher of their fair value less costs to sell and e Deferred taxation valuein use.
As explained in Note 2 m, deferred tax is not provided for future tax payable on undistributed earnings where the Group is able to control the remittance of profits and it is probable that there will be no remittance of past profits earned in the foreseeable future.
Management uses its judgement in estimating the probability of such remittances.
These are based on Group forecasts and include assumptions as to future profits and cash ows whichdepend on several factors including commodity prices, operating costs, production levels, capital expenditures, interest costs, debt repayment and tax rates and cash requirements whichmay also depend on several factors including future dividend levels.
A change in the assumptions used or in the estimate as to the probability that past profits will be remitted would impact the deferred tax charge and balance sheet provision.
Strategic Review Operational Review Financial Review Governance Financial Statements Other Information Antofagasta plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2010 97 4 Revenue and Total profit from Operations and Associates An analysis of the Groups total revenue is as follows: 2010 2009 US$m US$m Sales of goods 4,418.6 2,827.8 Rendering of services 158.5 134.8 Group revenue 4,577.1 2,962.6 Other operating income 27.6 10.0 Investment income 16.5 13.2 Total revenue 4,621.2 2,985.8 Operating profit from subsidiaries and joint ventures and total profit from operations and associates is derived from Group revenue by deducting operating costs as follows: 2010 2009 US$m US$m Group revenue 4,577.1 2,962.6 Cost of sales including exceptional item 1,475.6 1,166.8 Gross profit 3,101.5 1,795.8 Administrative and distribution expenses 322.3 244.2 Closure provision 69.6 2.2 Severance charges 16.1 13.3 Exploration and evaluation expenditure 99.0 67.1 Other operating income 27.6 10.0 Other operating expenses 27.6 20.0 Operating profit from subsidiaries and joint ventures 2,594.5 1,459.0 Share of income from associates 2.6 4.5 Total profit from operations and associates 2,591.9 1,463.5 In the year ended 31 December 2010, cost of sales includes the reversal of an impairment of US$109.4 million relating to property, plant and equipment at El Tesoro see Note 5.
5 Exceptional Item The exceptional item in the year ended 31 December 2010 and its impact on the results are set out below.
There were no exceptional items in the year ended 31 December 2009.
Operating profit profit before tax Earnings per share 2010 2009 2010 2009 2010 2009 US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m Before exceptional item 2,485.1 1,459.0 2,463.8 1,437.6 100.6 67.7 Reversal of impairment 109.4 109.4 6.1 After exceptional item 2,594.5 1,459.0 2,573.2 1,437.6 106.7 67.7 Reversal of impairment In the year ended 31 December 2010 the reversal of the remaining US$109.4 million impairment originally recognised at El Tesoro in the year ended 31 December 2008 has been recorded as a credit within total operating costs, following a review undertaken in light of the current commodity environment.
The recoverable amounts in the review were determined by a value in use calculation prepared using managements forecasts as to future commodity prices, operating costs and production volumes.
The present value of the forecast future cash ows was calculated using a discount rate of 7.6% initial impairment review 9.9%.
98 Antofagasta plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2010 Financial Statements Notes to the Financial Statements continued 6 Segment Information The Groups reportable segments are as follows: Los Pelambres El Tesoro Michilla Esperanza Exploration and evaluation Railway and other transport services Water concession Corporate and other items For management purposes, the Group is organised into three business divisions based on their products Mining, Railway and other transport services and the Water concession.
The mining division is split further for management reporting purposes to show results by mine and exploration and evaluation activity.
Los Pelambres, El Tesoro and Michilla are all operating mines and Esperanza is a mine which was under construction during 2010.
Los Pelambres produces primarily copper concentrate and molybdenum as a by-product.
El Tesoro and Michilla both produce copper cathodes.
The transport division provides rail cargo based in Chile and Bolivia and road cargo based in Chile together with a number of ancillary services based in Chile.
The Water division produces and distributes potable water to domestic customers and untreated water to industrial customers in Chiles Antofagasta Region.
The Exploration and evaluation segment incurs exploration and evaluation expenses.
Exploration costs relating to Tethyan Copper Company Limited Tethyan are included within the Exploration and evaluation segment, and all other Tethyan-related costs are included within Corporate and other items.
Corporate and other items also comprise costs incurred by the Company and Antofagasta Minerals S. A. the Groups mining corporate centre, that are not allocated to any individual business segment.
Consistent with its internal management reporting, the Groups corporate and other items are included within the Mining division.
Management monitors the operating results of business segments separately for the purpose of making decisions about resources to be allocated and of assessing performance.
Segmentperformance is evaluated based on the operating profit of each of the segments.
Operating profit excludes the share of net loss from associates of US$2.6 million yearended 31 December 2009 income of US$4.5 million.
Operating profit is shown after exceptional items see Note 5. ii Inter-segment revenues are eliminated on consolidation.
Revenue from the Railway and other transport services is stated after eliminating inter-segmental sales to the Mining division ofUS$13.5 million year ended 31 December 2009 US$11.6 million.
Revenue from the Water concession is stated after eliminating inter-segmental sales to the Mining division of US$10.5million year ended 31 December 2009 US$8.6 million and after eliminating sales to the Railway and other transport services of US$0.2 million year ended 31 December 2009 US$0.2 million.
The payment of US$350 million by El Tesoro to Antofagasta Minerals S. A. for the right to extract the oxide ores from the Mirador deposit has been eliminated on consolidation and so does not form part of the above gures.
iii Revenue includes the effect of both final pricing and mark-to-market adjustments to provisionally priced sales of copper and molybdenum concentrates and copper cathodes.
Further details ofsuch adjustments are given in Note 25 d. iv Revenue includes a realised gain on commodity derivatives at El Tesoro of US$0.1 million year ended 31 December 2009 loss of US$20.0 million and a realised loss at Michilla of US$81.5million year ended 31 December 2009 loss of US$45.8 million.
Further details of such gains or losses are given in Note 25 e. v The copper and molybdenum concentrate sales are stated net of deductions for tolling charges.
Tolling charges for copper and molybdenum concentrates are detailed in Note 25 d. vi Exceptional items affecting operating profit in 2010 relate to a reversal of the impairment at El Tesoro see Note 5. vii Capital expenditure represents purchases of property, plant and equipment stated on an accruals basis see Note 14 and may therefore differ from the amount included in the cash owstatement.
viii The assets of the Railway and transport services segment includes US$53.1 million relating to the Groups 40% interest in Inversiones Hornitos S. A. Inversiones Hornitos, which owns the 150MW Hornitos thermoelectric power plant in Mejillones, under construction in Chiles Antofagasta Region and US$4.9 million relating to the Groups 30% interest in Antofagasta Terminal Internacional S. A. ATI, which operates a concession to manage installations in the port of Antofagasta.
100 Antofagasta plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2010 Financial Statements Notes to the Financial Statements continued 6 Segment Information continued b Entity wide disclosures Revenue by product 2010 2009 US$m US$m Copper Los Pelambres 2,972.1 1,858.0 El Tesoro 739.7 487.6 Michilla 242.0 170.5 Molybdenum Los Pelambres 303.5 180.1 Silver Los Pelambres 29.3 19.8 Gold Los Pelambres 43.4 23.6 Total Mining 4,330.0 2,739.6 Railway and transport services 154.7 139.4 Water concession 92.4 83.6 4,577.1 2,962.6 Revenue by location of customer 2010 2009 US$m US$m Europe United Kingdom 148.1 Switzerland 106.5 348.1 Rest of Europe 665.3 377.5 Latin America Chile 322.3 278.2 Rest of Latin America 229.6 166.1 North America United States 176.6 151.8 Rest of North America 3.9 11.7 Asia Pacic Japan 1,583.1 784.9 China 878.1 392.8 Rest of Asia 611.7 303.4 4,577.1 2,962.6 Information about major customers Included in revenues arising from Los Pelambres for the year ended 31 December 2010 are revenues of US$792.2 million year ended 31 December 2009 US$438.2 million and US$569.1 million year ended 31 December 2009 US$282.3 million which arose from sales to the Groups two largest customers, which are the only customers that individually account for more than 10% of the Groups revenues.
Strategic Review Operational Review Financial Review Governance Financial Statements Other Information Antofagasta plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2010 101 Non-current assets by location of assets 2010 2009 US$m US$m Chile 6,334.8 5,159.7 Bolivia 32.5 33.7 Pakistan 140.9 141.3 Other 1.3 11.0 6,509.5 5,345.7 Non-current assets balance disclosed by location of asset excludes financial instruments and deferred tax assets.
7 profit for the Year profit for the year is stated after charging crediting: 2010 2009 US$m US$m Foreign exchange gains included in net finance costs 9.6 0.4 included in income tax expense 0.6 18.3 Amortisation of intangible asset included in cost of sales 14.7 12.4 Depreciation of property, plant and equipment owned assets 275.6 203.0 assets held under finance leases 1.4 2.1 Property and equipment written-off 9.8 4.2 Reversal of impairments of property, plant and equipment exceptional item 109.4 Cost of inventories recognised as expense 1,227.9 906.3 Employee benefit expense 208.7 181.8 Auditors remuneration audit services 0.8 0.6 non-audit services 0.6 0.1 A more detailed analysis of auditors remuneration on a worldwide basis is provided below: 2010 2009 US$000 US$000 Audit and related fees Fees payable to the Companys auditors for the audit of the Companys annual accounts 103 103 Fees payable to the Companys auditors and their associates for other services to the Group the audit of the Companys subsidiaries pursuant to legislation 241 201 the audit of the Companys subsidiaries as part of the audit of the consolidated financial statements 151 126 the review of the Companys half yearly financial report pursuant to legislation 247 215 Total audit and related fees 742 645 Non-audit and related services Tax services 116 44 Other consultancy services 493 62 1,351 751 Other consulting services of US$493,000 includes fees paid in respect of corporate finance advisory services.
102 Antofagasta plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2010 Financial Statements Notes to the Financial Statements continued 8 Employee benefit Expense a Average number of employees 2010 2009 Number Number Los Pelambres 723 715 El Tesoro 527 475 Michilla 566 491 Esperanza 582 379 Exploration and evaluation 31 31 Corporate and other employees Chile 188 149 United Kingdom 8 8 Other 134 132 Mining 2,759 2,380 Railway and other transport services 1,558 1,562 Water concession 280 276 4,597 4,218 i The average number of employees for the year includes all the employees of subsidiaries and the Groups share of employees of jointly controlled entities.
The average number of employees does not include contractors who are not directly employed by the Group.
ii The average number of employees does not include employees from associates.
iii The average number of employees includes the Executive Director but does not include Non-Executive Directors.
b Aggregated remuneration The aggregated remuneration of the employees included in the table above was as follows: 2010 2009 US$m US$m Wages and salaries 237.9 193.3 Social security costs 7.7 7.0 Post-employment benets severance charge in the year 16.1 13.3 261.7 213.6 The amounts above relating to Esperanza of US$53.0 million 2009 US$31.8 million have been capitalised.
Strategic Review Operational Review Financial Review Governance Financial Statements Other Information Antofagasta plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2010 103 c Key management personnel In accordance with IAS 24, key management personnel are those persons having authority and responsibility for planning, directing and controlling the activities of the Group, directly or indirectly, including any Directors Executive and Non-Executive of the Company.
From 2010, key management personnel who are not Directors have been treated as those responsible for the running of the key business divisions of the Group and prior year amounts have been restated accordingly.
Compensation for key management personnel including Directors was as follows: 2010 2009 US$m US$m Salaries and short-term employee benets 9.8 7.0 Post-employment benets severance charge in the year 0.1 0.1 9.9 7.1 Disclosures on Directors remuneration required by Schedule 8 of the Large and Medium-sized Companies and Group Accounts and Reports Regulations 2008 including those specified for audit by that Schedule are included in the Remuneration Report on pages 81 to 83.
9 Net Finance Expense 2010 2009 US$m US$m Investment revenue Interest receivable 16.5 13.2 Interest expense Interest payable 16.4 23.4 Amortisation of deferred finance costs 1.7 0.4 Preference dividends 0.2 0.2 18.3 24.0 Other finance items Time value effect of derivatives 16.1 1.1 Foreign exchange derivatives 6.1 12.4 Unwinding of discount on provisions 4.3 2.8 Foreign exchange 9.6 1.2 16.9 15.1 Net finance expense 18.7 25.9 An expense of US$32.4 million 2009 income of US$8.7 million relating to net interest expense and other finance items at Esperanza was capitalised within the development expenditure of that project during the year, and is consequently not included within the above table.
104 Antofagasta plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2010 Financial Statements Notes to the Financial Statements continued 10 Taxation The tax charge for the year comprised the following: 2010 2009 US$m US$m Current tax charge Corporate tax principally first category tax in Chile 437.4 161.6 Mining tax Royalty 147.3 41.4 Withholding tax provision 47.4 0.4 Exchange gains on corporate tax balances 0.6 18.3 631.5 185.1 Deferred tax charge Corporate tax principally first category tax in Chile 2.9 91.2 Mining tax Royalty 10.4 13.7 Withholding tax provision 113.5 27.7 121.0 132.6 Total tax charge Income tax expense 752.5 317.7 The rate of first category i. e. corporation tax in Chile was 17% for both 2010 and 2009.
A temporary increase in the corporate income tax rate for the 2011 and 2012 calendar years to 20.0% and18.5% respectively was enacted into law in Chile on 31 July 2010.
Los Pelambres, El Tesoro, Michilla and Esperanza are also subject to a mining tax royalty which is tax deductible i. e. an allowable expense in determining liability to first category tax.
On12January 2011 the Group voluntarily elected to accept amendments to the mining tax as permitted pursuant to a law enacted in Chile on 21 October 2010.
Between 20102012, production from Los Pelambres, El Tesoro, Michilla and Esperanza mines is subject to a mining tax at a rate of between 4%9% of tax-adjusted operating profit, based on a sliding scale with the minimum rate of4% applying to operations with a tax-adjusted operating profit margin of below 40% and a maximum rate of 9% applying to operations with a tax-adjusted operating profit margin of above 75%.
Production from the Tesoro North-East deposit and the Run-of-Mine processing at El Tesoro is subject to a mining tax at a rate of between 5%14% of tax-adjusted operating profit, based on a sliding scale with the minimum rate of 5% applying to operations with a tax-adjusted operating profit margin of below 35% and a maximum rate of 14% applying to operations with a tax-adjusted operating profit margin of above 85%.
In addition to first category tax and the mining tax, the Group incurs withholding taxes on the remittance of profits from Chile and deferred tax is provided on undistributed earnings to the extent that remittance is probable in the foreseeable future.
Withholding tax is levied on remittances of profits from Chile at 35% less first category tax already paid.
Accordingly, during the year ended 31December 2010 the effective tax rate of withholding tax is approximately 18% of the amount remitted or expected to be remitted.
2010 2009 US$m % US$m % profit before tax 2,573.2 1,437.6 Tax at the Chilean corporation tax rate of 17% 437.4 17.0 244.4 17.0 Tax effect of share of results of associate 0.7 1.0 0.1 Effect of items not subject to or deductible from first category tax 3.6 0.1 7.4 0.5 Royalty 157.7 6.1 55.1 3.8 Withholding taxes provided in year 160.9 6.3 28.1 2.0 Exchange differences 0.6 18.3 1.3 Tax expense and effective tax rate for the year 752.5 29.2 317.7 22.1 The tax charge for the year was US$752.5 million and the effective tax rate was 29.2%.
This rate varies from the standard rate principally due to the provision of withholding tax of US$160.9 million and the effect of the mining tax which resulted in a charge of US$157.7 million.
In 2009 the total tax charge was US$317.7 million and the effective tax rate was 22.1%.
This rate varies from the standard rate principally due to the provision of withholding tax of US$28.1 million, the effect of the mining tax which resulted in a charge of US$55.1 million and exchange gains of US$18.3 million on Chilean peso denominated tax prepayments due to the strengthening of the Chilean peso during the year.
Strategic Review Operational Review Financial Review Governance Financial Statements Other Information Antofagasta plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2010 105 11 Earnings Per Share 2010 2009 US$m US$m profit for the year attributable to equity holders of the Company Net earnings 1,051.8 667.7 profit for the year attributable to equity holders of the Company Net earnings excluding exceptional items 991.3 667.7 2010 2009 Number Number Ordinary shares in issue throughout each year 985,856,695 985,856,695 2010 2009 cents cents Basic earnings per share 106.7 67.7 Basic earnings per share excluding exceptional items 100.6 67.7 Basic earnings per share is calculated as profit after tax and non-controlling interests, based on 985,856,695 ordinary shares.
There was no potential dilution of earnings per share in either year set out above, and therefore diluted earnings per share did not differ from basic earnings per share as disclosed above.
Basic earnings per share excluding exceptional items is calculated on profit after tax and non-controlling interest giving net earnings, excluding exceptional items and related tax and non-controlling interest, of US$991.3 million.
12 Dividends Amounts recognised as distributions to equity holders in the year: 2010 2009 2010 2009 US cents US cents US$m US$m per share per share Final dividend paid in June proposed in relation to the previous year ordinary 59.2 55.2 6.0 5.6 special 138.0 473.2 14.0 48.0 197.2 528.4 20.0 53.6 Interim dividend paid in October ordinary 39.4 33.5 4.0 3.4 39.4 33.5 4.0 3.4 236.6 561.9 24.0 57.0 The proposed final dividend for each year, which is subject to approval by shareholders at the Annual General Meeting and has therefore not been included as a liability in these financial statements, is as follows: 2010 2009 2010 2009 US cents US cents US$m US$m per share per share Final dividend proposed in relation to the year ordinary 118.3 59.2 12.0 6.0 special 985.9 138.0 100.0 14.0 1,104.2 197.2 112.0 20.0 This gives total dividends proposed in relation to 2010 including the interim dividend of 116.0 cents per share or US$1,104.2 million 2009 23.4 cents per share or US$230.7 million.
In accordance with IAS 32, preference dividends have been included within interest expense see Note 9 and amounted to US$0.2 million 2009 US$0.2 million.
Further details relating to dividends for each year are given in the Directors Report on page 72.
106 Antofagasta plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2010 Financial Statements Notes to the Financial Statements continued 13 Intangible Assets Total Concession Exploration intangible rights licences assets US$m US$m US$m Cost At 1 January 2009 144.3 125.7 270.0 Additions 52.5 52.5 Foreign currency exchange difference 48.3 48.3 At 31 December 2009 and 1 January 2010 245.1 125.7 370.8 Reclassication 5.3 5.3 Disposal see Note 32 5.0 5.0 Foreign currency exchange difference 20.9 20.9 At 31 December 2010 271.3 120.7 392.0 Amortisation At 1 January 2009 36.4 36.4 Charge for the year 12.4 12.4 Foreign currency exchange difference 10.8 10.8 At 31 December 2009 and 1 January 2010 59.6 59.6 Charge for the year 14.7 14.7 Foreign currency exchange difference 6.2 6.2 At 31 December 2010 80.5 80.5 Net book value At 31 December 2010 190.8 120.7 311.5 At 31 December 2009 185.5 125.7 311.2 The concession rights relates to the 30-year concession to operate the water rights and facilities in the Antofagasta Region of Chile which the Groups wholly-owned subsidiary, Aguas fide Antofagasta S. A. acquired in December 2003 and any other subsequent additions or acquisitions subject to the terms of the concession.
This intangible asset is being amortised on a straight-line basis over the life of the concession, or the useful life of any component part if less.
The exploration licences relate to the US$120.7 million value attributed to the exploration licences in the Reko Diq area of south-west Pakistan.
This asset is subject to the grant of a mining lease for which an application has been made and the successful conclusion of litigation as set out in Note 38.
This intangible asset will be amortised in accordance with the Groups policy for mining properties when the related mining properties enter into production.
After evaluation of the results of the exploration activities to date the Group has decided not to proceed further with the partnership with TEAL Exploration & Mining Incorporated TEAL, and accordingly has withdrawn from the agreement.
The US$5.0 million disposal relates to the Groups interests in the mining licences relating to the project with TEAL.
Further details are disclosed inNote 32.
At 31 December 2010 the Group had entered into contractual commitments for the acquisition of property, plant and equipment amounting to US$60.6 million 2009 US$495.1 million.
Commitments at 31 December 2010 included US$26.9 million 2009 US$428.5 million relating to the Esperanza project and US$21.5 million 2009 US$49.2 million relating to the plant expansion project at Los Pelambres.
Compensation from insurance companies related to property, plant and equipment included in the consolidated income statement was US$0.5 million in 2010 2009 US$6.9 million.
During 2010, depreciation capitalised includes US$23.2 million 2009 US$24.2 million in respect of assets relating to the Esperanza project which have been capitalised within the development expenditure of that project, US$6.0 million 2009 US$24.1 million of depreciation in respect of assets relating to the ROM and Tesoro North-East projects which have been capitalised within inventories and US$6.7 million 2009 $nil of depreciation in respect of assets relating to Los Pelambres which have been capitalised within inventories, and accordingly is excluded from thedepreciation charge recorded in the income statement as shown in Note 6 a.
108 Antofagasta plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2010 Financial Statements Notes to the Financial Statements continued 15 Investment Property 2010 2009 Cost US$m US$m Balance at the beginning of the year 3.4 2.7 Foreign currency exchange difference 0.3 0.7 Balance at the end of the year 3.7 3.4 Investment property represents the Groups forestry properties, which are held for long-term potential and accordingly classied as investment property and held at cost as permitted by IAS 40.
The fair value of the Groups investment property at 31 December 2010 was US$11.0 million 2009 US$11.0 million, based on an independent valuation carried out during 2008 by Gabriel Durn, who is not connected with the Group.
Mr. Durn is a Forestry Engineer, Valuer and Assessor of forestry properties for Banco Itau in Chile, with extensive experience of valuation in the region where the assets are located.
The valuation was based on market evidence of transaction prices for similar properties.
Direct operating expenses principally ongoing maintenance costs arising on these properties amounted to US$0.3 million 2009 US$0.2 million.
16 Investments in Subsidiaries The principal subsidiaries of the Group, the percentage of equity owned and the main country of operation are set out below.
These interests are consolidated within these financial statements.
TheGroup has restricted the information to its principal subsidiaries as full compliance with section 409 of the Companies Act 2006 would result in a statement of excessive length.
A full list ofsubsidiaries, joint ventures and associates will be annexed to the next annual return of Antofagasta plc to be led with the Registrar of Companies.
Country of incorporation Country of Nature of business Economic interest Direct subsidiaries of the Parent Company Antofagasta Railway Company plc Great Britain Chile Railway 100% Minera Anaconda Per S. A. Peru Peru Mining 100% Chilean Northem Mines Limited Great Britain Chile Investment 100% Sierra Gorda Investment Company Limited Jersey Jersey Investment 100% Indirect subsidiaries of the Parent Company Antofagasta Minerals S. A. Chile Chile Mining 100% Minera Los Pelambres Chile Chile Mining 60% Minera El Tesoro Chile Chile Mining 70% Minera Michilla S. A. Chile Chile Mining 74.2% Minera Esperanza Chile Chile Mining 70% Equatorial Mining Limited Australia Chile Mining 100% Antofagasta Services Limited Great Britain Great Britain Group services 100% Los Pelambres Investment Company Limited Jersey Jersey Investment 100% Inversiones Los Pelambres Chile Limitada Chile Chile Investment 100% Aguas fide Antofagasta S. A. Chile Chile Water distribution 100% Atacama Aguas y Tecnologa Limitada Chile Chile Water distribution 100% Servicios fide Transportes Integrados Limitada Chile Chile Road transport 100% Empresa Ferroviaria Andina S. A. Bolivia Bolivia Railway 50% Minera Mulpn Limitada Chile Chile Mining 100% Minera Antucoya Limitada Chile Chile Mining 100% Twin Metals Minnesota LLC USA USA Mining 40% Forestal S. A. Chile Chile Forestry 100% The Group exercises management control over the boards of Empresa Ferroviaria Andina S. A. and Twin Metals Minnesota LLC.
Accordingly, these investments are treated as subsidiaries and are consolidated in these Group financial statements.
Strategic Review Operational Review Financial Review Governance Financial Statements Other Information Antofagasta plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2010 109 17 Investment in Associates Inversiones Total Total Hornitos ATI Sunridge associates associates 2010 2010 2010 2010 2009 US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m Balance at the beginning of the year 112.7 3.8 4.8 121.3 3.0 Acquisitions 85.9 Disposals 2.3 2.3 Capital reductions contributions 57.2 57.2 28.6 Interest expense capitalised by associate payable to subsidiary 0.4 0.4 Share of net loss profit before tax 1.8 2.4 2.5 1.9 5.5 Share of tax 0.2 0.5 0.7 1.0 Share of loss income from associates 2.0 1.9 2.5 2.6 4.5 Dividends received 0.8 0.8 0.7 Balance at the end of the year 53.1 4.9 58.0 121.3 The investments which are included in the US$58.0 million balance at 31 December 2010 are set out below: i The Groups 40% interest in Inversiones Hornitos S. A. which owns the 150MW Hornitos thermoelectric power plant in Mejillones, in Chiles Antofagasta Region.
ii The Groups 30% interest in ATI, which operates a concession to manage installations in the port of Antofagasta.
During December 2010 the Group sold its 17.8% interest in Sunridge Gold Corp Sunridge for US$17.5 million resulting in a gain of US$15.1 million.
Although the Group held less than a 20% interest in Sunridge, the Groups representation on the board of directors of Sunridge gave it significant inuence over the entity and it was therefore accounted for as an associate.
During 2010 a capital restructuring of Inversiones Hornitos took place, with the FCABs previous capital contributions being reduced by US$57.2 million and replaced with loan nancing from the FCAB, with the FCAB contributing US$78.6 million of further loan nancing to Inversiones Hornitos during the year.
The balance due from Inversiones Hornitos to the Group at 31 December 2010 was US$101.1 million year ended 31 December 2009 US$22.5 million.
The Groups share of the summarised financial information of investment in associates, is as follows: Inversiones Total Total Hornitos ATI associates associates 2010 2010 2010 2009 US$m US$m US$m US$m Total assets net of fair value adjustments 386.2 61.4 447.6 145.9 Total liabilities 258.0 43.2 301.2 24.6 Revenue 11.5 11.5 8.6 profit after tax and minorities 5.0 6.3 1.3 4.5 110 Antofagasta plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2010 Financial Statements Notes to the Financial Statements continued 18 Joint Venture Agreements a Tethyan Copper Company Limited In 2006 the Group acquired 100% of the issued share capital of Tethyan Copper Company Limited Tethyan for cash consideration including transaction costs of US$170.4 million.
Inthesameyear, the Group subsequently entered into a joint venture agreement with Barrick Gold Corporation Barrick Gold, to establish a 50:50 joint venture in relation to Tethyans mineral interestsinPakistan.
From the date of incorporation to 2010, Tethyan was wholly engaged in mineral exploration and evaluation activities and did not generate any revenue.
Tethyans operating loss resulting during theyear was US$25.5 million 2009 US$59.6 million, which relates mainly to exploration and evaluation costs expensed in accordance with the Groups accounting policy and of which 50% isattributable to the Group.
Further progress in this project is subject to the grant of a mining lease for which an application has been made and the successful conclusion of litigation as set out inNote38.
The following amounts represent the Groups 50% share of the assets and liabilities, and results of the jointly controlled entity, and are included in the consolidated balance sheet and in the consolidated income statement of the Group under the proportionate consolidation method: 2010 2009 US$m US$m Total non-current assets 137.2 137.7 Total current assets 3.2 4.6 Total current liabilities 3.9 5.2 Total non-current liabilities 0.3 0.2 Groups share of jointly controlled entitys net assets 136.2 136.9 Operating loss 12.8 29.8 Net finance income 0.1 Tax Groups share of jointly controlled entitys results 12.7 29.8 In addition to these amounts, the Group incurred US$4.0 million 2009 US$3.5 million relating to Tethyan which is included in Corporate and other items.
In October 2008, Energa Andina S. A. was formed as a vehicle for the exploration and exploitation of potential sources of geothermal energy.
The company is 60% owned by the Group and 40% owned by Empresa Nacional del Petrleo ENAP of Chile.
Control over the key operational and financial decisions in respect of the company are jointly exercised by the Group and ENAP, andaccordingly the company is accounted for as a jointly controlled entity, with results included in the consolidated balance sheet and in the consolidated income statement of the Group under theproportionate consolidation method.
In 2010 and 2009, Energa Andina S. A. was wholly engaged in geothermal exploration and evaluation activities and did not generate any revenue in the period after its incorporation.
The operating loss resulting from Energa Andina S. A. for the year was US$6.7 million 2009 US$2.4 million, which relates mainly to exploration and evaluation costs expensed in accordance with the Groups accounting policy, and of which 60% is attributable to the Group.
The following amounts represent the Groups 60% share of the assets and liabilities, and results of the jointly controlled entity, and are included in the consolidated balance sheet and in the consolidated income statement of the Group under proportional consolidated method: 2010 2009 US$m US$m Total current assets 4.1 7.3 Groups share of jointly controlled entitys net assets 4.1 7.3 Operating loss 4.0 1.5 Groups share of jointly controlled entitys results 4.0 1.5 Strategic Review Operational Review Financial Review Governance Financial Statements Other Information Antofagasta plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2010 111 19 Available-for-Sale Investments 2010 2009 US$m US$m Balance at the beginning of the year 1.2 0.7 Additions 12.9 Movements in fair value 6.8 0.5 Foreign currency exchange difference 0.9 Balance at the end of the year 21.8 1.2 Available-for-sale investments represent those investments which are not subsidiaries, associates or joint ventures and are not held for trading purposes.
The investments which are included in the US$21.8 million balance at 31 December 2010 are set out below: i US$19.3 million relating to the market value of shares in Duluth Metals Limited which were acquired as part of the Nokomis transaction detailed in Note 31.
The fair value of these shares increased by US$5.5 million during the year.
ii US$2.5 million relating to the market value of shares in Panoro Minerals Limited which were acquired as part consideration for the disposal in 2008 of the Groups share of the joint venture entity Cordillera fide las Minas S. A.
The fair value of these shares increased by US$1.3 million during the year 2009 an increase of US$0.5 million.
20 Inventories 2010 2009 US$m US$m Raw materials and consumables 106.4 57.5 Work-in-progress 234.0 166.0 Finished goods 44.6 16.6 385.0 240.1 Work-in-progress includes the following balances which are expected to be processed more than 12 months after the balance sheet date: i US$29.4 million 2009 US$30.0 million relating to long-term inventories at Los Pelambres.
ii US$4.5 million 2009 US$5.2 million relating to high carbonate ore inventories at El Tesoro.
112 Antofagasta plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2010 Financial Statements Notes to the Financial Statements continued 21 Trade and Other Receivables Due in one year Due after one year Total 2010 2009 2010 2009 2010 2009 US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m Trade debtors 704.1 401.0 0.5 0.9 704.6 401.9 Other debtors 269.6 207.6 42.4 35.7 312.0 243.3 973.7 608.6 42.9 36.6 1,016.6 645.2 There is no significant concentration of credit risk with respect to trade receivables as the exposure is spread over a large number of customers.
The average credit period given on sale of goods andrendering of service is 55 days 2009 49 days.
There is no material element which is interest-bearing.
Trade debtors include mark-to-market adjustments in respect of provisionally priced sales of copper and molybdenum concentrates which remain open as to final pricing: where these have resulted in credit balances, these have been reclassied to trade creditors.
Movements in the provision for doubtful debts were as follows: 2010 2009 US$m US$m Balance at the beginning of the year 3.0 2.3 Charge for the year 0.3 0.6 Unused amounts reversed 0.1 0.1 Foreign currency exchange difference 0.2 0.2 Balance at the end of the year 3.4 3.0 The ageing analysis of the trade receivables balance is as follows: Past due but not impaired Neither past due nor Up to 3 months 36 months More than impaired past due past due 6 months past due Total US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m 2010 1,005.6 9.8 0.5 0.7 1,016.6 2009 635.7 6.8 2.6 0.1 645.2 With respect to the trade receivables that are neither past due nor impaired, there are no indications that the debtors will not meet their payment obligations.
The carrying value of the trade receivables recorded in the financial statements represents their maximum exposure to credit risk.
The Group does not hold any collateral as security.
Other debtors include US$18.5 million 2009 US$52.9 million relating to prepayments for the purchase of property, plant and equipment.
22 Cash, Cash Equivalents and Liquid Investments The fair value of cash, cash equivalents and liquid investments are not materially different from the carrying values presented.
The credit risk on cash and cash equivalents is limited because thecounterparties are banks with high credit ratings assigned by international credit-rating agencies.
Cash, cash equivalents and liquid investments was comprised of: 2010 2009 US$m US$m Cash and cash equivalents restated see Note 1 2,734.7 2,590.5 Liquid investments restated see Note 1 806.9 631.8 3,541.6 3,222.3 US$50.9 million 2009 nil of cash is held in escrow accounts and is subject to certain legal restrictions.
The currency exposure of cash, cash equivalents and liquid investments was as follows: 2010 2009 US$m US$m US dollars 3,445.5 3,006.4 Chilean pesos 66.2 190.8 Australian dollars 28.7 23.2 Sterling 0.5 1.2 Other 0.7 0.7 3,541.6 3,222.3 Details of cross-currency swaps in place at the end of the year end are given in Note 25 e iii.
Strategic Review Operational Review Financial Review Governance Financial Statements Other Information Antofagasta plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2010 113 23 Borrowings a Analysis by type of borrowing Borrowings may be analysed by business segment and type as follows: 2010 2009 Notes US$m US$m Los Pelambres Corporate loans i 625.2 576.9 Short-term loans ii 245.0 El Tesoro Corporate loan iii 296.4 Finance leases iv 0.2 0.3 Michilla Finance leases v 1.5 Esperanza Project nancing vi 1,008.7 677.6 Subordinated debt vii 212.4 66.1 Finance leases viii 4.3 11.8 Corporate and other items Finance leases ix 39.5 37.6 Railway and other transport services Loans x 6.3 6.6 Water concession Finance leases xi 0.4 Other Preference shares xii 3.1 3.2 Total 2,196.5 1,626.6 i Corporate loans at Los Pelambres are unsecured and US dollar denominated.
The balance of US$625.2 million represents syndicated loans of US$631.5 million less deferred nancing costs ofUS$6.3 million.
These loans have a remaining term between five and seven years and have an interest rate of LIBOR six-month plus margins between 0.9% 1.6%.
ii Short-term loans at Los Pelambres outstanding at 31 December 2009 were repaid during the year ended 31 December 2010. iii The corporate loan at El Tesoro are US dollar denominated.
The balance of US$296.4 million represents the US$300.0 million drawn down net of deferred nancing costs of US$3.6 million.
Thisloan has approximately five years remaining, with an interest rate over the life of the loan of LIBOR six-month plus 1.2%.
iv Finance leases at El Tesoro are US dollar denominated, and are xed rate with an average interest rate of 1.09%.
v Finance leases at Michilla were repaid during the year.
vi The project nancing at Esperanza is US dollar denominated.
The balance of US$1,008.7 million represents the US$1,050.0 million drawn down net of deferred nancing costs of US$41.3million.
This loan has approximately 12 years remaining, with an interest rate over the life of the loan of LIBOR six-month rate plus margins of between 1.375% 3.000%.
The Group has used interest rate swaps to swap the oating rate interest for xed rate interest.
At 31 December 2010 the Group had entered into contracts for a maximum notional amount ofUS$787.8 million at a weighted average xed rate of 1.353% maturing in February 2011 and a maximum notional amount of US$840.0 million at a weighted average xed rate of 3.372% maturing in February 2018. vii This balance includes long-term subordinated debt provided to Esperanza by Marubeni Corporation with a duration of eight years and weighted average interest rate of LIBOR six-months plus 3.75%.
Long-term subordinated debt provided by Group companies to Esperanza has been eliminated on consolidation.
viii Finance leases at Esperanza are denominated in US dollars, Chilean pesos and Unidades fide Fomento i. e. ination-linked Chilean pesos with a maximum remaining duration of four years and xed rate with an average interest rate at approximately LIBOR three-month rate plus 2.8%.
ix Finance leases at Corporate and other items are denominated in Unidades fide Fomento i. e. ination-linked Chilean pesos and have a remaining duration of 19 years and a xed rate of 5.29%.
x Railway and other transport services includes a balance of US$6.0 million related with bonds issued in the Bolivian stock market to renance short-term loans with a xed interest rate of 5.5% and duration of five years.
The balance at 31 December 2010 also includes customer advances of US$0.2 million.
xi Finance leases at the Water concession are denominated in Unidades fide Fomento i. e. ination-linked Chilean pesos and have a remaining duration of 25 years and a xed rate of 7.0%.
xii The preference shares are sterling-denominated and issued by the Company.
There were 2,000,000 shares of 1 each authorised, issued and fully paid at 31 December 2010.
The preference shares are non-redeemable and are entitled to a xed cumulative dividend of 5% per annum.
On winding-up they are entitled to repayment and any arrears of dividend in priority to ordinary shareholders, but are not entitled to participate further in any surplus.
Each preference share carries 100 votes in any general meeting of the Company.
114 Antofagasta plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2010 Financial Statements Notes to the Financial Statements continued 23 Borrowings continued b Analysis of borrowings by currency The exposure of the Groups borrowings to currency risk is as follows: 2010 Pesos Sterling US dollars Total At 31 December 2010 US$m US$m US$m US$m Corporate loans 1,930.3 1,930.3 Other loans including short-term loans 218.7 218.7 Finance leases 44.4 44.4 Preference shares 3.1 3.1 44.4 3.1 2,149.0 2,196.5 2009 Pesos Sterling US dollars Total At 31 December 2009 US$m US$m US$m US$m Corporate loans 1,254.5 1,254.5 Other loans including short-term loans 317.7 317.7 Finance leases 43.3 7.9 51.2 Preference shares 3.2 3.2 43.3 3.2 1,580.1 1,626.6 c Analysis of borrowings by type of interest rate The exposure of the Groups borrowings to interest rate risk is as follows: 2010 Fixed Floating Total At 31 December 2010 US$m US$m US$m Corporate loans 1,930.3 1,930.3 Other loans including short-term loans 6.3 212.4 218.7 Finance leases 44.4 44.4 Preference shares 3.1 3.1 53.8 2,142.7 2,196.5 2009 Fixed Floating Total At 31 December 2009 US$m US$m US$m Corporate loans 1,254.5 1,254.5 Other loans including short-term loans 317.7 317.7 Finance leases 51.2 51.2 Preference shares 3.2 3.2 54.4 1,572.2 1,626.6 The above oating rate corporate loans include the project nancing at Esperanza, where the Group has used interest rate swaps to swap the oating rate interest for xed rate interest.
At31December 2010 the Group had entered into contracts for a maximum notional amount of US$787.8 million at a weighted average xed rate of 1.353% maturing in February 2011 andamaximum notional amount of US$840.0 million at a weighted average xed rate of 3.372% maturing in February 2018. d Maturity prole The maturity prole of the Groups borrowings is as follows: Within Between Between After 2010 1 year 12 years 25 years 5 years Total At 31 December 2010 US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m Corporate loans 134.6 329.3 853.9 612.5 1,930.3 Other loans 0.2 1.5 4.6 212.4 218.7 Finance leases 2.8 3.7 6.5 31.4 44.4 Preference shares 3.1 3.1 137.6 334.5 865.0 859.4 2,196.5 Strategic Review Operational Review Financial Review Governance Financial Statements Other Information Antofagasta plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2010 115 Within Between Between After 2009 1 year 12 years 25 years 5 years Total At 31 December 2009 US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m Corporate loans 176.5 100.1 827.3 150.6 1,254.5 Other loans including short-term loans 250.0 1.6 66.1 317.7 Finance leases 5.3 8.5 7.5 29.9 51.2 Preference shares 3.2 3.2 431.8 110.2 834.8 249.8 1,626.6 The amounts included above for finance leases are based on the present value of minimum lease payments.
The total minimum lease payments for these finance leases may be analysed as follows: 2010 2009 US$m US$m Within 1 year 5.0 7.4 Between 12 years 5.7 11.9 Between 25 years 11.8 10.5 After 5 years 43.1 42.0 Total minimum lease payment 65.6 71.8 Less amounts representing finance charges 21.2 20.6 Present value of minimum lease payment 44.4 51.2 All leases are on a xed payment basis and no arrangements have been entered into for contingent rental payments.
e Borrowings facilities The undrawn committed borrowing facilities available at the end of each year, in respect of which all conditions precedent had been met at those dates, were as follows: 2010 2009 US$m US$m Expiring in 1 year or less 989.1 1,139.4 Expiring in more than 1 but not more than 2 years 103.4 2.0 Expiring in more than 2 years 1,092.5 1,141.4 The available facilities comprise general working capital facilities at the Groups operating subsidiaries all of which were undrawn at the end of each year.
Of these facilities, US$955.4 million 2009 US$688.9 million are denominated in US dollars, US$68.8 million 2009 US$20.6 million in Unidades fide Fomento i. e. ination-linked Chilean pesos, nil 2009 US$3.0 million inEuroand US$68.3 million 2009 US$93.0 million in Chilean pesos.
In 2009 the balance of US$1,141.4 million included the undrawn element of Esperanza project finance facility.
24 Trade and Other Payables Due in one year Due after one year Total 2010 2009 2010 2009 2010 2009 US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m Trade creditors 278.5 254.4 278.5 254.4 Other creditors and accruals 226.3 183.2 4.7 12.3 231.0 195.5 504.8 437.6 4.7 12.3 509.5 449.9 Trade creditors and accruals principally comprise amounts outstanding for trade purchases and ongoing costs.
The average credit period taken for trade purchases is 32 days 2009 40 days.
116 Antofagasta plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2010 Financial Statements Notes to the Financial Statements continued the fair values of other financial assets and financial liabilities excluding derivative instruments 25 Financial Instruments and Financial Risk Management are determined in accordance with generally accepted pricing models based on discounted a Categories of financial instruments cash ow analysis using prices from observable current market transactions: and The Groups financial instruments, grouped according to the categories dened in IAS 39 the fair values of derivative instruments are calculated using quoted prices.
Where such prices Financial instruments: Recognition and Measurement, were as follows: are not available, use is made of discounted cash ow analysis based on the applicable yield 2010 2009 curve for the duration of the instruments for non-optional derivatives, and option pricing US$m US$m models for optional derivatives.
Financial assets The fair value of each category of financial asset and liability is not materially different from Derivatives in designated hedge accounting relationships 1.8 1.7 thecarrying values presented for either 2010 or 2009.
Available-for-sale investments 21.8 1.2 The following table provides an analysis of the financial instruments that are measured Loans and receivables including cash and cash equivalents 3,751.3 3,235.7 subsequent to initial recognition at fair value, grouped into levels 1 to 3 based on the degree Fair value through profit and loss restated 806.9 631.8 towhich the fair value is observable: Financial liabilities level 1 fair value measurements are those derived from quoted prices unadjusted in active Derivatives in designated hedge accounting relationships 113.7 85.7 markets for identical assets or liabilities: Financial liabilities measured at amortised cost 2,706.0 2,076.5 level 2 fair value measurements are those derived from inputs other than quoted prices 1,762.1 1,708.2 included within level 1 that are observable for the asset or liability, either directly i. e. as prices or indirectly i. e. derived from prices : and b Fair value of financial instruments level 3 fair value measurements are those derived from valuation techniques that The fair values of financial assets and financial liabilities are determined as follows: includeinputs for the asset or liability that are not based on observable market data unobservable inputs.
the fair values of financial assets and financial liabilities with standard terms and conditions and traded on active liquid markets are determined with reference to quoted market prices: Total Total Level 1 Level 2 Level 3 2010 2009 US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m Financial assets Derivatives in designated hedge accounting relationships 1.8 1.8 1.7 Available-for-sale investments 21.8 21.8 1.2 Debtors mark-to-market 130.1 130.1 62.8 Fair value through profit and loss restated 806.9 806.9 631.8 Financial liabilities Derivatives in designated hedge accounting relationships 113.7 113.7 85.7 Creditors mark-to-market 0.6 0.6 828.7 17.6 846.3 611.8 There were no transfers between level 1 and 2 during the year.
c Financial risk management Commodity price sensitivity The Groups activities expose it to a variety of financial risks: market risk including commodity The sensitivity analysis below shows the impact of a movement in the copper price on the price risk, currency risk, interest rate risk and other price risk, credit risk and liquidity risk.
financial instruments held as at the reporting date.
A movement in the copper forward price as at TheGroup uses derivative financial instruments to reduce exposure to commodity price, foreign the reporting date will affect the final pricing adjustment to sales which remain open at that date, exchange and interest rate movements.
The Group does not use such derivative instruments impacting the trade receivables balance and consequently the income statement.
inthe copper forward price will also affect the valuation of commodity derivatives, impacting the hedging reserve in equity if the fair value movement relates to an effective designated cash ow The Board of Directors is responsible for overseeing the Groups risk management framework.
hedge, and impacting the income statement if it does not.
The calculation assumes that all other The Board has established the Risk Management Committee, which is responsible for developing variables, such as currency rates, remain constant.
and monitoring the Groups risk management policies.
Internal Audit undertakes both regular and ad hoc reviews of risk management controls and procedures, the results of which are reported If the copper forward price as at the reporting date had increased by 10 cents, net earnings tothe Risk Management Committee.
would have increased by US$6.1 million 2009 US$0.2 million and hedging reserves in equity would have decreased by US$34.9 million 2009 US$13.8 million.
i Commodity price risk If the copper forward price as at the reporting date had decreased by 10 cents, net earnings The Group generally sells its copper and molybdenum concentrate and copper cathodes output would have decreased by US$5.4 million 2009 US$0.4 million and hedging reserves in at prevailing market prices, subject to final pricing adjustments which may be 30 to 120 days equity would have increased by US$29.2 million 2009 US$13.0 million.
after delivery to the customer, and it is therefore exposed to changes in market prices for copper In addition, a movement in the average copper price during the year would impact revenue and molybdenum both in respect of future sales and previous sales which remain open as to andearnings.
A 10 cents change in the average copper price during the year would affect net final pricing.
In 2010, sales of copper and molybdenum concentrate and copper cathodes earnings by US$55.7 million 2009 US$48.8 million and earnings per share by 5.6 cents represented 93.0% of Group turnover and therefore revenues and earnings depend 2009 5.0 cents, based on production volumes in 2010, without taking into account the signicantlyon LME and realised copper prices.
effects of provisional pricing and hedging activity.
A US$1 change in the average molybdenum The Group uses futures, min-max instruments and options to manage its exposure to copper price for the year would affect net earnings by US$8.9 million 2009 US$8.2 million, and prices.
These instruments may give rise to accounting volatility due to uctuations in their earnings per share by 0.9 cents 2009 0.8 cents, based on production volumes in 2010, fairvalue prior to the maturity of the instruments.
Details of those copper and molybdenum andwithout taking into account the effects of provisional pricing.
concentrate sales and copper cathode sales which remain open as to final pricing are given inNote 25 d. Details of commodity rate derivatives entered into by the Group are given inNote25 e. Strategic Review Operational Review Financial Review Governance Financial Statements Other Information Antofagasta plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2010 117 ii Currency risk iv Other price risk The Group is exposed to a variety of currencies.
The US dollar, however, is the currency in The Group is exposed to equity price risk on its available-for-sale equity investments.
whichthe majority of the Groups sales are denominated.
Operating costs are inuenced by Equity price sensitivity thecountries in which the Groups operations are based principally in Chile as well as those The sensitivity analysis below shows the impact of a movement in the equity values of the currencies in which the costs of imported equipment and services are determined.
After the available-for-sale financial assets held as at the reporting date.
USdollar, the Chilean peso is the most important currency inuencing costs and to a lesser extent sales.
If the value of the available-for-sale investments had increased by 10% as at the reporting date, Given the signicance of the US dollar to the Groups operations, this is the presentational equity would have increased by US$2.2 million 2009 US$0.1 million.
There would have been currency of the Group for internal and external reporting.
The US dollar is also the currency for no impact on the income statement.
borrowing and holding surplus cash, although a portion of this may be held in other currencies, v Cash ow risk notably Chilean pesos and sterling, to meet short-term operational and capital commitments anddividend payments.
The Groups future cash ows depend on a number of factors, including commodity prices, production and sales levels, operating costs, capital expenditure levels and financial income When considered appropriate, the Group uses forward exchange contracts and currency andcosts.
Its cash ows are therefore subject to the exchange, interest rate and commodity swapsto limit the effects of movements in exchange rates in foreign currency denominated price risks described above as well as operational factors and input costs.
The Group may also use these instruments to reduce currency exposure onproduction and sales levels and operating costs are given in the Operational Review on onfuture transactions and cash ows.
Details of any exchange rate derivatives entered by the pages26to 45.
Group in theyear are given in Note 25 e. The currency exposure of the Groups cash, cash equivalents and liquid investments is vi Credit risk giveninNote 22, and the currency exposure of the Groups borrowings is given in Note 23. Credit risk arises from trade and other receivables, cash, cash equivalents, liquid investments Theeffectof exchange gains and losses included in the income statement are given in Note 7. and derivative financial instruments.
The Groups credit risk is primarily to trade receivables.
Exchange differences on translation of the net assets of entities with a functional currency other Thecredit risk on cash, cash equivalents and liquid investments and on derivative financial than the US dollar the most material of which is Aguas fide Antofagasta S. A. are taken to the instruments is limited as the counterparties are banks with high credit ratings assigned by currency translation reserve and are disclosed in the Consolidated Statement of Changes in international credit agencies.
All customers are subject to credit review procedures, including the use of external credit ratings where available.
Credit is provided only within set limits, which are regularly reviewed.
Currency sensitivity The sensitivity analysis below shows the impact of a movement in the US dollar Chilean peso Outstanding receivable balances are monitored on an ongoing basis.
exchange rate on the financial instruments held as at the reporting date.
The carrying value of financial assets recorded in the financial statements represents the maximum exposure to credit risk.
The amounts presented in the balance sheet are net of The impact on profit or loss is as a result of the retranslation of monetary financial instruments allowances for any doubtful receivables.
including cash, trade receivables, trade payables, current tax balances and borrowings.
Theimpact on equity is as a result of changes in the fair value of derivative instruments which vii Liquidity risk are effective designated cash ow hedges, and changes in the fair value of available-for-sale The Group manages liquidity risk by maintaining adequate cash reserves and nancing facilities, equity investments.
The calculation assumes that all other variables, such as interest rates, through the review of forecast and actual cash ows.
If the US dollar had strengthened by 10% against the Chilean peso as at the reporting date, The Group typically holds surplus cash in demand or term deposits or highly liquid investments, netearnings would have decreased by US$2.1 million 2009 US$4.0 million : there would which typically can be accessed or liquidated within 24 hours, and in all cases not more than five have been no additional impact on equity.
If the US dollar had weakened by 10% against the days, while the majority of borrowings comprise corporate loans at Los Pelambres, repayable Chilean peso as at the reporting date, net earnings would have increased by US$2.6 million over periods of up to five years, corporate loans at El Tesoro repayable over approximately four 2009 US$4.9 million increase : there would have been no additional impact on equity.
years, and corporate loans at Esperanza, repayable over approximately 12 years.
At the end of both 2010 and 2009, the Group was in a net cash position, as disclosed in Note iii Interest rate risk 33.
Details of cash, cash equivalents and liquid investments are given in Note 22, while details The Groups policy is generally to borrow and invest cash at oating rates.
Fluctuations in interest ofborrowings including the maturity prole are given in Note 23.
Details of undrawn committed rates may impact the Groups net finance income or cost, and to a lesser extent on the value borrowing facilities are also given in Note 23. ofnancial assets and liabilities.
The Group occasionally uses interest rate swaps and collars to The following table analyses the maturity of the Groups contractual commitments in respect of manage interest rate exposures on a portion of its existing borrowings.
Details of any interest its financial liabilities and derivative financial instruments.
The table has been drawn up based ratederivatives entered into by the Group are given in Note 25 e. ontheundiscounted cash ows on the earliest date on which the Group can be required to pay.
Interest rate exposure of the Groups borrowings is given in Note 23.
The table includes both interest and principal cash ows.
Interest rate sensitivity The sensitivity analysis below shows the impact of a movement in interest rates in relation to thenancial instruments held as at the reporting date.
The impact on profit or loss is as a result of the effect on interest expense in respect of oating rate borrowings, and interest income in respect of cash and cash equivalents.
The impact on equity is as a result of changes in the fair value of derivative instruments which are effective designated cash ow hedges.
The calculation assumes that all other variables, such as currency rates, remain constant.
If the interest rate increased by 1%, based on the financial instruments held as at the reporting date, net earnings would have increased by US$19.9 million 2009 US$12.3 million and hedging reserves in equity would have increased by US$10.5 million 2009 US$13.6 million.
This does not include the effect on the income statement of changes in the fair value of the Groups liquid investments relating to the underlying investments in xed income instruments.
118 Antofagasta plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2010 Financial Statements Notes to the Financial Statements continued 25 Financial Instruments and Financial Risk Management continued Between Less than 6 months Between After 2010 6 months to 1 year 12 years 2 years Total At 31 December 2010 US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m Corporate loans 90.6 90.3 607.0 1,630.9 2,418.8 Other loans including short-term loans 0.2 0.2 3.5 3.3 7.2 Finance leases 2.3 2.3 9.0 50.2 63.8 Preference shares 0.1 0.1 0.2 0.4 Trade and other payables 490.5 14.3 1.6 3.1 509.5 Derivative financial instruments 20.4 34.2 60.0 0.9 113.7 604.1 141.4 681.3 1,686.6 3,113.4 Between Less than 6 months Between After 2009 6 months to 1 year 12 years 2 years Total At 31 December 2009 US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m Corporate loans 252.9 199.8 142.9 1,229.7 1,825.3 Other loans including short-term loans 1.5 1.5 2.8 1.3 7.1 Finance leases 5.4 3.8 10.1 54.4 73.7 Preference shares 0.1 0.1 0.2 0.4 Trade and other payables 431.1 6.5 7.6 4.7 449.9 Derivative financial instruments 41.0 41.1 5.7 2.1 85.7 732.0 252.8 169.3 1,288.0 2,442.1 The preference shares pay an annual dividend of 100,000 US$154,420 in perpetuity, and accordingly it is not possible to determine total amounts payable for periods without a xed end date.
viii Capital risk management d Embedded derivatives provisionally priced sales The Groups objectives are to return capital to shareholders whilst leaving the Group with sufficient funds to progress its short, medium and long-term growth plans as well as preserving Copper and molybdenum concentrate sale agreements and copper cathode sale agreements the financial exibility to take advantage of opportunities as they may arise.
This policy remains generally provide for provisional pricing of sales at the time or month of shipment, with final unchanged.
The Group monitors capital on the basis of net cash dened as cash, cash pricing being based on the monthly average London Metal Exchange copper price or monthly equivalents and liquid investments less borrowings which was US$1,345.1 million at average molybdenum price for specified future periods.
This normally ranges from 30 to 120 31December 2010 2009: US$1,595.7 million, as well as gross cash dened as cash, cash days after delivery to the customer.
equivalents and liquid investments which was US$3,541.6 million at 31 December 2010 Under IFRS, both gains and losses from the marking-to-market of open sales are recognised 2009:US$3,222.3 million.
The Groups total cash is held in a combination of demand and through adjustments to revenue in the income statement and to trade debtors in the balance termdeposits and managed funds investing inhigh quality, xed income instruments.
TheGroup determines mark-to-market prices using forward prices at each period end for the managed funds have been instructed to invest in instruments with average maturities greater copper concentrate and cathode sales, and period-end monthly average prices for molybdenum than 90 days.
These amounts are presented asliquid investments but are included in net cash concentrate sales due to the absence of a futures market for that commodity.
for monitoring and decision-making purposes.
The Group has a risk averse investment strategy.
The mark-to-market adjustments to the balance sheet at the end of each period are as follows: The Groups borrowings are detailed in Note 23.
Additional project finance or shareholder loans are taken out by the operating subsidiaries to fund projects on a case-by-case basis.
Balance sheet net mark-to-market effect on debtors 2010 2009 US$m US$m Los Pelambres copper concentrate 124.3 62.1 Los Pelambres tolling charges for copper concentrates 0.6 0.6 Los Pelambres molybdenum concentrate 0.3 1.1 El Tesoro copper cathodes 4.1 2.0 Michilla copper cathodes 1.4 0.4 129.5 62.8 Strategic Review Operational Review Financial Review Governance Financial Statements Other Information Antofagasta plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2010 119 i Copper sales Los Los Pelambres El Tesoro Michilla Pelambres El Tesoro Michilla Copper Copper Copper Copper Copper Copper concentrate cathodes cathodes concentrate cathodes cathodes 2010 2010 2010 2009 2009 2009 US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m Provisionally invoiced gross sales 2,826.0 722.2 317.5 1,602.8 476.5 204.5 Effects of pricing adjustments to previous year invoices Reversal of mark-to-market adjustments at the end of the previous year 62.1 2.0 0.4 257.6 0.8 0.2 Settlement of copper sales invoiced in the previous year 55.7 2.6 0.4 179.6 0.6 1.3 Total effect of adjustments to previous year invoices in the current year 6.4 0.6 78.0 1.4 1.1 Effects of pricing adjustments to current year invoices Settlement of copper sales invoiced in the current year 162.2 12.7 4.6 240.2 27.7 10.3 Mark-to-market adjustments at the end of the current year 124.3 4.1 1.4 62.1 2.0 0.4 Total effects of adjustments to current year invoices 286.5 16.8 6.0 302.3 29.7 10.7 Total pricing adjustments 280.1 17.4 6.0 380.3 31.1 11.8 Realised gains losses on commodity derivatives 0.1 81.5 20.0 45.8 Revenue before deducting tolling charges 3,106.1 739.7 242.0 1,983.1 487.6 170.5 Tolling charges 134.0 125.1 Revenue net of tolling charges 2,972.1 739.7 242.0 1,858.0 487.6 170.5 i Copper concentrate At 31 December 2010 and 31 December 2009 copper concentrate sales at Los Pelambres had an average settlement period of approximately three months after shipment date.
At 31 December 2010 sales totalling 101,900 tonnes remained open as to price, with an average mark-to-market price of 436.7 cents per pound compared with an average provisional invoice price of 381.3 cents per pound.
At 31 December 2009 sales totalling 73,700 tonnes remained open as to price, with an average mark-to-market price of 334.0 cents per pound compared with anaverage provisional invoice price of 295.8 cents per pound.
Tolling charges include a mark-to-market gain for copper concentrate sales open as to price at 31 December 2010 of less than US$0.1 million 2009 mark-to-market loss of US$5.1 million.
ii Copper cathodes At 31 December 2010 and 31 December 2009 copper cathode sales at El Tesoro and Michilla had an average settlement period of approximately one month after shipment date.
At 31 December 2010, sales totalling 12,700 tonnes remained open as to price, with an average mark-to-market price of 437.3 cents per pound compared with an average provisional invoice price of 417.9 cents per pound.
At 31 December 2009, sales totalling 10,400 tonnes remained open as to price, with an average mark-to-market price of 333.5 cents per pound compared with an average provisional invoice price of 322.9 cents per pound.
ii Molybdenum sales Los Los Pelambres Pelambres Molybdenum Molybdenum concentrate concentrate 2010 2009 US$m US$m Provisionally invoiced gross sales 318.0 189.2 Effects of pricing adjustments to previous year invoices Reversal of mark-to-market adjustments at the end of the previous year 1.1 13.3 Settlement of molybdenum sales invoiced in the previous year 8.1 15.5 Total effect of adjustments to previous year invoices in the current year 9.2 2.2 Effects of pricing adjustments to current year invoices Settlement of molybdenum sales invoiced in the current year 10.9 6.4 Mark-to-market adjustments at the end of the current year 0.3 1.1 Total effects of adjustments to current year invoices 10.6 5.3 Total pricing adjustments 1.4 3.1 Revenue before deducting tolling charges 316.6 192.3 Tolling charges 13.1 12.2 Revenue net of tolling charges 303.5 180.1 At 31 December 2010, molybdenum concentrate sales at Los Pelambres had an average settlement period of approximately two months after shipment date.
Sales totalling 1,300 tonnes remained open as to price, with an average mark-to-market price of US$16.1 per pound compared with an average provisional invoice price of US$16.0 per pound.
At 31 December 2009, molybdenum concentrate sales at Los Pelambres had an average settlement period of approximately two months after shipment date.
Sales totalling 1,400 tonnes remained open as to price, with an average mark-to-market price of US$11.3 per pound compared with an average provisional invoice price of US$11.6 per pound.
120 Antofagasta plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2010 Financial Statements Notes to the Financial Statements continued 25 Financial Instruments and Financial Risk Management continued e Derivative financial instruments The Group periodically uses derivative financial instruments to reduce its exposure to commodity price, foreign exchange and interest rate movements.
The Group does not use such derivative instruments for speculative trading purposes.
The Group has applied the hedge accounting provisions of IAS 39 Financial Instruments: Recognition and Measurement.
Changes in the fair value of derivative financial instruments that are designated and effective as hedges of future cash ows have been recognised directly in equity, with such amounts subsequently recognised in the income statement in the period when the hedged item affects profit or loss.
Any ineffective portion is recognised immediately in the income statement.
Realised gains and losses on commodity derivatives recognised in the income statement have been recorded within revenue.
The time value element of changes in the fair value of derivative options is excluded from the designated hedging relationship, and is therefore recognised directly inthe income statement within other finance items.
Realised gains and losses and changes in the fair value of exchange and interest derivatives are recognised within other finance items for those derivatives where hedge accounting has not been applied.
When hedge accounting has been applied the realised gains and losses on exchange and interest derivatives are recognised within other finance items and interest expense respectively.
i Mark-to-market adjustments and income statement impact The balance sheet mark-to-market adjustments in respect of derivatives at the end of each year, and the total effect on the income statement for each year, are as follows: For the year ended 31 December 2010 Total balance sheet impact of mark-toImpact on income statement Impact on reserves market adjustments Gains losses resulting Gains losses resulting from mark-to-market from mark-to-market Realised adjustments Total adjustments Net financial losses on hedging net loss on hedging asset liability 2010 instruments 2010 2010 instruments 2010 2010 US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m Commodity derivatives El Tesoro 0.1 0.1 1.4 1.3 Michilla 81.5 16.1 97.6 17.1 76.9 Exchange derivatives Los Pelambres 0.2 0.2 Michilla 1.5 1.5 Esperanza 1.8 1.8 Corporate and other items 0.2 0.2 Railway and other transport services 4.7 1.6 6.3 Water concession 1.7 1.9 0.2 Interest derivatives Esperanza 29.8 35.5 86.5 15.6 102.1 12.3 111.9 US$1.5 million of the net realised losses on exchange derivatives relates to a net gain on hedging instruments at Michilla where hedge accounting has been applied and is recognised in foreign exchange within net finance expense see Note 9.
The remaining US$6.1 million net losses on exchange derivatives where hedge accounting has not been applied have been recognised in foreignexchange derivatives within net finance expense see Note 9.
Strategic Review Operational Review Financial Review Governance Financial Statements Other Information Antofagasta plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2010 121 For the year ended 31 December 2009 Total balance sheet impact of mark-to-market Impact on income statement Impact on reserves adjustments Gains losses resulting Gains losses resulting from mark-to-market from mark-to-market Realised adjustments on Total adjustments on Net financial losses hedging instruments net loss hedging instruments asset liability 2009 2009 2009 2009 2009 US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m Commodity derivatives El Tesoro 20.0 0.9 19.1 52.5 0.1 Michilla 45.8 2.0 47.8 75.9 77.9 Exchange derivatives Corporate and other items 0.8 0.2 1.0 0.2 Railway and other transport services 8.4 1.6 6.8 1.6 Water concession 2.7 1.9 4.6 1.9 Interest derivatives Esperanza 5.7 5.7 77.7 1.6 79.3 134.1 84.0 The losses recognised in reserves are disclosed before non-controlling interests and tax.
The net financial liability resulting from the balance sheet mark-to-market adjustments are analysed as follows: 2010 2009 US$m US$m Analysed between: Current assets 1.8 1.7 Current liabilities 54.7 81.2 Non-current liabilities 59.0 4.5 111.9 84.0 ii Outstanding derivative financial instruments Commodity derivatives The Group periodically uses commodity derivatives to reduce its exposure to uctuation in the copper price.
a Min-max instruments At 31.12.10 For instruments held at 31.12.10 Weighted average remaining Copper period from Weighted production 1 January average Weighted hedged 2011 Covering a oor average cap 000 tonnes Months period up to: US cents US cents Michilla 58,575 12.7 31.12.12 311.1 392.2 Between 1 January 2011 and 31 January 2011 nil tonnes of additional min-max instruments were entered into, and min-max instruments for 2,900 tonnes of copper production matured.
Asaresult up to 31 January 2011: i 32,775 tonnes of 2011 Group copper production had been hedged with min-max options of which 2,900 tonnes matured by 31 January 2011 and 29,875 tonnes remain outstanding and will mature by the end of the year.
ii 25,800 tonnes of 2012 Group copper production has been hedged with min-max options.
b Futures arbitrage The Group also has futures for copper production, to buy and sell copper production with the effect of swapping COMEX prices for LME prices without eliminating underlying market price exposure.
At 31.12.10 For instruments held at 31.12.10 Weighted average remaining period from Weighted Copper production 1 January average hedged 2011 Covering a price 000 tonnes Months period up to: US cents El Tesoro 8,500 4.9 31.01.12 350.3 122 Antofagasta plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2010 Financial Statements Notes to the Financial Statements continued 25 Financial Instruments and Financial Risk Management continued Exchange derivatives The Group periodically uses foreign exchange derivatives to reduce its exposure to uctuations in the exchange rates inuencing operating costs and the fair value of non-US dollar denominated assets or liabilities.
Cross-currency swaps The Group has used cross-currency swaps to swap Chilean pesos for US dollars.
At 31.12.10 For instruments held at 31.12.10 Weighted Principal average value of remaining cross period from Weighted currency 1 January average rate swaps held 2011 Covering a US$m Months period up to: Ch$ US$ Esperanza 10.0 1.0 06.01.11 550.3 Between 1 January 2011 and 31 January 2011 US$10.0 million of cross-currency swaps relating to Esperanza matured and US$56.6 million new cross-currency swaps relating to Railway and other transport services were entered into.
Interest derivatives The Group periodically uses interest derivatives to reduce its exposure to interest rate movements.
Interest rate swaps The Group has used interest rate swaps to swap the oating rate interest relating to the Esperanza nancing for xed rate interest.
At 31 December 2010 the Group had entered into the contracts outlined below.
Maximum Weighted notional average amount Maturity xed rate Phase Start date date US$m % Esperanza 1 15.2.
2018 840.0 3.372 26 Post-Employment benefit Obligations a Dened contribution schemes The Group operates dened contribution schemes for a limited number of employees.
The amount charged to the income statement in 2010 was US$0.1 million 2009 less than US$0.1 million, representing the amount paid in the year.
There were no outstanding amounts which remain payable at the end of either year.
b Severance provisions Employment terms at some of the Groups operations provide for payment of a severance indemnity when an employment contract comes to an end.
This is typically at the rate of one month for each year of service subject in most cases to a cap as to the number of qualifying years of service and based on final salary level.
The severance indemnity obligation is treated as an unfunded dened benefit plan, and the obligation recognised is based on valuations performed by an independent actuary using the projected unit credit method, which are regularly updated.
The obligation recognised in the balance sheet represents the present value of the severance indemnity obligation.
Actuarial gains and losses are immediately recognised in the income statement within operatingcost.
The most recent valuation was carried out in 2010 by Ernst & Young, a qualied actuary in Santiago-Chile who is not connected with the Group 2009 Ral Benavente, a qualied actuary in Santiago-Chile who was not connected with the Group.
The main assumptions used to determine the actuarial present value of benefit obligations were as follows: 2010 2009 Average nominal discount rate 6.6% 5.5% Average rate of increase in salaries 2.8% 1.5% Average staff turnover 3.5% 3.5% Strategic Review Operational Review Financial Review Governance Financial Statements Other Information Antofagasta plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2010 123 Amounts included in the income statement in respect of severance provisions are as follows: 2010 2009 US$m US$m Current service cost charge to operating profit 11.1 3.8 Actuarial losses charge to operating costs 5.0 9.5 Interest cost charge to interest expenses 1.6 1.3 Foreign exchange charge to other finance items 4.3 8.4 Total charge to income statement 22.0 23.0 Movement in the present value of severance provisions were as follows: 2010 2009 US$m US$m Balance at the beginning of the year 48.2 29.0 Current service cost 11.1 3.8 Actuarial gains and losses 5.0 9.5 Charge capitalised 3.7 0.4 Reclassication 0.4 Interest cost 1.6 1.3 Paid in the year 5.9 4.6 Foreign currency exchange difference 4.3 8.4 Balance at the end of the year 68.0 48.2 27 Deferred Tax The following are the major deferred tax liabilities and assets recognised by the Group and movements thereon during 2010 and 2009.
Accelerated Timing capital differences Withholding Short-term Mining tax allowances on provisions tax differences Royalty Tax losses Total US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m At 1 January 2009 314.3 59.0 107.2 3.9 4.0 7.0 355.4 Charge credit to income 37.3 37.2 27.7 22.5 12.9 0.1 137.7 Charge capitalised 8.4 8.4 Charge deferred in equity 22.8 22.8 At 1 January 2010 360.0 21.8 134.9 3.6 8.9 6.9 478.7 Charge credit to income 44.2 19.5 113.5 18.1 12.8 46.0 123.1 Charge capitalised 11.5 11.5 Credit deferred in equity 4.0 4.0 At 31 December 2010 392.7 41.3 248.4 17.7 21.7 52.9 586.3 The charge to the income statement of US$123.1 million 2009 US$137.7 million charge includes a charge for foreign exchange differences of US$2.1 million 2009 includes a charge of US$5.1 million.
Certain deferred tax assets and liabilities have been offset.
The following is the analysis of the deferred tax balance after offset : 2010 2009 US$m US$m Deferred tax assets 110.0 31.1 Deferred tax liabilities 696.3 509.8 Net deferred tax balances 586.3 478.7 At 31 December 2010, the Group had unused tax losses of US$311.1 million 2009 US$40.8 million available for offset against future profits.
A deferred tax asset has been recognised in respect of the full US$311.1 million in 2010 2009 US$40.8 million.
These losses may be carried forward indefinitely.
At 31 December 2010 and 31 December 2009, there were no other deductible temporary differences, for which no deferred tax assets were recognised in the balance sheet.
At 31 December 2010, the aggregate amount of temporary differences associated with undistributed earnings of subsidiaries for which deferred tax liabilities have not been recognised was US$3,649.9 million 2009 US$4,047.3 million.
No liability has been recognised in respect of these differences because the Group is in a position to control the timing of the reversal of the temporary differences and it is likely that such differences will not reverse in the foreseeable future.
Temporary differences arising in connection with interests in associates are insignicant.
124 Antofagasta plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2010 Financial Statements Notes to the Financial Statements continued 28 Long-term Provisions 2010 2009 US$m US$m Balance at the beginning of the year 127.9 18.0 Charge to operating profit in the year 69.6 2.2 Release of discount to net interest in the year 2.7 1.5 Charge capitalised 1.4 1.3 Capitalised adjustment to provision 44.4 105.1 Reclassication 0.4 Utilised in year 1.7 Foreign currency exchange difference 0.1 0.2 Balance at the end of the year 244.4 127.9 Analysed as follows: Decommissioning and restoration 243.4 127.1 Termination of Water concession 1.0 0.8 Balance at the end of the year 244.4 127.9 a Decommissioning and restoration Decommissioning and restoration costs relate to the Groups mining operations.
Costs are estimated on the basis of a formal closure plan and are subject to regular independent formal review.
Itisestimated that the provision will be utilised over a period of up to 26 years based oncurrent mine plans.
During the year ended 31 December 2010 there has been a US$65.2 million charge to operating profit in relation to increases to the restoration provision and US$44.4 million capitalised in relation to increases in the decommissioning provision at Los Pelambres following an updated independent review which reects changes to the timing, cost and other assumptions relating to the provision.
The capitalised provision balances are depreciated over thelife of the corresponding asset or mine life if shorter.
b Termination of Water concession The provision for the termination of the Water concession relates to the provision for items ofplant, property and equipment and working capital items under Aguas fide Antofagastas ownership tobetransferred to the previous state-owned operator ECONSSA formerly known asESSAN at the end of the concession period, and is based on the net present value of the estimated value ofthose assets and liabilities in existence at the end of the concession.
29 Share Capital and Other Reserves i Share capital The ordinary share capital of the Company is as follows: 2010 2009 2010 2009 Number Number US$m US$m Authorised Ordinary shares of 5p each 1,300,000,000 1,300,000,000 118.9 118.9 2010 2009 2010 2009 Number Number US$m US$m Issued and fully paid Ordinary shares of 5p each 985,856,695 985,856,695 89.8 89.8 The Company has one class of ordinary shares which carry no right to xed income.
Eachordinary share carries one vote at any general meeting.
There were no changes in the authorised or issued share capital of the Company in either 2009 or 2010.
Details of the Companys preference share capital, which is included within borrowings inaccordance with IAS 32, are given in Note 23a xii.
ii Other reserves Details of the share premium account, hedging, fair value and translation reserves and retained earnings for both 2009 and 2010 are included within the Consolidated Statement of Changes inEquity on page 89.
Strategic Review Operational Review Financial Review Governance Financial Statements Other Information Antofagasta plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2010 125 30 Non-controlling Interests The non-controlling interests of the Group are as follows: Acquisition of Share of nonprofit for the controlling Capital Share of Hedging At 01.01.10 financial year interests increase dividends reserves At 31.12.10 US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m Los Pelambres 862.9 675.0 648.0 889.9 El Tesoro 232.9 94.9 45.0 0.3 282.5 Michilla 6.4 9.7 4.0 0.7 Esperanza 168.3 3.9 6.8 157.6 Twin Metals 4.1 0.8 12.5 9.2 Railway and other transport services 14.7 0.6 15.3 Total 1,278.8 768.9 0.8 12.5 702.7 3.1 1,355.2 31 Business Combinations a Twin Metals Minnesota LLC On 21 July 2010 the Group signed a denitive Participation and Limited Liability Company Agreement pursuant to the legally binding Heads of Agreement HoA signed on 14 January 2010 with Duluth Metals Limited Duluth, a company listed on the Toronto Stock Exchange TSX, to acquire a 40% controlling interest in the project company Twin Metals Minnesota LLC Twin Metals which holds the Nokomis  group metal PGM deposit Nokomis, located in the highly prospective Duluth Complex in north-eastern Minnesota, USA.
The agreement includes no transfer of consideration from Antofagasta to Duluth for the participation in Twin Metals LLC.
No goodwill was generated in this transaction.
The US$0.8 million attributable to the non-controlling interest is 60% of the identiable net assets.
In order to maintain its interest, Antofagasta will fund US$130 million of exploration and feasibility study expenditure over a three-year period and has the option to acquire an additional 25% of the project company to own in aggregate 65% upon completion of a bankable feasibility study.
Although the Group only has a 40% shareholding in Twin Metals, the nature of the agreement is such that the Group has management control over the entity.
US$m Property, plant and equipment 4.1 Cash and cash equivalents 0.4 Trade and other payables 3.1 Total identiable net assets 1.4 Antofagasta incurred acquisition-related costs of US$4.1 million, which is included in exploration and evaluation cost in the year to 31 December 2010 in line with the exploration and evaluation expense being incurred by this company.
Since the acquisition date Twin Metals has incurred exploration and evaluation expenditure of US$6.8 million.
Had Twin Metals been consolidated from 1 January 2010 the impact on the consolidated statement of comprehensive income for the year to 31 December 2010 would have been an additional net loss of US$8.1 million.
32 Other Transactions a Full Metal Minerals Limited On 10 August 2010, the Group entered into an agreement with Full Metal Minerals Limited FullMetal of Canada in respect of its Pyramid  porphyry project in south-westAlaska.
The Group has the right to earn up to a 51% interest in the project over afour-year period by funding up to US$6.0 million of exploration activities and making cash payments totalling US$0.2 million.
Antofagasta will have the right to further increase its interest in the project to 65% by funding a scoping study and can then earn an additional 15% interest by funding afeasibility study.
b Minera Picacho Codelco On 20 August 2010, the Group entered into an agreement with Minera Picacho, a wholly-owned subsidiary of Corporacion Nacional del Cobre Chile Codelco, in respect of the Cumbres prospect in Chiles Antofagasta Region.
The Group has the right to earn a 60% interest over afour-year period by funding US$2.5 million in exploration with a minimum commitment of US$0.3 million in the first year and delivering a feasibility study within a further two years.
c Monax Mining Limited In September 2010 the Group entered into an agreement with Monax Mining Limited Monax in respect of its Punt Hill copper-gold project in South Australia.
The Group has the right to earn a51% interest in the deposit over a four-year period by funding US$4.0 million of exploration activities, with a minimum commitment of US$1.5 million.
Antofagasta will have the right to increase further its interest in the Punt Hill project to 70% by funding a further US$5.0 million ofexploration and development activities.
d TEAL Exploration & Mining Incorporated During 2008 the Group entered into an agreement with TEAL Exploration & Mining Incorporated TEAL to acquire an initial 30% interest in two of TEALs exploration licences on the Zambian Copperbelt for a consideration of US$5.0 million.
After evaluation of the results of the exploration activities to date the Group has decided not to proceed further with the partnership with TEAL, and accordingly has withdrawn from the agreement.
The Group received US$3.5 million from TEAL for assigning its interests in the mining licences relating to the project.
e International Base Metals Limited After evaluation of the results of the exploration activities to date, the Group decided in October 2010 not to proceed further with its agreement with International Base Metals Limited of Australia inrespect of its Kopermyn mining property in northern Namibia.
126 Antofagasta plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2010 Financial Statements Notes to the Financial Statements continued 33 Notes to the Consolidated Cash Flow Statement a Reconciliation of profit before tax to net cash inow from operating activities 2010 2009 US$m US$m profit before tax 2,573.2 1,437.6 Depreciation and amortisation 277.0 217.5 Loss on disposal of property, plant and equipment 9.8 4.2 Asset impairments reversal 109.4 Net finance expense 18.7 25.9 Share of profit of associate 2.6 4.5 Increase in inventories 108.8 59.8 Increase in debtors 336.7 266.2 Increase decrease in creditors and provisions 107.5 186.9 Cash ows from operations 2,433.9 1,167.8 b Analysis of changes in net cash restated At 1.1.
09 Cash ows Other Exchange At 31.12.09 US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m Cash and cash equivalents restated 2,813.1 275.4 52.8 2,590.5 Liquid investments restated 544.9 86.9 631.8 Total cash, cash equivalents and liquid investments 3,358.0 188.5 52.8 3,222.3 Bank borrowings due within one year 306.0 43.3 77.1 0.1 426.5 Bank borrowings due after one year 77.6 1,144.7 76.6 1,145.7 Finance leases due within one year 13.0 10.9 3.5 0.3 5.3 Finance leases due after one year 39.4 0.1 6.6 45.9 Preference shares 2.9 0.3 3.2 Total borrowings 438.9 1,177.1 3.9 6.7 1,626.6 Net cash 2,919.1 1,365.6 3.9 46.1 1,595.7 c Net cash 2010 2009 US$m US$m Cash, cash equivalents and liquid investments 3,541.6 3,222.3 Total borrowings 2,196.5 1,626.6 1,345.1 1,595.7 Strategic Review Operational Review Financial Review Governance Financial Statements Other Information Antofagasta plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2010 127 34 Operating Lease Arrangements 37 Related Party Transactions 2010 2009 Transactions between the Company and its subsidiaries, which are related parties, have been US$m US$m eliminated on consolidation and are not disclosed in this note.
Transactions between the Group Minimum lease payments under operating leases recognised in and its associates are disclosed below.
income for the year 12.4 14.8 The transactions which Group companies entered into with related parties who are not members of the Group are set out below.
At the balance sheet date, the Group had outstanding commitments for future minimum lease payments under non-cancellable operating leases, which fall due as follows: a Quienco S. A.
2010 2009 Quienco S. A. Quienco is a Chilean financial and industrial conglomerate, the shares of US$m US$m which are traded on the Santiago Stock Exchange.
The Group and Quienco are both under the Within one year 10.2 10.8 control of the Luksic family, and three Directors of the Company, Mr. J-P Luksic, Mr. G A Luksic In the second to fifth years inclusive 30.9 18.1 and Mr. G S Menndez, are also directors of Quienco.
After five years 10.5 5.4 The following material transactions took place between the Group and the Quienco group ofcompanies, all of which were on normal commercial terms: 51.6 34.3 the Group sold copper cathodes during the year for US$5.0 million 2009 US$2.3 million Operating lease payments relate mainly to rental of plant and equipment by operating toMadeco S. A. a subsidiary of Quienco.
The balance due from Madeco at the end of the subsidiaries of the Group.
year was nil 2009 was nil : the Group bought copper wire from Madeco for less than US$0.1 million 2009 less than US$0.1 million : 35 Concession Arrangements the Group earned interest income of US$0.5 million 2009 US$0.1 million during the year In 2003, the Group was awarded a 30-year concession to operate the water rights and facilities on deposits with Banco fide Chile S. A. a subsidiary of Quienco.
Deposit balances at the end in the Antofagasta Region of Chile previously controlled by the state-owned operator ECONSSA ofthe year were US$1.9 million 2009 US$31.7 million.
The concession consists of two businesses, one an unregulated business supplying mines and other industrial users and the other a regulated Water business b Compaa fide Inversiones Adritico S. A. supplying domestic customers.
The concession contract was signed and control of the assets In 2010, the Group leased ofce space on normal commercial terms from Compaa fide and operation assumed on 29 December 2003 by Aguas fide Antofagasta S. A. a wholly-owned Inversiones Adritico S. A. a company controlled by the Luksic family, at a cost of US$0.6 million subsidiary oftheGroup.
Under the concession contract, certain assets and liabilities mainly certain specic tangible xedassets and working capital items were transferred to Aguas fide Antofagasta by way c Compaa Antofagasta Terminal Internacional S. A. ofsale.
Other assets mainly water rights and infrastructure were transferred by way of As explained in Note 17, the Group acquired a 30% interest in Antofagasta Terminal Internacional concessionand will devolve to ESSAN at the end of the 30-year period.
S. A. ATI on 16 December 2004, which has been treated in these financial statements Aguas fide Antofagasta will also be required to transfer to ESSAN any tangible xed assets asanassociate.
During 2010, the Group received a dividend of US$0.8 million from ATI andworking capital items under its ownership at the end of the 30-year concession period.
Aprovision for the termination of the Water concession has been created for the xed assets andworking capital items under Aguas fide Antofagastas ownership to be transferred to ESSAN d Antomin Limited, Antomin 2 Limited and Antomin Investors Limited at the end of the concession period.
The provision is based on the net present value of the The Group holds a 51% interest in Antomin 2 Limited Antomin 2 and Antomin Investors estimated value of these assets and liabilities in existence at the end of the concession.
Limited Antomin Investors, which own a number of copper exploration properties.
The Group Therelease of the discount applied in establishing the net present value of future costs is originally acquired its 51% interest in these properties for a nominal consideration from charged to the income statement in each accounting period and is disclosed as a nancing Mineralinvest Establishment, a company controlled by the Luksic family, which continues to hold cost.
Further details of this provision are given in Note 28 b. the remaining 49% of Antomin 2 and Antomin Investors.
Antofagasta has the exclusive right to The Chilean Water Regulator Superintendencia fide Servicios Sanitarios sets domestic tariffs acquire at fair value under certain conditions the shareholding of Mineralinvest in Antomin 2 every five years following a regulatory review including representations from the operator of the andAntomin Investors, or the underlying properties, for a period of five years from August 2008. concession.
The last regulatory review was completed during 2006, which resulted in an average The Group has also committed to meet in full any exploration costs relating to the properties reduction in tariffs compared with previous levels of approximately 5% from July 2006. heldby these entities.
e Tethyan Copper Company Limited 36 Exchange Rates in US dollars As explained in Note 18 a, during 2006 the Group entered into a joint venture agreement The principal exchange rates expressed in US dollars used in the preparation of the 2010 withBarrick Gold Corporation Barrick Gold to establish a 50:50 joint venture over Tethyans financial statements are as follows: mineral interests in Pakistan.
2010 2009 During the year the Group contributed US$12.1 million 2009 US$31.1 million to Tethyan, US$1.5406 1: US$1.6062 1: toprovide funds for Tethyans ongoing exploration and evaluation programme.
The balance Year end rates US$1 Ch$468 US$1 Ch$507 duefrom Tethyan to Group companies at the end of the year was US$0.3 million 2009 US$1.5442 1: US$1.5591 1: US$0.5million.
Details of amounts relating to Tethyan included in the consolidated financial Average rates US$1 Ch$510 US$1 Ch$559 statements of the Group under the proportionate consolidation method are set out in Note 18 a. f Energa Andina S. A.
In October 2008 Energa Andina S. A. was formed as a vehicle for the exploration and exploitationof potential sources of geothermal energy.
The company is 60% owned by the Groupand 40% owned by Empresa Nacional del Petrleo ENAP of Chile.
The balance duefrom Energa Andina S. A. to the Group at 31 December 2010 was US$0.3 million 31December 2009 US$0.2 million.
128 Antofagasta plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2010 Financial Statements Notes to the Financial Statements continued The petitioners have led a Civil Petition for Leave to Appeal CPLA against the judgment.
37 Related Party Transactions continued TheCPLA has now been allowed by the Supreme Court, converting it into an Appeal and is g Minera Cerro Centinela S. A. hearing it on its merits together with new constitutional petitions led before the Supreme Court.
Minera Cerro Centinela S. A. Centinela, an entity ultimately controlled by the Luksic family, The new petitions primarily relate to whether it is in the public interest for Tethyan to receive a hasan interest of 7.973% in Minera Michilla S. A. Michilla, a shareholding it has held since mining lease.
On 3 February 2011, the Supreme Court issued an interim order providing, among Michilla was created through the merger of two predecessor companies on 31 December 1993. other things, that the Government of Balochistan may not take any decision in respect of the During 2010 Michilla paid dividends of US$3.0 million to Centinela.
grant or otherwise of a mining lease to Tethyan until matters before the Supreme Court are decided.
Further progress on this project will be dependent on the grant of the mining lease for h Directors and other key management personnel which an application has been made and successful conclusion of litigation which is currently Information relating to Directors remuneration and interests are given in the Remuneration inprogress before the Supreme Court of Pakistan.
Information relating to the remuneration of key management personnel including the Directors is given in Note 8.
39 Events After the Balance Sheet Date i Inversiones Hornitos S. A. a Eurasian Minerals Inc In July 2009, the Group acquired a 40% interest in Inversiones Hornitos S. A. from GDF SUEZ.
On 18 February 2011, the Group has entered into an agreement in principle for a strategic This interest is accounted for as an associate.
The Group made an initial payment on 15 July alliance and earn-in agreement with Eurasian Minerals Inc. focused primarily on copper 2009 of US$80.9 million to GDF SUEZ, representing the Groups share of costs already incurred exploration in Sweden including the Kiruan South copper project.
The Group will contribute plus interest to date of acquisition.
During 2010 a capital restructuring of Inversiones Hornitos funding of at least US$250,000 million annually for a two-year period.
took place, with the FCABs previous capital contributions being reduced by US$57.2 million The Group may earn a 51% interest in any designated property other than the Kiruna South andreplaced with loan nancing from the FCAB, with the FCAB contributing US$78.6 million of designated property by spending an aggregate of US$5.0 million over five years and making further loan nancing to Inversiones Hornitos during the year.
The balance due from Inversiones aone-time cash payment on or before the fifth anniversary equal to the product obtained Hornitos to the Group at 31 December 2010 was US$101.1 million year ended 31 December bymultiplying 225,000lbs of copper times the average of the price of copper for the previous 2009 US$22.5 million.
In the case of the Kiruna South designated project, the above conditions also apply except that the earn-in commitment is US$10.0 million over five years.
j Sunridge Gold Corp The Group will also purchase 1,540,000 units from Eurasian Minerals Inc. at a price of In October 2009 the Group acquired 17.8% of the issued share capital of Sunridge under a C$3.25per unit.
Each unit will consist of one common share and one half of one common share private placement.
On 23 December 2010 the Group sold its 17.8% shareholding in Sunridge purchase warrant.
Each full warrant will entitle AMSA to purchase one additional common share for US$17.5 million.
Prior to this sale the interest was accounted for as an associate.
Further of Eurasian Minerals Inc. stock for a period of two years at a purchase price of C$4.00per unit.
details are provided in Note 17.
The placement will be subject to TSX Venture exchange approval.
k Franconia Minerals Corporation b Franconia Minerals Corporation On 20 December 2010 the Group entered into arrangements with Duluth Metals Limited in On 20 December 2010 the Group entered into arrangements with Duluth Metals Limited connection with Duluths proposed acquisition of 100% of Franconia Minerals Corporation Duluth inconnection with Duluths proposed acquisition of 100% of Franconia Minerals Franconia.
Duluth and Antofagasta have agreed that following the proposed acquisition Corporation Franconia.
Following approval of the acquisition by Franconias shareholders and Franconias assets will be transferred to Twin Metals and that Antofagasta will contribute by the Court of Queens Bench of Alberta, Duluth completed the acquisition on 7 March 2011. approximately C$30.0 million in cash to Duluths acquisition of Franconia in order to, in part, Franconias principal assets are a 70% interest in the Birch Lake Joint Venture BLJV which maintain the 40% and 60% interests of Antofagasta and Duluth, respectively, in Twin Metals.
holds the Birch Lake, Maturi and Spruce Road  and palladium deposits TheGroup has also subscribed for an aggregate of 7,604,563 subscription receipts of Duluth, that are contiguous tothe Nokomis deposit held through Twin Metals.
Franconia announced in byway of private placement, for a price of C$2.63 per subscription to become an approximately November 2010 its intention to increase its ownership at the Birch Lake Project to 82% under 12.8% shareholder in Duluth.
Further details of the acquisition are given in Note 39.
Duluth is a the terms of the BLJV Agreement.
The offer valued Franconia at approximately C$77 million related party of the Group for the purpose of the Listing Rules of the United Kingdom Listing approximately US$77million.
Duluth and Antofagasta agreed that following the proposed Authority as it holds a substantial interest in Twin Metals.
acquisition, Franconias assets will be transferred to Twin Metals.
Subsequent to the year end, Antofagasta has contributed approximately C$30 million approximately US$30 million in cash 38 Contingent Liabilities toDuluths acquisition of Franconia in order to, in part, maintain the 40% and 60% interests There are a number of claims currently outstanding to which Antofagasta plc or its ofAntofagasta and Duluth, respectively, in Twin Metals.
Following the completion of Duluths subsidiaries the Group is a party, for which no provision has been made in the financial acquisition it is expected that Franconias assets will be transferred to Twin Metals during the statements and are currently not expected to result in any material loss to the Group.
Detailsofthe principal claims at the end of the year and their current status are set out below: 40 Ultimate Parent Company a Los Pelambres Mauro tailings dam The immediate parent of the Group is Metalinvest Establishment, which is controlled by E. Abaroa As previously announced, during 2008 Los Pelambres entered into binding settlements in Foundation, in which members of the Luksic family are interested.
respect of litigation relating to the Mauro tailings dam.
In December 2008, Los Pelambres became aware of further legal proceedings which had been initiated in first instance courts in Both Metalinvest Establishment and the E. Abaroa Foundation are domiciled in Liechtenstein.
Santiago and Los Vilos by certain members of the Caimanes community located near the Mauro Information relating to the interest of Metalinvest Establishment and the E. Abaroa Foundation valley.
These claims, some of which have already been rejected by the relevant courts, sought to aregiven in the Report of the Directors on page 72. prevent the operation of the Mauro tailings dam.
Los Pelambres is continuing to take necessary steps to protect its position.
b Tethyan Copper Company Limited Chagai Hills Exploration Joint Venture On 26 June 2007 the High Court of Balochistan at Quetta dismissed a petition which had sought to declare that the Chagai Hills Exploration Joint Venture of 1993 and the exploration licences granted to Tethyan were null and void and overturned an injunction passed earlier by the Court.
The petition had been led in November 2006 and was directed at several parties including the Group, the Government of Pakistan and the Government of Balochistan.
Strategic Review Operational Review Financial Review Governance Financial Statements Other Information Antofagasta plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2010 129 Parent Company Financial Statements 41 Antofagasta plc Balance Sheet of the Parent Company and Related Notes Parent Company Balance Sheet At 31 December 2010 2010 2009 Notes US$m US$m Fixed assets Investment in subsidiaries 41D 666.3 666.2 Current assets Debtors Amounts falling due within one year Other debtors 0.5 0.5 Amounts owed by subsidiaries 41D 1,203.9 760.1 Current asset investments term deposits 7.1 9.6 Cash at bank and in hand 1.0 1.6 1,212.5 771.8 Creditors amounts falling due within one year Other creditors 1.9 1.2 Amounts owed to subsidiaries 299.5 299.5 301.4 300.7 Net current assets 911.1 471.1 Total assets less current liabilities 1,577.4 1,137.3 Creditors amounts falling due after more than one year Preference shares 41E 3.1 3.2 Total assets less total liabilities 1,574.3 1,134.1 Capital and reserves Called up shares capital Ordinary shares equity 41F 89.8 89.8 Reserves Share premium account 41F 199.2 199.2 profit and loss account 41F 1,285.3 845.1 Shareholders funds including non-equity interests 1,574.3 1,134.1 Approved by the Board and signed on its behalf on 7 March 2011.
J-P Luksic C H Bailey Chairman Director 130 Antofagasta plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2010 Financial Statements Parent Company Financial Statements continued d Investments in subsidiaries 41A Basis of Preparation of the Balance Sheet and Related Notes ofthe Parent Company Investments in subsidiaries represent equity holdings in subsidiaries and long-term amounts owed by subsidiaries.
Such investments are valued at cost less any impairment provisions.
The Antofagasta plc Parent Company balance sheet and related notes have been prepared Investments are reviewed for impairment if events or changes in circumstances indicate that inaccordance with United Kingdom generally accepted accounting principles UK GAAP thecarrying amount may not be recoverable.
When a review for impairment is conducted, andinaccordance with UK company law.
The financial information has been prepared on a therecoverable amount is assessed by reference to the net present value of expected future historical cost basis.
The financial statements have been prepared on a going concern basis.
cash ows of the relevant income generating unit or disposal value if higher.
Thefunctional currency of the Company and the presentational currency adopted is US dollars.
As explained in Note 41D, amounts owed by subsidiaries due in foreign currencies are A summary of the principal accounting policies is set out below.
There were no changes translatedat year end rates of exchange with any exchange differences taken to the profit inaccounting policies in 2010. andloss account.
The preparation of financial statements in conformity with UK GAAP requires the use of estimatesand assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities at the e Current asset investments and cash at bank and in hand dateof the financial statements and the reported amounts of revenues and expenses during Current asset investments comprise highly liquid investments that are readily convertible into theperiod.
Although these estimates are based on managements best knowledge of the known amounts of cash and which are subject to insignicant risk of changes in value, typically amount, event oractions, following implementation of these standards, actual results may maturing within 12 months.
Cash at bank and in hand comprise cash in hand and deposits repayable on demand.
As permitted by section 408 of the Companies Act 2006, the profit and loss account of the Parent Company is not presented as part of these financial statements.
The profit after tax for f Borrowings preference shares theyear of the Parent Company amounted to US$676.8 million 2009 US$330.3 million.
The sterling-denominated preference shares issued by the Company carry a xed rate of return without the right to participate in any surplus.
They are accordingly classied as borrowings and 41B Principal Accounting Policies of the Parent Company translated into US dollars at period end rates of exchange.
Preference share dividends are a Currency translation included within finance costs.
The Companys functional currency is the US dollar.
Transactions denominated in other g Equity instruments ordinary share capital and share premium currencies, including the issue of shares, are translated at the rate of exchange ruling on the Equity instruments issued are recorded at the proceeds received, net of direct issue costs.
Monetary assets and liabilities, including amounts due from or to instruments of the Company comprise its sterling-denominated issued ordinary share capital and subsidiaries, are translated at the rate of exchange ruling at the end of the financial year.
Exchange differences are charged or credited to the profit and loss account in the year inwhichthey arise.
As explained above, the presentational and the functional currency of the Company is US dollars, and ordinary share capital and share premium are translated into US dollars at historical rates of b Revenue recognition exchange based on dates of issue.
Interest is accounted for on an accruals basis.
Dividends proposed by subsidiaries are recognised as income by the Company when they represent a present obligation of the subsidiaries, i. e. in h Cash ow statement the period in which they are formally approved for payment.
The Companys individual financial statements are outside the scope of FRS 1 Cash Flow Statements because the Company prepares publicly available consolidated financial statements c Dividends payable which include a consolidated cash ow statement.
Accordingly, the Company does not present Dividends proposed are recognised when they represent a present obligation, i. e. in the period an individual company cash ow statement.
inwhich they are formally approved for payment.
Accordingly, an interim dividend is recognised when paid and a final dividend is recognised when approved by shareholders.
i Related party disclosures The Companys individual financial statements are exempt from the requirements of FRS 8 Related Party Disclosures because its individual financial statements are presented together with its consolidated financial statements.
Accordingly, the individual financial statements do not include related party disclosures.
Strategic Review Operational Review Financial Review Governance Financial Statements Other Information Antofagasta plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2010 131 41C Employee benefit Expense 41E Borrowings Preference Shares a Average number of employees The authorised, issued and fully paid preference share capital of the Company comprised 2,000,000 5% cumulative preference shares of 1 each at both 31 December 2010 and The average number of employees was 8 2009 8 31December 2009.
As explained in Note 41B f, the preference shares are measured in the b Aggregate remuneration balance sheet in US dollars at period end rates of exchange.
The aggregate remuneration of the employees mentioned above was as follows: The preference shares are non-redeemable and are entitled to a xed 5% cumulative dividend, 2010 2009 payable in equal instalments in June and December of each year.
On a winding-up, the US$m US$m preference shares are entitled to repayment and any arrears of dividend in priority to ordinary shareholders, but are not entitled to participate further in any surplus.
Each preference share Wages and salaries 1.6 1.6 carries 100 votes see Note 23a xii at any general meeting.
Social security costs 0.2 0.2 Post-employment benets severance charge in the year 0.1 0.1 41F Reconciliation of Movement in Shareholders Funds 1.9 1.9 Called up Share profit ordinary premium and loss The above employee gures exclude Directors who receive Directors fees from Antofagasta plc.
share capital account account Total Details of fees payable to Directors are set out in the Remuneration Report.
US$m US$m US$m US$m At 1 January 2009 equity 89.8 199.2 1,076.7 1,365.7 41D Subsidiaries profit for the financial year 330.3 330.3 a Investment in subsidiaries Dividends paid 561.9 561.9 2010 2009 At 31 December 2009 US$m US$m and1January 2010 89.8 199.2 845.1 1134.1 Shares in subsidiaries at cost 57.6 57.6 profit for the financial year 676.8 676.8 Amounts owed by subsidiaries due after more than one year 608.7 608.6 Dividends paid 236.6 236.6 666.3 666.2 31 December 2010 equity 89.8 199.2 1,285.3 1,574.3 Shares Loans Total The ordinary shares rank after the preference shares in entitlement to dividend and on a US$m US$m US$m winding-up.
Each ordinary share carries one vote at any general meeting.
1 January 2010 57.6 608.6 666.2 Loans made 0.1 0.1 31 December 2010 57.6 608.7 666.3 b Amounts owed by subsidiaries due within one year At 31 December 2010, amounts owed by subsidiaries due within one year were US$1,203.9million.
