Overview Business review Governance Financial statements Notes to the Company balance sheet 28.
Accounting policies The following accounting policies have been applied consistently in dealing with items which are considered material in relation to the financial statements.
Basis of preparation The financial statements have been prepared in accordance with applicable accounting standards, and under the historical cost accounting rules.
Under Section 408 4 of the Companies Act 2006 the Company is exempt from the requirement to present its own profit and loss account.
Under FRS 1 Cash Flow Statements the Company is exempt from the requirement to prepare a cash flow statement on the grounds that the cash flows of the Company are included within the published consolidated financial statement.
The Company has taken advantage of the exemption contained in FRS 8 Related Parties and has therefore not disclosed transactions or balances with wholly owned subsidiaries.
Fixed assets and depreciation Depreciation is provided to write off the cost less the estimated residual value of tangible fixed assets by equal instalments over their estimated useful economic lives as follows: Buildings 50 years Motor vehicles 3 years Fixtures 10-20 years Computer software 3-6 years Investments Investments in subsidiary undertakings, associates and joint ventures are stated at cost less amounts written off unless they are designated as a hedged item in a fair value hedge of foreign currency risk under FRS 26 Financial Instruments: Recognition and Measurement.
In this case they are accounted for at historical cost plus a hedging adjustment recognised in profit or loss for the changes in their fair value attributable to the foreign currency exposure from the date the hedge is designated.
Interest-bearing borrowings Immediately after issue debt is stated at the fair value of the consideration received on the issue of the capital instrument after deduction of issue costs.
The finance cost of the debt is allocated to periods over the term of the debt at a constant rate on the carrying amount.
Foreign currency Transactions in foreign currencies are recorded using the rate of exchange ruling at the date of the transaction or, if hedged forward, at the rate of exchange under the related forward contract.
Monetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies are translated using the contracted rate or the rate of exchange ruling at the balance sheet date and the gains or losses on translation are included in the profit and loss account.
Leases Rentals payable under operating leases are charged in the profit and loss account on a straight-line basis over the lease term.
Post-retirement benefits The Company participates in a Group-wide pension scheme providing benefits based on career-average pensionable pay.
The assets of the scheme are held separately from those of the Company.
The Company is unable to identify its share of the underlying assets and liabilities of the scheme on a consistent and reasonable basis and therefore, as required by FRS 17 Retirement Benefits, accounts for the scheme as if it were a defined contribution scheme.
As a result, the amount charged to the profit and loss account represents the contributions payable to the scheme in respect of the accounting period.
Refer to note 39 for the additional disclosures required by FRS 17.
Taxation The charge for taxation is based on the result for the year and takes into account taxation deferred because of timing differences between the treatment of certain items for taxation and accounting purposes.
Deferred tax is recognised, without discounting, in respect of all timing differences between the treatment of certain items for taxation and accounting purposes which have arisen but not reversed by the balance sheet date, except as otherwise required by FRS 19 Deferred Tax.
142 The Morgan Crucible Company plc Annual Report 2010 Overview Business review Governance Financial statements 28.
Accounting policies continued Classification of financial instruments issued by the Company Following the adoption of FRS 25 Financial Instruments: Disclosure and Presentation, financial instruments issued by the Company are treated as equity ie forming part of shareholders funds only to the extent that they meet the following two conditions: a they include no contractual obligations upon the Company to deliver cash or other financial assets or to exchange financial assets or financial liabilities with another party under conditions that are potentially unfavourable to the Company: and b where the instrument will or may be settled in the Companys own equity instruments, it is either a non-derivative that includes no obligation to deliver a variable number of the Companys own equity instruments or is a derivative that will be settled by the Company exchanging a fixed amount of cash or other financial assets for a fixed number of its own equity instruments.
To the extent that this definition is not met, the proceeds of issue are classified as a financial liability.
Where the instrument so classified takes the legal form of the Companys own shares, the amounts presented in these financial statements for called-up share capital and share premium account exclude amounts in relation to those shares.
Finance payments associated with financial liabilities are dealt with as part of interest payable and similar charges.
Finance payments associated with financial instruments that are classified as part of shareholders funds see dividend policy are dealt with as appropriations in the reconciliation of movements in shareholders funds.
Hedging instruments and hedged items are accounted for separately in the balance sheet.
In fair value hedges, gains and losses from remeasuring the hedging instrument at fair value for a derivative instrument or the foreign currency component for a non-derivative financial liability in a foreign currency hedge are included in profit for the year when they arise.
In cash flow hedges, gains and losses from remeasuring the hedging derivative instrument at fair value are initially recognised in other comprehensive income to the extent effective, and are later reclassified to profit or loss when the hedged transaction occurs or is no longer expected to occur.
Certain financial assets and liabilities have been designated as fair value through profit or loss and are recognised in the balance sheet at fair value.
Own shares held by ESOP trust Transactions of the Group-sponsored ESOP trust are treated as being those of the Company and are therefore reflected in the Companys financial statements.
In particular, the trusts purchases and sales of shares in the Company are debited and credited to equity.
Share-based payments The share option programme allows employees to acquire shares of the Company.
The fair value of options granted after 7 November 2002 and those not yet vested as at 4 January 2005 is recognised as an employee expense with a corresponding increase in equity.
The fair value is measured at grant date and spread over the period during which the employee becomes unconditionally entitled to the options.
The fair value of the options granted is measured using an option pricing model, taking into account the terms and conditions upon which the options were granted.
The amount recognised as an expense is adjusted to reflect the actual number of share options that vest except where forfeiture is only due to share prices not achieving the threshold for vesting.
For details of share-based payments made and the assumptions used in measuring the fair value see note 20.
Share-based payments recharged to subsidiary undertakings are recorded via the inter-company loan account.
Dividends on shares presented within shareholders funds Dividends unpaid at the balance sheet date are only recognised as a liability at that date to the extent that they are appropriately authorised and are no longer at the discretion of the Company.
Unpaid dividends that do not meet these criteria are disclosed in the notes to the financial statements.
Financial guarantee contracts Where the Company enters into financial guarantee contracts to guarantee the indebtedness of other companies within its group, the Company considers these to be insurance arrangements, and accounts for them as such.
In this respect, the Company treats the guarantee contract as a contingent liability until such time as it becomes probable that the Company will be required to make a payment under the guarantee.
Annual Report 2010 The Morgan Crucible Company plc 143
