134 Antofagasta plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2010 Other Information Ore Reserves and Mineral Resources Estimates At 31 December 2010 Introduction Denitions and Categories of Ore Reserves and Mineral Resources The ore reserves and mineral resources estimates presented in this report comply with the A Mineral Resource is a concentration or occurrence of material of intrinsic economic interest requirements of the Australasian Code for Reporting of Exploration Results, Mineral Resources inor on the Earths crust in such form, quality and quantity that there are reasonable prospects and OreReserves 2004 edition the JORC Code which has been used by the Group as minimum for eventual economic extraction.
The location, quantity, grade, geological characteristics and standard for the preparation and disclosure of the information contained herein.
The denitions continuity of a Mineral Resource are known, estimated or interpreted from specic geological and categories of Ore Reserves and Mineral Resources are set out below.
Mineral Resources are sub-divided, in order of increasing geological confidence, into Inferred, Indicated and Measured categories.
The information on ore reserves and mineral resources was prepared by or under the supervision of Competent Persons as dened in the JORC Code.
The Competent Persons have sufficient An Inferred Mineral Resource is that part of a Mineral Resource for which tonnage, grade and experience relevant to the style of mineralisation and type of deposit under consideration and mineral content can be estimated with a low level of confidence.
It is inferred from geological tothe activity which they are undertaking.
The Competent Persons consent to the inclusion in evidence and assumed but not veried geological and or grade continuity.
It is based on this report of the matters based on their information in the form and context in which it appears.
information gathered through appropriate techniques from locations such as outcrops, trenches, The Competent Person for Exploration Results and Mineral Resources is Orlando Rojas pits, workings and drill holes which may be limited or of uncertain quality and reliability.
MAusIMM, Assistant Manager of Mineral Resource Evaluation for Antofagasta Minerals S. A.
An Indicated Mineral Resource is that part of a Mineral Resource for which tonnage, densities, TheCompetent Person for Ore Reserves is Murray Caneld P. Eng.
Ontario, Technical Manager shape, physical characteristics, grade and mineral content can be estimated with a reasonable Operations for Antofagasta Minerals S. A. levelof confidence.
It is based on exploration, sampling and testing information gathered through The Groups operations and projects are subject to a comprehensive programme of audits appropriate techniques from locations such as outcrops, trenches, pits, workings and drill holes.
aimedat providing assurance in respect of ore reserves and mineral resources estimates.
Thelocations are too widely or inappropriately spaced to confirm geological and or grade Theaudits are conducted by suitably qualied Competent Persons from within a particular continuity but are spaced closely enough for continuity to be assumed.
division, another division of the Company or from independent consultants.
A Measured Mineral Resource is that part of a Mineral Resource for which tonnage, densities, The ore reserves and mineral resources estimates represent full reserves and resources, shape, physical characteristics, grade and mineral content can be estimated with a high level withtheGroups attributable share for each mine shown in the Attributable Tonnage column.
It is based on detailed and reliable exploration, sampling and testing information The Groups economic interest in each mine is disclosed in the notes following the estimates gathered through appropriate techniques from locations such as outcrops, trenches, pits, onpages 138 to 140.
The totals in the table may include some small apparent differences workings anddrill holes.
The locations are spaced closely enough to confirm geological asthespecic individual gures have not been rounded.
An Ore Reserve is the economically mineable part of a Measured and or Indicated Mineral Resource.
It includes diluting materials and allowances for losses, which may occur when the material ismined.
Appropriate assessments and studies have been carried out, and include consideration of and modication by realistically assumed mining, metallurgical, economic, marketing, legal, environmental, social and governmental factors.
These assessments demonstrate at the time of reporting that extraction could reasonably be justied.
OreReservesare sub-divided in order ofincreasing confidence into Probable Ore Reserves andProved Ore Reserves.
A Probable Ore Reserve is the economically mineable part of an Indicated, and in some circumstances, a Measured Mineral Resource.
It includes diluting materials and allowances for losses which may occur when the material is mined.
A Proved Ore Reserve is the economically mineable part of a Measured Mineral Resource.
Itincludes diluting materials and allowances for losses which may occur when the material is mined.
Appropriate assessments and studies have been carried out, and include consideration ofand modication by realistically assumed mining, metallurgical, economic, marketing, legal, environmental, social and governmental factors.
These assessments demonstrate at the time ofreporting that extraction could reasonably be justied.
The ore reserves mentioned in this report were determined considering specic cut-off grades At the request of El Tesoro, some of the higher grade Esperanza oxide ore is sent directly to the for each mine and using a long-term copper price of 220 cents per pound 170 cents per pound ElTesoro heap leach pads.
in 2009, US$12.00 per pound molybdenum US$8.00 per pound in 2009 and US$850 per gold ounce US$650 per gold ounce in 2009, unless otherwise noted.
These same values The cut-off grade used for estimation of ore reserves and mineral resources for the El Tesoro havebeen used for copper equivalent CuEq estimates, where appropriate.
andTesoro North-East deposits is 0.41% copper.
The cut-off grade used for estimation of ore reserves and mineral resources for the Mirador deposit is 0.30% copper, reecting higher In order to ensure that the stated resources represent mineralisation that has reasonable projected recoveries and lower acid consumption for the Mirador deposit in the 2010 Mid-year prospects for eventual economic extraction JORC code the resources are enclosed within pit Update, the cut-off grade used for the Mirador deposit was 0.35% copper.
Ore reserves for shells that were optimised based on measured, indicated and inferred resources and considering Mirador increased from 22.2 million tonnes, as reported in the 2010 Mid-year Update, to a copper price of 250 cents per pound.
Mineralisation estimated outside these pit shells is not 25.1million tonnes in this report.
included in the resource gures unless they can expect to be exploited by underground methods.
Proved and probable ore reserves for the El Tesoro open pits were depleted by 5.6 million tonnes a Los Pelambres as plant feed the remainder of plant feed came from higher grade Esperanza oxides.
For 2010, Los Pelambres is 60% owned by the Group.
The cut-off grade applied to the determination of the significant increase in ore reserves is related to the incorporation of the Mirador deposit into orereserves and mineral resources is 0.35% copper.
For 2010 the mineral resource model ore reserve gures.
hasbeen updated with 79 in-ll drill holes for a total of 14,439 metres.
In this model, more Two principal factors are responsible for the decrease in mineral resources compared to 2009 restrictive criteria for estimation have been used, incorporating recommendations included in the 2009 gures have been modied to incorporate the Mirador deposit mineral resources into apre-audit report conducted by AMEC October 2009.
Density and metallurgical models have the El Tesoro portion of the table, with the Attributable Tonnage values for 2009 reecting the also been updated.
100% ownership interest in Mirador at that time.
An increase in mineral resources, related to the The decrease in ore reserves is mainly related to depletion corresponding to mine production in inclusion of stockpiled ore which was omitted from the 2009 report, has been more than offset 2010.
Other factors are related to the updated resource model that considered more restrictive by a reduction in mineral resources as a result of the methodology applied in 2010 to limit the estimation criteria.
The final pit design has not been modied for the 2010 ore reserve estimate.
resource estimation to those resources contained within an unsmoothed, optimised pit shell using all resource categories and a copper price of 250 cents per pound.
The decrease in mineral resources is related to ore depletion, renement of the resource block model, with more restrictive estimation criteria, and the methodology applied in 2010 to limit the The cut-off grade used for estimation of both ore reserves and mineral resources for the resource estimation to those resources contained within an unsmoothed, optimised pit shell ElTesoro ROM Esperanza Oxides is 0.20% copper.
During the year, 28.4 million tonnes of oxide using all resource categories and a copper price of 250 cents per pound.
Additionally, there ore reserves were extracted from the Esperanza pit, of which 4.1 million tonnes of higher grade isadecrease resulting from the elimination of the resources falling within the Las Tigresas oxide ore were delivered directly to the El Tesoro heap leach pads and subsequently depleted.
concessions which are 100% owned by the Group, not directly by Los Pelambres, which Atotal of 37.1 million tonnes are in the ROM leach pads and have been partially leached, areadjacent to the concessions owned by Los Pelambres.
andanother 25.4 million tonnes have been delivered to the ROM leach pads or stockpiles andhave not yet been put under leach.
b Esperanza Sulphides This year the Esperanza resource model has been updated see note b which results in a Esperanza is 70% owned by the Group.
The cut-off grade applied to the determination of ore small portion of the original ROM oxide resource higher grade mixed oxides and sulphides reserves is 0.20% equivalent copper, with 0.15% copper used as a cut-off grade for mineral beingredened as mill feed for the Esperanza concentrator plant.
resources which is a change from 0.20% copper used in 2009. d Michilla During 2010 a small part of ore reserves were depleted to feed the concentrator plant.
Thesmallincrease in ore reserves is related to mixed oxide and sulphide material that was Michilla is 74.2% owned by the Group and its operations comprise an open pit mine, an considered as a ROM oxide resource in the original block model but has now been redened underground mine and other workings.
The cut-off grade applied to the determination of ore asmill feed for the Esperanza concentrator plant.
The final pit design has not been modied reserves and mineral resources is 0.40% copper for open pits, 1.2% copper for the Estefana forthe 2010 ore reserve estimate.
underground mine and 1.0% copper for other workings.
During 2010 the Esperanza block model was updated with the incorporation of 15 in-ll drill During 2010 ore reserves were depleted by a net 3.7 million tonnes.
Plant feed was 5.2 million holes for a total of 2,914 metres.
The focus of this programme was to better identify the oxide tonnes, with the difference coming from additional ore not considered in the mine plan.
Included in the updated block model is a reinterpretation of the estimation reserve estimate for 2010 is still based on a mine plan developed in 2009 that extends to 2012. parameters to define inferred resources.
This resulted in a significant increase in this category Mine staff have been working on in-ll drilling and evaluation studies to extend the mine plan to ofresources in the estimate.
During 2010 in-ll and exploration drilling was carried out on the Estefana Lince deposits and on several other satellite deposits for a total of 86,650 metres in Mineral resources have been limited to those contained within an unsmoothed, optimised pit 493drill holes.
shell using a copper price of 250 cents per pound.
The optimised pit shell used to limit mineral resources is based on an integrated block model that joins the Esperanza and Telgrafo The 2010 mineral resources estimate includes several changes from 2009.
The most orebodies into one model.
substantive change is the incorporation of the Aurora deposit into the Michilla mineral resources.
The Aurora deposit was previously accounted for in the Other Mineral Inventory section of the c El Tesoro notes.
Another relevant change is a reversion of the 2009 decision to include the Lince mineral El Tesoro is 70% owned by the Group.
The ore reserves and mineral resources are made up resources, not included in the existing open pit mine plan, as underground resources with a ofthe El Tesoro, Tesoro North-East and Mirador deposits, which are processed by heap leaching, cut-off grade of 1.0% copper.
Upon further review, there is a potential for one or two more and the Run-of-Mine ROM Oxide ore reserves and mineral resources from the Esperanza Mine, push-backs in the Lince open pit.
located five kilometres south-east of El Tesoro.
An agreement was entered into in 2008 whereby the Esperanza Oxide mineral resources were purchased by El Tesoro for a one-time payment.
Strategic Review Operational Review Financial Review Governance Financial Statements Other Information Antofagasta plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2010 139 As a result, as in other projects, the open pit mineral resource estimate includes those resources contained within an unsmoothed, optimised pit shell using allresource categories and a copper price of 250 cents per pound and applying a cut-off grade of 0.40% copper within the pit shell.
This same methodology was applied to two other areas thathave potential for open pit exploitation: the Aurora and Nucleo deposits.
The mineral resources estimate for Michilla includes several resource block models, incorporating the multiple deposits on the property.
A portion of the extensive drilling programme carried out in 2009 and continuing in 2010 has been included in resource block model updates for the 2010 mineral resources estimates.
The ore reserve estimate has not yetfully incorporated these changes in the resource block models.
Not included in the mineral resources estimate is the spent ore deposited on site.
This is material that is removed from the dynamic heap leach pads after the primary leach cycle is completed.
Sincethe beginning of the Lince project in 1994 between 65 and 70 million tonnes of spent ore has been deposited in a spent ore dump, adjacent to the dynamic leach pads.
The grade of this material is expected to be in the range of 0.20 to 0.30% copper.
During 2010 testwork was done on an industrial scale to determine the potential viability of re-leaching this material by removing itfrom the spent ore dump and placing it under leach on the dynamic pads.
Testwork will continue in 2011 and it is expected that spent ore will contribute an increasing amount to copper productionthrough this re-leaching process.
e Antucoya Antucoya is 100% owned by the Group.
A feasibility study on the project, which started in 2009, will be complete in 2011.
The concept for processing is a combination of heap leaching on dynamicpads and Run-of-Mine ROM leaching on permanent pads.
There have been no changes to mineral resources estimated for Antucoya.
The cut-off grade applied to the mineral resources estimate is 0.10% copper and include those mineral resources contained within an unsmoothed, optimised pit shell using a copper price of 250 cents per pound.
f Telgrafo Telgrafo is owned 70% by the Group and is adjacent to the Esperanza deposit.
This is a project which was reported in Other Mineral Inventory in 2009 and was included into resource gures inthe 2010 Mid-year Update to Ore Reserves and Mineral Resources Estimates.
During the second half of 2010 an upgrade of the resource block model was carried out incorporating the results from 98 in-ll drill holes for a total of 44,389 metres, and also an update to the geological and grade models.
The cut-off grade applied to the mineral resources estimate is 0.15% copper for both oxides and sulphides and include those mineral resources contained within anunsmoothed, optimised pit shell using a copper price of 250 cents per pound.
This is a change from the cut-off grade used in the Mid-year Update, which was 0.20% copper.
The optimised pitshellused to limit mineral resources is based on an integrated block model that joins the Esperanza and Telgrafo orebodies into one model.
g Caracoles Caracoles is owned 100% by the Group.
This is a project which was reported in Other Mineral Inventory in 2009 and was included into resource gures in the 2010 Mid-year Update to Ore Reserves and Mineral Resources Estimates.
There have been no changes to the mineral resources estimate during the second half of 2010.
The cut-off grade is 0.20% copper for both oxides andsulphides and include those mineral resources contained within an unsmoothed, optimised pit shell using a copper price of 250 cents per pound.
h Reko Diq The Group holds a 50% interest in Tethyan Copper Company Limited Tethyan, its joint venture with Barrick Gold Corporation established in 2006.
Tethyans principal assets are a 75% interest inthe exploration licence encompassing the Reko Diq prospects in the Chagai Hills region of south-west Pakistan in which the Government of Balochistan holds the remaining 25% including thewestern Porphyries, and a 100% interest in certain other licences in the region.
There have been no changes to the mineral resources estimate for Reko Diq.
The cut-off grade applied to the determination of mineral resources is 0.20% copper equivalent.
For Reko Diq, copper equivalent values are calculated based on a copper price of 190 cents per pound and a gold price of 725 dollars per ounce.
The mineral resources are those contained within unsmoothed optimised pit shell using the same prices.
i Other Mineral Inventory In addition to the Mineral Resources noted above, the Group has interests in other deposits located in the Antofagasta Region of Chile, some of them containing gold and or molybdenum.
Atthemoment they are in exploration or in the process of resource estimation.
The potential quantity and grade of each of the deposits is conceptual in nature, there has been insufficient explorationtodene these deposits as mineral resources, and it is uncertain if further exploration will result in the determination of a mineral resource.
These include: i In the Sierra Gorda District In the Sierra Gorda District the Group has two operations El Tesoro and Esperanza and others in exploration or under study, such as: Llano-Paleocanal 70% owned by the Group : Centinela 51%owned by the Group : and Polo Sur 100% owned by the Group.
The Mineral Inventory of these deposits incorporating both oxide and sulphide mineralisation is estimated to be in therangeof 450 to 690 million tonnes with grades in the range of 0.54% to 0.44% copper.
The table below lists each of the mineral deposits with its associated tonnage and grade ranges, thenumber of drill holes and associated metres drilled, as well as the Groups ownership interest: Ownership Tonnes range Grade range Number Total interest Mineral deposit million tonnes % Cu drill holes metres % Llano Paleocanal 90 140 0.51 0.41 79 17,100 70.0 Centinela 60 100 0.76 0.63 36 9,900 51.0 Polo Sur 300 450 0.50 0.41 200 50,500 100.0 Total 450 690 0.54 0.44 315 77,500 140 Antofagasta plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2010 Other Information Ore Reserves and Mineral Resources Estimates continued At 31 December 2010 Notes to Ore Reserves and Mineral Resources Estimates continued ii In the Michilla District In the Michilla district there are several satellite deposits to the main Michilla orebody that have been included in the Mineral Resources Table.
However, there is at least one other deposit within a potentially economic radius of the Michilla mine: Rencoret, owned 100% by the Group.
Ownership Tonnes range Grade range Number Total interest Mineral deposit million tonnes % Cu drill holes metres % Rencoret 15 25 1.22 1.00 31 8,300 100.0 Total 15 25 1.22 1.00 31 8,300 iii In the El Abra District The Group has two mineral deposits within a few kilometres of the El Abra orebody, located near Calama in the Antofagasta Region of Chile.
Conchi is a porphyry copper mineral deposit with oxide and sulphide mineralisation, while Brujulina is an exotic-style mineral deposit oxide mineralisation only.
The Mineral Inventory of these deposits is estimated to be in the range of 0.5 to 0.7 billion tonnes with grades in the range of 0.7% to 0.5% copper.
The table below lists each of the mineral deposits with its associated tonnage and grade ranges, as well as the Groups ownership interest: Ownership Tonnes range Grade range Number Total interest Mineral deposit million tonnes % Cu drill holes metres % Conchi 440 660 0.67 0.55 123 30,950 51.0 Brujulina 50 80 0.65 0.53 159 15,300 51.0 Total 490 740 0.67 0.55 282 46,250 j Antomin 2 and Antomin Investors The Group has an approximately 51% interest in two indirect subsidiaries, Antomin 2 Limited Antomin 2 and Antomin Investors Limited Antomin Investors Limited, which own a number of copper exploration properties in Chiles Antofagasta Region and Coquimbo Region.
These include but are not limited to Centinela see Note i i above and Conchi and Brujulina see Note i iii above.
The remaining approximately 49% of Antomin 2 and Antomin Investors is owned by Mineralinvest Establishment Mineralinvest, a company controlled by the Luksic family.
The Group has the exclusive right to acquire, at fair value under certain conditions, the shareholding of Mineralinvest in Antomin 2 Limited and Antomin Investors, or the underlying properties, foraperiod of five years from August 2008.
The Group also has committed to meet in full any exploration costs relating to the properties held by these two entities.
Further details are set out in Note 37 d to the financial statements.
k Twin Metals Minnesota LLC Nokomis project and Franconia Minerals Corporation Birch Lake project In January 2010 the Group announced an agreement to acquire 40% of the Nokomis project, owned 100% by Duluth Metals Limited Duluth.
The deal closed in July 2010 and the joint venture Twin Metals Minnesota LLC Twin Metals was created as the operating company for the Nokomis project, a  group metal PGM deposit located in north-east Minnesota, USA.
See press releases of 14 January and 21 July, 2010 for more information.
In December 2010 the Group announced an agreement to indirectly acquire the Franconia Minerals Corporation Franconia 70% participation in the Birch Lake project, located adjacent to the Nokomis project in Minnesota, through the Twin Metals joint venture owned 40% by the Group.
Franconia announced in November 2010 its intention to increase its participation in the Birch Lake project to 82%.
See press release of 20 December, 2010 for more information.
As explained inNote 39, following approval of the acquisition by Franconias shareholders and by the Court of Queens Bench of Alberta, Duluth completed the acquisition on 7 March, 2011.
Nokomis project Duluth, the Groups partner, published an NI 43-101 compliant resource estimate consisting of 550 and 274 million tonnes of indicated and inferred resource, respectively, with a combined copper grade of approximately 0.6% and a combined copper equivalent grade of approximately 1.5% taking into account the nickel, platinum, palladium and gold content.
At the time of reporting, the Group is in the process of reviewing the existing mineral resource estimate with a view to incorporating information from the significant drilling campaign and testwork that was undertaken during 2010 into an updated resource model to support further studies.
Birch Lake project Franconia has published NI 43-101 compliant resource estimates for the Birch Lake deposit, the Maturi deposit and the Spruce Road deposit.
The Birch Lake deposit is reported to consist of 177and 40 million tonnes of indicated and inferred resource respectively, with a combined copper grade of approximately 0.5% and a combined copper equivalent grade of approximately 1.2%.
The Maturi deposit is reported to consist of 120 million tonnes of inferred resource with a copper grade of 0.67% and with additional values for nickel, cobalt and PGMs.
The Spruce Road deposit isreported to consist of inferred resources of 124 million tonnes with a copper grade of 0.59%, and a nickel grade of 0.21%.
