Overview Business review Governance Financial statements Notes to the Company balance sheet 28.
Accounting policies The following accounting policies have been applied consistently in dealing with items which are considered material in relation to the financial statements.
Basis of preparation The financial statements have been prepared in accordance with applicable accounting standards, and under the historical cost accounting rules.
Under Section 408 4 of the Companies Act 2006 the Company is exempt from the requirement to present its own profit and loss account.
Under FRS 1 Cash Flow Statements the Company is exempt from the requirement to prepare a cash flow statement on the grounds that the cash flows of the Company are included within the published consolidated financial statement.
The Company has taken advantage of the exemption contained in FRS 8 Related Parties and has therefore not disclosed transactions or balances with wholly owned subsidiaries.
Fixed assets and depreciation Depreciation is provided to write off the cost less the estimated residual value of tangible fixed assets by equal instalments over their estimated useful economic lives as follows: Buildings 50 years Motor vehicles 3 years Fixtures 10-20 years Computer software 3-6 years Investments Investments in subsidiary undertakings, associates and joint ventures are stated at cost less amounts written off unless they are designated as a hedged item in a fair value hedge of foreign currency risk under FRS 26 Financial Instruments: Recognition and Measurement.
In this case they are accounted for at historical cost plus a hedging adjustment recognised in profit or loss for the changes in their fair value attributable to the foreign currency exposure from the date the hedge is designated.
Interest-bearing borrowings Immediately after issue debt is stated at the fair value of the consideration received on the issue of the capital instrument after deduction of issue costs.
The finance cost of the debt is allocated to periods over the term of the debt at a constant rate on the carrying amount.
Foreign currency Transactions in foreign currencies are recorded using the rate of exchange ruling at the date of the transaction or, if hedged forward, at the rate of exchange under the related forward contract.
Monetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies are translated using the contracted rate or the rate of exchange ruling at the balance sheet date and the gains or losses on translation are included in the profit and loss account.
Leases Rentals payable under operating leases are charged in the profit and loss account on a straight-line basis over the lease term.
Post-retirement benefits The Company participates in a Group-wide pension scheme providing benefits based on career-average pensionable pay.
The assets of the scheme are held separately from those of the Company.
The Company is unable to identify its share of the underlying assets and liabilities of the scheme on a consistent and reasonable basis and therefore, as required by FRS 17 Retirement Benefits, accounts for the scheme as if it were a defined contribution scheme.
As a result, the amount charged to the profit and loss account represents the contributions payable to the scheme in respect of the accounting period.
Refer to note 39 for the additional disclosures required by FRS 17.
Taxation The charge for taxation is based on the result for the year and takes into account taxation deferred because of timing differences between the treatment of certain items for taxation and accounting purposes.
Deferred tax is recognised, without discounting, in respect of all timing differences between the treatment of certain items for taxation and accounting purposes which have arisen but not reversed by the balance sheet date, except as otherwise required by FRS 19 Deferred Tax.
142 The Morgan Crucible Company plc Annual Report 2010
