Overview Business review Governance Financial statements Notes to the consolidated financial statements 1.
Accounting policies, estimates and judgments Accounting policies The Morgan Crucible Company plc the Company is a company incorporated in the UK.
The Group financial statements consolidate those of the Company and its subsidiaries together referred to as the Group, and include the Groups interest in associates.
The parent Company financial statements present information about the Company as a separate entity and not about its Group.
These consolidated financial statements have been drawn up to Sunday 2 January 2011.
The Group maintains a 52-or 53-week fiscal year ending on the Sunday nearest to the Accounting Reference Date of the Company, 1 January.
The Group financial statements have been prepared and approved by the Directors in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards as adopted by the EU adopted IFRSs.
The Company has elected to prepare its parent Company financial statements in accordance with UK Generally Accepted Accounting Practice: these are presented on pages 141 to 150.
The accounting policies set out below have, unless otherwise stated, been applied consistently to all periods presented in these Group financial statements.
During the period, the Group has applied IFRS 3 Revised 2008 Business Combinations and IAS 27 Revised 2008 Consolidated and Separate Financial Statements.
The revised standards introduce changes to acquisition accounting, notably in respect of treatment of acquisition costs, step and partial acquisitions, non-controlling interests and contingent consideration.
The revised standards have had no impact on the reported results or financial position of the Group.
In addition, the Group has applied amendments to the following adopted IFRSs: IAS 17 Leases, IAS 18 Revenue, IAS 27 Amended 2008 Consolidated and Separate Financial Statements, IAS 36 Impairment of Assets, IAS 38 Intangible Assets, IAS 39 Financial Instruments, IFRS 2 Share-Based Payment, IFRS 5 Non-current Assets Held for Sale and Discontinued Operations, IFRS 8 Operating Segments, IFRIC 16 Hedges of a Net Investment in a Foreign Operation, IFRIC 17 Distributions of Non-Cash Assets to Owners, IFRIC 18 Transfers of Assets from Customers.
The above amendments have not had any significant impact on the reported results or financial position of the Group.
a Measurement convention The financial statements are prepared on the historical cost basis except that the following assets and liabilities are stated at their fair value: derivative financial instruments and financial instruments available for sale.
b Functional and presentation currency The Group financial statements are presented in pounds sterling, which is the Companys functional currency.
c Basis of consolidation i Subsidiaries Subsidiaries are entities controlled by the Company.
Control exists when the Company has the power, directly or indirectly, to govern the financial and operating policies of an entity so as to obtain benefits from its activities.
In assessing control, potential voting rights that presently are exercisable or convertible are taken into account.
The financial statements of subsidiaries are included in the consolidated financial statements from the date that control commences until the date that control ceases.
ii Associates Associates are those entities in which the Group has significant influence, but not control, over the financial and operating policies.
Significant influence is presumed to exist when the Group holds between 20% and 50% of the voting power of another entity.
Associates are accounted for using the equity method and are initially recognised at cost.
The Groups investment includes goodwill identified on acquisition, net of any accumulated impairment losses.
The consolidated financial statements include the Groups share of the income and expenses and equity movements of associates, after adjustments to align the accounting policies with those of the Group, from the date that significant influence commences until the date that significant influence ceases.
When the Groups share of losses exceeds its interest in an associate, the carrying amount of that interest is reduced to nil and the recognition of further losses is discontinued except to the extent that the Group has an obligation or has made payments on behalf of the associate.
iii Transactions eliminated on consolidation Intra-group balances and any unrealised gains and losses or income and expenses arising from intra-group transactions are eliminated in preparing the consolidated financial statements.
Unrealised gains arising from transactions with associates are eliminated against the investment to the extent of the Groups interest in the associate.
Unrealised losses are eliminated in the same way as unrealised gains, but only to the extent that there is no evidence of impairment.
Annual Report 2010 The Morgan Crucible Company plc 93
