Overview Business review Governance Financial statements Notes to the consolidated financial statements 1.
Accounting policies, estimates and judgments Accounting policies The Morgan Crucible Company plc the Company is a company incorporated in the UK.
The Group financial statements consolidate those of the Company and its subsidiaries together referred to as the Group, and include the Groups interest in associates.
The parent Company financial statements present information about the Company as a separate entity and not about its Group.
These consolidated financial statements have been drawn up to Sunday 2 January 2011.
The Group maintains a 52-or 53-week fiscal year ending on the Sunday nearest to the Accounting Reference Date of the Company, 1 January.
The Group financial statements have been prepared and approved by the Directors in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards as adopted by the EU adopted IFRSs.
The Company has elected to prepare its parent Company financial statements in accordance with UK Generally Accepted Accounting Practice: these are presented on pages 141 to 150.
The accounting policies set out below have, unless otherwise stated, been applied consistently to all periods presented in these Group financial statements.
During the period, the Group has applied IFRS 3 Revised 2008 Business Combinations and IAS 27 Revised 2008 Consolidated and Separate Financial Statements.
The revised standards introduce changes to acquisition accounting, notably in respect of treatment of acquisition costs, step and partial acquisitions, non-controlling interests and contingent consideration.
The revised standards have had no impact on the reported results or financial position of the Group.
In addition, the Group has applied amendments to the following adopted IFRSs: IAS 17 Leases, IAS 18 Revenue, IAS 27 Amended 2008 Consolidated and Separate Financial Statements, IAS 36 Impairment of Assets, IAS 38 Intangible Assets, IAS 39 Financial Instruments, IFRS 2 Share-Based Payment, IFRS 5 Non-current Assets Held for Sale and Discontinued Operations, IFRS 8 Operating Segments, IFRIC 16 Hedges of a Net Investment in a Foreign Operation, IFRIC 17 Distributions of Non-Cash Assets to Owners, IFRIC 18 Transfers of Assets from Customers.
The above amendments have not had any significant impact on the reported results or financial position of the Group.
a Measurement convention The financial statements are prepared on the historical cost basis except that the following assets and liabilities are stated at their fair value: derivative financial instruments and financial instruments available for sale.
b Functional and presentation currency The Group financial statements are presented in pounds sterling, which is the Companys functional currency.
c Basis of consolidation i Subsidiaries Subsidiaries are entities controlled by the Company.
Control exists when the Company has the power, directly or indirectly, to govern the financial and operating policies of an entity so as to obtain benefits from its activities.
In assessing control, potential voting rights that presently are exercisable or convertible are taken into account.
The financial statements of subsidiaries are included in the consolidated financial statements from the date that control commences until the date that control ceases.
ii Associates Associates are those entities in which the Group has significant influence, but not control, over the financial and operating policies.
Significant influence is presumed to exist when the Group holds between 20% and 50% of the voting power of another entity.
Associates are accounted for using the equity method and are initially recognised at cost.
The Groups investment includes goodwill identified on acquisition, net of any accumulated impairment losses.
The consolidated financial statements include the Groups share of the income and expenses and equity movements of associates, after adjustments to align the accounting policies with those of the Group, from the date that significant influence commences until the date that significant influence ceases.
When the Groups share of losses exceeds its interest in an associate, the carrying amount of that interest is reduced to nil and the recognition of further losses is discontinued except to the extent that the Group has an obligation or has made payments on behalf of the associate.
iii Transactions eliminated on consolidation Intra-group balances and any unrealised gains and losses or income and expenses arising from intra-group transactions are eliminated in preparing the consolidated financial statements.
Unrealised gains arising from transactions with associates are eliminated against the investment to the extent of the Groups interest in the associate.
Unrealised losses are eliminated in the same way as unrealised gains, but only to the extent that there is no evidence of impairment.
Annual Report 2010 The Morgan Crucible Company plc 93 Overview Business review Governance Financial statements Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 1.
Accounting policies, estimates and judgments continued d Foreign currency i Foreign currency transactions Transactions in foreign currencies are translated at the foreign exchange rate ruling at the date of the transaction.
Monetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies at the balance sheet date are translated to pounds sterling at the foreign exchange rate ruling at that date.
Foreign exchange differences arising on translation are recognised in the income statement.
Non-monetary assets and liabilities that are measured in terms of historical cost in a foreign currency are translated using the exchange rate at the date of the transaction.
Non-monetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies that are stated at fair value are translated to pounds sterling at foreign exchange rates ruling at the dates the fair value was determined.
ii Financial statements of foreign operations The assets and liabilities of foreign operations, including goodwill and fair value adjustments arising on consolidation, are translated to pounds sterling at foreign exchange rates ruling at the balance sheet date.
The revenues and expenses of foreign operations are translated to pounds sterling at an average rate for the period where this approximates to the foreign exchange rates ruling at the dates of the transactions.
Foreign exchange differences arising on retranslation since the adoption of IFRS are recognised directly in Other Comprehensive Income OCI.
iii Net investment in foreign operations Exchange differences arising from the translation of the net investment in foreign operations are taken to the translation reserve.
They are released into the income statement upon disposal.
e Derivative financial instruments The Group uses derivative financial instruments to hedge its exposure to foreign exchange and interest rate risks arising from operational, financing and investment activities.
In accordance with its Treasury Policy, the Group does not hold or issue derivative financial instruments for trading purposes.
However, derivatives that do not qualify for hedge accounting are accounted for at fair value through profit or loss.
Derivative financial instruments are recognised initially at fair value.
The gain or loss on remeasurement to fair value is recognised immediately in profit or loss.
However, where derivatives qualify for hedge accounting, recognition of any resultant gain or loss depends on the nature of the item being hedged see accounting policy f. The fair value of forward exchange contracts is their quoted market price at the balance sheet date, being the present value of the quoted forward price.
f Hedging i Cash flow hedges Where a derivative financial instrument is designated as a hedge of the variability in cash flows of a highly probable forecasted transaction, the effective part of any gain or loss on the derivative financial instrument is recognised directly in OCI.
The associated gain or loss is removed from equity and recognised in the income statement in the period in which the transaction to which it relates occurs.
When a hedging instrument expires or is sold, terminated or exercised, or the entity revokes designation of the hedge relationship but the hedged forecast transaction is still expected to occur, the cumulative gain or loss at that point remains in the hedging reserve and is recognised in accordance with the above policy when the transaction occurs.
If the hedged transaction is no longer expected to take place, the cumulative unrealised gain or loss recognised in the hedging reserve is recognised immediately in the income statement.
ii Hedge of monetary assets and liabilities Where a derivative financial instrument is used to hedge economically the foreign exchange exposure of a recognised monetary asset or liability, no hedge accounting is applied and any gain or loss on the hedging instrument is recognised in the income statement.
iii Hedge of net investment in foreign operations The portion of the gain or loss on an instrument used to hedge a net investment in a foreign operation that is determined to be an effective hedge is recognised directly in the translation reserve.
The ineffective portion is recognised immediately in profit or loss.
iv Fair value hedges Where a derivative financial instrument is designated as a hedge of the variability in fair value of a recognised asset or liability or an unrecognised firm commitment, all changes in the fair value of the derivative are recognised immediately in the income statement.
The carrying value of the hedged item is adjusted by the change in fair value that is attributable to the risk being hedged even if it is normally carried at cost or amortised cost and any gains or losses on remeasurement are recognised immediately in the income statement.
94 The Morgan Crucible Company plc Annual Report 2010 Overview Business review Governance Financial statements 1.
Accounting policies, estimates and judgments continued g Property, plant and equipment i Owned assets Items of property, plant and equipment are stated at cost, or at deemed cost, less accumulated depreciation see below and impairment losses see accounting policy l. The cost of self-constructed assets includes the cost of materials, direct labour, and an appropriate proportion of production overheads.
Certain items of property, plant and equipment that had been revalued to fair value on or prior to 5 January 2004, the date of transition to adopted IFRSs, are measured on the basis of deemed cost, being the revalued amount at the date of that revaluation.
Where parts of an item of property, plant and equipment have different useful lives, they are accounted for as separate items of property, plant and equipment.
Gains and losses on the disposal of property, plant and equipment are determined by comparing the proceeds from disposal with the carrying amount of the asset.
Gains and losses on the disposal of property are recognised in Other one-off items in the income statement.
Gains and losses on the disposal of plant and equipment are recognised in Operating costs in the income statement.
ii Leased assets Leases under the terms of which the Group assumes substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership are classified as finance leases.
Leased assets acquired by way of a finance lease are stated at an amount equal to the lower of their fair value and the present value of the minimum lease payments at inception of the lease, less accumulated depreciation and impairment losses.
iii Depreciation Depreciation is charged to the income statement on a straight-line basis over the estimated useful lives of each part of an item of property, plant and equipment.
Depreciation methods, useful lives and residual values are reviewed at each balance sheet date.
The estimated useful lives are as follows: Buildings 50 years Plant and equipment presses, kilns and furnaces 10-20 years Other plant and equipment 10 years Fixtures and fittings 10 years Motor vehicles and IT equipment 3 years h Intangible assets i Goodwill All business combinations are accounted for by applying the purchase method.
In respect of business acquisitions that have occurred since 5 January 2004, goodwill represents the difference between the cost of the acquisition and the fair value of assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities acquired.
In respect of acquisitions prior to this date, goodwill is included on the basis of its deemed cost, which represents the amount recorded under UK GAAP.
The classification and accounting treatment of business combinations that occurred prior to 5 January 2004 has not been reconsidered.
Goodwill is stated at cost less any accumulated impairment losses.
Goodwill is allocated to cash-generating units and is tested annually for impairment see accounting policy l. ii Research and development Expenditure on research activities, undertaken with the prospect of gaining new scientific or technical knowledge and understanding, is recognised in the income statement as an expense as incurred.
Expenditure on development activities, whereby research findings are applied to a plan or design for the production of new or substantially improved products and processes, is capitalised if the product or process is technically and commercially feasible and the Group has sufficient resources to complete development, use and sale of products or processes.
The expenditure capitalised includes the cost of materials, direct labour and an appropriate proportion of overheads.
Capitalised development expenditure is stated at cost less accumulated amortisation see below and impairment losses see accounting policy l. Other development expenditure is recognised in the income statement as an expense as incurred.
iii Other intangible assets Other intangible assets that are acquired by the Group are stated at cost less accumulated amortisation see below and impairment losses see accounting policy l. Annual Report 2010 The Morgan Crucible Company plc 95 Overview Business review Governance Financial statements Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 1.
Accounting policies, estimates and judgments continued iv Amortisation Amortisation is charged to the income statement on a straight-line basis over the estimated useful lives of intangible assets unless such lives are indefinite.
Goodwill and intangible assets with an indefinite useful life are systematically tested for impairment at each balance sheet date.
Other intangible assets are amortised from the date they are available for use.
The estimated useful lives are as follows: Capitalised development costs 3 years Computer software 3-6 years Customer relationships 15-20 years Technology 15-20 years Order book Amortised over the period in which the associated orders are fulfilled i Trade and other receivables Trade and other receivables are initially stated at their fair value and subsequently measured at amortised cost less impairment losses see accounting policy l. j Inventories Inventories are stated at the lower of cost and net realisable value.
Net realisable value is the estimated selling price in the ordinary course of business, less the estimated costs of completion and selling expenses.
The cost of inventories is based on the first-in-first-out principle and includes expenditure incurred in acquiring the inventories and bringing them to their existing location and condition.
In the case of manufactured inventories and work in progress, cost includes an appropriate share of overheads based on normal operating capacity.
k Cash and cash equivalents Cash and cash equivalents comprises cash balances and call deposits.
l Impairment The carrying amounts of the Groups assets, other than inventories see accounting policy j and deferred tax assets see accounting policy s, are reviewed at each balance sheet date to determine whether there is any indication of impairment.
If any such indication exists, the assets recoverable amount is estimated see i below.
An impairment loss is recognised whenever the carrying amount of an asset or its cash-generating unit exceeds its recoverable amount.
Impairment losses are recognised in the income statement.
Impairment losses recognised in respect of cash-generating units are allocated first to reduce the carrying amount of any goodwill allocated to cash-generating units group of units and then to reduce the carrying amount of the other assets in the unit group of units on a pro-rata basis.
When a decline in the fair value of an available for sale financial asset has been recognised directly in OCI and there is objective evidence that the asset is permanently impaired, the cumulative loss that had been recognised directly in OCI is recognised in profit or loss.
The amount of the cumulative loss that is recognised in profit or loss is the difference between the acquisition cost and current fair value, less any impairment loss on that financial asset previously recognised in profit or loss.
i Calculation of recoverable amount The recoverable amount of the Groups investments in receivables carried at amortised cost is calculated as the present value of estimated future cash flows, discounted at the original effective interest rate ie the effective interest rate computed at initial recognition of these financial assets.
Receivables with a short duration are not discounted.
The recoverable amount of other assets is the greater of their fair value less costs to sell and value in use.
In assessing value in use, the estimated future cash flows are discounted to their present value using a pre-tax discount rate that reflects current market assessments of the time value of money and the risks specific to the asset.
For an asset that does not generate largely independent cash inflows, the recoverable amount is determined for the cash-generating unit to which the asset belongs.
ii Reversals of impairment An impairment loss in respect of a receivable carried at amortised cost is reversed if the subsequent increase in recoverable amount can be related objectively to an event occurring after the impairment loss was recognised.
96 The Morgan Crucible Company plc Annual Report 2010 Overview Business review Governance Financial statements 1.
Accounting policies, estimates and judgments continued An impairment loss in respect of an investment in an equity instrument classified as available for sale is not reversed through profit or loss.
If the fair value of a debt instrument classified as available for sale increases and the increase can be objectively related to an event occurring after the impairment loss was recognised in profit or loss, the impairment loss will be reversed, with the amount of the reversal recognised in profit or loss.
An impairment loss in respect of goodwill is not reversed.
In respect of other assets, an impairment loss is reversed if there has been a change in the estimates used to determine the recoverable amount and when there is an indication that the impairment loss may no longer exist.
An impairment loss is reversed only to the extent that the assets carrying amount does not exceed the carrying amount that would have been determined, net of depreciation or amortisation, if no impairment loss had been recognised.
m Share capital i Ordinary share capital Ordinary shares are classified as equity.
ii Preference share capital Preference share capital is classified as equity if it is non-redeemable and any dividends are discretionary, or is redeemable but only at the Companys option.
Dividends on Preference share capital classified as equity are recognised as distributions within equity.
iii Repurchase of share capital and own shares held by ESOP trust treasury shares When share capital recognised as equity is repurchased, the amount of the consideration paid, which includes directly attributable costs, is net of any tax effects, and is recognised as a deduction from equity.
Repurchased shares and the purchase of own shares by the Group-sponsored ESOP trust are presented as a deduction from total equity.
Repurchased shares are classified as treasury shares until their subsequent cancellation.
n Employee benefits i Defined contribution plans Obligations for contributions to defined contribution pension plans are recognised as an expense in the income statement as incurred.
ii Defined benefit plans The Groups net obligation in respect of defined benefit pension plans is calculated separately for each plan by estimating the amount of future benefit that employees have earned in return for their service in the current and prior periods: that benefit is discounted to determine its present value, and the fair value of any plan assets is deducted.
The discount rate is the yield at the balance sheet date on AA-credit-rated bonds that have maturity dates approximating the terms of the Groups obligations.
The calculation is performed by a qualified actuary using the projected unit credit method.
When the calculation results in a benefit to the Group, the recognised asset is limited to the total of any unrecognised past service costs and the present value of economic benefits available in the form of any future refunds from the plan or reductions in future contributions to the plan.
An economic benefit is available to the Group if it is realisable during the life of the plan, or on settlement of the plan liabilities.
Actuarial gains and losses, differences between the expected and actual returns, and the effect of changes in actuarial assumptions, are recognised in full in OCI in the year in which they arise.
iii Long-term service benefits The Groups net obligation in respect of long-term service benefits, other than pension plans, is the amount of future benefit that employees have earned in return for their service in the current and prior periods.
The obligation is calculated using the projected unit credit method, or similar approximation, and is discounted to its present value and the fair value of any related assets is deducted.
iv Share-based payment transactions The Group operates various share option programmes that allow Group employees to acquire shares in the Company.
Under the Long Term Incentive Plan LTIP and The Morgan Crucible Bonus Deferral Share Matching Plan awards of shares are made to various key executives and under the Directors Share Option Plan 2006 2006 ESOP, the Executive Share Option Scheme 2004 2004 ESOS and the Executive Share Option Scheme 1995 1995 ESOS share options are granted by the Company.
The Company also maintains an all-employee Sharesave Scheme available to employees in the UK and Germany.
The grant date fair value of options granted to employees is recognised as an employee expense, with a corresponding increase in equity, over the period that the employees become unconditionally entitled to the options.
The amount recognised as an expense is adjusted to reflect the actual number of share options for which the related service and non-market vesting conditions are met.
Annual Report 2010 The Morgan Crucible Company plc 97 Overview Business review Governance Financial statements Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 1.
Accounting policies, estimates and judgments continued The fair value of the options and awards under each scheme have been measured using the following models: Directors Share Option Plan 2006 Monte Carlo model Long Term Incentive Plan 2004 Monte Carlo model The Morgan Crucible Bonus Deferral Share Matching Plan Monte Carlo model Executive Share Option Scheme 2004 Monte Carlo model Executive Share Option Scheme 1995 grants made since 2004 Binominal Lattice option pricing model Employee Sharesave Scheme 1995 grants made since 2004 Black-Scholes Merton model Employee Sharesave Scheme 2004 Black-Scholes Merton model Employee Sharesave Scheme 2004 Germany Black-Scholes Merton model o Provisions A provision is recognised in the balance sheet when the Group has a present obligation legal or constructive as a result of a past event, it is probable that an outflow of economic benefits will be required to settle the obligation, and a reliable estimate can be made of the obligation.
The best estimate of the expenditure required to settled the present obligation is the amount that an entity would rationally pay to settle the obligation at the end of the reporting period or to transfer it to a third party at that time.
If the effect is material, provisions are determined by discounting the expected future cash flows at a pre-tax rate that reflects current market assessments of the time value of money and, where appropriate, the risks specific to the liability.
i Restructuring A provision for restructuring is recognised when the Group has approved a detailed and formal restructuring plan, and the restructuring has either commenced or has been announced publicly.
Future operating costs are not provided for.
ii Onerous contracts A provision for onerous contracts is recognised when the expected benefits to be derived by the Group from a contract are lower than the unavoidable cost of meeting its obligations under the contract.
iii Environmental In accordance with the Groups environmental policy a provision is recognised for known environmental issues which the Group will rectify over the next few years.
In a number of jurisdictions companies have a constructive obligation to remedy any known environmental problems.
p Trade and other payables Trade and other payables are initially stated at their fair value and subsequently measured at amortised cost.
q Revenue i Goods sold Revenue from the sale of products is measured at the fair value of the consideration received or receivable, net of returns, trade discounts and volume rebates.
Revenue is recognised in the income statement when the significant risks and rewards of ownership have been transferred to the buyer.
ii Government grants Government grants are recognised in the balance sheet initially as deferred income, as grants for capital expenditure, when there is reasonable assurance that they will be received and that the Group will comply with the conditions attaching to them.
Grants that compensate the Group for expenses incurred are recognised as revenue in the income statement on a systematic basis in the same periods in which the expenses are incurred.
Grants that compensate the Group for the cost of an asset are recognised in the income statement as other operating income on a systematic basis over the useful life of the asset.
r Expenses i Operating lease payments Payments made under operating leases are recognised in the income statement on a straight-line basis over the term of the lease.
Lease incentives received are recognised in the income statement as an integral part of the total lease expense.
98 The Morgan Crucible Company plc Annual Report 2010 Overview Business review Governance Financial statements 1.
Accounting policies, estimates and judgments continued ii Finance lease payments Leases where the Group assumes substantially all of the risks and rewards of ownership are classified as finance leases as if the asset had been purchased outright.
Assets acquired under finance leases are recognised as assets of the Group and the capital elements of the leasing commitments are shown as obligations in creditors.
Depreciation is charged on a basis consistent with similar owned assets or over the lease term if shorter.
Minimum lease payments are apportioned between the finance charge and the reduction of the outstanding liability.
The finance charge is allocated to each period during the lease term so as to produce a constant periodic rate of interest on the remaining balance of the liability.
iii Net financing costs Net financing costs comprise interest payable on borrowings calculated using the effective interest rate method, interest receivable on funds invested, gains and losses on hedging instruments that are recognised in the income statement see accounting policy f, expected return on IAS 19 pension assets and interest on IAS 19 obligations.
Interest income is recognised in the income statement as it accrues, using the effective interest method.
s Income tax Income tax on the profit or loss for the year comprises current and deferred tax.
Income tax is recognised in the income statement except to the extent that it relates to items recognised directly in OCI, in which case it is recognised in OCI.
Current tax is the expected tax payable on the taxable income for the year, using tax rates enacted or substantively enacted at the balance sheet date, and any adjustment to tax payable in respect of previous years.
Deferred tax is provided using the balance sheet liability method, providing for temporary differences between the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities for financial reporting purposes and the amounts used for taxation purposes.
The following temporary differences are not provided for: the initial recognition of goodwill, the initial recognition of assets or liabilities that affect neither accounting nor taxable profit, and differences relating to investments in subsidiaries to the extent that they will probably not reverse in the foreseeable future.
The amount of deferred tax provided is based on the expected manner of realisation or settlement of the carrying amount of assets and liabilities, using tax rates enacted or substantively enacted at the balance sheet date.
A deferred tax asset is recognised only to the extent that it is probable that future taxable profits will be available against which the asset can be utilised.
Deferred tax assets are reduced to the extent that it is no longer probable that the related tax benefit will be realised.
t Segment reporting The Group has identified four reportable operating segments.
These have been identified on the basis of internal management reporting information that is regularly reviewed by the Groups Chief Operating Decision Maker in order to allocate resources and assess performance.
Segment results, assets and liabilities include items directly attributable to a segment as well as those that can be allocated on a reasonable basis.
Unallocated items comprise mainly investments and related income, loans and borrowings and related expenses, corporate assets primarily the Companys headquarters and head office expenses, and income tax assets and liabilities.
u Classification of financial instruments issued by the Group Financial instruments issued by the Group are treated as equity ie forming part of shareholders funds only to the extent that they meet the following two conditions: i they include no contractual obligations upon the Group to deliver cash or other financial assets or to exchange financial assets or financial liabilities with another party under conditions that are potentially unfavourable to the Group: and ii where the instrument will or may be settled in the Companys own equity instruments, it is either a non-derivative that includes no obligation to deliver a variable number of the Companys own equity instruments or is a derivative that will be settled by the Company exchanging a fixed amount of cash or other financial assets for a fixed number of its own equity instruments.
To the extent that this definition is not met the proceeds of issue are classified as a financial liability.
Where the instrument so classified takes the legal form of the Companys own shares, the amounts presented in these financial statements for called-up share capital and share premium account exclude amounts in relation to those shares.
Finance payments associated with financial liabilities are dealt with as part of finance expenses.
Finance payments associated with financial instruments that are classified in equity are dividends and are recorded directly in equity.
Annual Report 2010 The Morgan Crucible Company plc 99 Overview Business review Governance Financial statements Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 1.
Accounting policies, estimates and judgments continued v Investments in debt and equity securities Investments in debt and equity securities held by the Group are classified as being available for sale and are stated at fair value, with any resultant gain or loss being recognised directly in OCI in the fair value reserve, except for impairment losses and, in the case of monetary items such as debt securities, foreign exchange gains and losses.
When these investments are derecognised, the cumulative gain or loss previously recognised directly in equity is recognised in profit or loss.
Where these investments are interest-bearing, interest calculated using the effective interest method is recognised in profit or loss.
w Interest-bearing borrowings Interest-bearing borrowings are recognised initially at fair value less attributable transaction costs.
Subsequent to initial recognition, interest-bearing borrowings are stated at amortised cost with any difference between cost and redemption value being recognised in the income statement over the period of the borrowings on an effective interest basis.
x Capitalisation of borrowing costs Borrowing costs interest and other costs are capitalised when they are incurred on raising specific funds to finance a major capital project which will be a significant productive asset, or to the extent that funds borrowed generally are used for the purposes of obtaining a qualifying asset.
y Dividends Dividends payable are recognised as a liability in the period in which they are declared and approved.
z Step acquisitions Step acquisitions arise when the Group acquires control of an entity through successive share purchases.
The identifiable assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities acquired are recorded at fair value on the date that control is acquired.
For step acquisitions occurring before 3 January 2010 the amount recognised as goodwill or negative goodwill is determined separately for each tranche acquired, calculated as the difference between the fair value of the consideration paid and the fair value of the identifiable assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities acquired, in accordance with IFRS 3 Business Combinations 2004.
Any changes in the fair value of the identifiable assets and liabilities acquired between the acquisition date and the date that control is obtained are recorded in other reserves in equity to the extent that they have not previously been recognised in the income statement.
aa New Standards and Interpretations not yet adopted A number of new Standards and amendments to Standards and Interpretations are not yet effective for the year ended 2 January 2011, and have not been applied in preparing these consolidated financial statements.
The following adopted IFRSs were available for early application but have not been applied: i IAS 24 Related Party Disclosures revised 2009 ii IFRS 9 Financial Instruments The revised IAS 24 Related Party Disclosures amends the definition of a related party.
IFRS 9 Financial Instruments retains but simplifies the mixed measurement model and establishes two primary measurement categories for financial assets: amortised cost and fair value.
The basis of classification depends on the individual entitys business model and the contractual cash flow characteristics of the financial asset.
The Group does not expect the above standards to have any significant impact on the financial statements for the period commencing 3 January 2011.
Amendments to the following adopted IFRSs were available for early application but have not been applied: i IAS 24 Related Party Disclosures revised 2009 ii IAS 32 Financial Instruments: Presentation iii IFRS 7 Financial Instruments: Disclosure iv IFRIC 14 IAS 19 The Limit on a Defined Benefit Asset, Minimum Funding Requirements and Their Interaction v IFRIC 19 Extinguishing Financial Liabilities with Equity Instruments The Group does not expect the above amendments to have any significant impact on the financial statements for the period commencing 3 January 2011.
100 The Morgan Crucible Company plc Annual Report 2010 Overview Business review Governance Financial statements 1.
Accounting policies, estimates and judgments continued Accounting estimates and judgments Judgments made by the Directors in the application of these accounting policies that have a significant effect on the financial statements and estimates with a significant risk of material adjustment in the next year are discussed below.
Management discussed with the Audit Committee the development, selection and disclosure of the Groups critical accounting policies and estimates and the application of these policies and estimates.
The following accounting estimates are subject to significant uncertainty: Provisions Note 21 contains information about provisions.
Provisions for closure and restructuring costs, environmental issues and settlement of litigation are judgmental by their nature.
Amounts provided are the Groups best estimate of exposure based on currently available information.
Recognition of identifiable intangible assets and goodwill Note 3 contains information about intangible assets recognised on acquisition.
These primarily relate to existing contracts, order books and customer relationships, which are supported by long-term relationships with key customers.
The Group has estimated that the customer relationships have an economic life of 15-20 years.
Remeasurement of deferred contingent consideration Note 3 contains information on deferred contingent consideration, arising as an element of the fair value of consideration on acquisition.
Deferred contingent consideration is remeasured based upon the Groups best estimate of its future liability, calculated in accordance with the acquisition agreement.
Impairment of goodwill Note 11 contains information about the assumptions relating to goodwill impairment tests, including a sensitivity analysis.
Credit risk Note 19 contains information about the Groups exposure to credit risk, including a sensitivity analysis.
The Group establishes both specific and general allowances for impairment losses against receivables.
The general loss allowance is estimated based on historical data of payment statistics for similar financial assets.
Foreign currency exposure Note 19 contains information about the foreign currency exposure of the Group and risks in relation to foreign exchange movements, including a sensitivity analysis.
Pension assumptions The principal actuarial assumptions applied to pensions are shown in note 20, including a sensitivity analysis.
The actuarial evaluation of pension assets and liabilities is based on assumptions in respect of inflation, future salary increases, discount rates, returns on investments and mortality rates.
Relatively small changes in the assumptions underlying the actuarial valuations of pension schemes can have a significant impact on the net pension liability included in the balance sheet.
Taxation The level of current tax and deferred tax recognised is dependent on the tax rates in effect at the balance sheet date, and on subjective judgements as to the outcome of decisions to be made by the tax authorities in the various tax jurisdictions around the world in which the Group operates.
Deferred tax assets are recognised based on managements assessment of the extent to which they are recoverable.
Going concern The Groups business activities, together with the factors likely to affect its future development, performance and position are set out in the Business review on pages 32 to 61.
The financial position of the Group, its cash flows, liquidity position and borrowing facilities are described in the Business review.
In addition, note 19 includes the Groups policies and processes for managing financial risk, details of its financial instruments and hedging activities: and its exposures to credit risk and liquidity risk.
The Groups multi-currency Revolving Facility the facility matures in May 2012, and appropriate steps are being taken to refinance this during 2011.
The Group meets its day-to-day working capital requirements through local banking arrangements that are supported by the facility.
The Groups forecasts and projections, taking account of reasonably possible changes in trading performance and exchange rates, show the Group operating comfortably within the Groups debt financial covenants for the next 12 months.
The current economic climate continues to have an impact on the Group, its customers and suppliers.
The Board fully recognises the challenges that lie ahead but, after making enquiries, the Directors have a reasonable expectation that the Group has adequate resources to continue in operational existence for the foreseeable future.
Accordingly, they continue to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the Annual Report and Accounts.
Annual Report 2010 The Morgan Crucible Company plc 101
