The board has delegated day-to-day Directors interests and indemnity Directors conflicts of interest and business management control of arrangements The board has maintained procedures the group to the executive committee.
At no time during the year did any whereby potential conflicts of interests The executive committee consists of director hold a material interest in are reviewed regularly.
These procedures ten executives, being the group chief any contract of significance with the have been designed so that the board executive, group finance director, the Company or any of its subsidiary may be reasonably assured that any operational directors within the group undertakings other than a third-party potential situation where a director may and the group company secretary.
indemnity provision between each have a direct or indirect interest which director and the Company and service may conflict or may possibly conflict Throughout the period the board has contracts between each executive with the interests of the Company are been supplied with information and director and the Company.
The Company identified and where appropriate dealt papers submitted at each board has purchased and maintained with in accordance with the Companies meeting which ensures that the major throughout the year directors and Act 2006 and the Companys Articles of aspects of the groups affairs are officers liability insurance in respect of Association.
The board has not had to reviewed regularly in accordance with itself and its directors.
The directors also deal with any conflict during the period.
a rolling agenda and programme of have the benefit of the indemnity provision work.
All directors, whether executive or The remuneration committee, chaired contained in the Companys Articles non-executive, have unrestricted access during the year by David Williams, of Association.
These provisions, which to the group company secretary and establishes the remuneration policy are qualifying third-party indemnity executives within the group on any generally, approves specific arrangements provisions as defined by Section 236 of matter of concern to them in respect for the chairman and the executive the Companies Act 2006, were in force of their duties.
In addition, new directors directors and reviews and comments throughout the year and are currently in are given appropriate training on upon the proposed arrangements force.
Details of directors remuneration, appointment to the board.
Appropriate for senior executives so as to ensure service contracts and interests in the time is made during the year for consistency within the overall remuneration shares of the Company are set out in continuing training on relevant topics policy and group strategy.
Full disclosure the directors remuneration report.
concerning the functioning of the of the Companys remuneration policy board and the obligations of directors.
The Company also provides an and details of the remuneration of each The Company has undertaken to indemnity for the benefit of each person director is set out in the remuneration reimburse legal fees to the directors if who was a director of Mothercare report on pages 36 to 41 and in circumstances should arise in which it Pension Trustees Ltd, which is a corporate Appendix A on pages 86 to 88. is necessary for them to seek separate, trustee of the Companys occupational During the period no director was, and independent, legal advice in furtherance pension schemes, in respect of liabilities procedures are in place to ensure that of their duties.
In accordance with the that may attach to them in their capacity no director is, involved in deciding or Articles of Association, one-third of as directors of that corporate trustee.
determining his or her own remuneration.
the directors are required to offer These provisions, which are qualifying themselves for re-election every year.
pension scheme indemnity provisions as defined in Section 235 of the Companies Act 2006, were in force throughout the year and are currently in force.
indd 33 28 5 10 11:21:34 Governance Mothercare plc Annual report and accounts 2010 Corporate governance continued The nomination committee, chaired Shareholder relations The Company The audit committee was chaired during during the year by Ian Peacock, maintains regular dialogue with the year by Bernard Cragg, the senior comprises all of the non-executive institutional shareholders following non-executive director.
The remit of the directors.
The terms of reference of the presentation of the financial performance audit committee is to review the scope committee are set out on the Companys of the business to the investing communities.
and issues arising from the audit and website.
The committee makes proposals Opportunities for dialogue takes place matters relating to financial control.
on the size, structure, composition and at least four times a year following the It also assists the board in its review appointments to the board.
It carries announcement of the half and full year of corporate governance and in the out the selection process and agrees the results and trading statements at the presentation of the Companys financial terms of appointment of non-executive AGM and post Christmas.
During such results through its review of the interim directors.
An external search agency meetings the board is able to put and full year accounts before approval is ordinarily used to assist in the forward its objectives for the business by the board, focusing in particular on identification of suitable candidates for and discuss performance against those compliance with accounting principles, board appointments.
The nomination objectives and develop an understanding changes in accounting practice and committee also reviews succession of the views of major shareholders.
The full terms planning on an annual basis.
The outcome of meetings with major of reference are set out under the shareholders is reported by the chief corporate governance section of the The board is of the opinion that the executive at board meetings on a website at www.
directors seeking re-election at the AGM periodic basis.
have continued to give effective counsel The audit committee comprises the and commitment to the Company and The Company seeks to reach a wider four non-executive directors.
The group accordingly should be re-appointed.
audience by the use of its website company secretary acts as secretary www.
com and, with to the committee.
Bernard Cragg is a During the period the board carried out a view to encouraging full participation chartered accountant with considerable a further evaluation of its effectiveness of those unable to attend the AGM, financial and varied commercial and operation.
The review was carried provides an opportunity for shareholders experience.
out by the group company secretary, to ask questions of their board through using an in-depth questionnaire approach.
The committee met four times during the internet at www.
com The chairman also interviewed each the period.
No specific remuneration of or by email to investorrelations@ non-executive director drawing upon the non-executive directors is ascribed mothercare.
com or by the provision the themes and issues disclosed by the to membership of the audit committee of a reply-paid question service to questionnaire.
The review which took other than a supplement of 5,000 the chairman.
The Company provides place during January 2010 concluded that paid to Bernard Cragg in respect electronic voting facilities through the board, its committees and individual of his chairmanship of the committee.
Those shareholders directors contributed effectively to who wish to use this facility should review the overall operation and review the notes and procedures set out in the of the Companys affairs.
The senior Notice of Meeting.
independent director also carries out an annual performance review of the chairman, having first ascertained the views of all other directors.
