Mothercare plc Annual report and accounts 2010 Financial review continued Treasury policy and financial risk Interest rate risk management At 27 March 2010, the group has positive The board approves treasury policies cash balances.
Given the cash generative and senior management directly controls nature of the group, interest rate hedging day-to-day operations within these was not considered necessary.
The major financial risk to which will keep this under review as the group the group is exposed relates to movements develops.
in foreign exchange rates and interest Shareholders funds rates.
Where appropriate, cost-effective Shareholders funds amount to 188.4 and practicable, the group uses financial million, a decrease of 9.1 million in the instruments and derivatives to manage year driven largely by the increase in the the risks.
This represents No speculative use of derivatives, currency 2.14 per share compared to 2.25 per or other instruments is permitted.
share at the previous year end as restated.
Foreign currency risk Accounting policies and standards All international sales to franchisees are The principal accounting policies and invoiced in pounds sterling or US dollars.
standards used by the group are shown in note 2.
This year the group has adopted International published sales represent International Financial Reporting Standard 8 approximately 23 per cent of group Operating Segments, International sales.
Total International sales represent Accounting Standard 1 Presentation of approximately 45 per cent of group Financial Statements revised 2007 and network sales.
The group therefore has Amendments to International Accounting some currency exposure on these sales, Standard 38 Intangible Assets.
Prior period but it is used to offset or hedge in part the results have been restated accordingly groups US dollar and euro denominated see notes 2 and 28. product purchases.
The group policy is that all material exposures are hedged by using forward currency contracts.
