The board has delegated day-to-day Directors interests and indemnity Directors conflicts of interest and business management control of arrangements The board has maintained procedures the group to the executive committee.
At no time during the year did any whereby potential conflicts of interests The executive committee consists of director hold a material interest in are reviewed regularly.
These procedures ten executives, being the group chief any contract of significance with the have been designed so that the board executive, group finance director, the Company or any of its subsidiary may be reasonably assured that any operational directors within the group undertakings other than a third-party potential situation where a director may and the group company secretary.
indemnity provision between each have a direct or indirect interest which director and the Company and service may conflict or may possibly conflict Throughout the period the board has contracts between each executive with the interests of the Company are been supplied with information and director and the Company.
The Company identified and where appropriate dealt papers submitted at each board has purchased and maintained with in accordance with the Companies meeting which ensures that the major throughout the year directors and Act 2006 and the Companys Articles of aspects of the groups affairs are officers liability insurance in respect of Association.
The board has not had to reviewed regularly in accordance with itself and its directors.
The directors also deal with any conflict during the period.
a rolling agenda and programme of have the benefit of the indemnity provision work.
All directors, whether executive or The remuneration committee, chaired contained in the Companys Articles non-executive, have unrestricted access during the year by David Williams, of Association.
These provisions, which to the group company secretary and establishes the remuneration policy are qualifying third-party indemnity executives within the group on any generally, approves specific arrangements provisions as defined by Section 236 of matter of concern to them in respect for the chairman and the executive the Companies Act 2006, were in force of their duties.
In addition, new directors directors and reviews and comments throughout the year and are currently in are given appropriate training on upon the proposed arrangements force.
Details of directors remuneration, appointment to the board.
Appropriate for senior executives so as to ensure service contracts and interests in the time is made during the year for consistency within the overall remuneration shares of the Company are set out in continuing training on relevant topics policy and group strategy.
Full disclosure the directors remuneration report.
concerning the functioning of the of the Companys remuneration policy board and the obligations of directors.
The Company also provides an and details of the remuneration of each The Company has undertaken to indemnity for the benefit of each person director is set out in the remuneration reimburse legal fees to the directors if who was a director of Mothercare report on pages 36 to 41 and in circumstances should arise in which it Pension Trustees Ltd, which is a corporate Appendix A on pages 86 to 88. is necessary for them to seek separate, trustee of the Companys occupational During the period no director was, and independent, legal advice in furtherance pension schemes, in respect of liabilities procedures are in place to ensure that of their duties.
In accordance with the that may attach to them in their capacity no director is, involved in deciding or Articles of Association, one-third of as directors of that corporate trustee.
determining his or her own remuneration.
the directors are required to offer These provisions, which are qualifying themselves for re-election every year.
pension scheme indemnity provisions as defined in Section 235 of the Companies Act 2006, were in force throughout the year and are currently in force.
