Business review This is a renewed company.
Our much improved financial performance provides a platform to drive further growth, continue targeted investment and restore a dividend.
With a clear focus on our strategy we are confident in the year ahead.
I am pleased with the progress we have made so far.
Cost efficiency has driven this improved We have: performance, with lower fuel costs supplemented by running 2% fewer kilometres.
Spain also returned to revenue growth urban delivered margin improvement by embedding income grew by 9%, with resilient city council revenue boosted cost management and operational excellence by a new contract in Agadir, Morocco.
Intercity revenues grew in across the Group: the fourth quarter of 2010 for the first time since the third quarter established a sound financial foundation: of 2008. continued to focus on cash generation: and started to make selected investment to drive future Improving yield management value creation.
Driving margin through improved yield management has turned UK Bus from one of the worst performing operations in the We are ahead of our plan and in 2011 we will complete our industry to one of the best performing within the space of Business Recovery programme.
But our plans do not stop there.
Normalised operating profit increased 48% to Beyond improving our business to industry standards, we have a 28.3 million 2009: 19.1m excluding the disposed Travel strategy to deliver industry leading performance, organic growth London business.
By rebalancing fares between cash tickets and, in time, new market opportunities.
We are leveraging our and travelcards, we have improved the revenue mix and unique geographic footprint across all modes of public transport, managed the bus network more effectively.
We are now investing together with our Group-wide synergies.
Despite the economic in new fleet.
Cost reduction was also a key aspect of improved challenges that we face, we are creating a stronger business to performance in 2010 we reduced the number of depots, deliver future value to shareholders.
restructured pay grades and improved engineering efficiency.
2010 Delivering margin improvement Our UK Bus business is an excellent asset with a strong footprint.
Our focus in 2010 has been to restore margin performance.
It has catchment areas with high population density and Through cost control, fare yield management and a focus on opportunities to better meet future passenger needs.
With the delivering operational excellence across the business, Group management team now strengthened, I am sure we will be able normalised margin rose from 5.9% in 2009 to 9.6% in 2010. to achieve further progress.
Normalised operating profit increased over 44 million to 204.2 million 2009: 159.8m, while normalised profit before tax rose 38% to 160.5 million 2009: 116.2m.
Excluding rail Driving margin through operations, normalised profit before tax reached a record level in improved yield management 2010.
We are rebuilding a high quality business, uniquely focused on public passenger transport expertise in international markets.
has turned UK Bus from Cost management and operational excellence one of the worst performing The immediate priority in delivering an improved margin has been controlling cost.
Our North American operations have led the operations in the industry to way, delivering over US$30 million of annualised cost savings by simplifying the business, driving operational excellence through one of the best performing.
local service delivery, and instilling a clear cost management culture.
This has been about focusing our school bus business back onto basics delivering excellent customer service, safely, at the right cost.
A new highly experienced North American management team has steadied the ship, ensuring that the Business Recovery programme has remained on target and achieving a 44% improvement in normalised operating profit to US$57.1 million 2009: US$39.6m.
It also secured 22 new contracts in a successful bidding season, whilst retaining over 90% of its own contract portfolio, delivering cost efficiencies to budget-constrained school board customers.
Spain was already performing strongly as we entered 2010.
Against a challenging domestic economic backdrop, ALSA has achieved strong margin growth and a normalised operating profit exceeding 100 million 2009: 85.7m, testament to its flexible and robust business model and the stable regulatory National Express Group PLC 5
