National Grid Gas plc DN Regulatory accounting statements 2009 10 31 Accounting policies for the year ended 31 March 2010 reasonable basis for apportioning those revenues, costs, A.
Basis of preparation of the regulatory assets, liabilities and equity between the regulatory businesses.
accounting statements These items mainly comprise corporate activities, financial These regulatory accounting statements have been prepared in items, taxation, dividends, share capital and reserves.
accordance with Standard Special Condition A30 the condition These revenues, costs, assets, liabilities and equity are of NGGs DN gas transporter licence issued under the Utilities apportioned between regulatory businesses using the following Act 2000 the licence and in accordance with International arbitrary bases: Financial Reporting Standards IFRS as issued by the International Accounting Standards Board and as adopted by Corporate costs charged to NGG by National Grid are the European Union.
They are prepared on the basis of all IFRS apportioned between the regulatory businesses using the accounting standards and interpretations that are mandatory for same metrics as National Grid uses to determine the periods ending 31 March 2010 and in accordance with allocated charge to NGG.
These metrics take into account applicable United Kingdom law and Article 4 of the European relative revenue, operating profit, employees and net Union IAS regulation.
The 2009 comparative financial assets of the regulatory businesses.
The non-current amount owed by National Grid Gas information has also been prepared on this basis.
Holdings Limited is apportioned between the regulatory These regulatory accounting statements have been prepared businesses in the ratio of their estimated regulatory on a historical cost basis, except for the revaluation of certain values.
Net debt at 1 April 2005 the first balance sheet date for this format of regulatory accounting statements, which These regulatory accounting statements are presented in comprises borrowings and bank overdrafts, less cash, pounds sterling, which is the functional currency of NGG.
cash equivalents and financial investments at that date, was apportioned between regulatory businesses in the The preparation of regulatory accounting statements requires ratio of estimated regulatory values at that date.
No management to make estimates and assumptions that affect amounts were apportioned to the fide-minimis business or the reported amounts of assets and liabilities, disclosure of to other activities.
The amounts at subsequent period ends contingent assets and liabilities and the reported amounts of have been determined by separately adjusting these revenues and expenses during the reporting period.
Actual initially apportioned amounts by the cash generated or results could differ from these estimates.
used by each regulatory business, movements in fair value of net debt allocated to each business and other Attribution of revenues, costs, assets, liabilities and equity funding movements.
Movements in fair value and other The condition requires that all the revenues, costs, assets, funding movements are apportioned between the liabilities and equity of NGG are attributed to the regulatory regulatory businesses relative to the net debt at the start businesses reported in the regulatory accounting statements.
of the period in which the movements occurred.
Other Those revenues, costs, assets, liabilities and equity which are movements include a reallocation between regulatory not directly attributable to specific regulatory businesses have businesses so that the final amounts allocated are been apportioned between one or more regulatory businesses prorated based on the maximum debt potential in each according to whether they are related items or unrelated items.
The maximum debt potential for the combined DNs was determined using Related items regulatory assets values at the balance sheet date.
Related items comprise all those revenues, costs, assets and Interest is apportioned between the regulatory businesses liabilities of NGG which are not directly attributable to a specific according to the relative level of net debt determined regulatory business, but where there is a reasonable basis for according to the principles set out above.
apportioning those revenues, costs, assets or liabilities between Current and deferred taxation are apportioned between the regulatory businesses.
These items comprise activities in the regulatory businesses relative to the results of respect of the DNs carried out on a centralised basis, shared undertaking notional current and deferred tax computations for each regulatory business, commencing services and certain business services.
Prior year tax adjustments substantially These revenues, costs, assets and liabilities are apportioned relating to transactions which occurred prior to 1 April between regulatory businesses in accordance with the activities 2005 are apportioned in the ratio of estimated regulatory giving rise to the income, costs, assets or liabilities.
The estimated capital allowances pools at 1 April 2005 were apportioned between the Unrelated items regulatory businesses in the ratio of estimated regulatory Unrelated items comprise all those revenues, costs, assets, values at that date.
Current tax liabilities have been liabilities and equity of NGG which are not directly attributable to a specific regulatory business, and where there is no 32 National Grid Gas plc DN Regulatory accounting statements 2009 10 apportioned relative to current tax charges and tax paid or On consolidation, the assets and liabilities of overseas financing recovered is determined by balance.
operations that have a functional currency different from the Equity dividends primarily funded from profits for the year Companys functional currency of sterling are translated at have been apportioned on the basis of profits for the year.
exchange rates prevailing at the balance sheet date.
Income Equity dividends primarily funded from retained earnings and expense items are translated at the weighted average have been apportioned on the basis of relative regulatory exchange rates for the period.
Exchange differences arising are values.
classified as equity and transferred to the consolidated The total equity of NGG at 1 April 2005, comprising called up translation reserve.
share capital, share premium account, retained profits and other reserves, was determined as a balancing item at that D. Intangible assets date.
The amounts at subsequent period ends are determined Identifiable intangible assets are recorded at cost less by separately adjusting these initially allocated amounts by the accumulated amortisation and any provision for impairment.
equity movements derived for each regulatory business as a Internally generated intangible fixed assets, such as software, consequence of all other allocations and funding movements.
are recognised only if an asset is created that can be identified: Outer Met Area it is probable that the asset created will generate future A geographical area on the boundary of the East of England DN economic benefits: and that the development cost of the asset and the London DN, the Outer Met Area, forms part of the can be measured reliably.
Where no internally generated London DN for managerial, operational and cost accounting intangible asset can be recognised, development expenditure is purposes.
For regulatory and income accounting purposes, the recorded as an expense in the period in which it is incurred.
Outer Met Area is treated as part of the East of England DN.
Intangible assets under development are not amortised.
Other The relevant operating costs, assets and liabilities are reported non-current intangible assets are amortised on a straight-line in these regulatory accounting statements as part of the East of basis over their estimated useful economic lives.
amortisation periods for categories of intangible assets are: The amounts of additions to the gas distribution network for the Amortisation periods Years Outer Met Area are assessed by management based upon Software 3 to 5 project information.
Other amounts for the Outer Met Area, comprising transportation business operating costs, the overall Intangible emission allowances are accounted for in balance of property, plant and equipment, other assets and accordance with accounting policy T. related liabilities are deemed to be 9% of those amounts of London DN.
E. Property, plant and equipment B.
Basis of consolidation Property, plant and equipment is recorded at cost less accumulated depreciation and any impairment losses.
The consolidated financial statements incorporate the financial statements of the Company and its subsidiaries.
Cost includes payroll and finance costs incurred which are directly attributable to the construction of property, plant and A subsidiary is defined as an entity controlled by the Company.
equipment as well as the cost of any associated asset Control is achieved where the Company has the power to retirement obligations.
govern the financial and operating policies of an entity so as to obtain benefits from its activities.
Property, plant and equipment include assets in which the Companys interest comprises legally protected statutory or Where necessary, adjustments are made to bring the contractual rights of use.
accounting policies used under UK generally accepted accounting principles UK GAAP used in the individual financial Additions represent the purchase or construction of new assets, statements of the Company and its subsidiaries into line with including capital expenditure for safety and environmental those used by the Company in its consolidated financial assets, and extensions to, enhancements to, or replacement of statements under IFRS.
Inter-company transactions are existing assets.
Contributions received prior to 1 July 2009 towards the cost of C. Foreign currencies property, plant and equipment are included in trade and other Transactions in currencies other than the functional currency of payables as deferred income and credited on a straight-line the Company or subsidiary concerned are recorded at the rates basis to the income statement over the estimated economic of exchange prevailing on the dates of the transactions.
At each useful lives of the assets to which they relate.
balance sheet date, monetary assets and liabilities that are Contributions received post 1 July 2009 are recognised in denominated in foreign currencies are retranslated at closing revenue immediately, except where the contributions are exchange rates.
Other non-monetary assets are not consideration for a future service, in which case they are retranslated unless they are carried at fair value.
recognised initially as deferred income and revenue is Gains and losses arising on retranslation of monetary assets and liabilities are included in the income statement.
National Grid Gas plc DN Regulatory accounting statements 2009 10 33 subsequently recognised over the period in which the service is material.
Further adjustments are recognised when tax returns provided.
are submitted to the tax authorities.
Depreciation is not provided on freehold land or assets in the Deferred tax course of construction.
Other property, plant and equipment are Deferred tax is provided using the balance sheet liability depreciated, principally on a straight-line basis, at rates method and is recognised on temporary differences between estimated to write off their book values over their estimated the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities in the financial useful economic lives.
In assessing estimated useful economic statements and the corresponding tax bases used in the lives, which are reviewed on a regular basis, consideration is computation of taxable profit.
given to any contractual arrangements and operational Deferred tax liabilities are generally recognised on all taxable requirements relating to particular assets.
Unless otherwise temporary differences and deferred tax assets are recognised determined by operational requirements, the depreciation to the extent that is probable that taxable profits will be periods for the principal categories of property, plant and available against which deductible temporary differences can equipment are, in general, as shown in the table below: be utilised.
Such assets and liabilities are not recognised if the Depreciation periods Years temporary difference arises from the initial recognition other Freehold and leasehold buildings up to 50 than a business combination of assets and liabilities in a Plant and machinery transaction that affects neither the accounting profits nor the mains, services and regulating equipment 30 to 100 taxable profits.
meters and metering equipment 5 to 18 Deferred tax liabilities are recognised on taxable temporary Motor vehicles and office equipment 3 to 10 differences arising on investments in subsidiaries except where the Company is able to control the reversal of the temporary F. Impairment of assets difference and it is probable that the temporary difference will Impairments of assets are calculated as the difference between not reverse in the foreseeable future.
the carrying value of the asset and its recoverable amount, if Deferred tax is calculated at the tax rates that are expected to lower.
Where such an asset does not generate cash flows that apply in the period when the liability is settled or the asset is are independent from other assets, the recoverable amount of realised, based on the tax rates and tax laws that have been the cash-generating unit to which that asset belongs is enacted or substantively enacted by the balance sheet date.
Recoverable amount is defined as the higher of fair Deferred tax is charged or credited to the income statement, value less costs to sell and estimated value in use at the date except where it relates to items charged or credited directly to the impairment review is undertaken.
equity, in which case the deferred tax is also dealt with in Value in use represents the present value of expected future equity.
cash flows, discounted using a pre-tax discount rate that The carrying amount of deferred tax assets is reviewed at each reflects current market assessments of the time value of money balance sheet date and reduced to the extent that it is no longer and the risks specific to the asset for which the estimates of probable that sufficient taxable profits will be available to allow future cash flows have not been adjusted.
all or part of the deferred income tax asset to be recovered.
Tests for impairment are carried out only if there is some Unrecognised deferred tax assets are reassessed at each indication that the carrying value of the assets may have been balance sheet date and are recognised to the extent that it has impaired.
become probable that future taxable profit will allow the deferred tax asset to be recovered.
Material impairments are recognised in the income statement and are disclosed separately.
Deferred tax assets and liabilities are offset when there is a legally enforceable right to set off current tax assets against G. Taxation current tax liabilities, and when they relate to income taxes Current tax levied by the same taxation authority and it is intended to settle Current tax assets and liabilities for the current and prior current tax assets and liabilities on a net basis.
periods are measured at the amount expected to be recovered H. Discontinued operations from or paid to the taxation authorities.
The tax rates and tax laws used to compute the amount are those that are enacted or Cash flows and operations that relate to a major component of substantively enacted by the balance sheet date.
Management the business that has been sold are shown separately from periodically evaluates positions taken in tax returns with respect continuing operations.
to situations in which applicable tax regulation is subject to I.
Inventories interpretation and establishes provisions where appropriate on Inventories, which comprise raw materials and consumables, the basis of amounts expected to be paid to the tax authorities.
are stated at cost less provision for damage and obsolescence.
Current tax assets and liabilities arising from transfer pricing Cost comprises cost of direct materials and those costs that adjustments, which are expected to be fully recovered through group relief, are initially estimated and recognised where 34 National Grid Gas plc DN Regulatory accounting statements 2009 10 have been incurred in bringing the inventories to their present N. Leases location and condition.
Rentals under operating leases are charged to income on a straight-line basis over the term of the relevant lease.
Environmental costs Provision is made for environmental costs, based on future Assets held under finance leases are recognised at their fair estimated expenditures, discounted to present values.
Changes value or, if lower, the present value of minimum lease payments in the provision arising from revised estimates or discount rates on inception.
The corresponding liability is recognised as a or changes in the expected timing of expenditures are finance lease obligation within borrowings.
Rental payments are recognised in the income statement.
The unwinding of the apportioned between finance costs and reduction in the finance discount is included within the income statement as a financing lease obligation, so as to achieve a constant rate of interest.
Assets held under finance leases are depreciated over the shorter of their useful life and the lease term.
K. Revenue Revenue represents the sales value derived from the O.
Financial instruments transmission and distribution of gas and the provision of gas Financial assets, liabilities and equity instruments are classified metering services during the year.
It excludes value added tax according to the substance of the contractual arrangements and intra-group sales.
entered into, and recognised on trade date.
Available-for-sale The sales value for the transmission and distribution of gas is financial assets are non-derivatives that are either designated in largely determined from the amount of system capacity sold for this category or not classified in any other categories.
the year and the amount of gas transported in the year, Trade receivables are initially recognised at fair value and evaluated at contractual prices on a monthly basis.
Where subsequently measured at amortised cost, less any appropriate revenue for the year exceeds the maximum amount permitted allowances for estimated irrecoverable amounts.
A provision is by regulatory agreement and adjustments will be made to future established for irrecoverable amounts when there is objective prices to reflect this over-recovery, a liability for the overevidence that amounts due under the original payment terms recovery is not recognised as such an adjustment to future will not be collected.
Indications that the trade receivable may prices relates to the provision of future services.
Similarly, an become irrecoverable would include financial difficulties of the asset is not recognised where a regulatory agreement permits debtor, likelihood of the debtors insolvency, and default or adjustments to be made to future prices in respect of an undersignificant failure of payment.
Trade payables are initially recovery.
recognised at fair value and subsequently measured at The sales value for the provision of gas metering services is amortised cost.
largely derived from monthly contractual charges for the Loans receivable and other receivables are carried at amortised provision of individual meters under long-term contractual cost using the effective interest rate method.
together with gains and losses when the loans and receivables are derecognised or impaired, are recognised in the income L. Segmental information statement.
Segmental information is based on the information the Board of Directors uses internally for the purposes of evaluating the Other financial investments are recognised at fair value plus, in performance of operating segments and determining resource the case of available-for-sale financial investments, directly allocation between operating segments.
The Board of Directors related incremental transaction costs and are subsequently is deemed to be the chief operating decision-maker and carried at fair value on the balance sheet.
Changes in the fair assesses the performance of operations principally on the basis value of investments classified as fair value through profit and of operating items before exceptionals and remeasurements.
loss are included in the income statement, while changes in the fair value of investments classified as available-for-sale are M. Pensions recognised directly in equity, until the investment is disposed of The substantial majority of NGGs employees are members of or is determined to be impaired.
At this time, the cumulative the defined benefit section of the National Grid UK Pension gain or loss previously recognised in equity is included in the Scheme.
There is no contractual arrangement or stated policy income statement for the period.
Investment income on for charging the net defined benefit cost of the Scheme to NGG.
investments classified as fair value through profit and loss and Accordingly, the Scheme is recognised as if it were a defined on available-for-sale investments is recognised using the contribution scheme.
The pension charge for the year effective interest rate method and taken through interest income represents the contributions payable to the Scheme for the in the income statement.
A share of the assets and liabilities, or the actuarial Borrowings, which include interest-bearing loans, UK Retail gains and losses of the Scheme are not recognised in these Prices Index RPI linked debt and overdrafts, are recorded at financial statements.
their initial fair value which normally reflects the proceeds received, net of direct issue costs less any repayments.
Subsequently they are stated at amortised cost, using the National Grid Gas plc DN Regulatory accounting statements 2009 10 35 effective interest rate method.
Any difference between the Hedge accounting allows derivatives to be designated as a proceeds after direct issue costs and the redemption value is hedge of another non-derivative financial instrument, to recognised over the term of the borrowing in the income mitigate the impact of potential volatility in the income statement statement using the effective interest rate method.
of changes in fair value of the derivative instruments.
To qualify for hedge accounting documentation is prepared specifying the Borrowing costs directly attributable to the acquisition, hedging strategy, the component transactions and methodology construction or development of qualifying assets being assets used for effectiveness measurement.
The Company uses two that necessarily take a substantial period of time to get ready hedge accounting methods.
for their intended use are added to their cost.
Such additions cease when the assets are substantially ready for their intended Firstly, changes in the carrying value of financial instruments use.
that are designated and effective as hedges of future cash flows cash flow hedges are recognised directly in equity and any Derivative financial instruments are recorded at fair value, and ineffective portion is recognised immediately in the income where fair value of a derivative is positive, it is carried as a statement.
Amounts deferred in equity in respect of cash flow derivative asset and where negative, as a derivative liability.
hedges are subsequently recognised in the income statement in Assets and liabilities on different transactions are only netted if the same period in which the hedged item affects net profit or the transactions are with the same counterparty, a legal right to loss.
Where a non-financial asset or a non-financial liability set-off exists and the cash flows are intended to be settled on a results from a forecasted transaction or firm commitment being net basis.
Gains and losses arising from changes in the fair hedged, the amounts deferred in equity are included in the value are included in the income statement in the period they initial measurement of that non-monetary asset or liability.
Secondly, fair value hedge accounting offsets the changes in No adjustment is made with respect to derivative clauses the fair value of the hedging instrument against the change in embedded in financial instruments or other contracts that are the fair value of the hedged item in respect to the risk being closely related to those instruments or contracts.
These changes are recognised in the income interest payments on UK RPI debt are linked to movements in statement to the extent the fair value hedge is effective.
the UK retail price index.
The link to RPI is considered to be an Adjustments made to the carrying amount of the hedged item embedded derivative, which is closely related to the underlying for fair value hedges will be amortised over the remaining life, in debt instrument based on the view that there is a strong line with the hedged item.
relationship between interest rates and inflation in the UK economy.
Consequently these embedded derivatives are not Changes in the fair value of derivatives that do not qualify for accounted for separately from the debt instrument.
Where there hedge accounting are recognised in the income statement as are embedded derivatives in host contracts not closely related, they arise, within finance costs.
the embedded derivative is separately accounted for as a Hedge accounting is discontinued when the hedging instrument derivative financial instrument and recorded at fair value.
expires or is sold, terminated, or exercised, or no longer An equity instrument is any contract that evidences a residual qualifies for hedge accounting.
At that time, any cumulative interest in the consolidated assets of the Company after gains or losses relating to cash flow hedges recognised in deducting all of its liabilities and is recorded at the proceeds equity are initially retained in equity and subsequently received, net of direct issue costs with an amount equal to the recognised in the income statement, in the same periods in nominal amount of the shares issued included in the share which the previously hedged item affects net profit or loss.
For capital account and the balance recorded in the share premium fair value hedges, the cumulative adjustment recorded to the account.
carrying value of the hedged item at the date hedge accounting is discontinued, is amortised to the income statement using the Subsequent to initial recognition, the fair values of financial effective interest rate method.
instruments measured at fair value that are quoted in active markets are based on bid prices for assets held and offer prices If a hedged forecast transaction is no longer expected to occur, for issued liabilities.
When independent prices are not available, the net cumulative gain or loss recognised in equity is fair values are determined by using valuation techniques which transferred to the income statement immediately.
are consistent with techniques commonly used by the relevant Q. Share-based payments market.
The techniques use observable market data.
National Grid issues equity-settled share-based payments to P. Hedge accounting certain employees of the Company and its subsidiaries.
The Company and its subsidiaries enter into both derivative Equity-settled share-based payments are measured at fair financial instruments derivatives and non-derivative financial value at the date of grant based on an estimate of the number instruments in order to manage interest rate and foreign of shares that will eventually vest.
This fair value is recognised currency exposures, and commodity price risks associated with on a straight-line basis over the vesting period, as an operating underlying business activities and the financing of those cost and an increase in equity.
Payments made by the activities.
36 National Grid Gas plc DN Regulatory accounting statements 2009 10 Company to National Grid in respect of share-based payments recognised in the income statement in the period in which are recognised as a reduction in equity.
carbon dioxide emissions are made.
A provision is recorded in respect of the obligation to deliver emission allowances and R. Business performance and exceptional items charges are recognised in the income statement in the period in and remeasurements which carbon dioxide emissions are made.
Our financial performance is analysed into two components: Income from the sale of emission allowances is reported as part business performance, which excludes exceptional items and of other operating income.
remeasurements: and exceptional items and remeasurements.
Business performance is used by management to monitor U.
Cash and cash equivalents financial performance, as it is considered to increase the Cash and cash equivalents include cash held at bank and in comparability of our reported financial performance from year to hand, together with short-term highly liquid investments with an year.
Business performance subtotals, which exclude original maturity of less than three months that are readily exceptional items and remeasurements, are presented on the convertible to known amounts of cash and subject to an face of the income statement or in the notes to the financial insignificant change in value and bank overdrafts, which are statements.
Exceptional items and remeasurements are items of income V. Other reserves and expenditure that, in the judgment of management, should Other reserves comprise the capital redemption reserve arising be disclosed separately on the basis that they are material, from the refinancing and restructuring of the Lattice Group in either by their nature or their size, to an understanding of our 1999.
It represents the amount of the reduction in the share financial performance and significantly distort the comparability capital of the Company as a consequence of that restructuring.
of financial performance between periods.
As the amounts included in other reserves are not attributable Items of income or expense that are considered by to any of the other classes of equity presented, they have been management for designation as exceptional items include such disclosed as a separate classification of equity.
items as significant restructurings, write-downs, pension deficit W. Dividends payments or impairments of non-current assets, significant Interim dividends are recognised when they become payable to changes in environmental provisions, and gains or losses on the Companys shareholders.
Final dividends are recognised in disposals of businesses or investments.
the financial year in which they are approved.
Costs arising from restructuring programmes primarily relate to redundancy costs, impairment of assets, and site X.
Areas of judgement and key sources of decommissioning costs.
Redundancy costs are charged to the estimation uncertainty income statement in the year in which an irrevocable The preparation of financial statements requires management commitment is made to incur the costs and the main features of to make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported the restructuring plan have been announced to affected amounts of assets and liabilities, disclosures of contingent employees.
assets and liabilities and the reported amounts of revenue and expenses during the reporting period.
Actual results could differ Remeasurements comprise gains or losses recorded in the from these estimates.
Information about such judgements and income statement arising from changes in the fair value of estimation is contained in the accounting policies or the notes to derivative financial instruments to the extent that hedge the financial statements, and the key areas are summarised accounting is not achieved or is not effective.
S. Other operating income Areas of judgement that have the most significant effect on the Other operating income primarily relates to profits or losses amounts recognised in the financial statements: arising on the disposal of properties arranged by National Grids property management business, which is considered to be part The categorisation of certain items as exceptional items of normal recurring operating activities but which does not and remeasurements and the definition of adjusted represent revenue, income from the sale of emission earnings note 4. allowances, and pension deficit recovery.
The exemptions adopted on transition to IFRS on 1 April 2004.
The recognition of defined benefit pension costs as if the T. Emission allowances National Grid UK Pension Scheme was a defined Emission allowances, which relate to the emissions of carbon contribution scheme accounting policy M. dioxide, are recorded as an intangible asset within current Hedge accounting accounting policy P. assets and are initially recorded at cost, and subsequently at the lower of cost and net realisable value.
For allocations of Key sources of estimation uncertainty that have a significant emission allowances granted by the UK Government, cost is risk of causing a material adjustment to the carrying amounts of deemed to be equal to fair value at the date of allocation.
assets and liabilities within the next financial year: Receipts of such grants are treated as deferred income and are National Grid Gas plc DN Regulatory accounting statements 2009 10 37 Review of residual lives, carrying values and impairment charges for intangible assets and property, plant and equipment accounting policies D, E and F. Valuation of financial instruments and derivatives notes 12, 15 and 27.
Revenue recognition and assessment of unbilled revenue accounting policy K. Environmental provisions note 21.
