National Grid Gas plc NTS Regulatory accounting statements 2009 10 75 National Grid Gas plc Regulatory accounting statements 2009 10 Appendix 1 Corporate governance 76 National Grid Gas plc NTS Regulatory accounting statements 2009 10 The Board of NGG has established a number of committees Corporate governance and sub-committees which assist it in its activities.
These include the Transmission Executive Committee and the As a subsidiary company of National Grid plc, NGG operates Finance Committee.
within National Grids corporate governance framework.
NGG does not have listed shares and therefore is not subject to the Transmission Executive Committee Combined Code on Corporate Governance.
The Transmission Executive Committee acts within National Grids overall corporate governance framework and delegated National Grids corporate governance policies are described authorities and is responsible for the operational and financial in the National Grid plc Annual Report and Accounts 2009 10 management of the transmission businesses.
Membership of under Corporate Governance on page 84. this committee and attendance at meetings during 2009 10 is The Board of National Grid plc considers that it complied in set out below.
Attendance is expressed as number of full with the Combined Code during 2009 10. meetings attended out of number eligible to attend, and includes attendance by a nominated deputy.
Board of NGG The Board of NGG is responsible for the overall management and governance of NGG and for ensuring that NGG complies Attendance with all relevant laws and regulations, including compliance Nick Winser Executive Director of National Grid 3 of 4 with the Gas Transportation Licence.
Chair Jonathan Munsey Senior Counsel Energy & 2 of 2 The Board of NGG meets 6 times a year on a bi-monthly Regulation basis.
There are no non-executive or independent directors.
Karen Clayton UK General Counsel & Company 2 of 2 The Board does not have a separately appointed Chairman.
Secretary Meetings are usually chaired by a member of the Board, Mark Louise Farnworth HR business partner - 3 of 4 Fairbairn when present, otherwise as appropriate.
Transmission The Board of NGG does not have a Nomination, Mike Calviou Director of Asset Management 1 of 1 UK Transmission appointed Remuneration or Audit committee.
These functions are dealt January 2010 with by NGG in conjunction with the relevant committee of the Stuart Humphreys Finance Director - Transmission 4 of 4 National Grid plc Board.
Alison Kay Commercial Director - 4 of 4 Continuous improvement and development of Board and Transmission Board committee processes and procedures is key to Adam Mallalieu Director of Safety, Health, 0 of 3 ensuring that NGG's governance structures are in line with Environment and Security best practice.
Over and above procedures for evaluating resigned October 2009 individual Directors' performance, the Board have reviewed Edward Syson Director of Safety, Health, 1 of 1 the need for a process for evaluation of Board performance Environment and Security appointed December 2009 and an internal process involving an anonymous Chris Murray Director of Asset Management - 3 of 4 questionnaire to evaluate Board performance will be UK Transmission established in the coming year.
Michael Dyke Director of UK Construction 4 of 4 Attendance at NGG Board meetings during 2009 10, expressed as number of meetings attended out of number Masheed Saidi Director of US Transmission 0 of 2 eligible to attend, is set out below.
resigned October 2009 Ellen Smith Director of US Transmission 2 of 2 Attendance appointed November 2009 Mark Fairbairn Chair 6 of 6 Chris Train Director of Network Operations - 4 of 4 Malcolm Cooper 6 of 6 UK Transmission Stuart Humphreys 6 of 6 Paul Whittaker UK Director of Regulation 4 of 4 Paul Whittaker 4 of 6 Nick Winser 3 of 6 The Transmission Executive Committee has a number of subAdam Wiltshire 6 of 6 committees dealing with matters such as investment Helen Mahy Karen Clayton Company 6 of 6 governance and coordination of operations.
Secretary and general counsel Treasury activities The ultimate shareholder of NGG is National Grid plc.
Two of Treasury activities for NGG are carried out by the Treasury the Directors of NGG, Nick Winser, and Mark Fairbairn are function of National Grid under policies and guidelines also Executive Directors of National Grid plc.
Through approved by the Finance Committees of the Boards of participation of these Directors at the Board of both National Grid plc and of NGG.
companies, the Board of NGG develops an understanding of More information on treasury policy is provided on page 19. the views of its shareholder.
National Grid Gas plc NTS Regulatory accounting statements 2009 10 77 Internal control appointed separate Compliance Committees for each of the gas transmission business and the gas distribution The Board of National Grid plc takes overall responsibility for business.
Each Compliance Committee reports directly internal control in National Grid including its subsidiary to the board of NGG and also to the Audit Committee of companies.
Details of the internal control process are set out National Grid: and on page 91 of the National Grid plc Annual Report and appointed a Business Separation Compliance Officer, Accounts 2009 10. who reports to the Compliance Committees and twice yearly to the Audit Committee of National Grid.
Compliance management Compliance management is undertaken on a National Grid Risk management wide basis.
Details of the compliance management process The risk management process continues to be based on both are set out on page 92 of the National Grid plc Annual Report bottom-up and top-down assessments of operational, financial and Accounts 2009 10. and other business or project risks.
From the bottom-up, Internal audit NGGs business units prepare and maintain risk registers that NGG does not have a separate internal audit function.
Internal capture key risks and the actions being taken to manage audit, where appropriate, is dealt with by National Grid's them.
These risk registers are regularly reviewed and corporate audit function.
discussed by the executive committees for those business units.
The key element in the top-down assessments of the Business separation enterprise-wide risk profile is the involvement of Directors and Special Condition C20 of NGGs NTS gas transporter licence other senior management at critical stages in the review requires that NGG maintains managerial and operational process.
Their review and debate of bottom-up assessments systems such that: produces the overall evaluations of the risks that are faced by the DN businesses do not gain unfair commercial NGG.
In addition, the Executive, the Risk & Responsibility and advantage by reason of the way NGG conducts its NTS the Audit Committees of National Grid plc review National business, as required by Standard Special Condition A6: Grids overall risk profile twice a year.
The Audit Committee of and National Grid plc also reviews the risk management process cross-subsidy between the NTS business and the DN at least once a year and reports on this to the Board of businesses is avoided, as required by Standard Special National Grid plc.
NGGs policy on business separation is set out in its Further information on risk management and risk factors can Compliance Statement.
be found in the Operating and Financial Review under Principal risks and uncertainties on page 22.
NGG has taken the following actions to comply with the requirements of Special Condition C20: established separate management for the gas transmission and gas distribution businesses, as described above:
