National Grid Gas plc NTS Regulatory accounting statements 2009 10 31 Accounting policies for the year ended 31 March 2010 assets, liabilities and equity between the regulatory businesses.
Basis of preparation of the regulatory These items mainly comprise corporate activities, financial accounting statements items, taxation, dividends, share capital and reserves.
These regulatory accounting statements have been prepared in These revenues, costs, assets, liabilities and equity are accordance with Standard Special Condition A30 the condition apportioned between regulatory businesses using the following of National Grid Gas plcs NTS gas transporter licence issued arbitrary bases: under the Utilities Act 2000 the licence and in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS as issued by Corporate costs charged to NGG by National Grid are the International Accounting Standards Board and as adopted apportioned between the regulatory businesses using the by the European Union.
They are prepared on the basis of all same metrics as National Grid uses to determine the IFRS accounting standards and interpretations that are allocated charge to NGG.
These metrics take into account mandatory for periods ending 31 March 2009 and in relative revenue, operating profit, employees and net accordance with applicable United Kingdom law and Article 4 of assets of the regulatory businesses.
The non-current amount owed by National Grid Gas the European Union IAS regulation.
The 2009 comparative Holdings Limited is apportioned between the regulatory financial information has also been prepared on this basis.
businesses in the ratio of their estimated regulatory These regulatory accounting statements have been prepared values.
on a historical cost basis, except for the revaluation of certain Net debt at 1 April 2005 the first balance sheet date for financial instruments.
this format of regulatory accounting statements, which comprises borrowings and bank overdrafts, less cash, These regulatory accounting statements are presented in cash equivalents and financial investments at that date, pounds sterling, which is the functional currency of NGG.
was apportioned between regulatory businesses in the ratio of estimated regulatory values at that date.
No The preparation of regulatory accounting statements requires amounts were apportioned to the fide-minimis business or management to make estimates and assumptions that affect to other activities.
The amounts at subsequent period ends the reported amounts of assets and liabilities, disclosure of have been determined by separately adjusting these contingent assets and liabilities and the reported amounts of initially apportioned amounts by the cash generated or revenues and expenses during the reporting period.
Actual used by each regulatory business, movements in fair results could differ from these estimates.
value of net debt allocated to each business and other funding movements.
Movements in fair value and other Attribution of revenues, costs, assets, liabilities and equity funding movements are apportioned between the The condition requires that all the revenues, costs, assets, regulatory businesses relative to the net debt at the start liabilities and equity of NGG are attributed to the regulatory of the period in which the movements occurred.
Other businesses reported in the regulatory accounting statements.
movements include a reallocation between regulatory Those revenues, costs, assets, liabilities and equity which are businesses so that the final amounts allocated are not directly attributable to specific regulatory businesses have prorated based on the maximum debt potential in each been apportioned between one or more regulatory businesses regulatory business.
The maximum debt potential for the according to whether they are related items or unrelated items.
combined DNs was determined using estimated regulatory assets values at the balance sheet date.
Related items Interest is apportioned between the regulatory businesses Related items comprise all those revenues, costs, assets and according to the relative level of net debt determined liabilities of NGG which are not directly attributable to a specific according to the principles set out above.
regulatory business, but where there is a reasonable basis for Current and deferred taxation are apportioned between apportioning those revenues, costs, assets or liabilities between the regulatory businesses relative to the results of the regulatory businesses.
These items comprise shared undertaking notional current and deferred tax computations for each regulatory business, commencing services and certain business services.
Prior year tax adjustments substantially These revenues, costs, assets and liabilities are apportioned relating to transactions which occurred prior to 1 April between regulatory businesses in accordance with the activities 2005 are apportioned in the ratio of estimated regulatory giving rise to the income, costs, assets or liabilities.
The estimated capital allowances pools at 1 April 2005 were apportioned between the Unrelated items regulatory businesses in the ratio of estimated regulatory Unrelated items comprise all those revenues, costs, assets, values at that date.
Current tax liabilities have been liabilities and equity of NGG which are not directly attributable apportioned relative to current tax charges and tax paid or to a specific regulatory business, and where there is no recovered is determined by balance.
reasonable basis for apportioning those revenues, costs, 32 National Grid Gas plc NTS Regulatory accounting statements 2009 10 Equity dividends primarily funded from profits for the year intangible asset can be recognised, development expenditure is have been apportioned on the basis of profits for the year.
recorded as an expense in the period in which it is incurred.
Equity dividends primarily funded from retained earnings Intangible assets under development are not amortised.
Other have been apportioned on the basis of relative regulatory non-current intangible assets are amortised on a straight-line values.
basis over their estimated useful economic lives.
The principal The total equity of NGG at 1 April 2005, comprising called up amortisation periods for categories of intangible assets are: share capital, share premium account, retained profits and other reserves, was determined as a balancing item at that Amortisation periods Years date.
The amounts at subsequent period ends are determined Software 3 to 5 by separately adjusting these initially allocated amounts by the equity movements derived for each regulatory business as a Intangible emission allowances are accounted for in consequence of all other allocations and funding movements.
accordance with accounting policy T. B.
Basis of consolidation E. Property, plant and equipment The consolidated financial statements incorporate the financial Property, plant and equipment is recorded at cost less statements of the Company and its subsidiaries.
accumulated depreciation and any impairment losses.
A subsidiary is defined as an entity controlled by the Company.
Cost includes payroll and finance costs incurred which are Control is achieved where the Company has the power to directly attributable to the construction of property, plant and govern the financial and operating policies of an entity so as to equipment as well as the cost of any associated asset obtain benefits from its activities.
Where necessary, adjustments are made to bring the Property, plant and equipment include assets in which the accounting policies used under UK generally accepted Companys interest comprises legally protected statutory or accounting principles UK GAAP used in the individual financial contractual rights of use.
statements of the Company and its subsidiaries into line with Additions represent the purchase or construction of new assets, those used by the Company in its consolidated financial including capital expenditure for safety and environmental statements under IFRS.
Inter-company transactions are assets, and extensions to, enhancements to, or replacement of eliminated.
C. Foreign currencies Contributions received prior to 1 July 2009 towards the cost of Transactions in currencies other than the functional currency of property, plant and equipment are included in trade and other the Company or subsidiary concerned are recorded at the rates payables as deferred income and credited on a straight-line of exchange prevailing on the dates of the transactions.
At each basis to the income statement over the estimated economic balance sheet date, monetary assets and liabilities that are useful lives of the assets to which they relate.
denominated in foreign currencies are retranslated at closing exchange rates.
Other non-monetary assets are not Contributions received post 1 July 2009 are recognised in retranslated unless they are carried at fair value.
revenue immediately, except where the contributions are consideration for a future service, in which case they are Gains and losses arising on retranslation of monetary assets recognised initially as deferred income and revenue is and liabilities are included in the income statement.
subsequently recognised over the period in which the service is On consolidation, the assets and liabilities of overseas financing provided.
operations that have a functional currency different from the Depreciation is not provided on freehold land or assets in the Companys functional currency of sterling are translated at course of construction.
Other property, plant and equipment are exchange rates prevailing at the balance sheet date.
Income depreciated, principally on a straight-line basis, at rates and expense items are translated at the weighted average estimated to write off their book values over their estimated exchange rates for the period.
Exchange differences arising are useful economic lives.
In assessing estimated useful economic classified as equity and transferred to the consolidated lives, which are reviewed on a regular basis, consideration is translation reserve.
given to any contractual arrangements and operational requirements relating to particular assets.
Unless otherwise D. Intangible assets determined by operational requirements, the depreciation Identifiable intangible assets are recorded at cost less periods for the principal categories of property, plant and accumulated amortisation and any provision for impairment.
equipment are, in general, as shown in the table below: Internally generated intangible fixed assets, such as software, are recognised only if an asset is created that can be identified: it is probable that the asset created will generate future economic benefits: and that the development cost of the asset can be measured reliably.
Where no internally generated National Grid Gas plc NTS Regulatory accounting statements 2009 10 33 Depreciation periods Years temporary difference arises from the initial recognition other Freehold and leasehold buildings up to 50 than a business combination of assets and liabilities in a Plant and machinery transaction that affects neither the accounting profits nor the taxable profits.
mains, services and regulating equipment 30 to 100 meters and metering equipment 5 to 18 Deferred tax liabilities are recognised on taxable temporary Motor vehicles and office equipment 3 to 10 differences arising on investments in subsidiaries except where the Company is able to control the reversal of the temporary F. Impairment of assets difference and it is probable that the temporary difference will Impairments of assets are calculated as the difference between not reverse in the foreseeable future.
the carrying value of the asset and its recoverable amount, if Deferred tax is calculated at the tax rates that are expected to lower.
Where such an asset does not generate cash flows that apply in the period when the liability is settled or the asset is are independent from other assets, the recoverable amount of realised, based on the tax rates and tax laws that have been the cash-generating unit to which that asset belongs is enacted or substantively enacted by the balance sheet date.
Recoverable amount is defined as the higher of fair Deferred tax is charged or credited to the income statement, value less costs to sell and estimated value in use at the date except where it relates to items charged or credited directly to the impairment review is undertaken.
equity, in which case the deferred tax is also dealt with in Value in use represents the present value of expected future equity.
cash flows, discounted using a pre-tax discount rate that The carrying amount of deferred tax assets is reviewed at each reflects current market assessments of the time value of money balance sheet date and reduced to the extent that it is no longer and the risks specific to the asset for which the estimates of probable that sufficient taxable profits will be available to allow future cash flows have not been adjusted.
all or part of the deferred income tax asset to be recovered.
Tests for impairment are carried out only if there is some Unrecognised deferred tax assets are reassessed at each indication that the carrying value of the assets may have been balance sheet date and are recognised to the extent that it has impaired.
become probable that future taxable profit will allow the deferred tax asset to be recovered.
Material impairments are recognised in the income statement and are disclosed separately.
Deferred tax assets and liabilities are offset when there is a legally enforceable right to set off current tax assets against G. Taxation current tax liabilities, and when they relate to income taxes Current tax levied by the same taxation authority and it is intended to settle Current tax assets and liabilities for the current and prior current tax assets and liabilities on a net basis.
periods are measured at the amount expected to be recovered H. Discontinued operations from or paid to the taxation authorities.
The tax rates and tax laws used to compute the amount are those that are enacted or Cash flows and operations that relate to a major component of substantively enacted by the balance sheet date.
Management the business that has been sold are shown separately from periodically evaluates positions taken in tax returns with respect continuing operations.
to situations in which applicable tax regulation is subject to I.
Inventories interpretation and establishes provisions where appropriate on Inventories, which comprise raw materials and consumables, the basis of amounts expected to be paid to the tax authorities.
are stated at cost less provision for damage and obsolescence.
Current tax assets and liabilities arising from transfer pricing Cost comprises cost of direct materials and those costs that adjustments, which are expected to be fully recovered through have been incurred in bringing the inventories to their present group relief, are initially estimated and recognised where location and condition.
Further adjustments are recognised when tax returns are submitted to the tax authorities.
Environmental costs Provision is made for environmental costs, based on future Deferred tax estimated expenditures, discounted to present values.
Changes Deferred tax is provided using the balance sheet liability in the provision arising from revised estimates or discount rates method and is recognised on temporary differences between or changes in the expected timing of expenditures are the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities in the financial recognised in the income statement.
The unwinding of the statements and the corresponding tax bases used in the discount is included within the income statement as a financing computation of taxable profit.
Deferred tax liabilities are generally recognised on all taxable K. Revenue temporary differences and deferred tax assets are recognised Revenue represents the sales value derived from the to the extent that is probable that taxable profits will be transmission and distribution of gas and the provision of gas available against which deductible temporary differences can be utilised.
Such assets and liabilities are not recognised if the 34 National Grid Gas plc NTS Regulatory accounting statements 2009 10 metering services during the year.
It excludes value added tax financial assets are non-derivatives that are either designated in and intra-group sales.
this category or not classified in any other categories.
The sales value for the transmission and distribution of gas is Trade receivables are initially recognised at fair value and largely determined from the amount of system capacity sold for subsequently measured at amortised cost, less any appropriate the year and the amount of gas transported in the year, allowances for estimated irrecoverable amounts.
A provision is evaluated at contractual prices on a monthly basis.
Where established for irrecoverable amounts when there is objective revenue for the year exceeds the maximum amount permitted evidence that amounts due under the original payment terms by regulatory agreement and adjustments will be made to future will not be collected.
Indications that the trade receivable may prices to reflect this over-recovery, a liability for the overbecome irrecoverable would include financial difficulties of the recovery is not recognised as such an adjustment to future debtor, likelihood of the debtors insolvency, and default or prices relates to the provision of future services.
Similarly, an significant failure of payment.
Trade payables are initially asset is not recognised where a regulatory agreement permits recognised at fair value and subsequently measured at adjustments to be made to future prices in respect of an underamortised cost.
Loans receivable and other receivables are carried at amortised The sales value for the provision of gas metering services is cost using the effective interest rate method.
Interest income, largely derived from monthly contractual charges for the together with gains and losses when the loans and receivables provision of individual meters under long-term contractual are derecognised or impaired, are recognised in the income arrangements.
Other financial investments are recognised at fair value plus, in L. Segmental information the case of available-for-sale financial investments, directly Segmental information is based on the information the Board of related incremental transaction costs and are subsequently Directors uses internally for the purposes of evaluating the carried at fair value on the balance sheet.
Changes in the fair performance of operating segments and determining resource value of investments classified as fair value through profit and allocation between operating segments.
The Board of Directors loss are included in the income statement, while changes in the is deemed to be the chief operating decision-maker and fair value of investments classified as available-for-sale are assesses the performance of operations principally on the basis recognised directly in equity, until the investment is disposed of of operating items before exceptionals and remeasurements.
or is determined to be impaired.
At this time, the cumulative M. Pensions gain or loss previously recognised in equity is included in the income statement for the period.
Investment income on The substantial majority of NGGs employees are members of investments classified as fair value through profit and loss and the defined benefit section of the National Grid UK Pension on available-for-sale investments is recognised using the Scheme.
There is no contractual arrangement or stated policy effective interest rate method and taken through interest income for charging the net defined benefit cost of the Scheme to NGG.
Accordingly, the Scheme is recognised as if it were a defined contribution scheme.
The pension charge for the year Borrowings, which include interest-bearing loans, UK Retail represents the contributions payable to the Scheme for the Prices Index RPI linked debt and overdrafts, are recorded at period.
A share of the assets and liabilities, or the actuarial their initial fair value which normally reflects the proceeds gains and losses of the Scheme are not recognised in these received, net of direct issue costs less any repayments.
Subsequently they are stated at amortised cost, using the effective interest rate method.
Any difference between the N. Leases proceeds after direct issue costs and the redemption value is Rentals under operating leases are charged to income on a recognised over the term of the borrowing in the income straight-line basis over the term of the relevant lease.
statement using the effective interest rate method.
Assets held under finance leases are recognised at their fair Borrowing costs directly attributable to the acquisition, value or, if lower, the present value of minimum lease payments construction or development of qualifying assets being assets on inception.
The corresponding liability is recognised as a that necessarily take a substantial period of time to get ready finance lease obligation within borrowings.
Rental payments are for their intended use are added to their cost.
Such additions apportioned between finance costs and reduction in the finance cease when the assets are substantially ready for their intended lease obligation, so as to achieve a constant rate of interest.
Assets held under finance leases are depreciated over the Derivative financial instruments are recorded at fair value, and shorter of their useful life and the lease term.
where fair value of a derivative is positive, it is carried as a derivative asset and where negative, as a derivative liability.
Financial instruments Assets and liabilities on different transactions are only netted if Financial assets, liabilities and equity instruments are classified the transactions are with the same counterparty, a legal right to according to the substance of the contractual arrangements set-off exists and the cash flows are intended to be settled on a entered into, and recognised on trade date.
Available-for-sale National Grid Gas plc NTS Regulatory accounting statements 2009 10 35 net basis.
Gains and losses arising from changes in the fair hedged, the amounts deferred in equity are included in the value are included in the income statement in the period they initial measurement of that non-monetary asset or liability.
Secondly, fair value hedge accounting offsets the changes in No adjustment is made with respect to derivative clauses the fair value of the hedging instrument against the change in embedded in financial instruments or other contracts that are the fair value of the hedged item in respect to the risk being closely related to those instruments or contracts.
These changes are recognised in the income interest payments on UK RPI debt are linked to movements in statement to the extent the fair value hedge is effective.
the UK retail price index.
The link to RPI is considered to be an Adjustments made to the carrying amount of the hedged item embedded derivative, which is closely related to the underlying for fair value hedges will be amortised over the remaining life, in debt instrument based on the view that there is a strong line with the hedged item.
relationship between interest rates and inflation in the UK Changes in the fair value of derivatives that do not qualify for economy.
Consequently these embedded derivatives are not hedge accounting are recognised in the income statement as accounted for separately from the debt instrument.
Where there they arise, within finance costs.
are embedded derivatives in host contracts not closely related, the embedded derivative is separately accounted for as a Hedge accounting is discontinued when the hedging instrument expires or is sold, terminated, or exercised, or no longer derivative financial instrument and recorded at fair value.
At that time, any cumulative An equity instrument is any contract that evidences a residual gains or losses relating to cash flow hedges recognised in interest in the consolidated assets of the Company after equity are initially retained in equity and subsequently deducting all of its liabilities and is recorded at the proceeds recognised in the income statement, in the same periods in received, net of direct issue costs with an amount equal to the which the previously hedged item affects net profit or loss.
For nominal amount of the shares issued included in the share fair value hedges, the cumulative adjustment recorded to the capital account and the balance recorded in the share premium carrying value of the hedged item at the date hedge accounting account.
is discontinued, is amortised to the income statement using the Subsequent to initial recognition, the fair values of financial effective interest rate method.
instruments measured at fair value that are quoted in active If a hedged forecast transaction is no longer expected to occur, markets are based on bid prices for assets held and offer prices the net cumulative gain or loss recognised in equity is for issued liabilities.
When independent prices are not available, transferred to the income statement immediately.
fair values are determined by using valuation techniques which are consistent with techniques commonly used by the relevant Q. Share-based payments market.
The techniques use observable market data.
National Grid issues equity-settled share-based payments to certain employees of the Company and its subsidiaries.
P. Hedge accounting The Company and its subsidiaries enter into both derivative Equity-settled share-based payments are measured at fair financial instruments derivatives and non-derivative financial value at the date of grant based on an estimate of the number instruments in order to manage interest rate and foreign of shares that will eventually vest.
This fair value is recognised currency exposures, and commodity price risks associated with on a straight-line basis over the vesting period, as an operating cost and an increase in equity.
Payments made by the underlying business activities and the financing of those activities.
Company to National Grid in respect of share-based payments are recognised as a reduction in equity.
Hedge accounting allows derivatives to be designated as a hedge of another non-derivative financial instrument, to R. Business performance and exceptional items mitigate the impact of potential volatility in the income statement and remeasurements of changes in fair value of the derivative instruments.
To qualify Our financial performance is analysed into two components: for hedge accounting documentation is prepared specifying the business performance, which excludes exceptional items and hedging strategy, the component transactions and methodology remeasurements: and exceptional items and remeasurements.
The Company uses two Business performance is used by management to monitor hedge accounting methods.
financial performance, as it is considered to increase the Firstly, changes in the carrying value of financial instruments comparability of our reported financial performance from year to that are designated and effective as hedges of future cash flows year.
Business performance subtotals, which exclude cash flow hedges are recognised directly in equity and any exceptional items and remeasurements, are presented on the ineffective portion is recognised immediately in the income face of the income statement or in the notes to the financial statement.
Amounts deferred in equity in respect of cash flow statements.
hedges are subsequently recognised in the income statement in Exceptional items and remeasurements are items of income the same period in which the hedged item affects net profit or and expenditure that, in the judgment of management, should loss.
Where a non-financial asset or a non-financial liability be disclosed separately on the basis that they are material, results from a forecasted transaction or firm commitment being 36 National Grid Gas plc NTS Regulatory accounting statements 2009 10 either by their nature or their size, to an understanding of our U.
Cash and cash equivalents financial performance and significantly distort the comparability Cash and cash equivalents include cash held at bank and in of financial performance between periods.
hand, together with short-term highly liquid investments with an original maturity of less than three months that are readily Items of income or expense that are considered by convertible to known amounts of cash and subject to an management for designation as exceptional items include such insignificant change in value and bank overdrafts, which are items as significant restructurings, write-downs, pension deficit reported in borrowings.
payments or impairments of non-current assets, significant changes in environmental provisions, and gains or losses on V. Other reserves disposals of businesses or investments.
Other reserves comprise the capital redemption reserve arising Costs arising from restructuring programmes primarily relate to from the refinancing and restructuring of the Lattice Group in redundancy costs, impairment of assets, and site 1999.
It represents the amount of the reduction in the share decommissioning costs.
Redundancy costs are charged to the capital of the Company as a consequence of that restructuring.
income statement in the year in which an irrevocable As the amounts included in other reserves are not attributable commitment is made to incur the costs and the main features of to any of the other classes of equity presented, they have been the restructuring plan have been announced to affected disclosed as a separate classification of equity.
W. Dividends Remeasurements comprise gains or losses recorded in the Interim dividends are recognised when they become payable to income statement arising from changes in the fair value of the Companys shareholders.
Final dividends are recognised in derivative financial instruments to the extent that hedge the financial year in which they are approved.
accounting is not achieved or is not effective.
S. Other operating income Other operating income primarily relates to profits or losses arising on the disposal of properties arranged by National Grids property management business, which is considered to be part of normal recurring operating activities but which does not represent revenue, income from the sale of emission allowances, and pension deficit recovery.
T. Emission allowances Emission allowances, which relate to the emissions of carbon dioxide, are recorded as an intangible asset within current assets and are initially recorded at cost, and subsequently at the lower of cost and net realisable value.
For allocations of emission allowances granted by the UK Government, cost is deemed to be equal to fair value at the date of allocation.
Receipts of such grants are treated as deferred income and are recognised in the income statement in the period in which carbon dioxide emissions are made.
A provision is recorded in respect of the obligation to deliver emission allowances and charges are recognised in the income statement in the period in which carbon dioxide emissions are made.
Income from the sale of emission allowances is reported as part of other operating income.
National Grid Gas plc NTS Regulatory accounting statements 2009 10 37 X.
Areas of judgement and key sources of estimation uncertainty The preparation of financial statements requires management to make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities, disclosures of contingent assets and liabilities and the reported amounts of revenue and expenses during the reporting period.
Actual results could differ from these estimates.
Information about such judgements and estimation is contained in the accounting policies or the notes to the financial statements, and the key areas are summarised below.
Areas of judgement that have the most significant effect on the amounts recognised in the financial statements: The categorisation of certain items as exceptional items and remeasurements and the definition of adjusted earnings note 4.
The exemptions adopted on transition to IFRS on 1 April 2004.
The recognition of defined benefit pension costs as if the National Grid UK Pension Scheme was a defined contribution scheme accounting policy M. Hedge accounting accounting policy P. Key sources of estimation uncertainty that have a significant risk of causing a material adjustment to the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities within the next financial year: Review of residual lives, carrying values and impairment charges for intangible assets and property, plant and equipment accounting policies D, E and F. Valuation of financial instruments and derivatives notes 12, 15 and 27.
Revenue recognition and assessment of unbilled revenue accounting policy K. Environmental provisions note 21.
