National Grid Gas plc DN Regulatory accounting statements 2009 10 75 National Grid Gas plc Regulatory accounting statements 2009 10 Appendix 1 Corporate governance 76 National Grid Gas plc DN Regulatory accounting statements 2009 10 companies, the Board of NGG develops an understanding of Corporate governance the views of its shareholder.
As a subsidiary company of National Grid plc, NGG operates The Board of NGG has established a number of committees within National Grids corporate governance framework.
NGG and sub-committees which assist it in its activities.
These does not have listed shares and therefore is not subject to the include the Distribution Executive Committee and the Finance Combined Code on Corporate Governance.
National Grids corporate governance policies are described Distribution executive committee in the National Grid plc Annual Report and Accounts 2009 10 The Distribution Executive Committee acts within National under Corporate Governance on page 84.
Grids overall corporate governance framework and delegated authorities and is responsible for the operational and financial The Board of National Grid plc considers that it complied in management of the Distribution businesses.
Membership of full with the Combined Code during 2009 10. this committee and attendance at meetings during 2009 10 is Board of NGG set out below.
Attendance is expressed as number of The Board of NGG is responsible for the overall management meetings attended out of number eligible to attend, and and governance of NGG and for ensuring that NGG complies includes attendance by a nominated deputy.
with all relevant laws and regulations, including compliance Attendance with the Gas Transportation Licence.
Mark Fairbairn Executive Director of National 10 of 11 The Board of NGG meets 6 times a year on a bi-monthly Chair Grid basis.
There are no non-executive or independent directors.
Adam Wiltshire Chief Finance Officer, Gas 9 of 11 The Board does not have a separately appointed Chairman.
Distribution Meetings are usually chaired by a member of the Board, Mark Denise Wilson Director of Distribution Customer 10 of 11 Fairbairn when present, otherwise as appropriate.
Support Jeremy Bending Director, Network Strategy 9 of 11 The Board of NGG does not have a Nomination, Remuneration or Audit committee.
These functions are dealt Jon Butterworth Director, Operations 7 of 11 with by NGG in conjunction with the relevant committee of the National Grid plc Board.
Michael Dyke Director of UK Construction 8 of 11 Continuous improvement and development of Board and Ian Legal Counsel 5 of 11 Leedham Karen Board committee processes and procedures is key to Clayton ensuring that NGG's governance structures are in line with Pete Massey Director of Transformatiom 11 of 11 best practice.
Over and above procedures for evaluating individual Directors' performance, the Board have reviewed the need for a process for evaluation of Board performance The Distribution Executive Committee has a number of suband an internal process involving an anonymous committees dealing with matters such as investment questionnaire to evaluate Board performance will be governance and coordination of operations.
established in the coming year.
Treasury activities Attendance at NGG Board meetings during 2009 10, Treasury activities for NGG are carried out by the Treasury expressed as number of meetings attended out of number function of National Grid under policies and guidelines eligible to attend, is set out below.
approved by the Finance Committees of the Boards of National Grid plc and of NGG.
Attendance Mark Fairbairn Chair 6 of 6 More information on treasury policy is provided on page 19.
Malcolm Cooper 6 of 6 Internal control Stuart Humphreys 6 of 6 The Board of National Grid plc takes overall responsibility for Paul Whittaker 4 of 6 internal control in National Grid including its subsidiary Nick Winser 3 of 6 companies.
Details of the internal control process are set out Adam Wiltshire 6 of 6 on page 91 of the National Grid plc Annual Report and Helen Mahy Karen Clayton 6 of 6 Accounts 2009 10.
Company Secretary and general counsel Compliance management Compliance management is undertaken on a National Grid The ultimate shareholder of NGG is National Grid plc.
Details of the compliance management process the Directors of NGG, Nick Winser, and Mark Fairbairn are are set out on page 92 of the National Grid plc Annual Report also Executive Directors of National Grid plc.
Through and Accounts 2009 10. participation of these Directors at the Board of both National Grid Gas plc DN Regulatory accounting statements 2009 10 77 Internal audit appointed a Business Separation Compliance Officer, who reports to the Compliance Committees and twice NGG does not have a separate internal audit function.
Internal yearly to the Audit Committee of National Grid.
audit, where appropriate, is dealt with by National Grid's corporate audit function.
Risk management Business separation The risk management process continues to be based on both Special Condition C20 of NGGs NTS gas transporter licence bottom-up and top-down assessments of operational, financial requires that NGG maintains managerial and operational and other business or project risks.
From the bottom-up, systems such that: NGGs business units prepare and maintain risk registers that capture key risks and the actions being taken to manage the DN businesses do not gain unfair commercial them.
These risk registers are regularly reviewed and advantage by reason of the way NGG conducts its NTS discussed by the executive committees for those business business, as required by Standard Special Condition A6: and units.
The key element in the top-down assessments of the cross-subsidy between the NTS business and the DN enterprise-wide risk profile is the involvement of Directors and businesses is avoided, as required by Standard Special other senior management at critical stages in the review Condition A35.
Their review and debate of bottom-up assessments produces the overall evaluations of the risks that are faced by NGGs policy on business separation is set out in its NGG.
In addition, the Executive, the Risk & Responsibility and Compliance Statement.
the Audit Committees of National Grid plc review National NGG has taken the following actions to comply with the Grids overall risk profile twice a year.
The Audit Committee of requirements of Special Condition C20: National Grid plc also reviews the risk management process at least once a year and reports on this to the Board of established separate management for the gas National Grid plc.
transmission and gas distribution businesses, as described above: Further information on risk management and risk factors can appointed separate Compliance Committees for each of be found in the Operating and Financial Review under the gas transmission business and the gas distribution Principal risks and uncertainties on page 22. business.
Each Compliance Committee reports directly to the board of NGG and also to the Audit Committee of National Grid: and
