National Grid Gas plc Annual Report and Accounts 2009 10 73 Company accounting policies for the year ended 31 March 2010 Additions represent the purchase or construction of new assets, A.
Basis of preparation of individual financial extensions to, or significant increases in, the capacity of statements under UK GAAP tangible fixed assets.
These individual financial statements of the Company have Contributions received towards the cost of tangible fixed assets been prepared in accordance with applicable UK accounting are included in creditors as deferred income and credited on a and financial reporting standards and the Companies Act 2006. straight-line basis to the profit and loss account over the life of The individual financial statements of the Company have been the assets.
prepared on a historical cost basis, except for the revaluation of Depreciation is not provided on freehold land or assets in the financial instruments.
Other tangible fixed assets are These financial statements are presented in pounds sterling depreciated principally on a straight-line basis, at rates because that is the currency of the primary economic estimated to write off their book values over their estimated environment in which the Company operates.
In assessing estimated useful economic lives, which are reviewed on a regular basis, consideration is The Company has not presented its own profit and loss account given to any contractual arrangements and operational as permitted by section 408 of the Companies Act 2006.
The requirements relating to particular assets.
Unless otherwise Company has taken the exemption from preparing a cash flow determined by operational requirements, the depreciation statement under the terms of FRS 1 revised 1996 Cash Flow periods for the principal categories of tangible fixed assets are, Statements.
in general, as shown in the table below: In accordance with exemptions under FRS 8 Related party Depreciation periods Years disclosures, the Company has not disclosed transactions with Freehold and leasehold properties up to 50 related parties, as the Companys financial statements are Plant and machinery: presented together with its consolidated financial statements.
Furthermore, in accordance with exemptions under FRS 29 Mains, services and regulating equipment 30 to 100 Financial Instruments: Disclosures, the Company has not Meters and metering equipment 5 to 18 presented the financial instruments disclosures required by the Motor vehicles and office equipment 3 to 10 standard, as disclosures which comply with the standard are included in the consolidated financial statements.
D. Fixed asset investments Investments held as fixed assets are stated at cost less any The preparation of financial statements requires management to make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported provisions for impairment.
amounts of assets and liabilities, disclosures of contingent E. Impairment of fixed assets assets and liabilities and the reported amounts of revenue and Impairments of fixed assets are calculated as the difference expenses during the reporting period.
Actual results could differ between the carrying values of the net assets of income from these estimates.
generating units, including where appropriate, investments, and B.
Foreign currencies their recoverable amounts.
Recoverable amount is defined as the higher of net realisable value or estimated value in use at Transactions in currencies other than the functional currency of the date the impairment review is undertaken.
Net realisable the Company are recorded at the rates of exchange prevailing value represents the amount that can be generated through the on the dates of the transactions.
At each balance sheet date, sale of assets.
Value in use represents the present value of monetary assets and liabilities that are denominated in foreign expected future cash flows discounted on a pre-tax basis, using currencies are retranslated at closing exchange rates.
Gains and losses arising on retranslation of monetary assets and the estimated cost of capital of the income generating unit.
liabilities are included in the profit and loss account.
Impairment reviews are carried out if there is some indication that impairment may have occurred, or where otherwise C. Tangible fixed assets required to ensure that fixed assets are not carried above their Tangible fixed assets are included in the balance sheet at their estimated recoverable amounts.
Impairments are recognised in cost less accumulated depreciation.
Costs include payroll costs the profit and loss account, and, where material, are disclosed and finance costs incurred which are directly attributable to the as exceptional.
Impairment reversals are recognised when, in construction of tangible fixed assets.
managements opinion, the reversal is permanent.
Tangible fixed assets include assets in which the Companys interest comprises legally protected statutory or contractual rights of use.
74 National Grid Gas plc Annual Report and Accounts 2009 10 F. Taxation K. Pensions Current tax for the current and prior periods is provided at the The substantial majority of the Companys employees are amount expected to be paid or recovered using the tax rates members of the defined benefit section of the National Grid UK and tax laws that have been enacted or substantively enacted Pension Scheme.
There is no contractual arrangement or by the balance sheet date.
Current tax assets and liabilities stated policy for charging the net defined benefit cost of the arising from transfer pricing adjustments, which are expected to scheme to the Company.
Accordingly, the Scheme is be fully recovered through group relief, are initially estimated recognised in these Company financial statements as if it were and recognised in the current year where material.
The pension charge for the year adjustments are recognised when tax returns are submitted to represents the contributions payable to the Scheme for the the tax authorities.
A share of the assets and liabilities or the actuarial gains and losses of the Scheme are not recognised in these Deferred tax is provided in full on timing differences which result Company financial statements.
in an obligation at the balance sheet date to pay more tax, or the right to pay less tax, at a future date, at tax rates expected L. Leases to apply when the timing differences reverse, based on tax Operating lease payments are charged to the profit and loss rates and tax laws that have been enacted or substantively account on a straight-line basis over the term of the lease.
enacted by the balance sheet date.
Timing differences arise from the inclusion of items of income and expenditure in M. Financial instruments taxation computations in periods different from those in which Financial assets, liabilities and equity instruments are classified they are included in the financial statements.
Deferred tax according to the substance of the contractual arrangements assets are recognised to the extent that it is regarded as more entered into.
An equity instrument is any contract that likely than not that they will be recovered.
Deferred tax assets evidences a residual interest in the assets of the Company after and liabilities are not discounted.
deducting all of its liabilities and is recorded at the proceeds received, net of direct issue costs.
G. Stocks Loans receivable are carried at amortised cost using the Stocks are stated at cost less provision for deterioration and effective interest rate method less any allowance for estimated obsolescence.
A provision is established for impairments when H. Environmental costs there is objective evidence that the Company will not be able to Environmental costs, based on discounted future estimated collect all amounts due under the original terms of the loan.
expenditures expected to be incurred, are provided for in full.
Interest income, together with losses when the loans are The unwinding of the discount is included within the profit and impaired, is recognised on an effective interest rate basis in the loss account as a financing charge.
Current asset financial investments are recognised at fair value I.
Revenue plus directly related incremental transaction costs and are Revenue represents the sales value derived from the subsequently carried at fair value on the balance sheet.
transmission and distribution of gas and the provision of gas Changes in the fair value of investments classified as availablemetering services during the year, including an assessment of for-sale are recognised directly in equity, until the investment is services provided, but not invoiced as at the year end.
It disposed of or is determined to be impaired.
At this time the excludes value added tax and intra-group sales.
cumulative gain or loss previously recognised in equity is Where revenue for the year exceeds the maximum amount included in net profit or loss for the period.
Investment income permitted by regulatory agreement and adjustments will be on investments classified as available-for-sale is recognised in made to future prices to reflect this over-recovery, a liability for the profit and loss account as it accrues.
the over-recovery is not recognised as such an adjustment to Borrowings, which include interest-bearing loans, UK Retail future prices relates to the provision of future services.
Similarly, Prices Index RPI linked debt and overdrafts, are recorded at an asset is not recognised where a regulatory agreement their initial fair value which normally reflects the proceeds permits adjustments to be made to future prices in respect of an received, net of direct issue costs less any repayments.
Subsequently these are stated at amortised cost, using the J.
Replacement expenditure effective interest rate method.
Any difference between proceeds and the redemption value is recognised over the term of the Replacement expenditure is recognised within operating costs borrowing in the profit and loss account using the effective and represents the cost of planned maintenance of mains and interest rate method.
services assets by replacing or lining sections of pipe.
This expenditure is principally undertaken to repair and maintain the Derivative financial instruments are recorded at fair value, and safety of the network and is written off as incurred.
Expenditure where the fair value of a derivative is positive, it is carried as a that enhances the performance of mains and services assets is derivative asset and where negative, as a liability.
Assets and treated as an addition to tangible fixed assets.
liabilities on different transactions are only netted if the National Grid Gas plc Annual Report and Accounts 2009 10 75 transactions are with the same counterparty, a legal right of setprofit and loss account in the same periods in which the off exists and the cash flows are intended to be settled on a net previously hedged item affects net profit or loss.
Gains and losses arising from changes in fair value are hedges the cumulative adjustment recorded to its carrying value included in the profit and loss account in the period they arise.
at the date hedge accounting is discontinued is amortised to the profit and loss account using the effective interest rate method.
Where derivatives are embedded in other financial instruments that are closely related to those instruments, no adjustment is If a hedged transaction is no longer expected to occur, the net made with respect to such derivative clauses.
Otherwise the cumulative gain or loss recognised in equity is transferred to the derivative is recorded separately at fair value on the balance profit and loss account immediately.
Parent Company guarantees The fair values on financial instruments measured at fair value The Company has guaranteed the repayment of the principal that are quoted in active markets are based on bid prices for and any associated premium and interest on specific loans due assets held and offer prices for issued liabilities.
When from certain subsidiary undertakings to third parties.
In the independent prices are not available, fair values are determined event of default or non-performance by the subsidiary, the by using valuation techniques which are consistent with Company recognises such guarantees as insurance contracts, techniques commonly used by the relevant market.
The at fair value with a corresponding increase in the carrying value techniques use observable market data.
N. Hedge accounting P. Share-based payments The Company enters into derivative financial instruments National Grid issues equity-settled share-based payments to derivatives and non-derivative financial instruments in order certain employees of the Company.
Equity-settled share-based to manage interest rate and foreign currency exposures, with a payments are measured at fair value at the date of grant based view to managing these risks associated with the Companys on an estimate of the number of shares that will eventually vest.
underlying business activities and the financing of those This fair value is recognised on a straight-line basis over the activities.
The principal derivatives used include interest rate vesting period, as an operating cost and an increase in equity.
swaps, forward rate agreements, currency swaps and forward Payments made by the Company to National Grid in respect of foreign currency contracts.
share-based payments are recognised as a reduction in equity.
Hedge accounting allows derivatives to be designated as a Q.
Restructuring costs hedge of another non-derivative financial instrument, to Costs arising from the Companys restructuring programmes mitigate the impact of potential volatility in the profit and loss primarily relate to redundancy costs.
The Company uses two hedge accounting methods.
charged to the profit and loss account in the period in which the Firstly, changes in the carrying value of financial instruments Company becomes irrevocably committed to incurring the costs that are designated and effective as hedges of future cash flows and the main features of the restructuring plan have been cash flow hedges are recognised directly in equity and any announced to affected employees.
ineffective portion is recognised immediately in the profit and R. Emission allowances loss account.
Amounts deferred in equity in respect of cash flow Emission allowances, which relate to the emissions of carbon hedges are subsequently recognised in the profit and loss dioxide, are recorded as an intangible asset within current account in the same period in which the hedged item affects net assets and are initially recorded at cost, and subsequently at profit or loss.
the lower of cost and net realisable value.
For allocations of Secondly, changes in the carrying value of financial instruments emission allowances granted by the UK Government, cost is that are designated as hedges of the changes in the fair value deemed to be equal to fair value at the date of allocation.
of assets or liabilities fair value hedges are recognised in the Receipts of such grants are treated as deferred income and are profit and loss account.
An offsetting amount is recorded as an recognised in the income statement in the period in which adjustment to the carrying value of hedged items, with a carbon dioxide emissions are made.
A provision is recorded in corresponding entry in the profit and loss account, to the extent respect of the obligation to deliver emission allowances and that the change is attributable to the risk being hedged and that charges are recognised in the income statement in the period in the fair value hedge is effective.
which carbon dioxide emissions are made.
Changes in the fair value of derivatives that do not qualify for S. Dividends hedge accounting are recognised in the profit and loss account Interim dividends are recognised when they become payable to as they arise.
Final dividends are recognised in Hedge accounting is discontinued when the hedging instrument the financial year in which they are approved.
expires or is sold, terminated, exercised, or no longer qualifies for hedge accounting.
At that time, any cumulative gains or losses relating to cash flow hedges recognised in equity are initially retained in equity and subsequently recognised in the
