30 National Grid Gas plc Annual Report and Accounts 2009 10 Accounting policies for the year ended 31 March 2010 A.
Basis of preparation of consolidated financial C. Foreign currencies Transactions in currencies other than the functional currency of statements under IFRS the Company or subsidiary concerned are recorded at the rates NGGs principal activities involve the transmission and of exchange prevailing on the dates of the transactions.
At each distribution of gas and the provision of gas metering services balance sheet date, monetary assets and liabilities that are within Great Britain.
The Company is a public limited company denominated in foreign currencies are retranslated at closing incorporated and domiciled in England with its registered office exchange rates.
Other non-monetary assets are not at 1-3 Strand, London WC2N 5EH.
retranslated unless they are carried at fair value.
These consolidated financial statements were approved for Gains and losses arising on retranslation of monetary assets issue by the Board of Directors on 2 July 2010. and liabilities are included in the income statement.
These consolidated financial statements have been prepared in On consolidation, the assets and liabilities of overseas financing accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards operations that have a functional currency different from the IFRS as issued by the International Accounting Standards Companys functional currency of sterling are translated at Board and as adopted by the European Union.
They are exchange rates prevailing at the balance sheet date.
Income prepared on the basis of all IFRS accounting standards and and expense items are translated at the weighted average interpretations that are mandatory for periods ending 31 March exchange rates for the period.
Exchange differences arising are 2010 and in accordance with the Companies Act 2006 classified as equity and transferred to the consolidated applicable to companies reporting under IFRS and Article 4 of translation reserve.
the European Union IAS regulation.
The 2009 comparative financial information has also been prepared on this basis.
D. Intangible assets The consolidated financial statements have been prepared on a Identifiable intangible assets are recorded at cost less historical cost basis, except for the revaluation of derivative accumulated amortisation and any provision for impairment.
financial instruments and investments classified as available for Internally generated intangible fixed assets, such as software, sale.
are recognised only if an asset is created that can be identified: These consolidated financial statements are presented in it is probable that the asset created will generate future pounds sterling, which is the functional currency of the economic benefits: and that the development cost of the asset Company.
Where no internally generated intangible asset can be recognised, development expenditure is The preparation of financial statements requires management recorded as an expense in the period in which it is incurred.
to make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities, disclosures of contingent Intangible assets under development are not amortised.
Other assets and liabilities and the reported amounts of revenue and non-current intangible assets are amortised on a straight-line expenses during the reporting period.
Actual results could differ basis over their estimated useful economic lives.
The principal from these estimates.
amortisation periods for categories of intangible assets are: Amortisation periods Years B.
Basis of consolidation Software 3 to 5 The consolidated financial statements incorporate the financial statements of the Company and its subsidiaries.
Intangible emission allowances are accounted for in A subsidiary is defined as an entity controlled by the Company.
accordance with accounting policy T. Control is achieved where the Company has the power to govern the financial and operating policies of an entity so as to E. Property, plant and equipment obtain benefits from its activities.
Property, plant and equipment is recorded at cost less accumulated depreciation and any impairment losses.
Where necessary, adjustments are made to bring the accounting policies used under UK generally accepted Cost includes payroll and finance costs incurred which are accounting principles UK GAAP used in the individual financial directly attributable to the construction of property, plant and statements of the Company and its subsidiaries into line with equipment as well as the cost of any associated asset those used by the Company in its consolidated financial retirement obligations.
National Grid Gas plc Annual Report and Accounts 2009 10 31 Property, plant and equipment include assets in which the Material impairments are recognised in the income statement Companys interest comprises legally protected statutory or and are disclosed separately.
G. Taxation Additions represent the purchase or construction of new assets, Current tax including capital expenditure for safety and environmental Current tax assets and liabilities for the current and prior assets, and extensions to, enhancements to, or replacement of periods are measured at the amount expected to be recovered existing assets.
from or paid to the taxation authorities.
The tax rates and tax laws used to compute the amount are those that are enacted or Contributions received prior to 1 July 2009 towards the cost of substantively enacted by the balance sheet date.
Management property, plant and equipment are included in trade and other periodically evaluates positions taken in tax returns with respect payables as deferred income and credited on a straight-line to situations in which applicable tax regulation is subject to basis to the income statement over the estimated economic interpretation and establishes provisions where appropriate on useful lives of the assets to which they relate.
the basis of amounts expected to be paid to the tax authorities.
Contributions received post 1 July 2009 are recognised in Current tax assets and liabilities arising from transfer pricing revenue immediately, except where the contributions are adjustments, which are expected to be fully recovered through consideration for a future service, in which case they are group relief, are initially estimated and recognised where recognised initially as deferred income and revenue is material.
Further adjustments are recognised when tax returns subsequently recognised over the period in which the service is are submitted to the tax authorities.
Deferred tax Depreciation is not provided on freehold land or assets in the Deferred tax is provided using the balance sheet liability course of construction.
Other property, plant and equipment are method and is recognised on temporary differences between depreciated, principally on a straight-line basis, at rates the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities in the financial estimated to write off their book values over their estimated statements and the corresponding tax bases used in the useful economic lives.
In assessing estimated useful economic computation of taxable profit.
lives, which are reviewed on a regular basis, consideration is given to any contractual arrangements and operational Deferred tax liabilities are generally recognised on all taxable requirements relating to particular assets.
Unless otherwise temporary differences and deferred tax assets are recognised determined by operational requirements, the depreciation to the extent that is probable that taxable profits will be periods for the principal categories of property, plant and available against which deductible temporary differences can equipment are, in general, as shown in the table below: be utilised.
Such assets and liabilities are not recognised if the temporary difference arises from the initial recognition other Depreciation periods Years than a business combination of assets and liabilities in a Freehold and leasehold buildings up to 50 transaction that affects neither the accounting profits nor the Plant and machinery taxable profits.
mains, services and regulating equipment 30 to 100 meters and metering equipment 5 to 18 Deferred tax liabilities are recognised on taxable temporary Motor vehicles and office equipment 3 to 10 differences arising on investments in subsidiaries except where the Company is able to control the reversal of the temporary difference and it is probable that the temporary difference will F. Impairment of assets not reverse in the foreseeable future.
Impairments of assets are calculated as the difference between the carrying value of the asset and its recoverable amount, if Deferred tax is calculated at the tax rates that are expected to lower.
Where such an asset does not generate cash flows that apply in the period when the liability is settled or the asset is are independent from other assets, the recoverable amount of realised, based on the tax rates and tax laws that have been the cash-generating unit to which that asset belongs is enacted or substantively enacted by the balance sheet date.
Recoverable amount is defined as the higher of fair Deferred tax is charged or credited to the income statement, value less costs to sell and estimated value in use at the date except where it relates to items charged or credited directly to the impairment review is undertaken.
equity, in which case the deferred tax is also dealt with in equity.
Value in use represents the present value of expected future cash flows, discounted using a pre-tax discount rate that The carrying amount of deferred tax assets is reviewed at each reflects current market assessments of the time value of money balance sheet date and reduced to the extent that it is no longer and the risks specific to the asset for which the estimates of probable that sufficient taxable profits will be available to allow future cash flows have not been adjusted.
all or part of the deferred income tax asset to be recovered.
Unrecognised deferred tax assets are reassessed at each Tests for impairment are carried out only if there is some balance sheet date and are recognised to the extent that it has indication that the carrying value of the assets may have been impaired.
32 National Grid Gas plc Annual Report and Accounts 2009 10 become probable that future taxable profit will allow the assesses the performance of operations principally on the basis deferred tax asset to be recovered.
of operating items before exceptionals and remeasurements.
Deferred tax assets and liabilities are offset when there is a M. Pensions legally enforceable right to set off current tax assets against The substantial majority of NGGs employees are members of current tax liabilities, and when they relate to income taxes the defined benefit section of the National Grid UK Pension levied by the same taxation authority and it is intended to settle Scheme.
There is no contractual arrangement or stated policy current tax assets and liabilities on a net basis.
for charging the net defined benefit cost of the Scheme to NGG.
Accordingly, the Scheme is recognised as if it were a defined H. Discontinued operations contribution scheme.
The pension charge for the year Cash flows and operations that relate to a major component of represents the contributions payable to the Scheme for the the business that has been sold are shown separately from period.
A share of the assets and liabilities, or the actuarial continuing operations.
gains and losses of the Scheme are not recognised in these financial statements.
Inventories Inventories, which comprise raw materials and consumables, N. Leases are stated at cost less provision for damage and obsolescence.
Rentals under operating leases are charged to income on a Cost comprises cost of direct materials and those costs that straight-line basis over the term of the relevant lease.
have been incurred in bringing the inventories to their present location and condition.
Assets held under finance leases are recognised at their fair value or, if lower, the present value of minimum lease payments J.
The corresponding liability is recognised as a Provision is made for environmental costs, based on future finance lease obligation within borrowings.
Rental payments are estimated expenditures, discounted to present values.
Changes apportioned between finance costs and reduction in the finance in the provision arising from revised estimates or discount rates lease obligation, so as to achieve a constant rate of interest.
or changes in the expected timing of expenditures are Assets held under finance leases are depreciated over the recognised in the income statement.
The unwinding of the shorter of their useful life and the lease term.
discount is included within the income statement as a financing charge.
Financial instruments Financial assets, liabilities and equity instruments are classified K. Revenue according to the substance of the contractual arrangements Revenue represents the sales value derived from the entered into, and recognised on trade date.
Available-for-sale transmission and distribution of gas and the provision of gas financial assets are non-derivatives that are either designated in metering services during the year.
It excludes value added tax this category or not classified in any other categories.
Trade receivables are initially recognised at fair value and The sales value for the transmission and distribution of gas is subsequently measured at amortised cost, less any appropriate largely determined from the amount of system capacity sold for allowances for estimated irrecoverable amounts.
A provision is the year and the amount of gas transported in the year, established for irrecoverable amounts when there is objective evaluated at contractual prices on a monthly basis.
Where evidence that amounts due under the original payment terms revenue for the year exceeds the maximum amount permitted will not be collected.
Indications that the trade receivable may by regulatory agreement and adjustments will be made to future become irrecoverable would include financial difficulties of the prices to reflect this over-recovery, a liability for the overdebtor, likelihood of the debtors insolvency, and default or recovery is not recognised as such an adjustment to future significant failure of payment.
Trade payables are initially prices relates to the provision of future services.
Similarly, an recognised at fair value and subsequently measured at asset is not recognised where a regulatory agreement permits amortised cost.
adjustments to be made to future prices in respect of an underrecovery.
Loans receivable and other receivables are carried at amortised cost using the effective interest rate method.
Interest income, The sales value for the provision of gas metering services is together with gains and losses when the loans and receivables largely derived from monthly contractual charges for the are derecognised or impaired, are recognised in the income provision of individual meters under long-term contractual statement.
Other financial investments are recognised at fair value plus, in L. Segmental information the case of available-for-sale financial investments, directly Segmental information is based on the information the Board of related incremental transaction costs and are subsequently Directors uses internally for the purposes of evaluating the carried at fair value on the balance sheet.
Changes in the fair performance of operating segments and determining resource value of investments classified as fair value through profit and allocation between operating segments.
The Board of Directors loss are included in the income statement, while changes in the is deemed to be the chief operating decision-maker and National Grid Gas plc Annual Report and Accounts 2009 10 33 fair value of investments classified as available-for-sale are Subsequent to initial recognition, the fair values of financial recognised directly in equity, until the investment is disposed of instruments measured at fair value that are quoted in active or is determined to be impaired.
At this time, the cumulative markets are based on bid prices for assets held and offer prices gain or loss previously recognised in equity is included in the for issued liabilities.
When independent prices are not available, income statement for the period.
Investment income on fair values are determined by using valuation techniques which investments classified as fair value through profit and loss and are consistent with techniques commonly used by the relevant on available-for-sale investments is recognised using the market.
The techniques use observable market data.
effective interest rate method and taken through interest income P. Hedge accounting in the income statement.
The Company and its subsidiaries enter into both derivative Borrowings, which include interest-bearing loans, UK Retail financial instruments derivatives and non-derivative financial Prices Index RPI linked debt and overdrafts, are recorded at instruments in order to manage interest rate and foreign their initial fair value which normally reflects the proceeds currency exposures, and commodity price risks associated with received, net of direct issue costs less any repayments.
underlying business activities and the financing of those Subsequently they are stated at amortised cost, using the activities.
Any difference between the Hedge accounting allows derivatives to be designated as a proceeds after direct issue costs and the redemption value is hedge of another non-derivative financial instrument, to recognised over the term of the borrowing in the income mitigate the impact of potential volatility in the income statement statement using the effective interest rate method.
of changes in fair value of the derivative instruments.
To qualify Borrowing costs directly attributable to the acquisition, for hedge accounting documentation is prepared specifying the construction or development of qualifying assets being assets hedging strategy, the component transactions and methodology that necessarily take a substantial period of time to get ready used for effectiveness measurement.
The Company uses two for their intended use are added to their cost.
Such additions hedge accounting methods.
cease when the assets are substantially ready for their intended Firstly, changes in the carrying value of financial instruments use.
that are designated and effective as hedges of future cash flows Derivative financial instruments are recorded at fair value, and cash flow hedges are recognised directly in equity and any where fair value of a derivative is positive, it is carried as a ineffective portion is recognised immediately in the income derivative asset and where negative, as a derivative liability.
Amounts deferred in equity in respect of cash flow Assets and liabilities on different transactions are only netted if hedges are subsequently recognised in the income statement in the transactions are with the same counterparty, a legal right to the same period in which the hedged item affects net profit or set-off exists and the cash flows are intended to be settled on a loss.
Where a non-financial asset or a non-financial liability net basis.
Gains and losses arising from changes in the fair results from a forecasted transaction or firm commitment being value are included in the income statement in the period they hedged, the amounts deferred in equity are included in the arise.
initial measurement of that non-monetary asset or liability.
No adjustment is made with respect to derivative clauses Secondly, fair value hedge accounting offsets the changes in embedded in financial instruments or other contracts that are the fair value of the hedging instrument against the change in closely related to those instruments or contracts.
In particular, the fair value of the hedged item in respect to the risk being interest payments on UK RPI debt are linked to movements in hedged.
These changes are recognised in the income the UK retail price index.
The link to RPI is considered to be an statement to the extent the fair value hedge is effective.
embedded derivative, which is closely related to the underlying Adjustments made to the carrying amount of the hedged item debt instrument based on the view that there is a strong for fair value hedges will be amortised over the remaining life, in relationship between interest rates and inflation in the UK line with the hedged item.
Consequently these embedded derivatives are not Changes in the fair value of derivatives that do not qualify for accounted for separately from the debt instrument.
Where there hedge accounting are recognised in the income statement as are embedded derivatives in host contracts not closely related, they arise, within finance costs.
the embedded derivative is separately accounted for as a derivative financial instrument and recorded at fair value.
Hedge accounting is discontinued when the hedging instrument expires or is sold, terminated, or exercised, or no longer An equity instrument is any contract that evidences a residual qualifies for hedge accounting.
At that time, any cumulative interest in the consolidated assets of the Company after gains or losses relating to cash flow hedges recognised in deducting all of its liabilities and is recorded at the proceeds equity are initially retained in equity and subsequently received, net of direct issue costs with an amount equal to the recognised in the income statement, in the same periods in nominal amount of the shares issued included in the share which the previously hedged item affects net profit or loss.
For capital account and the balance recorded in the share premium fair value hedges, the cumulative adjustment recorded to the account.
carrying value of the hedged item at the date hedge accounting 34 National Grid Gas plc Annual Report and Accounts 2009 10 is discontinued, is amortised to the income statement using the S. Other operating income effective interest rate method.
Other operating income primarily relates to profits or losses arising on the disposal of properties arranged by National Grids If a hedged forecast transaction is no longer expected to occur, property management business, which is considered to be part the net cumulative gain or loss recognised in equity is of normal recurring operating activities but which does not transferred to the income statement immediately.
represent revenue, income from the sale of emission Q. Share-based payments allowances, and pension deficit recovery.
National Grid issues equity-settled share-based payments to certain employees of the Company and its subsidiaries.
T. Emission allowances Emission allowances, which relate to the emissions of carbon Equity-settled share-based payments are measured at fair dioxide, are recorded as an intangible asset within current value at the date of grant based on an estimate of the number assets and are initially recorded at cost, and subsequently at of shares that will eventually vest.
This fair value is recognised the lower of cost and net realisable value.
For allocations of on a straight-line basis over the vesting period, as an operating emission allowances granted by the UK Government, cost is cost and an increase in equity.
Payments made by the deemed to be equal to fair value at the date of allocation.
Company to National Grid in respect of share-based payments Receipts of such grants are treated as deferred income and are are recognised as a reduction in equity.
recognised in the income statement in the period in which R. Business performance and exceptional items carbon dioxide emissions are made.
A provision is recorded in respect of the obligation to deliver emission allowances and and remeasurements charges are recognised in the income statement in the period in Our financial performance is analysed into two components: which carbon dioxide emissions are made.
business performance, which excludes exceptional items and remeasurements: and exceptional items and remeasurements.
Income from the sale of emission allowances is reported as part Business performance is used by management to monitor of other operating income.
financial performance, as it is considered to increase the U.
Cash and cash equivalents comparability of our reported financial performance from year to year.
Business performance subtotals, which exclude Cash and cash equivalents include cash held at bank and in exceptional items and remeasurements, are presented on the hand, together with short-term highly liquid investments with an face of the income statement or in the notes to the financial original maturity of less than three months that are readily statements.
convertible to known amounts of cash and subject to an insignificant change in value and bank overdrafts, which are Exceptional items and remeasurements are items of income reported in borrowings.
and expenditure that, in the judgment of management, should be disclosed separately on the basis that they are material, V. Other reserves either by their nature or their size, to an understanding of our Other reserves comprise the capital redemption reserve arising financial performance and significantly distort the comparability from the refinancing and restructuring of the Lattice Group in of financial performance between periods.
It represents the amount of the reduction in the share capital of the Company as a consequence of that restructuring.
Items of income or expense that are considered by As the amounts included in other reserves are not attributable management for designation as exceptional items include such to any of the other classes of equity presented, they have been items as significant restructurings, write-downs, pension deficit disclosed as a separate classification of equity.
payments or impairments of non-current assets, significant changes in environmental provisions, and gains or losses on W. Dividends disposals of businesses or investments.
Interim dividends are recognised when they become payable to Costs arising from restructuring programmes primarily relate to the Companys shareholders.
Final dividends are recognised in redundancy costs, impairment of assets, and site the financial year in which they are approved.
Redundancy costs are charged to the X.
Areas of judgement and key sources of income statement in the year in which an irrevocable commitment is made to incur the costs and the main features of estimation uncertainty the restructuring plan have been announced to affected The preparation of financial statements requires management employees.
to make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities, disclosures of contingent Remeasurements comprise gains or losses recorded in the assets and liabilities and the reported amounts of revenue and income statement arising from changes in the fair value of expenses during the reporting period.
Actual results could differ derivative financial instruments to the extent that hedge from these estimates.
Information about such judgements and accounting is not achieved or is not effective.
estimation is contained in the accounting policies or the notes to National Grid Gas plc Annual Report and Accounts 2009 10 35 the financial statements, and the key areas are summarised below.
Areas of judgement that have the most significant effect on the amounts recognised in the financial statements: The categorisation of certain items as exceptional items and remeasurements and the definition of adjusted earnings note 4.
The exemptions adopted on transition to IFRS on 1 April 2004.
The recognition of defined benefit pension costs as if the National Grid UK Pension Scheme was a defined contribution scheme accounting policy M. Hedge accounting accounting policy P. Key sources of estimation uncertainty that have a significant risk of causing a material adjustment to the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities within the next financial year: Review of residual lives, carrying values and impairment charges for intangible assets and property, plant and equipment accounting policies D, E and F. Valuation of financial instruments and derivatives notes 12, 15 and 27.
Revenue recognition and assessment of unbilled revenue accounting policy K. Environmental provisions note 21.
