Accounting Policies 50 Basis of preparation The financial statements of Next plc the Company and Next plc and its subsidiaries the Group have been prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS adopted for use in the European Union and in accordance with the Companies Act 2006.
The financial statements have been prepared on the historical cost basis except for certain financial instruments, pension assets and liabilities and share based payment liabilities which are measured at fair value.
The principal accounting policies adopted are set out below.
The Group and Company financial statements are presented in sterling and all values are rounded to the nearest tenth of a million pounds except where otherwise indicated.
Basis of consolidation The consolidated financial statements incorporate the financial statements of the Company and its subsidiary undertakings.
All intra-group transactions, balances, income and expenses are eliminated on consolidation.
The results of subsidiaries acquired or disposed of during the year are included in the consolidated income statement from the effective date of acquisition or up to the effective date of disposal, as appropriate.
Minority interests represent the portion of the profit or loss and net assets in subsidiaries that is not held by the Group and is presented in equity in the consolidated balance sheet, separately from parent shareholders equity.
The results and net assets of associated undertakings are incorporated into these financial statements using the equity method of accounting.
Goodwill Goodwill arising on acquisition is initially measured at cost, being the excess of the cost of the acquisition over the Groups interest in the net fair value of the acquired entitys identifiable assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities at the date of acquisition.
Goodwill is not amortised, but is reviewed for impairment at least annually: any impairment is recognised immediately in the income statement and is not subsequently reversed.
On disposal of a subsidiary or associate, the attributable amount of goodwill is included in the determination of the profit or loss on disposal.
Goodwill arising before the date of transition to IFRS has been retained at the previous UK GAAP amounts subject to being tested for impairment at that date.
Intangible assets Intangible assets acquired separately from a business are carried initially at cost.
An intangible asset acquired as part of a business combination is recognised outside goodwill if the asset is separable or arises from contractual or other legal rights and its fair value can be measured reliably.
Following initial recognition, intangible assets are carried at cost less accumulated amortisation and impairment losses.
Intangible assets with a finite life have no residual value and are amortised on a straight-line basis over their expected useful lives as follows: Brand names and trademarks 10 years Customer relationships 4 years The carrying value of intangible assets is reviewed for impairment whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate the carrying value may not be recoverable.
Property, plant & equipment Property, plant and equipment are stated at cost less accumulated depreciation and reviewed annually for impairment.
Depreciation is provided to write down the cost of property, plant and equipment to their estimated residual values, based on current prices at the balance sheet date, over their remaining useful lives by equal annual instalments.
Useful lives are also reviewed annually.
Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 30 January 2010 Accounting Policies 51 Property, plant & equipment continued The useful lives generally applicable are summarised as follows: Freehold and long leasehold property 50 years Plant and fittings: Plant, machinery and building works 10 25 years Fixtures and fittings 6 15 years Vehicles, IT and other assets 2 6 years Leasehold improvements the period of the lease, or useful life if shorter Investments Investments in subsidiary companies and equity instruments that do not have a quoted market price in an active market and whose fair value cannot be reliably measured are stated at cost, subject to review for impairment.
Impairment The carrying values of non-financial assets are reviewed at each balance sheet date to determine whether there is any indication of impairment.
If any such indication exists, the recoverable amount of the asset is estimated.
Where the asset does not generate cash flows which are independent from other assets, the recoverable amount of the cash-generating unit to which the asset belongs is estimated.
The recoverable amount of a non-financial asset is the higher of its fair value less costs to sell, and its value in use.
Value in use is the present value of the future cash flows expected to be derived from an asset or cash-generating unit.
An impairment loss is recognised in the income statement whenever the carrying amount of an asset or cash-generating unit exceeds its recoverable amount.
Goodwill is tested for impairment annually and whenever there is an indication that the asset may be impaired.
Inventories Inventories are valued at the lower of standard cost or net realisable value.
Net realisable value is based on estimated selling prices less further costs to be incurred to disposal.
Financial assets Financial assets are classified in the following categories: at fair value through profit or loss, loans and receivables, and available-for-sale.
Financial assets at fair value through profit or loss are financial assets held for trading.
Derivatives are also categorised as held for trading unless they are designated as hedges.
Gains or losses arising from changes in the fair value of the financial assets at fair value through profit or loss category are included in the income statement in the period in which they arise.
Loans and receivables are non-derivative financial assets with fixed or determinable payments that are not quoted in an active market and are carried at amortised cost.
Available-for-sale financial assets are carried at fair value and are non-derivatives that are either specifically designated as such or which are not classified in any of the other categories.
Trade and other receivables Trade receivables are stated at original invoice amount plus any accrued service charge in the case of Directory customer receivables.
Where there is objective evidence that there is an impairment loss, the amount of the loss is measured as the difference between the carrying amount and the present value of the estimated future cash flows discounted at the original effective interest rate.
The carrying amount of the receivable is reduced through use of an allowance account.
Amounts charged to the allowance account are written off when there is no expectation of further recovery.
Share based payments The fair value of employee share options granted on or after 7 November 2002 is calculated using the BlackScholes model.
The resulting cost is charged in the income statement over the vesting period of the option and is adjusted for the expected and actual number of options vesting.
For cash-settled share based payments including the long term incentive plan, the fair value of the liability is determined at each balance sheet date and the charge recognised through the income statement over the period in which the related services are received by the Group.
Accounting Policies 52 Taxation Current tax liabilities are measured at the amount expected to be paid, based on tax rates and laws that are enacted or substantively enacted at the balance sheet date.
Deferred tax expected to be payable or recoverable on differences at the balance sheet date between the tax bases of assets and liabilities and their carrying amounts for financial reporting purposes is accounted for using the balance sheet liability method.
Deferred tax liabilities are generally recognised for all taxable temporary differences.
Deferred tax assets are only recognised to the extent that it is probable that taxable profits will be available against which deductible temporary differences can be utilised.
Such assets and liabilities are not recognised if the temporary difference arises from goodwill or from the initial recognition other than in a business combination of other assets and liabilities in a transaction that affects neither the taxable profit nor the accounting profit.
Deferred tax is not recognised in respect of taxable temporary differences associated with investments in subsidiaries and associates where the timing of the reversal of temporary differences can be controlled and it is probable that the temporary differences will not reverse in the foreseeable future.
Deferred tax is calculated at the rates of taxation that are expected to apply when the asset or liability is settled, based on tax rates that have been enacted or substantively enacted by the balance sheet date, and is not discounted.
Taxation is charged or credited directly to equity if it relates to items that are credited or charged to equity: otherwise it is recognised in the income statement.
Cash and cash equivalents For the purposes of the consolidated cash flow statement, cash and cash equivalents consist of cash and short term deposits, less bank overdrafts which are repayable on demand.
Cash and short term deposits comprise cash at bank and in hand and short term deposits with an original maturity of three months or less.
Bank loans and overdrafts Bank loans and overdrafts are initially recognised at fair value less directly attributable transaction costs and are subsequently measured at amortised cost using the effective interest rate method.
Revenue Revenue is measured at the fair value of the consideration received or receivable and represents amounts receivable for goods and services provided to customers outside of the Group, stated net of returns and value added and other sales taxes.
Sales of goods are recognised when goods are delivered and title has passed.
Interest income, including Directory service charge, is accrued on a time basis, by reference to the principal outstanding and the applicable effective interest rate.
Income from rendering of services is recognised when the services have been performed.
Rental income is recognised when receivable in accordance with the terms of the lease.
Royalty income is recognised in line with sales reported by the Groups franchise partners.
Foreign currencies The consolidated financial statements are presented in pounds sterling, which is the Companys functional and presentation currency.
Transactions in foreign currencies, which are those other than the functional currency of an entity, are recorded at the rate ruling at the date of the transaction.
Monetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currency are translated at the rates ruling at the balance sheet date.
Resulting exchange gains or losses are recognised in the income statement for the period.
Upon consolidation, the assets and liabilities of the Groups foreign operations are translated at the rate of exchange ruling at the balance sheet date.
Income and expense items of foreign operations are translated at the weighted average rate during the period.
Differences on translation are recognised as a separate equity reserve which was deemed to be zero on transition to IFRS at 1 February 2004.
On disposal of a foreign operation, the cumulative exchange differences for that subsidiary are recognised in the income statement as part of the profit or loss on disposal.
Goodwill and fair value adjustments arising on the acquisition of a foreign operation are treated as assets and liabilities of the foreign entity and translated at the closing rate.
The Group has elected to treat goodwill and fair value adjustments arising on acquisitions before the date of transition to IFRS as sterling denominated assets and liabilities.
Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 30 January 2010 Accounting Policies 53 Derivative financial instruments Derivative financial instruments derivatives are used to manage risks arising from changes in foreign currency exchange rates relating to the purchase of overseas sourced products and changes in interest rates relating to the Groups debt.
In accordance with its treasury policy, the Group does not enter into derivatives for speculative purposes.
Derivatives are stated at their fair value.
The fair value of foreign currency derivative contracts is their market value at the balance sheet date.
Market values are calculated using mathematical models and are based on the duration of the derivative instrument together with quoted market data including interest rates, foreign exchange rates and market volatility at the balance sheet date.
The fair value of interest rate contracts is the estimated amount that the Group would receive or pay to terminate them at the balance sheet date, taking into account prevailing interest rates.
Hedge accounting Changes in the fair value of derivatives that are designated and effective as hedges of future cash flows are recognised directly in equity and any ineffective portion is recognised immediately in the income statement.
When the asset or liability for the hedged transaction is recognised in the balance sheet the associated gain or loss on maturity of the hedging instrument previously recognised in equity is included in the carrying amount of the hedged asset or liability.
Gains or losses realised on cash flow hedges will therefore be recognised in the income statement in the same period as the hedged item.
The Group uses certain interest rate derivatives as fair value hedges of the interest rate risk associated with the Companys corporate bonds.
The carrying amounts of the bonds are adjusted only for changes in fair value attributable to interest rate risk being hedged and this value adjustment is recognised in the income statement.
Any gain or loss from restating the related interest rate derivatives at their market value is also recognised immediately in the income statement.
Hedge accounting is discontinued when the hedging instrument expires or is sold, terminated or exercised, or no longer qualifies for hedge accounting.
At that time, any cumulative gain or loss on the hedging instrument previously recognised in equity is retained in equity until the hedged transaction occurs.
If the hedged transaction is no longer expected to occur, the net cumulative gain or loss recognised in equity is then transferred to the income statement.
Changes in the fair value of derivatives which do not qualify for hedge accounting are recognised in the income statement as they arise.
Contingent purchase contracts The Group also makes use of contingent contracts for the purchase of its own shares.
These derivative contracts are accounted for as equity transactions and the contracts are not stated at their market values.
The present value of the obligation to purchase the shares is recognised in full at the inception of the contract, even when that obligation is conditional.
Any subsequent reduction in the total obligation arising from the early termination of a contract is credited back to equity at the time of termination.
Shares held by ESOT The Next Employee Share Ownership Trust ESOT provides for the issue of shares to Group employees, including share issues under share options.
Shares in the Company held by the ESOT are included in the balance sheet at cost as a deduction from equity.
Employee benefits The Group operates a pension plan which consists of defined benefit and defined contribution sections.
The assets of the plan are held in a separate trustee administered fund.
The Group also provides other, unfunded, post-employment benefits to certain plan members.
The cost of providing benefits under the defined benefit section and the unfunded arrangement are determined using the projected unit credit method, with actuarial valuations being carried out at each balance sheet date.
The net retirement benefit obligation recognised in the balance sheet represents the present value of the defined benefit section and unfunded liabilities as reduced by the fair value of defined benefit plan assets.
Actuarial gains and losses are recognised in full in the period in which they occur, are recognised directly in equity and are presented in the statement of comprehensive income.
Other income and expenses associated with the defined benefit section are recognised in the income statement.
The pension cost of the defined contribution section is charged in the income statement as incurred.
Accounting Policies 54 Provisions A provision is recognised where the Group has a legal or constructive obligation as a result of a past event and it is probable that an outflow of economic benefits will be required to settle the obligation.
Provisions are discounted where the impact is material.
Leasing commitments Leases are classified as finance leases where the terms of the lease transfer substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership to the Group.
All other leases are classified as operating leases.
Assets used by the Group which have been funded through finance leases are capitalised in property, plant and equipment and the resulting lease obligations are included in liabilities.
The assets are depreciated over their useful lives and the interest element of the rental obligations is charged to the income statement over the period of the lease and represents a constant proportion of the balance of capital repayments outstanding.
Rentals payable under operating leases are charged to income on a straight line basis over the period of the lease.
Contingent rentals payable based on store revenues are accrued in line with the related sales.
Premiums payable, rent free periods and capital contributions receivable on entering an operating lease are released to income on a straight line basis over the lease term.
Significant areas of estimation and judgement The preparation of the financial statements requires judgements, estimations and assumptions to be made that affect the reported values of assets, liabilities, revenues and expenses.
The nature of estimation means that actual outcomes could differ from those estimates.
Significant areas of estimation for the Group include the expected future cash flows applied in measuring impairment of trade receivables Note 15, estimated selling prices applied in determining the net realisable values of inventories and the actuarial assumptions applied in calculating the net retirement benefit obligation Note 23.
Impact of changes to accounting standards Change in accounting policy An amendment to IAS 38 Intangible Assets requires that all advertising and marketing costs, including production costs of the Next Directory, are recognised in the income statement when the goods or services have been received.
Prior to this amendment, such costs were charged to the income statement during the season in which the related marketing activity took place.
This change in accounting policy has been applied retrospectively, decreasing net assets by 16.1m at each comparative balance sheet date.
As the effect on earnings was not material in each period, reported profits for prior periods have not been restated.
Restated balance sheets from the beginning of the comparative period January 2008 are presented in accordance with IAS 1 revised Presentation of Financial Statements.
The impact of the change in policy on each relevant line in the financial statements was as follows: 2009 2008 m m Trade and other receivables 16.9 15.6 Trade and other payables 5.4 6.7 Deferred Tax 6.2 6.2 Retained earnings 16.1 16.1 While it is not practicable to determine the precise impact of the change in policy on the January 2010 balance sheet, the differences would be expected to be similar to those shown for the preceding two periods above.
Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 30 January 2010 Accounting Policies 55 Impact of changes to accounting standards continued Other changes adopted in the current year IAS 1 revised Presentation of Financial Statements This is a presentational change only, affecting the titles and positioning of items within the financial statements, including the format of the primary statements which are now the Income Statement, Statement of Comprehensive Income, Balance Sheet, Statement of Changes in Equity and Cash Flow Statement.
There is no impact on reported profits or total equity.
IFRS 2 Share based Payment Vesting Conditions and Cancellations Amendment The amendment clarifies treatment of vesting conditions and cancellations of share based payments.
This has not affected the Groups accounting treatment and there has therefore been no impact on reported profits or total equity.
IFRS 7 Financial Instruments: Disclosures Amendment Additional disclosures relating to a hierarchy for measurement of fair values of financial instruments are now required: there is no impact on reported profits or total equity.
IFRS 8 Operating Segments Amendment This change means that reporting of the Groups segment assets is no longer required.
Other changes in accounting standards: future years The Group has not adopted early IFRS 3 Revised Business Combinations, which will affect the accounting for any acquisitions made during the Groups financial year ending January 2011.
Acquisitions made prior to that date will not be affected.
Various amendments have arisen from the Improvements to International Financial Reporting Standards 2009 and other new standards or amendments in the year, none of which are expected to have a significant impact on the Groups reported profits or equity.
