Directors Report and Business Review 18 ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING & OTHER MATTERS Notice of the Annual General Meeting AGM is on pages 88 to 98 and includes the following business: Dividends The Directors recommend that a final dividend of 47p per share be paid on 1 July 2010 to shareholders on the register of members at close of business on 28 May 2010.
The Trustee of the Next Employee Share Ownership Trust ESOT has waived dividends paid in the year on shares held by the ESOT, see Note 29.
Directors The current Board, including biographical details, is shown on page 24 of this report.
Mr Barber, Mr Brookes and Mr Keens will retire at the 2010 AGM in accordance with the Companys articles of association.
Mr Barber and Mr Keens, being eligible, are offering themselves for re-election.
The Board has formally reviewed the performance of these directors and concluded that they remain effective and are committed to their roles at Next.
Mr Brookes will not be standing for re-election.
Arrangements are in hand to appoint a new independent non-executive director to replace Mr Brookes.
The interests of the directors who held office at 30 January 2010 and their families are shown in the Remuneration Report on pages 38 and 39.
Auditors Ernst & Young LLP have expressed their willingness to continue in office as auditors of the Group and their reappointment will be proposed at the AGM.
Disclosure of information to auditors In accordance with the provisions of Section 418 of the Companies Act 2006, each of the persons who is a director at the date of approval of this report confirms that: n so far as the director is aware, there is no relevant audit information of which the Companys auditors are unaware: and n each director has taken all the steps that they ought to have taken as a director to make themselves aware of any relevant audit information and to establish that the Companys auditors are aware of that information.
Share Matching Plan Since 2004 the Company has each year sought shareholder authority to operate a Risk Reward investment plan for the executive directors and certain other senior executives.
The Remuneration Report on page 29 explains that no further awards will be made under these arrangements and, instead, it is proposed to introduce a new share matching plan.
Approval from shareholders for the new plan, which complies with current best practice guidelines, will be sought at the AGM.
It will be known as the Next 2010 Share Matching Plan and a summary of its main features is set out in the Appendix 1 to the Notice of Meeting on pages 91 to 92.
A copy of the rules of the proposed Plan will be available for inspection at the Companys registered office and at the offices of Hewitt New Bridge Street at 6 More London Place, London SE1 2DA during normal business hours up until the close of the AGM, and at the Meeting itself.
Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 30 January 2010 Directors Report and Business Review 19 Authority to allot shares Ordinary resolution 8 will, if passed, renew the directors authority pursuant to section 551 of the Companies Act 2006 to allot shares or grant rights to subscribe for, or convert any security into, shares until the conclusion of the AGM in 2011 or, if earlier, 1 August 2011.
This resolution will allow the directors to allot ordinary shares up to a maximum nominal amount of 6,250,000 representing approximately one third 33.33% of the Companys existing issued share capital as at 22 March 2010.
In accordance with the latest institutional guidelines, resolution 8 will also allow directors to allot further ordinary shares, in connection with a pre-emptive offer by way of a rights issue, of up to a maximum nominal amount of 12,500,000, representing approximately two thirds 66.67% of the Companys existing issued share capital.
As at 22 March 2010 being the latest practicable date prior to publication of this document the Companys issued share capital amounted to 18,753,290, comprising 187,532,899 ordinary shares of 10 pence each, none of which are held in treasury.
The directors have no present intention of exercising this authority.
Authority to disapply pre-emption rights Special resolution 9 will, if passed, renew the directors authority pursuant to Section 560 of the Companies Act 2006 to allot equity securities for cash without first offering them to existing shareholders in proportion to their holdings.
This resolution limits the aggregate nominal value of ordinary shares which may be issued by the directors on a non pre-emptive basis to 937,500, being less than 5% of the issued ordinary share capital as at 22 March 2010.
This authority also allows the directors, within the same aggregate limit, to sell for cash shares that may be held by the Company in treasury.
The directors do not have any present intention of exercising this authority which will expire at the AGM in 2011 or, if earlier, 1 August 2011.
The directors do not intend to issue more than 7.5% of the issued share capital of the Company in any rolling three year period without prior consultation with the Investment Committees of major shareholder representative organisations.
On-market purchase of own shares Next has been returning capital to its shareholders by share repurchase as well as dividend since March 2000 as part of its strategy for delivering sustainable long term growth in earnings per share.
Over this period, and up to 22 March 2010, Next has returned over 2.2 billion to shareholders by way of share buybacks and in excess of 900 million in dividends.
This buyback activity has enhanced earnings per share, given shareholders the opportunity for capital as well as revenue returns and has been transparent to the financial markets.
Special resolution 10 will renew the authority for the Company to make market purchases as defined in Section 693 of the Companies Act 2006 of its ordinary shares of 10p each provided that: a the aggregate number of ordinary shares authorised to be purchased shall be the lesser of 28,129,000 ordinary shares of 10p each being 15% of the issued share capital as 22 March 2010 and no more than 15% of the issued ordinary share capital outstanding at the date of the AGM, such limits to be reduced by the number of any shares to be purchased pursuant to special resolution 11: Off-market purchases of own shares, see below: b the payment per ordinary share is not less than 10p and not more than 105% of the average of the middle market price of the ordinary shares according to the Daily Official List of the London Stock Exchange for the five business days immediately preceding the date of purchase: and c the renewed authority expires on whichever is the earlier of the next AGM of the Company in 2011 and 1 August 2011.
The directors intend that this authority to purchase the Companys shares will only be exercised if doing so will result in an increase in earnings per share and it is considered to promote the success of the Company.
The directors will also give careful consideration to financial gearing levels of the Company and its general financial position.
The purchase price would be paid out of distributable profits.
It is the directors present intention to cancel the shares purchased under this authority.
The repurchase of ordinary shares would give rise to a stamp duty liability at the rate of 0.5% of the consideration paid by the Company, rounded up to the nearest 5.
The liability will be a liability of the Company.
The total number of share options to subscribe for shares outstanding at 22 March 2010 was 12,944,945.
This represents 6.9% of the issued share capital at that date.
If the Company were to buy back the maximum number of shares permitted pursuant to this resolution, then the total number of options to subscribe for shares outstanding at 22 March 2010 would represent 8.1% of the reduced issued share capital.
Directors Report and Business Review 20 Off-market purchases of own shares The directors consider that share buybacks are an important means of returning value to shareholders and maximising sustainable long term growth in EPS.
Contingent contracts for off-market share purchases are an integral part of the Companys buyback strategy and offer a number of additional benefits compared to on-market share purchases: n Contingent contracts allow the Company to purchase shares at a discount to the market price prevailing at the date each contract is entered into.
Due to the uncertain economic environment, the directors did not consider it appropriate to use the authorities granted at the 2008 and 2009 Annual General Meetings.
Previously, in December 2007 and January 2008 the Company bought back shares for cancellation under such contracts at a discount of up to 11.75% compared with market prices prevailing when the relevant contract commenced.
n Low share liquidity often prevents the Company from purchasing a large number of shares on a single day without affecting the prevailing market price.
Contingent contracts enable the Company to purchase blocks of shares over a period of time without distorting the prevailing share price.
This purchase method is also cash flow advantageous insofar as it defers the cash outflow of any related buybacks.
n Contingent contracts enhance flexibility in the Companys buyback activity when trading volumes are low or the Company would otherwise be restricted from buying on-market, e. g. during close periods.
The Company has previously entered into irrevocable and non-discretionary programmes to allow it to buy shares during close periods.
By entering into contingent contracts prior to any close period, the Company is also allowed to purchase shares off-market during these periods.
Clearance from the FSA for use of contingent contracts, including for settlement in close periods, has been obtained.
n Competitive tendering involving up to four banks is used which minimises the risk of hidden purchase costs.
The tender pricing mechanism ensures that the Company retains the benefit of forecast dividends, as well as any dividends declared, on share purchase commitments covered by contingent contracts.
As with any on-market share buyback decision, the directors would use this authority only after careful consideration, taking into account market conditions prevailing at the time, other investment opportunities, appropriate financial gearing levels and the overall financial position of the Company.
The directors will only purchase shares using such contracts if, based on the contract discounted price rather than any subsequent changes to the share price that cannot be predicted, it is earnings enhancing and promotes the success of the Company for the benefit of its shareholders generally.
Special resolution 11 will give the Company authority to enter into further contingent purchase contracts with each of Goldman Sachs International, UBS AG, Deutsche Bank AG and Barclays Bank plc under which shares may be purchased off-market at a discount to the market price prevailing at the date each contract is entered into.
The total number of shares which the Company would be permitted to purchase pursuant to this authority would be 9,500,000 and would not exceed a total cost of 200 million.
The principal features of the contracts are set out in Appendix 2 to the Notice of the AGM.
Copies of each contract will be available for inspection at the registered office of the Company, and at the offices of Allen & Overy LLP, One Bishops Square, London, E1 6AD during normal working hours from the date of the Notice of the AGM up to the date of the AGM and at the Meeting itself.
New Articles of Association It is proposed in resolution 12 to adopt new articles of association in order to update the Companys current articles of association, primarily to take account of the coming into force of the Companies Shareholders Rights Regulations 2009 the Shareholders Rights Regulations and the implementation of the remaining parts of the Companies Act 2006.
The principal changes introduced in the new Articles are summarised on Appendix 3 pages 95 to 96.
A copy of the proposed new Articles and a copy of the Companys current Memorandum and Articles, marked to show all the changes proposed, will be available for inspection at the Companys registered office and at the offices of Allen & Overy LLP, One Bishops Square, London E1 6AD during normal business hours up to the date of the AGM, and at the Meeting itself.
Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 30 January 2010 Directors Report and Business Review 21 Notice of General Meetings The Shareholders Rights Regulations came into effect from 3 August 2009 and increase the notice period required for general meetings of the Company to 21 days unless shareholders approve a shorter notice period, which cannot however be less than 14 clear days.
The Companys AGM will continue to be held on at least 21 clear days notice.
Prior to these regulations coming into force, the Company was able to call general meetings other than an AGM on 14 clear days notice without obtaining such shareholder approval.
In order to preserve this ability, special resolution 13 seeks such approval.
The approval will be effective until the Companys AGM in 2011, when it is intended that a similar resolution will be proposed.
In order to be able to call a general meeting on less than 21 clear days notice, the Company will make a means of electronic voting available to all shareholders for that meeting.
Recommendation Your directors are of the opinion that all resolutions which are to be proposed at the 2010 AGM will promote the success of the Company and are in the best interests of its shareholders as a whole and, accordingly, unanimously recommend that you vote in favour of the resolutions.
Share capital and major shareholders Details of the Companys share capital are shown in Note 26 to the financial statements.
The Company was authorised by its shareholders at the 2009 AGM to purchase the Companys own shares.
During the year the Company purchased a total of 5,928,082 ordinary shares of 10p in the market at a cost of 120.1m, representing 3.0% of its issued share capital.
On 30 January 2010, the Company had 191,168,605 shares in issue.
Subsequent to the end of the financial year, the Company purchased for cancellation 3,635,706 of its own ordinary shares at a cost of 70.4m under an irrevocable closed season buyback agreement.
As at 22 March 2010 the Company had 187,532,899 shares in issue.
As at 22 March 2010 the following notifications had been received from holders of notifiable interests in the Companys issued share capital as shown: No.
of 10p ordinary shares % BlackRock Inc. 18,352,847 9.79 FMR LLC 13,464,951 7.18 Schroders plc 10,235,136 5.46 Legal & General Assurance Pensions Management Limited 7,400,141 3.95 Standard Life Investments 6,128,405 3.27 Additional information Shareholder and voting rights All members who hold ordinary shares are entitled to attend and vote at the AGM.
On a show of hands at a general meeting every member present in person and every duly appointed proxy shall have one vote and on a poll, every member present in person or by proxy shall have one vote for every ordinary share held or represented.
The Notice of Meeting on pages 88 to 98 specifies deadlines for exercising voting rights.
The Company is not aware of any agreements between shareholders that may result in restrictions on the transfer of securities and voting rights.
There are no restrictions on the transfer of ordinary shares in the Company other than certain restrictions imposed by laws and regulations such as insider trading laws and market requirements relating to close periods and requirements of the Listing Rules whereby directors and certain employees of the Company require Board approval to deal in the Companys securities.
The Companys Articles of Association may only be amended by a special resolution at a general meeting.
Directors are elected or re-elected by ordinary resolution at a general meeting: the Board may appoint a director but anyone so appointed must be elected by ordinary resolution at the next general meeting.
Directors retire and may offer themselves for re-election at general meeting at least every three years.
Directors Report and Business Review 22 Change of control The Company is not party to any significant agreements which take effect, alter or terminate solely upon a change of control of the Company following a takeover bid.
However, in the event of a change of control, the Companys medium term borrowing facilities may be subject to early repayment if a majority of the lending banks gave written notice to the Company within 30 days of the change of control.
In addition, should a change of control cause a downgrading in the credit rating of the Companys 2013 and 2016 corporate bonds to sub-investment grade which is not rectified within 120 days after the change in control, holders of the bonds have the option to call for redemption of the bonds by the Company at their nominal value together with accrued interest.
This option is restricted only to a downgrade which occurs as a direct consequence of a change in control.
The Companys share option plans and the long term incentive plan contain provisions regarding a change of control.
Outstanding options and awards may vest on a change of control, subject to the satisfaction of any relevant performance conditions.
Directors service contracts are terminable by the Company on giving one years notice.
There are no agreements between the Company and its directors or employees providing for additional compensation for loss of office or employment whether through resignation, redundancy or otherwise that occurs because of a takeover bid.
Corporate governance The corporate governance statement as required by the UK Financial Services Authoritys Disclosure and Transparency Rules DTR 7.2 comprises the Additional Information section of the Directors Report and the Corporate Governance statement on pages 25 to 28 of this Report and Accounts.
By order of the Board A J R McKinlay Secretary 25 March 2010 Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 30 January 2010
