Shareholder Information 99 Company website A full copy of this Annual Report, together with that for prior years and other information required by section 311A of the Companies Act 2006 can be found on the Next plc website at www.
co. uk Under section 527 Companies Act 2006 members meeting the threshold requirements set out in that section have the right to require the Company to publish on a website a statement setting out any matter relating to: i the audit of the Companys accounts including the auditors report and the conduct of the audit that are to be laid before the Annual General Meeting: or ii any circumstance connected with an auditor of the Company ceasing to hold office since the previous meeting at which annual accounts and reports were laid in accordance with section 437 Companies Act 2006.
The Company may not require the members requesting such website publication to pay its expenses in complying with sections 527 or 528 Companies Act 2006, and it must forward the statement to the Companys auditors not later than the time when it makes the statement available on the website.
The business which may be dealt with at the Annual General Meeting includes any statement that the Company has been required under section 527 Companies Act 2006 to publish on its website.
Payment of dividend The recommended final ordinary dividend, if approved, will be paid on 1 July 2010 to holders of ordinary shares registered at close of business on 28 May 2010.
The ordinary shares will trade ex-dividend from 26 May 2010.
Annual General Meeting The Annual General Meeting will be held at 11.00 a. m. on Tuesday 18 May 2010 at the Leicester Marriott Hotel, Smith Way, Grove Park, Leicester LE19 1SW.
The notice of the meeting on pages 88 to 98 sets out business to be transacted.
Full access is available to the venue for those with special requirements.
Proxy card Completed proxy cards should be send to our registrars, Equiniti and must be received by 11.00 a. m. on 16 May 2010.
As an alternative to completing and returning this form of proxy, you may submit your proxy electronically by accessing the Registrars website www.
You will be asked to enter your unique Voting ID, Task ID and shareholder reference number as printed on your form of proxy.
The use by members of the electronic proxy appointment service will be governed by the terms and conditions of use which appear on the website.
Electronic proxies must be completed and lodged in accordance with the instructions on the website by no later than 48 hours before the Annual General Meeting.
A member must inform the Registrar in writing of any termination of the authority of a proxy.
Share price data 2010 2009 Share price at financial year end 1966p 1097p Market capitalisation 3,758m 2,162m Share price movement during year: High mid-market quotation 2139p 1522p Low mid-market quotation 1088p 838p Registrars and transfer office Equiniti Aspect House Spencer Road Lancing West Sussex BN99 6DA Telephone 0871 384 2164 Calls to this number are charged at 8p per minute from a BT landline.
Other telephony provider costs may vary.
Shareholder Information 100 Discount voucher The Company offers a discount voucher to any first named, registered shareholder holding 500 or more ordinary shares as at 1 April each year.
The voucher entitles the recipient or their immediate family to a 25% discount against most purchases at any one time of full price merchandise in Next Retail stores.
It cannot be used in conjunction with any other discount voucher or offer, nor can it be used for the purchase of gift cards, Sale merchandise, electrical goods, non-Next branded goods or at any branch of Next Clearance or purchases from Next Directory.
The voucher has no monetary purchase limit and expires on 31 October of the same year.
Shareholders holding shares in nominee or PEP ISA accounts are also eligible, but must request the voucher through their nominee or PEP ISA account manager.
Shareholder enquiries The Companys share register is maintained by Equiniti.
Please contact them if you have any enquiries about your Next plc shareholding including the following matters: n change of name and address n loss of share certificate, dividend warrant or tax voucher n if you receive duplicate sets of company mailings as a result of an inconsistency in name or address and wish, if appropriate, to combine accounts.
The Shareview Portfolio service from our registrar, Equiniti, gives you more online information about your Next plc shares and other investments.
For direct access to information held for you on the share register including recent balance movements and a daily valuation of investments held in your portfolio visit www.
For shareholders with disabilities Equiniti provides the following: n if requested future communications produced by them will be sent in the appropriate format.
n textphone number 0871 384 2255 for shareholders with hearing difficulties.
n hearing loop facilities in their buildings for use by visiting shareholders.
CREST The Companys ordinary shares are available for electronic settlement.
Payments of dividends to mandated accounts Shareholders who do not at present have their dividends paid directly into a bank or building society may wish to do so.
A mandate form is attached to your dividend warrant and tax voucher or is available to download from the Next plc website on www.
co. uk or from Equiniti, telephone 0871 384 2164.
This report has been printed on recycled paper.
Greencoat 55 is produced from 55% recovered fibre, diverting waste from landfill.
Contains material sourced from responsibly managed and sustainable forests together with recycled fibre.
Manufactured to ISO 14001 and EMAS Eco-Management and Audit Scheme international standards, minimising negative impacts on the environment.
Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 30 January 2010 Annual Report and Accounts January 2010 www.
co. uk Annual Report and Accounts www.
