Notice of Meeting 88 THIS DOCUMENT IS IMPORTANT AND REQUIRES YOUR IMMEDIATE ATTENTION.
If you are in any doubt as to the action you should take, you are recommended to seek your own personal financial advice from your stockbroker, bank manager, solicitor, accountant or other financial advisor authorised under the Financial Services and Markets Act 2000.
If you have sold or otherwise transferred all your Next shares, please send this document, together with the accompanying Form of Proxy, as soon as possible to the purchaser or transferee, or to the stockbroker, bank or other agent through whom the sale or transfer was effected, for delivery to the purchaser or transferee.
Notice is given that the Annual General Meeting of Next plc will be held at the Leicester Marriott Hotel, Smith Way, Grove Park, Leicester LE19 1SW on Tuesday 18 May 2010 at 11.00 a. m. at which the following resolutions will be proposed: resolutions 1 to 8 as Ordinary Resolutions and 9 to 13 as Special Resolutions.
Further information on these resolutions can be found in the Directors Report and Business Review on pages 18 to 21 and in the appendices to this Notice.
1 To receive and adopt the accounts and reports of the directors and auditors for the year ended 30 January 2010.
2 To approve the remuneration report for the year ended 30 January 2010.
3 To declare a final dividend of 47p per share in respect of the year ended 30 January 2010.
4 To re-elect Steve Barber as a director who retires in accordance with Article 56.
5 To re-elect David Keens as a director who retires in accordance with Article 56.
6 To re-appoint Ernst & Young LLP as auditors and authorise the directors to set their remuneration.
Biographies of directors seeking re-election are shown on page 24 of the Annual Report.
7 Next 2010 Share Matching Plan That: a the rules of the Next 2010 Share Matching Plan the Plan, the main features of which are described in Appendix 1 on pages 91 to 92 and a copy of which is produced to the Meeting and for the purposes of identification initialled by the Chairman, be approved: and b the directors of the Company be authorised to: i modify the Plan as they consider appropriate to take account of best practice, adopt the Plan as so modified and take such other action as they consider appropriate to implement the Plan: and ii establish further plans based on the Plan but modified to take account of local tax, exchange control or securities laws in overseas territories, provided that any shares made available under such plans are counted against the limits on individual or overall participation in the Plan.
8 Directors authority to allot shares That: a the directors be generally and unconditionally authorised, in accordance with section 551 of the Companies Act 2006, to exercise all powers of the Company to allot equity securities as defined in section 560 of the Companies Act 2006 : i up to a maximum nominal amount of 6,250,000: and ii up to   i above in connection with an offer by way of a rights issue to holders of ordinary shares in proportion as nearly as may be practicable to their existing holdings: and so that the directors may make such exclusions or other arrangements as they consider expedient in relation to treasury shares, fractional entitlements, record dates, legal or practical problems under the laws in any territory or the requirements of any relevant regulatory body or stock exchange or any other matter: Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 30 January 2010 Notice of Meeting 89 b this authority shall expire at the conclusion of the next annual general meeting of the Company after the passing of this resolution or, if earlier, at the close of business on 1 August 2011: c the Company may, ,  allotted or rights to be granted after it expires and the directors may allot shares or grant rights in pursuance of such offer or agreement as if this authority had not expired: and d all  savetothe extent that the same are exercisable pursuant to section 551 7 of the Companies Act 2006.
9 Disapplication of pre-emption rights That: a the directors be given power: i subject to the passing of resolution 8, to allot equity securities for cash pursuant to the authority conferred on them by that resolution: and ii to allot equity securities held by the Company as treasury shares for cash, in either case as if section 561 of the Companies Act 2006 did not apply to the allotment but this power shall be limited: A to the allotment of equity securities in connection with a rights issue as defined in article 8 of the Companys articles of association : and B otherwise, to the allotment of equity securities up to a maximum nominal amount of 937,500: b this power shall expire at the conclusion of the next annual general meeting of the Company after the passing of this resolution or, if earlier, at the close of business on 1 August 2011: c all previous unutilised authorities under section 95 of the Companies Act 1985 shall cease to have effect: and d the Company may, before this power expires, make an offer or agreement which would or might require equity securities to be allotted after it expires and the directors may allot equity securities in pursuance of such offer or agreement as if this power had not expired.
10 On-market purchase of own shares That in accordance with the Companies Act 2006 the Act, the Company be granted general and unconditional authority to make market purchases as defined in Section 693 of the Act of any of its own ordinary shares on such terms and in such manner as the directors may determine provided that: a the authority conferred by this resolution shall be limited to the lesser of 28,129,000 ordinary shares of 10p each and no more than 15% of the issued ordinary share capital outstanding at the date of the Annual General Meeting, such limit to be reduced by the number of any shares purchased pursuant to the authority granted at resolution 11 below: b the minimum price which may be paid for ordinary shares exclusive of expenses is 10p per ordinary share: c the maximum price which may be paid for each ordinary share exclusive of expenses is an amount not more than 105% of the average of the middle market price of the ordinary shares of the Company according to the Daily Official List of the London Stock Exchange for the five business days immediately preceding the date of purchase: d the authority hereby conferred, unless renewed, shall expire on whichever is the earlier of: i the conclusion of the next annual general meeting of the Company held in 2011, and ii 1 August 2011: e the Company may make a contract or contracts to purchase ordinary shares under the authority hereby conferred prior to the expiry of such authority which will or may be executed wholly or partly after the expiry of such authority and may make a purchase of ordinary shares in pursuance of any such contract: and Notice of Meeting 90 f all existing authorities for the Company to make market purchases of its own ordinary shares are revoked, except in relation to the purchase of shares under a contract or contracts concluded before the date of this resolution and which has or have not yet been executed.
11 Off-market purchases of own shares That, in accordance with the Companies Act 2006, the proposed programme agreements to be entered into between the Company and each of Goldman Sachs International, UBS AG, Deutsche Bank AG and Barclays Bank plc in the form produced to this meeting and initialled by the Chairman for the purpose of identification the Programme Agreements be and are approved and the Company be and is authorised to enter into the Programme Agreements and all and any forward trades which may be effected or made from time to time under or pursuant to the Programme Agreements for the off-market purchase by the Company of its ordinary shares of 10 pence each for cancellation, as more fully described in Appendix 2 on pages 93 to 94 the authority conferred by this special resolution to expire on whichever is the earlier of the conclusion of the next annual general meeting of the Company held in 2011 and 1 August 2011, unless such authority is renewed prior to that time except in relation to the purchase of ordinary shares under any forward trade effected or made before the expiry of such authority and which might be completed wholly or partly after such expiry, and provided that shares purchased pursuant to this authority will reduce the number of shares that the Company may purchase under the general authority granted under resolution 10 above.
12 New Articles of Association That, with effect from the conclusion of the Annual General Meeting: a the Articles of Association of the Company be amended by deleting all the provisions of the Companys Memorandum of Association which, by virtue of section 28 of the Companies Act 2006, are to be treated as provisions of the Companys Articles of Association: and b the Articles of Association produced to the meeting and initialled by the Chairman for the purpose of identification be adopted as the Articles of Association of the Company in substitution for, and to the exclusion of, the existing Articles of Association.
13 Notice of general meetings That, in accordance with the Companys articles of association, a general meeting other than an annual general meeting may be called on not less than 14 clear days notice.
A J R McKinlay, Secretary Registered Office Desford Road, Enderby Leicester, LE19 4AT 15 April 2010 Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 30 January 2010 Notice of Meeting 91 APPENDIX 1 FURTHER INFORMATION ON RESOLUTION 7: SUMMARY OF THE PRINCIPAL TERMS OF THE NEXT PLC 2010 SHARE MATCHING PLAN THE PLAN Operation The Companys Remuneration Committee will supervise the operation of the Plan.
Eligibility Any employee including an executive director of the Company and its subsidiaries may participate at the discretion of the Remuneration Committee.
It is intended that awards will be granted following the 2010 Annual General Meeting to selected executives currently not envisaged to exceed 30 in all, including the Companys executive directors.
Grant of awards Awards to acquire ordinary shares in the Company may be granted within 6 weeks of the Companys announcement of its results for any period, within 6 weeks of shareholder approval of the Plan or at any other time when the Remuneration Committee considers there are exceptional circumstances.
Awards may only be granted within 10 years of shareholder approval of the Plan.
Awards may be granted as conditional awards to acquire shares, as nil or nominal cost options, normally exercisable between 3 and 10 years following grant, or as forfeitable shares.
They may also be cash-based awards of an equivalent value.
Awards will be made to individuals who invest part, or all, of the cash element of their discretionary annual bonus in ordinary shares in Next plc Investment Shares.
No other payment is required for an award.
After Investment Shares have been purchased, the Company will grant awards over shares with a value of up to 200% of the pre-tax amount used to buy Investment Shares.
An award of up to 300% of that amount may be made if considered appropriate but only following consultation with major shareholders.
Awards are not transferable except on death and are not pensionable.
Performance condition Vesting of awards will be subject to a performance condition set by the Remuneration Committee.
For awards made following the 2010 Annual General Meeting, the condition will require the attainment of earnings per share EPS targets for the year ending January 2013: 25% of awards will vest if EPS growth over 2010 reaches 15p, 50% if it reaches 30p, and 100% if it reaches 45p.
Between these EPS growth levels, straight line vesting will apply.
For this purpose, EPS will be the Companys post-tax fully diluted EPS, although the Remuneration Committee may adjust this EPS measure for exceptional items.
The Remuneration Committee can set different performance conditions for future awards.
However, major shareholders will be consulted regarding any condition that, in the opinion of the Remuneration Committee, is less demanding than the initial condition.
The Remuneration Committee may vary an existing awards performance condition if an event occurs which causes the Remuneration Committee to consider a variation to be appropriate.
The varied condition must be fair and reasonable and not materially less challenging than the original condition but for the relevant event.
Vesting of awards Awards normally vest 3 years after grant to the extent that the performance condition has been satisfied, provided the Investment Shares have been retained by the participant and they are still employed in the Next group.
If any Investment Shares are disposed of by the participant before the vesting date, awards will lapse on a pro-rata basis.
Once vested, awards granted as options will normally remain exercisable until the day before the 10th anniversary of their grant.
Leaving employment Awards will vest following cessation of employment due to death, injury, disability, retirement, redundancy, an employing company or the business being sold out of the Next group or in other circumstances at the discretion of the Remuneration Committee.
The extent of vesting will depend on: i the extent to which the performance condition has been satisfied: ii pro-rating to reflect the reduced period from grant to vesting, although the Remuneration Committee need not pro-rate if it regards this as inappropriate : and iii quantum of Investment Shares still held at the time of leaving.
Employees who resign will generally lose their rights to an award.
Notice of Meeting 92 Vesting in these circumstances will generally occur at the normal time.
However, the Remuneration Committee can decide that awards will vest immediately on such cessation in which case performance will be measured over the period to cessation.
Where an award granted as an option is exercisable following cessation of employment, it will normally be exercisable for 12 months from when it vests.
Corporate events On a takeover not being an internal reorganisation, or winding up of the Company awards will vest early subject to: i the extent that the performance condition has been satisfied: and ii pro-rating to reflect the reduced period from grant to vesting although the Remuneration Committee can decide not to pro-rate awards if it regards this as inappropriate.
On an internal reorganisation, awards will be replaced by equivalent awards over shares in the new holding company unless the Remuneration Committee decides that they should vest on the same basis as for a takeover.
If a demerger, special dividend or other similar event is proposed which, in the Remuneration Committees opinion, would affect the market price of shares to a material extent, the Remuneration Committee may decide that awards will vest as on a takeover.
Participants rights Holders of awards of forfeitable shares will have shareholder rights from when they are made except they may be required to waive their dividend rights.
Other awards will not confer shareholder rights until participants have received their shares.
The Remuneration Committee may, however, decide that participants will receive a payment in cash and or shares of an amount equivalent to the dividends that would have been paid on the shares subject to the awards from when they were granted to when shares are acquired.
Alternatively, the awards may be increased as if dividends were paid on the shares subject to the awards and then reinvested in further shares.
Rights attaching to shares Any shares allotted under the Plan will rank equally with other issued shares except where record date is prior to their allotment.
Adjustment of awards On a variation of the Companys share capital or on a demerger, payment of a special dividend or similar event which materially affects the market price of shares, the Remuneration Committee may adjust the number of shares subject to an award and or any exercise price payable.
Overall Plan limits The Plan may operate over new issue shares, treasury shares or shares purchased in the market.
In any ten calendar years, the Company may not issue or grant rights to issue more than: a 10 per cent of its issued ordinary share capital under the Plan and any other employee share plan: and b 5 per cent of its issued ordinary share capital under the Plan and any other executive share plan.
Treasury shares will count as new issue shares for these purposes unless institutional investors decide that they need not count.
Alterations to the Plan The Remuneration Committee may amend the Plan, although prior shareholder approval is normally required for amendments to the advantage of participants, including inter alia the rules governing eligibility, limits on participation, the overall limits on the issue of shares or the transfer of treasury shares, the basis for determining a participants entitlement to, and the terms of, the shares or cash to be acquired and the adjustment of awards.
Such approval is not, however required for minor alterations to benefit Plan administration, to take account of a change in legislation or to obtain or maintain favourable tax, exchange control or regulatory treatment for participants or for any company in the Companys group and any performance condition.
Overseas Plans The shareholders resolution to approve the Plan will allow the Board to establish further plans for overseas territories.
Such plans will be similar to the Plan, but modified to take account of local tax, exchange control or securities laws.
Any shares made available under them will count against the Plans limits on individual and overall participation.
Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 30 January 2010 Notice of Meeting 93 APPENDIX 2 FURTHER INFORMATION ON RESOLUTION 11: OFF MARKET PURCHASES OF OWN SHARES As noted on page 20 in the Directors Report and Business Review, approval will be sought from shareholders to renew the Companys authority to make off-market purchases of its shares.
By virtue of special resolution number 11 passed at the Companys Annual General Meeting AGM on 19 May 2009 shareholder authority was given to the Company to make on-market purchases of shares for cancellation.
This authority was limited to a maximum of 29.5 million shares and expires on the earlier of the date of the AGM held in 2010 or 1 August 2010.
At the same AGM, authority was granted to the Company to make off-market purchases of shares for cancellation under contingent purchase contracts to be entered into with each of Goldman Sachs International, UBS AG, Deutsche Bank AG and Barclays Bank plc the Bank s. This authority was limited to a maximum of 9.8 million shares and expires on the earlier of the date of the AGM to be held in 2010 or 1 August 2010.
Since the granting of those authorities up to 22 March 2010, the Company has bought back 9,563,788 shares for cancellation, representing 4.9% of its issued share capital as at the date of the 2009 AGM, at a total cost of 190.6 million.
No shares have been bought back under contingent purchase contracts.
Under Sections 693 and 694 of the Companies Act 2006 the Act, the Company is not permitted to make off-market purchases or contingent purchases of its shares unless it obtains advance shareholder approval to the proposed contract terms.
Furthermore, under the rules of the UK Listing Authority the Listing Rules the Company may not purchase its shares at a time when any director is in receipt of unpublished price sensitive information about the Company.
Accordingly, no purchases of shares would normally be made in periods when the directors might be in receipt of unpublished price sensitive information Close Periods.
Typically, these include the periods from the Companys half year end up to the announcement of its interim results in September and the January year end up to the announcement of full year results in March each year.
These Close Periods inevitably reduce the number of shares the Company is able to purchase.
In order to achieve maximum flexibility in its share purchase activities, the Company is able to enter into irrevocable and nondiscretionary programmes to allow it to buy shares during Close Periods.
Another method of providing flexibility in its share purchase activities, and reducing the cost of share buybacks, is for the Company to enter into contingent forward purchase contracts outside of Close Periods.
Pursuant to the authority granted at the 2009 AGM, the Company entered into agreements with the Banks the Existing Agreements and the Company intends to terminate the Existing Agreements and enter into new agreements.
The Company proposes to enter into an agreement with each of the Banks the Programme Agreements, under which it may although it is not obliged to enter into contingent forward trades Contingent Forward Trades or CFT from time to time.
Under the terms of each CFT, the Company may purchase a fixed number of shares each week over a period of between 20 to 30 weeks.
The maximum number of shares that can be purchased under each CFT is limited to 50,000 shares per week.
Details of each CFT will be announced to shareholders on the day it is entered into by the Company.
Whether or not the Company purchases shares in a particular week during the term of a CFT is dependent upon the Companys share price not reaching a level set at the time that contract is entered into the Suspension Level.
The Suspension Level is determined by the Company and must be between 104% and 110% of the Companys share price as at the start of the CFT.
The price at which the Company may purchase shares during the term of a Contingent Forward Trade the Forward Price shall also be fixed at the start of the CFT.
The Forward Price is subject to a maximum of 99% of the share price at the start of the contract and a minimum of 10 pence the par value of an ordinary share.
This structure would allow the Company to purchase shares at a discount to the market price as at the time each CFT commences, for so long as the Suspension Level is not reached, without breaching the Listing Rules.
If the Suspension Level is reached, the CFT would terminate automatically at that time and no further shares would be purchased under that contract.
In such circumstances, a reduced number of shares would be purchased by the Company for cancellation under that contract.
Under the provisions of sections 693 and 694 of the Act, the Programme Agreements and Contingent Forward Trades are contingent purchase contracts to purchase shares by the Company off-market.
Accordingly resolution 11, which will be proposed as a special resolution, seeks shareholder approval to the terms of the Programme Agreements to be entered into between the Company and each of the Banks.
The Programme Agreements will have a duration of the shorter of the period to the date of the next AGM to be held in 2011 or 1 August 2011 and will incorporate the terms of an ISDA Master Agreement and Schedule.
The Programme Agreements will be entered into and each CFT will be effected outside a Close Period but shares may be purchased during a Close Period by the Company.
The minimum and maximum amount of time between a CFT being effected and shares being purchased is 5 days and 30 weeks respectively.
Notice of Meeting 94 Should shareholder approval be granted, any number of CFT may be effected with the Banks at any time, provided that: n the total maximum number of shares which the Company is permitted to purchase pursuant to this authority would be 9.5 million, representing less than 5.0% of its issued share capital at 30 January 2010: n the total cost of shares that the Company would be permitted to purchase pursuant to this authority may not exceed 200 million including costs : n the Forward Price may not exceed 105% of the average middle market closing price of the Companys shares as derived from the Official List of the London Stock Exchange for the five days immediately preceding the day on which the Contingent Forward Trade was effected: n the Forward Price will be no more than 99% of the share price at the time the Contingent Forward Trade was effected: n the minimum price that can be paid for any share is 0.10: and n only one Contingent Forward Trade will be entered into on any particular day.
Subject to the limits set out above, the Company will select the Suspension Level and the duration of each CFT, and the Forward Price will be determined by the relevant Bank.
Shares purchased via the Programme Agreements will reduce the number of shares that the Company may purchase under any authority granted at the AGM on 18 May 2010 for on-market purchases.
No shares will be purchased under that authority on the same day that a CFT is entered into.
The authority granted to the Company under this resolution will expire at the conclusion of the next AGM of the Company held in 2011 or on 1 August 2011, whichever is the earlier, unless such authority is renewed prior to that time except in relation to the purchase of shares under any CFT effected before the expiry of such authority and which might be completed wholly or partly after such expiry.
The purchase of shares under the Programme Agreements will always be physically settled by delivery of shares to the Company except in the case of certain events of default or termination events.
A copy of each of the Programme Agreements will be available at the AGM on 18 May 2010.
Copies will also be available for inspection at the Companys registered office at Desford Road, Enderby, Leicester LE19 4AT or at the offices of Allen & Overy LLP, One Bishops Square, London, E1 6AD during usual business hours until the date of the AGM and at the Meeting itself.
The total number of share options to subscribe for shares outstanding at 22 March 2010 was 12,944,945.
This represents 6.9% of the issued share capital at that date.
If the Company was to buy back the maximum number of shares permitted pursuant to this special resolution, then the total number of options to subscribe for shares outstanding at 22 March 2010 would represent 7.3% of the reduced issued share capital.
Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 30 January 2010 Notice of Meeting 95 APPENDIX 3 FURTHER INFORMATION ON RESOLUTION 12: NEW ARTICLES OF ASSOCIATION It is proposed in resolution 12 to adopt new articles of association the New Articles in order to update the Companys current articles of association the Current Articles, primarily to take account of the coming into force of the Companies Shareholders Rights Regulations 2009 the Shareholders Rights Regulations and the implementation of the remaining parts of the Companies Act 2006 CA 2006.
The principal changes introduced in the New Articles are summarised below.
Other changes, which are of a minor, technical or clarifying nature and also some more minor changes which merely reflect changes made by CA 2006 or the Shareholders Rights Regulations have not been noted.
The Companys objects Prior to 1 October 2009, the provisions regulating the operations of the Company were set out in the Companys memorandum and articles of association.
The Companys memorandum contained, among other things, the objects clause which sets out the scope of the activities the company is authorised to undertake.
This is drafted to give a wide scope.
CA 2006 significantly reduces the constitutional significance of a companys memorandum, providing that a memorandum will record only the names of subscribers and the number of shares each subscriber has agreed to take in the company.
Under CA 2006, the objects clause and all other provisions which are contained in a companys memorandum are deemed to be contained in the companys articles of association, but the company can remove these provisions by special resolution.
Further, CA 2006 states that, unless a companys articles provide otherwise, a companys objects are unrestricted.
This abolishes the need for companies to have objects clauses.
For this reason, the Company is proposing to remove its objects clause, together with all other provisions of its memorandum which, by virtue of CA 2006, are now treated as forming part of its articles of association.
Resolution 12 a confirms the removal of these provisions although, where appropriate, to preserve the status quo, certain directors powers that were previously dealt with in the memorandum have been reflected in the New Articles.
As the effect of Resolution 12 a will also be to remove the statement currently in the Companys memorandum of association regarding limited liability, the New Articles also contain an express statement regarding the limited liability of shareholders.
Authorised share capital and unissued shares CA 2006 abolishes the requirement for a company to have an authorised share capital, and the New Articles reflect this.
Directors will still be limited as to the number of shares they can at any time allot because allotment authority continues to be required under CA 2006, save in respect of employees share schemes.
Redeemable shares Under Companies Act 1985, if a company wished to issue redeemable shares, it had to include in its articles the terms and manner of redemption, whereas CA 2006 enables directors to determine such matters themselves, provided that they are authorised to do so by the articles.
The New Articles contain such an authorisation for the directors.
The Company has no plans to issue redeemable shares but, if it did so, the directors would need shareholders authority to issue new shares in the usual way.
Suspension of registration of share transfers The Current Articles permit the directors to suspend the registration of share transfers.
This power has been removed in the New Articles because it is inconsistent with CA 2006, which requires share transfers to be registered as soon as practicable.
Notice of general meetings The Shareholders Rights Regulations amend CA 2006 to require the Company to give 21 clear days notice of general meetings unless the Company offers members an electronic voting facility and a special resolution reducing the period of notice to not less than 14 days has been passed.
Annual General Meetings must be held on 21 clear days notice.
The New Articles amend the provisions of the Current Articles to be consistent with the new requirements.
Adjournments for lack of quorum Under CA 2006, as amended by the Shareholders Rights Regulations, general meetings adjourned for lack of quorum must be held at least 10 clear days after the original meeting.
The New Articles amend the provisions of the Current Articles to reflect this requirement.
Notice of Meeting 96 Chairmans casting vote The New Articles remove the provision in the Current Articles giving the chairman a casting vote in the event of an equality of votes, as this is no longer permitted under CA 2006.
Voting by proxies on a show of hands The Shareholders Rights Regulations have amended CA 2006 so that it now provides that, subject to a companys articles, each proxy appointed by a member has one vote on a show of hands, unless the proxy is appointed by more than one member, in which case the proxy has one vote for and one vote against if the proxy has been instructed by one or more members to vote for the resolution and by one or more members to vote against the resolution.
The New Articles amend the provisions of the Current Articles to reflect these changes, and to clarify the procedure to be followed if a proxy is appointed by more than one member and is given discretion as to how to vote by one or more of those members.
Voting record date and proxy appointment deadline Under CA 2006, as amended by the Shareholders Rights Regulations, the Company must determine the right of members to vote at a general meeting by reference to the register not more than 48 hours before the time for the holding of the meeting, not taking account of days that are not working days.
CA 2006 also allows companies to set a time limit for the receipt of proxy appointments and related documents that is not more than 48 hours before the time for the holding of the meeting, not taking account of days that are not working days.
The New Articles amend the Current Articles to reflect these provisions.
Voting in accordance with instructions Under the Shareholders Rights Regulations, proxies are expressly required to vote in accordance with instructions given to them by members.
For the avoidance of doubt, the New Articles contain a provision stating that the Company is not obliged to check whether a proxy or corporate representative has voted in accordance with the members instructions.
Change of name Prior to 1 October 2009, a company could only change its name by special resolution, but now, under CA 2006, a company is able to change its name by other means provided for by its articles.
To take advantage of this provision, the New Articles enable the directors to pass a resolution to change the Companys name.
Scrip dividends In line with market practice, the New Articles update the Current Articles to provide that the value of shares issued in connection with a scrip dividend may be determined by ordinary resolution, or by reference to the average middle-market quotation for shares of the same class on the London Stock Exchange Daily Official List for the day on which the shares are first quoted ex dividend, and the four subsequent dealing days.
The New Articles also allow the directors the flexibility at any time before the further shares are allotted to decide that the dividend will be paid in cash instead.
General Generally, the opportunity has been taken to bring clearer language into the New Articles and in some areas to conform the language of the New Articles to the language used in CA 2006.
Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 30 January 2010 Notice of Meeting 97 Attendance, voting and questions All members who hold ordinary shares are entitled to attend and vote at the Annual General Meeting AGM.
A member who is entitled to attend and vote may appoint one or more proxies to attend and vote instead of him, provided that each proxy is appointed to exercise the rights attached to a different share or shares held by him.
A proxy need not also be a member.
A proxy may vote on any other business which may properly come before the meeting.
If you do not intend being present at the meeting please either sign and return a hard copy form of proxy so as to reach the Companys registrars at least 48 hours before the meeting or follow the instructions for electronic proxy appointment through CREST or through www.
The return by a member of a fully completed form of proxy will not preclude any such member from attending in person and voting at the meeting.
A person to whom this notice is sent who is a person nominated under section 146 of the Companies Act 2006 to enjoy information rights a Nominated Person may, under an agreement between them and the shareholder by whom they were nominated, have a right to be appointed or to have someone else appointed as a proxy for the AGM.
If a Nominated Person has no such proxy appointment right or does not wish to exercise it, they may, under any such agreement, have a right to give instructions to the shareholder as to the exercise of voting rights.
The statements of the rights of members in relation to the appointment of proxies in the above paragraph and in the paragraphs headed Electronic proxy appointment through CREST and Proxy card below do not apply to a Nominated Person.
The rights described in these paragraphs can only be exercised by registered members of the Company.
Nominated persons are reminded that they should contact the registered holder of their shares and not the Company on matters relating to their investments in the Company.
Any corporation which is a member can appoint one or more corporate representatives who may exercise on its behalf all of its powers as a member provided that they do not do so in relation to the same shares.
The Company, pursuant to Regulation 41 of the Uncertificated Securities Regulations 2001 and its articles of association, specifies that only those shareholders registered in the register of members of the Company as at 6pm on 16 May 2010 shall be entitled to attend or vote at the aforesaid general meeting in respect of the number of shares registered in their name at that time.
Changes to entries on the relevant register of securities after 6pm on 16 May 2010 shall be disregarded in determining the rights of any person to attend or vote at the meeting.
All resolutions will be put to poll votes.
This means that the votes of all shareholders, including those who cannot attend the meeting but who validly appoint a proxy, are counted.
The procedures for the poll votes will be explained at the AGM.
In respect of resolution 11 on off-market share purchase contracts, Companies Act 2006 provides that this resolution will not be effective if any member of the Company holding shares to which it relates i. e. those which may be purchased pursuant to the Programme Agreements exercised the voting rights carried by any of those shares in voting on the special resolution and the resolution would not have been passed if they had not done so.
Therefore, Next intends to disregard any poll votes which are cast in favour of resolution 11 attaching to 9.5 million shares being the total maximum number of shares which the Company is permitted to purchase pursuant to the Programme Agreements from both the total number of votes cast in favour of this resolution and the total number of votes cast.
As at 22 March 2010 being the latest practicable date prior to the publication of this Notice the Companys issued share capital consists of 187,532,899 ordinary shares.
All of the ordinary shares carry one vote each and there are no shares held in treasury.
A member attending the meeting has the right to ask questions.
The Company must ensure any such question relating to the business being dealt with at the meeting is answered but no such answer need be given if a to do so would interfere unduly with the preparation for the meeting or involve the disclosure of confidential information, b the answer has already been given on a website in the form of an answer to a question, or c it is undesirable in the interests of the Company or the good order of the meeting that the question be answered.
Notice of Meeting 98 Electronic proxy appointment through CREST CREST members who wish to appoint a proxy or proxies through the CREST electronic proxy appointment service may do so for the AGM to be held on 18 May 2010 and any adjournment s thereof by using the procedures described in the CREST Manual.
CREST personal members or other CREST sponsored members, and those CREST members who have appointed a voting service provider s, should refer to their CREST sponsor or voting service provider s, who will be able to take the appropriate action on their behalf.
In order for a proxy appointment or instruction made using the CREST service to be valid, the appropriate CREST message a CREST Proxy Instruction must be properly authenticated in accordance with Euroclear UK & Ireland Limiteds specifications and must contain the information required for such instructions, as described in the CREST Manual.
The message, regardless of whether it constitutes the appointment of a proxy or to an amendment to the instruction given to a previously appointed proxy must, in order to be valid, be transmitted so as to be received by the issuers agent ID RA19 by the latest time s for receipt of proxy appointments specified in the notice of meeting.
For this purpose, the time of receipt will be taken to be the time as determined by the timestamp applied to the message by the CREST Applications Host from which the issuers agent is able to retrieve the message by enquiry to CREST in the manner prescribed by CREST.
After this time any change of instructions to proxies appointed through CREST should be communicated to the appointee through other means.
CREST members and, where applicable, their CREST sponsors or voting service providers should note that Euroclear UK & Ireland Limited does not make available special procedures in CREST for any particular messages.
Normal system timings and limitations will therefore apply in relation to the input of CREST Proxy Instructions.
It is the responsibility of the CREST member concerned to take or, if the CREST member is a CREST personal member or sponsored member or has appointed a voting service provider s, to procure that his CREST sponsor or voting service provider s take s such action as shall be necessary to ensure that a message is transmitted by means of the CREST system by any particular time.
In this connection, CREST members and, where applicable, their CREST sponsors or voting service provider s are referred, in particular, to those sections of the CREST Manual concerning practical limitations of the CREST system and timings.
The CREST Manual is available at www.
The Company may treat as invalid a CREST Proxy Instruction in the circumstances set out in Regulation 35 5 a of the Uncertificated Securities Regulations 2001.
Documents available for inspection The following documents will be available for inspection at the registered office of the Company during usual business hours and will be available for fifteen minutes prior to and for the duration of the AGM: n Copies of the terms of appointment of the non-executive directors n A copy of the rules of the Next 2010 Share Matching Plan pursuant to resolution 7 n Copies of each of the Programme Agreements pursuant to resolution 11 n A copy of the proposed New Articles pursuant to resolution 12 and a copy of the existing Memorandum and Articles marked to show the changes being proposed A copy of the proposed Next 2010 Share Matching Plan will be available for inspection at Hewitt New Bridge Street at 6 More London Place, London SE1 2DA and copies of each of the Programme Agreements pursuant to resolution 11 and the Memorandum and Articles pursuant to resolution 12 will be available for inspection at the offices of Allen & Overy LLP, One Bishops Square, London, E1 6AD during normal working hours until the close of the Annual General Meeting.
Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 30 January 2010
