Consolidated Notes to the Notes to the statement of Consolidated Consolidated consolidated Directors Company Financial Auditors report Consolidated comprehensive statement of Consolidated cash flow financial responsibilities Auditors report Company balance financial Shareholder Statements Group income statement income changes in equity balance sheet statement statements Company Company sheet statements information 1.
Accounting policies continued Revenue is not recognised until the services have been provided to the customer.
Revenue for services relates to the year, excluding any amounts paid in advance.
Revenue for measured water and waste water charges includes amounts billed plus an estimation of the amounts unbilled at the year end.
The accrual is estimated using a defined methodology based upon daily average water consumption, which is calculated based upon historical billing information.
Dividends Revenue is recognised when the shareholders right to receive the revenue is established.
k Grants and contributions Grants are recognised at their fair value where there is reasonable assurance that the grant will be received and all attaching conditions will be complied with.
Revenue grants are credited to the income statement in the period to which they relate.
Capital grants and contributions relating to property, plant and equipment are treated as deferred income and amortised to the income statement over the expected useful economic lives of the related assets.
l Leases Where assets are financed by leasing arrangements which transfer substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership to the Group, the assets are treated as if they had been purchased at their fair value or, if lower, at the present value of the minimum lease payments.
Rentals or leasing payments are treated as consisting of a capital element and finance charges, the capital element reducing the outstanding liability and the finance charges being charged to the income statement over the period of the leasing contract at a constant rate on the reducing outstanding liability.
Rentals under operating leases where the lessor retains a significant proportion of the risks and rewards of ownership are expensed in the income statement on a straight line basis over the lease term.
m Pensions and other post-employment benefits Defined benefit scheme The cost of providing benefits under the defined benefit scheme is determined using the projected unit credit method, which attributes entitlement to benefits to the current period to determine current service cost and to the current and prior periods to determine the present value of defined benefit obligation and is based on actuarial advice.
Past service costs are recognised in the income statement on a straight line basis over the vesting period or immediately if the benefits have vested.
When a settlement eliminating all obligations for benefits already accrued or a curtailment reducing future obligations as a result of a material reduction in the scheme membership or a reduction in future entitlement occurs, the obligation and related plan assets are re-measured using current actuarial assumptions and the resultant gain or loss recognised in the income statement during the period in which the settlement or curtailment occurs.
The interest element of the defined benefit cost represents the change in present value of scheme obligations resulting from the passage of time, and is determined by applying the discount rate to the opening present value of the benefit obligation, taking into account material changes in the obligation during the year.
The expected return on plan assets is based on an assessment made at the beginning of the year of long term market returns on scheme assets, adjusted for the effect on the fair value of plan assets of contributions received and benefits paid during the year.
The service cost is disclosed in employment costs and the expected interest income and interest cost on obligations are disclosed within finance costs payable income receivable.
