Consolidated Notes to the Notes to the statement of Consolidated Consolidated consolidated Directors Company Financial Auditors report Consolidated comprehensive statement of Consolidated cash flow financial responsibilities Auditors report Company balance financial Shareholder Statements Group income statement income changes in equity balance sheet statement statements Company Company sheet statements information 1.
Accounting policies continued e Intangible assets other than goodwill Other intangible fixed assets represent the right to receive income under the operating agreement with the Environment Agency in respect of the Kielder Water transfer scheme.
The value of this intangible asset has been assessed with reference to the net monies raised in accordance with the Kielder securitisation on 12 May 2004.
The term of the operating agreement is in perpetuity and, accordingly, no amortisation is provided.
The value of this intangible is assessed for impairment on an annual basis in accordance with IAS 36 Impairment of Assets.
Expenditure on internally developed intangible assets, excluding development costs, is taken to the income statement in the year in which it is incurred.
Intangible assets acquired separately from a business are carried initially at cost.
An intangible asset acquired as part of a business combination is recognised outside goodwill if the asset is separable or arises from contractual or other legal rights and its fair value can be measured reliably.
Development expenditure is recognised as an intangible asset only after its technical feasibility and commercial viability can be demonstrated, the availability of adequate technical and financial resources and an intention to complete the project have been confirmed and the correlation between development costs and future revenues has been established.
f Property, plant and equipment Property, plant and equipment and depreciation Property, plant and equipment, including assets in the course of construction, comprise infrastructure assets being mains and sewers, impounding and pumped raw water storage reservoirs, dams, sludge pipelines and sea outfalls and other assets including properties, overground plant and equipment.
Property, plant and equipment are included at cost less accumulated depreciation and any provision for impairment.
Cost comprises the aggregate amount paid and the fair value of any other consideration given to acquire the asset and includes costs directly attributable to making the asset capable of operating as intended.
Freehold land is not depreciated.
Other assets are depreciated evenly over their estimated economic lives, which are principally as follows: freehold buildings, 30-60 years: operational structures, plant and machinery, 4-92 years: infrastructure assets 13-200 years see below : and fixtures, fittings, tools and equipment, 4-10 years.
The carrying values of property, plant and equipment are reviewed for impairment if events or changes in circumstances indicate the carrying value may not be recoverable and are written down immediately to their recoverable amount.
Useful lives and residual values are reviewed annually and, where adjustments are required, these are made prospectively.
Assets in the course of construction are not depreciated until commissioned.
Infrastructure assets In the regulated water services business, infrastructure assets comprise a network of systems being mains and sewers, reservoirs, dams and sea outfalls.
Infrastructure assets were measured at a date prior to transition to IFRS 23 May 2003 at their fair value, which was adopted as deemed historical cost on transition to IFRS.
The assets and liabilities were measured at fair value as a result of the acquisition on 23 May 2003.
Expenditure on infrastructure assets which enhances the asset base is treated as fixed asset additions while maintenance expenditure which does not enhance the asset base is charged as an operating cost.
