Financial Auditors report Consolidated Consolidated Consolidated Consolidated Consolidated Notes to the Directors Auditors report Company balance Notes to the Shareholder Statements Group income statement statement of statement of balance sheet cash flow consolidated responsibilities Company sheet Company information comprehensive changes in equity statement financial Company financial income statements statements Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 25.
Long Term Incentive Plan LTIP continued Share Incentive Plan SIP The SIP scheme provides one free matching share for every three shares purchased by an employee.
Shares for the SIP are purchased at market price by the Trustee and dividends are paid in cash directly to participants.
The following table illustrates the movements in conditional share awards during the year.
Special purpose entities As noted under accounting policy 1 b, under SIC 12, two companies are consolidated as special purpose entities.
The principal special purpose entity is Bakethin Holdings Limited, the shares in which are owned by Bakethin Charitable Trust.
The other special purpose entity is Bakethin Finance plc, which is a wholly owned subsidiary of Bakethin Holdings Limited.
Bakethin Finance plc was established for the purpose of issuing guaranteed secured Eurobonds.
On 12 May 2004, Bakethin Finance plc issued 248.0 million of guaranteed secured bonds maturing January 2034.
Bakethin Finance plc used the proceeds of the bond issue to make a loan to Reiver Finance Limited to fund the consideration given by that company to Northumbrian Water Limited for the securitisation of the cash flows receivable from the Environment Agency under the Water Resources Operating Agreement relating to Kielder Water transfer scheme.
The assignment is for a period of 30 years.
The summarised combined financial statements of the special purpose entities are as follows: 31.3.
2009 m m Income statement: Finance costs receivable 14.9 15.0 Finance costs payable 14.9 15.0 Balance sheet: Investments 241.0 240.7 Current assets 4.7 4.7 Non-current liabilities 242.9 242.6 Current liabilities 2.7 2.7 Net assets 0.1 0.1 124
