Financial Auditors report Consolidated Consolidated Consolidated Consolidated Consolidated Notes to the Directors Auditors report Company balance Notes to the Shareholder Statements Group income statement statement of statement of balance sheet cash flow consolidated responsibilities Company sheet Company information comprehensive changes in equity statement financial Company financial income statements statements Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 1.
Accounting policies continued b Basis of consolidation The consolidated financial statements include the Company and its subsidiary undertakings.
The results of subsidiaries acquired during the period are included from the date of their acquisition.
The results of subsidiaries disposed of during the period are included to the date of their disposal.
Inter segment sales and profits are eliminated fully on consolidation.
Where, for commercial reasons, the accounting reference date of a subsidiary is a date other than that of the Company, management accounts made up to the Companys accounting reference date have been used.
In accordance with SIC 12 Consolidation Special Purpose Entities, the financial statements of two companies are consolidated as special purpose entities, with effect from 12 May 2004, the date of the transaction which utilised these entities.
Where necessary, adjustments are made to bring the accounting policies used under relevant local GAAP in the individual financial statements of the Company, subsidiaries and jointly controlled entities into line with those used by the Group under IFRS.
Minority interests represent the portion of profit or loss and net assets in subsidiaries that is not held by the Group and is presented within equity in the consolidated balance sheet, separately from parent shareholders equity.
c Associates and jointly controlled entities Investments in associates and jointly controlled entities in the Group financial statements are accounted for using the equity method of accounting where the Group exercises significant influence over the associate.
Significant influence is generally presumed to exist where the Groups effective ownership is 20% or more.
The Groups share of the post tax profits less losses of associates and jointly controlled entities is included in the consolidated income statement and the carrying value in the balance sheet comprises the Groups share of their net assets liabilities less distributions received and any impairment losses.
Goodwill arising on the acquisition of associates and jointly controlled entities, representing the excess of the cost of investment compared to the Groups share of net fair value of the associates identifiable assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities, is included in the carrying amount of the associate and is not amortised.
Financial statements of jointly controlled entities and associates are prepared for the same reporting period as the Group.
Where necessary, adjustments are made to bring the accounting policies used into line with those of the Group to take into account fair values assigned at the date of acquisition and to reflect impairment losses where appropriate.
Adjustments are also made to the Groups financial statements to eliminate the Groups share of unrealised gains and losses on transactions between the Group and its jointly controlled entities and associates.
d Goodwill Goodwill arising on the acquisition of subsidiary undertakings and businesses represents the excess of the fair value of the consideration given over the fair value of the identifiable assets and liabilities acquired.
Following initial recognition, goodwill is measured at cost less any accumulated impairment losses.
Prior to 1 April 2004, goodwill was amortised over its estimated useful life: such amortisation ceased on 31 March 2004.
Goodwill relating to acquisitions since 1 April 2004 is not amortised.
Goodwill is reviewed for impairment, annually or more frequently if events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying value may be impaired.
For the purposes of impairment testing, goodwill is allocated to the related cash-generating units monitored by management.
Where the recoverable amount of the cash-generating unit is less than its carrying amount, including goodwill, an impairment loss is recognised in the income statement.
The carrying amount of goodwill allocated to a cash-generating unit is taken into account when determining the gain or loss on disposal of the unit, or of an operation within it.
