Financial Auditors report Consolidated Consolidated Consolidated Consolidated Consolidated Notes to the Directors Auditors report Company balance Notes to the Shareholder Statements Group income statement statement of statement of balance sheet cash flow consolidated responsibilities Company sheet Company information comprehensive changes in equity statement financial Company financial income statements statements Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 1.
Accounting policies continued Actuarial gains and losses on experience adjustments and changes in actuarial assumptions are recognised in full in the period in which they occur in the consolidated statement of comprehensive income.
Defined contribution scheme The Group also operates a defined contribution scheme.
Obligations for contributions to the scheme are recognised as an expense in the income statement in the period in which they arise.
n Share-based payments The cost of equity-settled transactions with employees is measured by reference to the fair value at the date at which they are granted and is recognised as an expense over the vesting period, which ends on the date on which the relevant employees become fully entitled to the award.
Fair value is determined by an external valuer using the Monte-Carlo simulation model.
In valuing equity-settled transactions, no account is taken of any vesting conditions, other than conditions linked to the price of the shares of the Company market conditions or those not related to performance or service non-vesting conditions.
No expense is recognised for awards that do not ultimately vest, except for awards where vesting is conditional upon a market or non-vesting condition, which are treated as vesting irrespective of whether or not the market or nonvesting condition is satisfied, provided that all other performance conditions are satisfied.
At each balance sheet date before vesting, the cumulative expense is calculated, representing the extent to which the vesting period has expired, managements best estimate of the achievement or otherwise of vesting conditions and the number of equity instruments that will ultimately vest or, in the case of an instrument subject to a market or non-vesting condition, be treated as vesting as described above.
This includes any award where non-vesting conditions within the control of the Group or the employee are not met.
The movement in cumulative expense since the previous balance sheet date is recognised in the income statement, with a corresponding entry in equity.
Where the terms of an equity-settled award are modified or a new award is designated as replacing a cancelled or settled award, the cost based on the original award terms continues to be recognised over the original vesting period.
In addition, an expense is recognised over the remainder of the new vesting period for the incremental fair value of any modification, based on the difference between the fair value of the original award and the fair value of the modified award, both as measured on the date of the modification.
No reduction is recognised if this difference is negative.
o Taxes Current tax Current tax assets and liabilities for the current and prior periods are measured at the amount expected to be recovered from, or paid to, the taxation authorities.
The tax rates and tax laws used to compute the amounts are those that are enacted or substantively enacted by the balance sheet date.
Deferred tax Deferred tax is provided using the liability method on temporary differences at the balance sheet date between the tax bases of assets and liabilities and their carrying amounts for financial reporting purposes.
Deferred tax liabilities are recognised for all taxable temporary differences except: where the deferred tax liability arises from the initial recognition of goodwill or of an asset or liability in a transaction that is not a business combination and, at the time of the transaction, affects neither the accounting profit nor taxable profit or loss: and in respect of taxable temporary differences associated with investments in subsidiaries, associates and interests in jointly controlled entities, where the timing of the reversal of the temporary differences can be controlled and it is probable that the temporary differences will not reverse in the foreseeable future.
