Directors Directors Corporate Corporate remuneration responsibilities Governance governance report report Group A Board meeting, called at short notice and held by telephone conference, took place on 11 December 2009 to discuss the final determination.
At each meeting the directors receive reports from the Chief Executive Officer, the Finance Director and the chairmen of any committees which have met since the previous Board meeting.
The Chairman ensures that important issues are given enough time at meetings and that all directors can express their views.
This enables full and vigorous discussion of key items.
The non-executive directors met formally once without the executive directors and are in regular contact with each other throughout the year.
The non-executive directors also met once without the Chairman but did not consider additional formal meetings to be necessary.
Authorisation of directors conflicts of interest Directors have a statutory duty, under section 175 of the Companies Act 2006, to avoid a situation in which they have, or can have, a conflict of interest with the Companys interests.
However, there is no breach of this duty if the Board has authorised the matter in question.
The Articles permit directors other than the director having the interest in question to authorise any situation giving rise to a known or potential conflict.
A register of the interests which have been authorised is maintained by the Company Secretary and is available at every Board meeting.
The Company will follow emerging best practice in line with the General Counsel 100s guidance paper.
Board balance and independence Eight directors served throughout the year the Chairman, two executive directors, the senior independent nonexecutive director and four other non-executive directors.
Sir Derek Wanless is the non-executive Chairman.
The executive directors were John Cuthbert Managing Director and Chris Green Finance Director.
Sir Patrick Brown is the senior independent non-executive director and the other independent non-executive directors are Martin Ngre, Alex Scott-Barrett and Jenny Williams.
Claude Lamoureux is also a non-executive director but is not independent as he was, until 1 December 2007, President and CEO of OTPP, which holds 27% of the issued share capital of the Company.
Heidi Mottram was appointed as an executive director on 1 March 2010 and took up her position as Chief Executive Officer on 1 April 2010, immediately following John Cuthberts retirement.
Margaret Fay was appointed as a nonexecutive director of NWG and NWL on 1 June 2010.
The Company complies with the Codes requirement that half of the directors, excluding the Chairman, are independent non-executive directors.
The Chairman was independent on appointment.
Biographical details of the directors appear on pages 58 and 59 and details of their service contracts are in the directors remuneration report.
The Chairman and Chief Executive Officer have clearly defined written responsibilities which have been agreed by the Board.
The Chairman leads the Board and creates the conditions for overall Board and individual director effectiveness, both inside and outside the boardroom.
The Chief Executive Officer is responsible for running the Companys business on a day to day basis.
Sir Patrick Brown, as senior independent non-executive director, is available to shareholders who wish to raise any concerns and leads the non-executive directors in their evaluation of the Chairmans performance.
The non-executive directors bring to the Board many years of business experience as well as financial expertise and the ability and willingness to challenge and support the executive directors.
