Consolidated Notes to the Notes to the statement of Consolidated Consolidated consolidated Directors Company Financial Auditors report Consolidated comprehensive statement of Consolidated cash flow financial responsibilities Auditors report Company balance financial Shareholder Statements Group income statement income changes in equity balance sheet statement statements Company Company sheet statements information 1.
Accounting policies continued Deferred tax assets are recognised for all deductible temporary differences, carry forward of unused tax credits and unused tax losses, to the extent that it is probable that taxable profit will be available against which the deductible temporary differences, and the carry forward of unused tax credits and unused tax losses can be utilised except: where the deferred tax asset relating to the deductible temporary difference arises from the initial recognition of an asset or liability in a transaction that is not a business combination and, at the time of the transaction, affects neither the accounting profit nor taxable profit or loss: and in respect of deductible temporary differences associated with investments in subsidiaries, associates and interests in jointly controlled entities, deferred tax assets are recognised only to the extent that it is probable that the temporary differences will reverse in the foreseeable future and taxable profit will be available against which the temporary differences can be utilised.
The carrying amount of deferred tax assets is reviewed at each balance sheet date and reduced to the extent that it is no longer probable that sufficient taxable profit will be available to allow all or part of the deferred tax asset to be utilised.
Unrecognised deferred tax assets are reassessed at each balance sheet date and are recognised to the extent that it has become probable that future taxable profit will allow the deferred tax asset to be recovered.
Deferred tax assets and liabilities are measured at the tax rates that are expected to apply to the year when the asset is realised or the liability is settled, based on tax rates and tax laws that have been enacted, or substantively enacted, at the balance sheet date.
Deferred tax is recognised in the income statement unless it relates to items accounted for outside profit or loss, in which case it is recognised in correlation with the underlying transaction either in other comprehensive income or directly in equity.
Deferred tax assets and deferred tax liabilities are offset, if a legally enforceable right exists to set off current tax assets against current tax liabilities and the deferred taxes relate to the same taxable entity and the same taxation authority.
Value added tax Revenues, expenses and assets are recognised net of the amount of value added tax except: where the value added tax incurred on a purchase of assets or services is not recoverable from the taxation authority, in which case the value added tax is recognised as part of the cost of acquisition of the asset or as part of the expense item as applicable: and receivables and payables.
The net amount of value added tax recoverable from, or payable to, the taxation authority is included as part of receivables or payables in the balance sheet.
p Derivative financial instruments The Group utilises interest rate swaps, forward rate agreements and forward exchange contracts as derivative financial instruments.
A derivative instrument is considered to be used for hedging purposes when it alters the risk profile of an underlying exposure of the Group in line with the Groups risk management policies.
Interest rate swap agreements are used to manage interest rate exposures.
Derivative financial instruments are stated at their fair value.
Under IAS 39, derivative financial instruments are always measured at fair value, with hedge accounting employed in respect of those derivatives fulfilling the stringent requirements for hedge accounting as prescribed under IAS 39.
In summary, these criteria relate to initial designation and documentation of the hedge relationship, prospective testing of the relationship to demonstrate the expectation that the hedge will be highly effective throughout its life and subsequent retrospective testing of the hedge to verify effectiveness.
