Financial Auditors report Consolidated Consolidated Consolidated Consolidated Consolidated Notes to the Directors Auditors report Company balance Notes to the Shareholder Statements Group income statement statement of statement of balance sheet cash flow consolidated responsibilities Company sheet Company information comprehensive changes in equity statement financial Company financial income statements statements Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 1.
Accounting policies continued Infrastructure assets are depreciated evenly to their estimated residual values over their estimated economic lives, which are principally as follows: Dams and impounding reservoirs 150 years Water mains 100 years Sea outfalls 60 years Sewers 200 years Dedicated pipelines 420 years g Financial assets Financial assets comprise loans to third parties, recoverable in more than one year and include cash held on long term deposit as a guaranteed investment contract relating to the Kielder securitisation.
These assets are recognised at cost and are measured annually based on the ability of the borrower to repay.
Any impairment is taken to the income statement in the period in which it arises.
Loans and receivables are measured at amortised cost using the effective interest rate method.
The Group assesses at each balance sheet date whether a financial asset or group of financial assets is impaired.
h Foreign currencies and foreign currency transactions Transactions in foreign currencies are initially recorded in the functional currency by applying the spot exchange rate ruling at the date of the transaction.
Monetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies are retranslated at the functional currency rate of exchange ruling at the balance sheet date.
The functional and presentational currency of Northumbrian Water Group plc is United Kingdom sterling.
Assets and liabilities of subsidiaries and jointly controlled entities in foreign currencies are translated into sterling at rates of exchange ruling at the end of the financial period and the results of foreign subsidiaries are translated at the average rate of exchange for the period.
Differences on exchange arising from the re-translation of the opening net investment in subsidiary companies and jointly controlled entities, and from the translation of the results of those companies at average rate, are taken to equity.
All other foreign exchange differences are taken to the income statement in the period in which they arise.
Unrealised gains and losses arising from changes in foreign currency exchange rates are not cash flows.
However, the effect of exchange rate changes on cash and cash equivalents held or due in a foreign currency is reported in the cash flow statement in order to reconcile cash and cash equivalents at the beginning and the end of the period.
This amount is presented separately from cash flows from operating, investing and financing activities, where material, and includes the differences, if any, had those cash flows been reported at end of period exchange rates.
i Inventories Inventories are stated at the lower of cost and net realisable value.
Cost comprises direct materials and, where applicable, direct labour costs, as well as an element of overheads that have been incurred in bringing the inventories to their present locations and condition.
j Revenues Provision of services Revenue, which excludes value added tax, represents the fair value of the income receivable in the ordinary course of business for services provided.
Revenue is recognised to the extent that it is probable that the economic benefits will flow to the Group and the revenue can be reliably measured.
