Corporate Corporate Directors Directors Governance governance report remuneration responsibilities report Group Corporate governance report continued The General Counsel and Company Secretary, Martin Parker, assists the Board to ensure that good corporate governance compliance is achieved.
He is also Company Secretary of NWL and is secretary to all Board committees.
Information and professional development All directors have access to independent professional advice to assist them in the performance of their duties, at the Companys expense, and to the Company Secretary for advice and assistance.
The Chairman, with the assistance of the Company Secretary, monitors the induction and training requirements of directors.
All new directors receive an induction information pack and are offered site visits and meetings with managers.
Managers from within the Group submit papers or give presentations at Board meetings.
Water industry representatives meet the NWL board to discuss current issues.
The Company Secretary ensures that directors are kept informed and that information flows effectively within the Group by: keeping in regular contact with directors: sending Board papers to directors before each Board meeting: sending briefing packs to directors in the months when Board meetings are not held: and providing a directors team room intranet site containing Board and committee papers, minutes, analysts reports and reference and regulatory documents, to which all directors have access.
Performance evaluation A full evaluation of the performance of the Board, its committees and of individual directors was conducted during the year.
Having engaged an external consultant to conduct last years evaluation, the exercise was conducted internally this year.
Each director completed a detailed questionnaire prior to a one-to-one meeting with the Chairman.
The questionnaire was prepared by the Chairman and Company Secretary and was designed to address strategic issues and succession planning, as well as the approach of the Board to operational and financial matters, the role of the non-executive directors and the quality of information received by the Board.
The performance of NWLs board, committees and individual directors was evaluated at the same time.
Except in relation to Heidi Mottram and Margaret Fay, who have been appointed directors since the last AGM and will seek election as directors for the first time at this years AGM, the Chairmans comments on the evaluation of the directors seeking annual re-election at the AGM are provided in the Notice of Meeting.
The comments of the Senior Independent non-executive director on the evaluation of the Chairman are also provided in the Notice.
External appointments Executive directors have generally only accepted non-executive positions outside the Group where this would benefit either the Group or the local community.
These positions have tended to be with educational institutions, economic regeneration groups or similar bodies.
The Board has agreed that executive directors of the Company who are appointed to non-executive directorships of a more commercial nature may retain the fees, subject to obtaining the Chairmans consent before an appointment is accepted.
Only one such external appointment per director will generally be permitted.
On 1 November 2009, John Cuthbert was appointed as a non-executive director of Bellway plc.
This appointment was made following Johns decision to retire from the Group earlier in the year.
Board committees The Board has Audit, Nomination and Remuneration committees to assist it in the performance of its duties.
The Board sets the terms of reference of the committees and receives regular reports from their chairmen at board meetings.
The terms of reference of committees are available on the Companys website or from the Company Secretary.
