Directors Directors Corporate Corporate remuneration responsibilities Governance governance report report Group Actual performance against the 2009 10 targets was as follows: Maximum John Cuthbert Chris Green bonus Actual bonus Actual bonus Bonus metric % of salary % of salary % of salary PBT 40 19.5 19.5 OPA rating 5 1.0 1.0 Percentage lost time through sickness 5 Bespoke personal targets 20 18.0 18.0 Total 70 38.5 38.5 113,575 86,625 Notes: 1.
The PBT bonus is based on actual PBT performance compared to the budget PBT set by the Board at the beginning of the year.
PBT has been chosen because it is a primary financial measure for the Company, for which the executive directors are accountable.
The calculation of PBT performance is adjusted to exclude i the impact of any variance between the actual and budget interest charge on index linked bonds issued by Northumbrian Water Finance plc, which depends entirely on RPI in July of each year and is, therefore, outside of management control: and ii the impact of restructuring costs.
NWLs estimated OPA score for 2009 10 is 363, against a range for bonus purposes of 343 to 428, being the published range of performance across the 10 water and sewerage companies in 2008 09.
NWLs score was adversely affected by sewer flooding.
The year end percentage of time lost through sickness was 3.18%, against a range for bonus purposes of 2.7% to 2.99%.
In 2009 10, John Cuthberts personal targets related principally to managing the PR09 process, maintaining key financial ratios and measures, ensuring that good relationships were maintained with major investors and analysts, implementing the agreed approach to succession planning, ensuring that investment needs were properly quantified and that the investment programme was delivered with regulatory outputs met and identifying further opportunities to impact the cost base of NWL and improve its efficiency ranking.
Chris Greens personal targets were focused mainly on managing the PR09 process, maintaining key financial ratios and measures, relationships with major investors and analysts, positioning NWL to respond to Ofwats proposals on accounting separation and competition, ensuring that investment needs were properly quantified and that the investment programme was delivered with regulatory outputs met, identifying further opportunities to impact the cost base of NWL and improve its efficiency ranking and ensuring an appropriate balance of risk and reward in the management of the Group treasury.
In accordance with the terms agreed on her appointment, Heidi Mottram was awarded a bonus in respect of March 2010 equal to 38.5% of her salary for that month.
This was the average percentage of the bonuses awarded to John Cuthbert and Chris Green for the year.
For 2010 11, the same bonus metrics will continue to be used with the same weightings as described above.
LTIP Under the LTIP, executive directors and senior managers may receive, at the discretion of the Remuneration Committee, annual conditional awards of shares in the Company worth up to 100% of annual salary at grant, although only the executive directors participate at the 100% level.
All awards have three year pre-vesting performance conditions.
For the three annual awards granted from December 2006 to December 2008 the vesting of up to half of an award is subject to relative total shareholder return TSR performance against the FTSE 250 excluding investment trusts and the other half is subject to a relative return on capital employed ROCE target as monitored by Ofwat.
In the latter half of 2009, the Committee reviewed its policy on the pre-vesting performance conditions that should apply to LTIP awards.
The Committee, with advice from HNBS, came to two conclusions that led to changes being made to its policy on performance conditions, namely: the volatility in the share prices of companies in the Financials and Oil & Gas FTSE sectors had increased dramatically and this was no longer correlated with NWGs share price movements.
This means that these companies are not the best comparators in a relative TSR performance condition: statistically they are more likely to be grouped at the top or the bottom of the list.
Accordingly, for LTIP awards made in 2009 10 and future years, the TSR comparator group will exclude companies from these defined FTSE sectors: and the work undertaken on drawing up the business plan for 2010-15 showed that there were other long term performance measures, in addition to ROCE, that should be measured and potentially rewarded.
These are performance against Ofwats serviceability targets and customer satisfaction levels.
As such, they have been incorporated as LTIP performance metrics.
71 Corporate Corporate Directors Directors Governance governance report remuneration responsibilities report Group Directors remuneration report continued These changes were discussed with the Companys top shareholders and received their support.
The Committee thanks them for their constructive engagement in this exercise.
This consultation did result in the LTIP award date slipping from early December to 4 January 2010.
However, this was still within the six week grant window as permitted by the LTIP rules.
The details of this award to Chris Green are: Number of Face value of conditional awards awards granted as a % granted of salary Chris Green 83,240 100% Based on a closing share price on 31 December 2009 of 270.3 pence.
Details of the pre-vesting performance condition for these awards are: Performance metric Weighting Description Calibration TSR 50% Relative TSR against the FTSE 250 30% of this part of an award i. e. 15% of the excluding investment trusts and companies total award will vest for median performance in the following sectors: Banks, Financial increasing on a straight line so that 100% i. e. Services, Life Insurance, Non-Life Insurance, 50% of the total award vests for upper Real Estate Investment & Services and quartile performance.
Real Estate Investment Trusts, Oil & Gas Producers and Oil Equipment & Services.
In addition, awards will only vest if the Committee is satisfied that the Companys TSR performance is consistent with the underlying business performance of the Company.
ROCE 20% Average absolute ROCE over the three For the 2009 10 awards, 30% of this part of financial years starting from 1 April an award i. e. 6% of the total award will vest immediately preceding grant date.
for average three year ROCE of 6.3%, increasing on a straight line so that 50% i. e. 10% of the total award will vest for average three year ROCE of 6.45% and on a straight line so that 100% i. e. 20% of the total award will vest for an average ROCE of 6.75%.
Serviceability 20% Ofwat serviceability targets for the four asset 50% of this part of an award i. e. 10% of the classes i. e. water non-infrastructure, water total award will vest for stable assessments infrastructure, sewerage non-infrastructure in three out of the four asset classes.
100% of and sewerage infrastructure in the final year this part of an award i. e. 20% of the total of the relevant three year performance award will vest for stable assessments in all period.
Serviceability is measured by Ofwat four asset classes.
No awards would vest based on a number of indicators which under this part of an award for less than three include asset performance indicators, water stable assessments.
quality compliance, environmental compliance and consumer service.
Customer 10% Results of NWLs independently run For the 2009 10 awards, 30% of this part of customer satisfaction index, measured in an award i. e. 3% of the total award will vest the final quarter of the relevant three year for a customer satisfaction index of 83%, performance period.
increasing on a straight line so that 100% of this part of an award i. e. 10% of the total award vests for a customer satisfaction index of 93% or above.
