Financial Auditors report Consolidated Consolidated Consolidated Consolidated Consolidated Notes to the Directors Auditors report Company balance Notes to the Shareholder Statements Group income statement statement of statement of balance sheet cash flow consolidated responsibilities Company sheet Company information comprehensive changes in equity statement financial Company financial income statements statements Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 1.
Accounting policies continued The fair value of forward exchange contracts is calculated by reference to current forward exchange rates for contracts with similar maturity profiles.
The fair value of interest rate swaps is determined by reference to market values for similar instruments.
Hedging transactions undertaken by the Company are classified as either fair value hedges when they hedge the exposure to changes in the fair value of a recognised asset or liability: or cash flow hedges where they hedge exposure to variability in currency cash flows that is either attributable to a particular risk associated with a recognised asset or liability or a forecast transaction.
In relation to fair value hedges, which meet the conditions for hedge accounting, any gain or loss from re-measuring the hedging instrument at fair value is recognised immediately in equity.
Any gain or loss on the hedged item attributable to the hedged risk is adjusted against the carrying amount of the hedged item and recognised in the income statement.
Where the adjustment is to the carrying amount of a hedged interest bearing financial instrument, the adjustment is amortised to the net profit and loss such that it is fully amortised by maturity.
In relation to cash flow hedges to hedge firm currency commitments which meet the conditions for hedge accounting, the portion of the gain or loss on the hedging instrument that is determined to be an effective hedge is recognised directly in equity and the ineffective portion is recognised in the income statement.
When the hedged firm commitment results in the recognition of a non-financial asset or a non-financial liability then, at the time the asset or liability is recognised, the associated gains or losses that had previously been recognised in equity are included in the initial measurement of the acquisition cost or other carrying amount of the asset or liability.
For all other cash flow hedges, the gains or losses that are recognised in equity are transferred to the income statement in the same periods in which the hedged firm commitment affects the net profit and loss.
For derivatives that do not qualify for hedge accounting, any gains or losses arising from changes in fair value are taken directly to the income statement.
Hedge accounting is discontinued when the hedging instrument expires or is sold, terminated or exercised, or no longer qualifies for hedge accounting.
At that point in time, any cumulative gain or loss on the hedging instrument recognised in equity is kept in equity until the forecast transaction occurs.
If a hedged transaction is no longer expected to occur, the net cumulative gain or loss recognised in equity is transferred to the income statement.
q Interest bearing loans and borrowings All loans and borrowings are initially stated at the amount of the net proceeds, being fair value of the consideration received net of issue costs associated with the borrowing.
Finance costs including issue costs are taken to the income statement over the term of the debt at a constant rate on the balance sheet carrying amount.
The carrying amount is increased by the finance charges amortised and reduced by payments made in respect of the accounting period.
The carrying amount of index linked borrowings increases annually in line with the July RPI, with the accretion being charged to the income statement as finance costs payable.
Other borrowing costs are recognised as an expense when incurred.
Loans and borrowings acquired at acquisition are restated to fair value.
The adjustment arising on acquisition is amortised to the income statement on the basis of the maturity profile of each instrument.
Realised gains and losses that occur from the early termination of loans and borrowings are taken to the income statement in that period.
Net debt is the sum of all current and non-current liabilities less cash and cash equivalents, short term cash deposits, financial investments and loans receivable.
