Consolidated Notes to the Notes to the statement of Consolidated Consolidated consolidated Directors Company Financial Auditors report Consolidated comprehensive statement of Consolidated cash flow financial responsibilities Auditors report Company balance financial Shareholder Statements Group income statement income changes in equity balance sheet statement statements Company Company sheet statements information 1.
Accounting policies continued r Borrowing costs Borrowing costs are generally expensed as incurred.
Borrowing costs that are directly attributable to the acquisition or construction of an asset that necessarily takes a substantial time to prepare for its intended use are capitalised while the asset is being constructed as part of the cost of that asset.
Capitalisation ceases when the asset is substantially ready for its intended use or sale.
If active development is interrupted for an extended period, capitalisation is suspended.
When construction occurs piecemeal and use of each part ceases upon substantial completion of that part.
A weighted average cost of borrowings is used.
The Group capitalises borrowing costs for all eligible assets when construction was commenced on or after 1 April 2009.
The Group continues to expense borrowing costs relating to construction projects that commenced prior to 1 April 2009. s Loans and receivables Loans and receivables are non-derivative financial assets with fixed or determinable payments that are not quoted in an active market, do not qualify as trading assets and have not been designated as either fair value through profit and loss or available for sale.
Gains and losses are recognised in income when the investments are fide-recognised or impaired, as well as through the amortisation process.
t Cash and cash equivalents and short term cash deposits Cash and cash equivalents disclosed in the balance sheet comprise cash at bank and in hand and short term deposits with a remaining maturity of up to three months or less, which are held for the purpose of meeting short term cash commitments rather than for investment or other purposes.
Cash equivalents are readily convertible to a known amount of cash and subject to an insignificant risk of changes in value.
Short term cash deposits disclosed in the balance sheet comprise cash deposited with a remaining maturity of greater than three months, a fixed interest rate and which do not constitute cash equivalents under IAS 7 Statement of Cash Flows.
For the purpose of the consolidated cash flow statement, cash and cash equivalents are as defined above, net of outstanding bank overdrafts.
u Trade and other receivables Trade receivables are recognised and carried at original invoice amount less an allowance for any uncollectable amounts.
Invoices for unmeasured water and waste water charges are due on fixed dates: other receivables generally have 30 day payment terms.
An estimate for doubtful debts is made when collection of the full amount is no longer probable.
Bad debts are written off when identified.
Trade and other receivables do not carry any interest.
v Investments Investments are initially recorded at the fair value of the consideration given including the acquisition charges associated with the investment.
Subsequent to initial recognition, they are valued at original cost less any impairment.
w Provisions Provisions are recognised when the Group has a present obligation legal or constructive as a result of a past event, it is probable that an outflow of resources will be required and a reliable estimate can be made of the amount of the obligation.
