Directors Directors Corporate Corporate remuneration responsibilities Governance governance report report Group Remuneration Committee The work of the Remuneration Committee and details of the directors remuneration are set out in the directors remuneration report.
Nomination Committee The main duty of the Nomination Committee is to identify and nominate candidates to fill Board vacancies for approval by the Board.
The Committee also reviews succession planning for the Board, NWL board and senior appointments and will make recommendations to the Board when appropriate.
The Committees usual policy is to use external recruitment consultants or to advertise in order to identify suitable candidates.
Following the announcement of John Cuthberts retirement, the Committee initiated a search for a successor.
Heidi Mottram was identified as a suitable candidate by recruitment consultants and then interviewed by a specially authorised sub-committee of the Nomination Committee.
She then had discussions with the Finance Director before her appointment was recommended to the full Nomination Committee and then the boards of NWG and NWL.
In addition to the appointment of Heidi Mottram, the Committee also recommended to the NWG and NWL boards the appointment of Margaret Fay, as an additional independent non-executive director.
The Committee felt that an additional non-executive with strong business and political contacts, especially in the north east, would be a valuable addition to the boards.
Margaret Fay was regarded by the Committee as an ideal candidate for this role and she was, therefore, approached by the Company to discuss the opportunity.
The Committee also considered extensions to the appointments of non-executive directors on the NWG and NWL boards whose contracts for services expired during the year.
An extension to the appointment of Sir Derek Wanless took him into his seventh year as a non-executive director of the NWG Board and, having been subject to a rigorous review as required by the Combined Code, the Committee remains satisfied with his performance.
Non-executive directors are appointed for a term of one year and all directors are now subject to annual re-election at the AGM.
The members of the Nomination Committee are now Sir Derek Wanless chairman, Sir Patrick Brown, Heidi Mottram, Martin Ngre, Alex Scott-Barrett and Jenny Williams, and the membership is compliant with the Code.
Accountability and audit Audit Committee The Audit Committee members during the year were Sir Patrick Brown chairman, Alex Scott-Barrett and Jenny Williams.
Alex Scott-Barrett is a chartered accountant and the Board is satisfied that he has recent and relevant financial experience.
On 1 April 2010, Martin Ngre was appointed as an additional member of the Committee.
The Committees membership complies with the Code.
The Chairman and executive directors are invited to Audit Committee meetings with the permission of its chairman but have no right of attendance.
Managers from within the Group are invited to Audit Committee meetings to discuss issues relating to their areas of the business.
During the year, the Committee met with both the external Audit Partner and Internal Audit Manager to discuss audit business, without the executive directors being present.
The Committee remains satisfied that the internal audit function is able to operate with independence and is not under any pressure from the executive management of the Company to produce particular results.
The Committee members receive regular briefings from the external auditors to enable them to keep up to date on financial reporting standards.
63 Corporate Corporate Directors Directors Governance governance report remuneration responsibilities report Group Corporate governance report continued The purpose of the Audit Committee is to assist both executive and non-executive directors of NWG to discharge their individual and collective responsibilities in relation to: ensuring the financial and accounting systems of NWG and its subsidiaries are providing accurate and up to date information on their current position: ensuring NWGs published financial statements represent a true and fair reflection of this position: and assessing the scope and effectiveness of the Groups risk management systems and the integrity of its internal financial controls.
During the year its work included: monitoring the integrity of the financial statements of the Company: reviewing the Companys internal controls both financial and IT by considering reports of both the internal and external auditors, directing questions to management and reviewing the financial risks and controls information provided to them on an annual basis, as detailed on pages 65 and 66: monitoring and reviewing the effectiveness of the internal audit function by reviewing the scope of the annual audit plan, the results of those audits and monitoring the completion of actions identified during the audit: monitoring and reviewing the performance and effectiveness of the external auditors, in particular, by reviewing the scope and costs of the audit process: reviewing the external auditors independence by monitoring the extent of the provision of non-audit services and receiving reports from the external auditors: monitoring the potential impact and management of significant risks to the business using a risk methodology meeting the recommendations of the 2005 Turnbull Review Group guidance which sets out and rates all identified risks, including operational, external, financial, environmental, social and governance risks: reviewing the Committees terms of reference: reviewing the Groups financial approval rules: reviewing the Groups tax strategy: reviewing NWLs contract terms: reviewing the Groups accounting and treasury policies: and reviewing the Companys interim management statements, half-yearly and preliminary results announcements and final published annual report and financial statements.
Given the importance of NWL to the Groups business, the Committee works closely with the Audit Committee of NWL.
In particular, both committees review significant regulatory reports for Ofwat and regularly review NWLs debt recovery strategy and performance.
In addition, meetings were held with the Ofwat Reporter during the year to discuss the June Return process.
The Audit Committee chairman reports to the Board following each meeting of the Committee and committee minutes are circulated to the Board.
External auditors Ernst & Young LLP have been the Groups auditors since 2003.
The audit engagement partner is subject to change every five years and was last changed in 2008.
Non-audit services The Committee has approved a procedure for the approval of non-audit services to safeguard the objectivity and independence of the external auditors, which complies with the requirements of the Auditing Practices Boards revised Ethical Standard No.
The external auditors are not permitted to provide bookkeeping, financial information systems design and implementation, or internal audit outsourcing services.
Permitted services require prior approval, either from the Audit Committee chairman, if under 50,000, or from the Audit Committee, if over 50,000.
The Company requires the auditors to report annually details of all non-audit services provided.
A breakdown of the cost of audit and non-audit services provided by the auditors is set out in note 4 to the financial statements.
64 Directors Directors Corporate Corporate remuneration responsibilities Governance governance report report Group On 26 May 2010, Ernst & Young confirmed to the Audit Committee, in accordance with ISA 260 Communication of audit matters to those charged with governance, that they have considered their relationship with the Company and that, in their professional judgement, the objectivity of the audit engagement partner and audit staff is not impaired.
Review of internal control The Board believes that, as explained below, there are effective systems in place to identify and manage significant risks and that it receives sufficient information to enable it to assess these risks.
The Board has overall responsibility for maintaining a sound system of internal control and for reviewing its effectiveness.
The system is designed to manage rather than eliminate the risk of failure to achieve business objectives.
Regular reviews of the effectiveness of the internal control system are carried out in accordance with the 2005 Turnbull Review Group guidance.
The actions necessary to address weaknesses and otherwise improve the system of internal control are communicated to management.
Internal audit monitors implementation of these actions and reports back to the Audit Committee.
This process has been in place throughout the year and up to the date of approval of the 2009 10 annual report and financial statements.
There are inherent limitations in any system of internal control and even the most effective system can only provide a reasonable, and not absolute, assurance against material misstatement or loss.
The use of our standard accounting manual by finance teams throughout the Group ensures that transactions and balances are recognised and measured in accordance with prescribed accounting policies and that information is appropriately reviewed and reconciled as part of the reporting process.
The use of a standard reporting pack by all entities in the Group ensures that information is gathered and presented in a consistent way that facilitates the production of the consolidated financial statements.
The Board has reviewed the effectiveness of the Groups system of internal control, as follows, during the year.
The internal audit team manages a process whereby all of the financial controls within the Group are identified and certified by the relevant manager as having operated for the full year.
As part of a programme of work which is agreed with the Audit Committee, these controls are tested throughout the year.
A report detailing any areas of concern is produced after each audit.
As part of the same process all of the key business risks are identified.
Each risk is assessed on an unmanaged basis, the controls in place to mitigate the risks are detailed and the risk is then re-assessed after these controls.
An additional risk-mapping exercise undertaken during the year is described on page 50.
Internal audits findings and recommendations are presented to the Audit Committee along with agreed actions.
Internal audit updates progress against any agreed actions until the control weakness is resolved.
Organisational structure The trading subsidiaries have their own boards of directors the Subsidiary Boards which are responsible for the operational and financial control of their own businesses.
The Subsidiary Boards report to the executive directors and to the Companys Board on matters including major strategic, financial, organisational, compliance and regulatory issues.
The NWL management team manages the major business of the Group and, during the year, consisted of John Cuthbert Managing Director, Chris Green Finance Director, Graham Neave Operations Director and on NWL board, Ceri Jones Regulation & Scientific Services Director and on NWL board, John Devall Water & Networks South Director, Ian Donald Customer Services Director, Diane Morton HR Director, Colin Price Technical Director and Henry Wilson Waste water & Networks North Director.
Heidi Mottram Chief Executive Officer joined the management team on 1 April 2010, following John Cuthberts retirement.
The NWL management team meets monthly to consider and discuss progress against annual and monthly financial and operational targets.
It prepares an annual budget and business plan for consideration and approval by the NWL board.
NWL operates a balanced scorecard system which monitors progress against KPIs and which covers all areas of operation of the business.
65 Corporate Corporate Directors Directors Governance governance report remuneration responsibilities report Group Corporate governance report continued The Board is able to monitor the impact of environmental, social and governance matters on the Groups business, to assess the impact of significant risks on the business and to evaluate methods of managing these risks through reports it receives from the Subsidiary Boards and the Audit Committee.
The environmental risks considered to be significant by the Board are described on pages 52 and 53, together with a summary of how NWL is managing these risks.
For a number of years, the Subsidiary Boards have performed a full annual business risk analysis to meet the recommendations of the 2005 Turnbull Review Group guidance.
This methodology is described above in relation to the work of the Audit Committee.
The results of the risk reviews are reported in detail to the Audit Committee and a summary is reported to the Companys directors.
Accompanying the risk model is a detailed review of each companys internal financial controls along with either confirmation that the controls have operated throughout the year or details of any exceptions.
Action points arising from these reviews are followed up as part of the internal audit process.
Some subsidiaries, such as NWL, consider risks more frequently.
The executive directors consider significant risks in a structured way on a monthly basis, assessing the likelihood and potential impact of the relevant risks both before and after risk management measures have been put in place.
Further details about how risks and uncertainties facing the Group are assessed and managed are included in the directors report and business review.
On a monthly basis, the executive directors compare the actual operational and financial performance of each business with its plan and budget.
Targets are set to measure performance and regular forecasts are made.
Information and reporting system Each Subsidiary Board holds a copy of the Companys financial approval rules and terms of reference, which contain full details of the procedures for distribution of information and financial reporting.
Each Subsidiary Board has developed financial control systems appropriate to its activities.
Budgets and business planning The Group prepares detailed medium term business plans and annual budgets which are reviewed by the executive directors and submitted to the Board for approval.
Business plans and budgets include an assessment of the key risks and success factors facing each business unit.
The approval of the Board is required for major investments, including those in new markets, and large capital expenditure programmes.
The treasury strategy, which is approved by the Board, requires that investments are limited to certain money market and treasury instruments, and that the Groups exposure to any single bank, building society or market is controlled, with maximum deposits allowed with any single counterparty.
The Groups investment strategy aims to fix interest rates for part of the Groups borrowings and investments for periods determined by the forecast cash flow of the individual businesses.
This manages the exposure to the risk of changes in short term interest rates.
Foreign currency exposure is also managed as part of the treasury strategy approved by the Board.
Investor relations The Company welcomes constructive communication with all its shareholders.
Details of the Companys investor relations activities during the year are described in the directors report and business review.
Investor feedback reports from investor meetings, prepared by the Companys advisers, are considered at Board meetings and analysts notes on the Company are made available to all directors on the Boards intranet team room.
The Board believes that these methods of investor feedback provide the senior independent non-executive director and the other non-executive directors with a balanced understanding of the issues and concerns of major shareholders.
The senior independent director is available to shareholders who wish to raise any matters of concern and the Chairman welcomes contact with any shareholders who have matters they wish to discuss.
The Company has not received any requests from institutional shareholders to meet with non-executive directors.
