Consolidated Notes to the Notes to the statement of Consolidated Consolidated consolidated Directors Company Financial Auditors report Consolidated comprehensive statement of Consolidated cash flow financial responsibilities Auditors report Company balance financial Shareholder Statements Group income statement income changes in equity balance sheet statement statements Company Company sheet statements information Notes to the consolidated financial statements 1.
Accounting policies a Statement of compliance The consolidated financial statements have been prepared in accordance with IFRS as adopted by the European Union as it applies to the financial statements of the Group for the year ended 31 March 2010 and in accordance with the Companies Act 2006.
The directors consider the following accounting policies to be relevant in relation to the Groups financial statements.
The financial statements of the Group for the year ended 31 March 2010 were authorised for issue by the Board of directors on 1 June 2010 and the balance sheet was signed on the Boards behalf by Sir Derek Wanless Chairman and Heidi Mottram Chief Executive Officer.
The Group has adopted the following standards and interpretations during the year: IAS 1 Presentation of Financial Statements Revised IAS 32 Presentation of Financial Statements Puttable Financial Instruments and Obligations Arising on Liquidation IAS 23 Borrowing Costs Revised Improvements to IFRS May 2008 IFRS 2 Share-based Payments Vesting Conditions and Cancellations IFRS 8 Operating Segments IFRIC 15 Agreements for the Construction of Real Estate The adoption of IAS 1 Presentation of Financial Statements Revised has required the Reconciliation of movements in equity, previously disclosed in note 22 to the annual report and financial statements for the year ended 31 March 2009, to be presented as a primary statement entitled consolidated statement of changes in equity.
In addition, the consolidated statement of recognised income and expense has been replaced with the consolidated statement of comprehensive income.
In adopting IFRS 8 Operating Segments, the Group concluded that the operating segments and the measures of revenue, segment profit, segment assets and liabilities were the same as the business segments determined in accordance with IAS 14 Segment Reporting.
In adopting IAS 23 Borrowing Costs Revised, the Group has amended its accounting policy and, from 1 April 2009, capitalises borrowing costs on qualifying assets.
The Group has capitalised 1.2 million for the year to 31 March 2010.
IFRIC 18 Transfers of Assets from Customers has not been applied in the financial statements as it is effective for accounting periods beginning on or after 31 October 2009.
The Group will, therefore, apply IFRIC 18 in preparing the annual report and financial statements for the year ending 31 March 2011.
The adoption of IAS 32 Presentation of Financial Statements, Improvements to IFRS May 2008, IFRS 2 Share-based Payments and IFRIC 15 Agreements for the Construction of Real Estate do not have a material impact on the Group.
Northumbrian Water Group plc is a public limited company incorporated and domiciled in England and Wales.
The Companys ordinary shares are traded on the London Stock Exchange.
The Group financial statements are presented in sterling and all values are rounded to the nearest one hundred thousand pounds 0.1 million except where otherwise indicated.
