Directors report Introduction Business strategy Operating Financial Operational Risks and Appendix Board directors and business environment performance performance resources biographies review Operating environment Our external environment The largest of NWGs businesses, NWL, operates in the north east and south east of England.
The two areas have very different economic, demographic and water resource characteristics.
In the north east there has been a gradual fall in overall water demand in recent decades as a consequence of a reduction in industrial demand for water.
This trend is expected to continue for at least the next five years with a faster decline in the short term due to the impact of the economic Abberton Reservoir recession.
The north east compares well to the rest of the country as far as water resources are concerned and our major regional rivers can all be supported by Kielder Water.
This provides very high security of supply for our customers.
In contrast, NWLs southern operating area is in a water scarce region that is forecast to experience further economic and population growth in the medium term.
While this area has also seen a reduction in demand from heavy industry and the recession is likely to dampen housing growth in the near future, we have a current deficit, meaning supplies are not secure in a severe drought.
Future growth will intensify the pressure on the balance between supply and demand.
NWL is implementing long term plans to ensure the availability of water supplies to meet both current and future demand in a region where water resources are already constrained.
After approval from the Environment Agency, the project to increase the capacity of Abberton Reservoir near Colchester, coupled with ongoing demand management measures, will secure supplies to the Essex area for the foreseeable future.
The current pressures within financial markets have been well documented and the credit crunch has resulted in reduced availability of certain types of finance.
It is highly unlikely there will be a return to the exceptionally low cost of debt experienced from late 2005 to early 2007.
Although market conditions have improved in recent months, some uncertainty remains.
With the financing we have already put in place, we are sheltered from this uncertainty in the short term as we will not need to raise any new debt before the end of 2011.
Regulatory environment As a monopoly supplier of an essential public service, the UK water industry operates within a demanding regulatory environment.
The Water Services Regulation Authority Ofwat regulates prices and levels of customer service, while the Drinking Water Inspectorate DWI monitors drinking water quality and the Environment Agency EA covers environmental protection.
Customers interests are represented by the Consumer Council for Water CCWater.
