Corporate Corporate Directors Directors Governance governance report remuneration responsibilities report Group Directors remuneration report continued Ordinary 10 pence shares required to fulfil LTIP awards which have vested may be provided by the Northumbrian Water Group plc Employee Trust, through Northumbrian Water Share Scheme Trustees Limited.
The Trustees are Sir Patrick Brown, Martin Ngre, John Cuthbert until 31 March 2010, Anita Frew, Alastair Balls and Kate Alsop.
At 31 March 2010, the Trust held a total of 914,518 ordinary 10 pence shares.
This represents 0.2% of the Companys total issued share capital, so is materially less than the 5% limit on shares that can be held in trust.
In line with the ABI Guidelines, dividends are waived on these shares and the voting rights attached to these shares will not be exercised at the AGM.
Share dilution The Companys share plans contain dilution limits that comply with the ABI Guidelines.
Shares for both the LTIP and SIP schemes are provided by purchase on the market.
There has, therefore, been no dilution to date and there is no commitment to issue new shares in relation to either scheme.
Performance graph The graph below shows a comparison between the TSR for the Companys shares for the five year period to 31 March 2010, and the TSR for the companies comprising the FTSE 250 Index excluding investment trusts over the same period.
This index has been selected as the Company is a constituent of the FTSE 250.
2010 NWG FTSE 250 Note: This graph shows the value, by 31 March 2010, of 100 invested in Northumbrian Water Group plc on 1 April 2005 compared with the value of 100 invested in the FTSE 250 Index excluding investment trusts over the same period.
Service contracts All non-executive directors are appointed for a term of 12 months with a six month notice period for the Company and the director.
The executive directors have service contracts with 12 months notice periods and which expire when the directors reach normal retirement age.
The contracts do not contain any liquidated damages clauses.
Details of the contracts of the executive and non-executive directors who served during the year are shown in Table 4.
Terms and conditions of appointment of non-executive directors are available for inspection at the Companys registered office during normal business hours and at the AGM.
The terms of appointment set out the expected time commitment for each non-executive director.
