106 106 Ocado Gr Ocado Group plc oup plc Ann Annual repor ual report and accounts f t and accounts for the 52 w or the 52 weeks to 28 No eeks to 28 Nov vember 2010 ember 2010 Glossary 10:10 means the private sector initiative campaign to commit to Customer Fulfilment Centre means a dedicated highly automated cutting carbon emissions by 10% in 2010. warehouse used for the operation of the business.
2010 Code means the UK Corporate Governance Code published Distribution costs means all costs to the point of sale, which is by the Financial Reporting Council June 2010, as in force from time usually the customers home, and include costs relating to the call to time.
Active customers means customers who have shopped in the Directors means the directors of the Company whose names are previous 12 weeks.
set out on pages 16 and 17, or the directors of Ocado Limited from time to time as the context may require.
Administrative expenses means all IT costs, advertising and marketing expenditure, employment costs of all head office Disclosure and Transparency Rules means the disclosure rules and functions, which include legal, finance, human resources, marketing transparency rules made by the FSA under Part VI of FSMA.
and procurement, rent and other property-related costs for the DPV wk means the total drops per van per week.
head office, all fees for professional services and the depreciation, amortisation and impairment associated with head office IT Each means a measure of an individual retail product.
equipment, software, fixtures and fittings and expenses relating to the ESOS and the JSOS.
EBIT means operating profit loss before interest including interest on finance leases and taxation.
Admission means the admission of the ordinary shares of the Company to the premium listing segment of the Official List and EBITDA means operating profit loss before interest including to trading on the London Stock Exchanges main market for listed interest on finance leases, taxation, depreciation, amortisation, securities which occurred on 26 July 2010. impairment loss, transaction and reorganisation costs.
AGM means the annual general meeting of the Company, which EBITDA margin means EBITDA as a percentage of gross sales.
will be held on 11 May 2011 at 2.00pm at One Bunhill Row, London EC1Y 8YY.
EBT means earnings before tax.
Articles means the articles of association of the Company.
EBT Trustee means the trustee from time to time of the employee benefit trust established for the purposes of the JSOS, currently Board means the board of directors of the Company or of Ocado Appleby Trust Jersey Limited.
Limited from time to time as the context may require.
ESOS means the Ocado 2001 Executive Share Ownership Scheme.
CFC see Customer Fulfilment Centre.
Executive Directors means Tim Steiner, Jason Gissing, Neill Abrams Combined Code means The Combined Code on Corporate and Andrew Bracey.
Governance June 2008 issued by the Financial Reporting Council.
Financial period means the 52 week period ending the closest Companies Act means the Companies Act 2006.
Company means Ocado Group plc, a company incorporated Financial year see Financial period.
in England and Wales with registered number 07098618 whose registered office is at Titan Court, 3 Bishops Square, Hatfield Business FRC means the Financial Reporting Council.
Gross sales means Sales net of returns, including charges for Cost of sales means the cost of groceries and other products delivery, before deducting relevant voucher offers and value added the Group sells, any associated licence fees which are linked to the tax.
volume of sales of specific products or product groups, including the branding and sourcing fees payable to Waitrose, adjustments to HMRC means Her Majestys Revenue & Customs.
inventory, and charges for transportation of goods from a supplier to the CFC.
IFRIC means International Financial Reporting Interpretations Chairman Chairmans Statement s Statement Committee.
Convertible preference shares means all convertible preference shares convertible into the same number of ordinary shares either at IFRS means International Financial Reporting Standard s. the option of the holder or on the occurrence of certain trigger events including a public listing.
The convertible preference shares rank pari IPO means the initial public offering by the Company in July 2010. passu with ordinary shares with the exception that on return of assets John Lewis means John Lewis plc, the parent company of Waitrose.
they have priority to all other shareholders.
John Lewis plc was incorporated in England and Wales with CSTM means Customer Service Team Member.
The title given to registered number 233462 and its registered office is 171 Victoria our customer facing delivery driver.
20177-04 22 03 2011 Proof 12 Stock code: Stock code: OCDO OCDO www www.
com 107 107 John Lewis Pension Fund means John Lewis Partnership Pensions Revenue means online sales net of returns through the Website Trust, which is the corporate trustee of the John Lewis Partnership and mobile applications, including charges for delivery, but excluding Trust for Pensions.
It was incorporated in England and Wales with relevant vouchers offers and value added tax.
Relevant vouchers registered number 372106 and its registered office is 171 Victoria offers include money-off coupons, conditional spend vouchers and Street, London SW1E 5NN.
multi-buy offers, such as buy three for the price of two.
JSOS means the Groups joint share ownership scheme.
Sharesave Scheme means the Ocado employee savings-related share option plan approved by HMRC.
KPI means key performance indicators.
Shareholder means a holder for the time being of ordinary or LIBOR means London Interbank Offered Rate.
Listing Rules means the Listing Rules made by the UK Listing SKU means a stock keeping unit, that is each individual item or Authority under Part VI of the Financial Services and Markets Act product stocked.
Sourcing Agreement means the various sourcing and branding Management Committee means senior management responsible agreements between Ocado, Waitrose and John Lewis.
for managing the day-to-day affairs of the business.
Spoke means the trans-shipment sites used for the intermediate Murabaha means a Shariah compliant financing arrangement.
Net finance costs means finance income and finance costs.
Substitution means the term used to refer to the alternative Finance income is comprised principally of bank interest and other product provided in place of the original product ordered by a interest.
Finance costs are comprised of interest on bank loans and customer.
overdrafts, interest on finance leases and interest on other financing arrangements.
TSR means total shareholder return the growth in value of a shareholding over a specified period, assuming that dividends are Non-Executive Directors means the non-executive directors reinvested to purchase additional units of the stock.
designated as such on pages 16 and 17.
UK or United Kingdom means the United Kingdom of Great Notice of Meeting means the notice of the Companys AGM.
Ocado Delivery Pass means the Ocado discounted pre-pay UPH means the abbreviation for units or Eaches per hour.
delivery charge service available in various offerings including monthly, quarterly and annually.
Waitrose means Waitrose Limited, a company incorporated in England and Wales with registered number 00099405.
Ocado on the Go means the Ocado application for mobile devices.
It is currently available for the iPhone, iPad and Android devices.
Webshop means the customer facing internet-based virtual shop accessible on the Website.
Other income means primarily advertising revenue for advertising services provided by Ocado to suppliers and other third parties on Website means www.
the Website, commission income received and sublease payments received.
Other income is recognised in the period to which it relates on an accruals basis.
Prospectus means the Companys prospectus dated 6 July 2010 prepared in connection with the Companys Admission.
Chairman Chairmans Statement s Statement 20177-04 22 03 2011 Proof 12 Our Financials Getting to Kno Getting to Kno Our Responsibilities w Ocado w Ocado Getting to Kno Getting to Kno Our Performance w Ocado w Ocado Getting to Know Ocado 108 Ocado Group plc Annual report and accounts for the 52 weeks to 28 November 2010 Shareholder notes Chairmans Statement 20177-04 22 03 2011 Proof 12 Company information Registered office Ocado Group plc Titan Court 3 Bishops Square Hatfield Business Park Hatfield Hertfordshire AL10 9NE Company number 07098618 Auditors  LLP Chartered Accountants and Registered Auditors 10 Bricket Road St Albans Hertfordshire AL1 3JX Registrars Capita Registrars The Registry 34 Beckenham Road Beckenham Kent BR3 4TU 20177-04 22 03 2011 Proof 12 Ocado Group plc Annual report and accounts 2010 Ocado Group plc Annual report and accounts 2010 Stock code: OCDO Visit our online annual report and accounts at results10.
com Delivering growth Establishing profitability Ocado Group plc Titan Court, 3 Bishops Square, Hatfield Business Park, Hatfield, AL10 9NE, UK Tel: 44 0 1707 227800 Fax: 44 0 1707 227999 www.
