14 pearson plc Annual report and accounts 2010 pearsons strategy: marjorie scardino, chief executive continued 4. trust is precious Because Ive written about this strategy every year forthe past 12, you may be lulled into a sense that Part of the fall-out from the global financial crisis was everything is stable: but that would be a false sense.
ascepticism of the motives of large corporations not That same strategy is not a description of business-asjust banks, but companies like ours.
Its a manifesto for disruption, for constant on, that rumbling scepticism became more than a change, and for the kind of radical corporate rumble, as several companies that made headlines reinvention thats required in a world thats changing canattest.
before our eyes and often, too fast for us to perceive Though the nature of Pearsons business is very the change.
different from those companies, were arguably more So we know well need to reinvent ourselves again in dependent on the publics trust than most.
Weve already witnessed events that congealed ofthe FT trust its editorial integrity and independence: our conviction that we cant rest our hopes for the customers of Penguin trust it to be a mark of future on doing what we did or how we did it in the exceptional quality: teachers and students trust past.
We have to keep on learning new lessons: to ourlearning programmes on paper or screens keep learning and changing before we really think tobeeffective and engaging and our testing, weneed to.
qualifications and services to be reliable, rigorously accurate and helpful.
That kind of change is a lot to ask against the backdrop of a world economy that remains at best uncertain What we all understand is that trust can never be and at times troubling.
But our success over the past taken for granted: its something that all of us every six years has been based on bucking the tide, doing single one of us have to go out and earn every day.
We dont for a minute take that success for Those are four of the lessons I think 2010 taught granted: but we are as determined as ever that it will us some probably for the second or third time.
And we thank all shareholders large and small, institutional and private, Pearson employees, None of those lessons is new: weve been tracking former employees and pensioners for your those trends and shaping our strategy around them continued commitment to the company.
So we were pretty well-prepared to focused on ensuring your commitment is rewarded: stare down those changes and to use them to fuel and we never forget that it is your investment that ourgrowth.
makes it possible for us to pursue the goals and the That strategy which Ive been writing to you about for change that we are hell-bent on achieving.
so many years youre probably tired of hearing it is pretty simple: 1.
We develop an idea, a story, a lesson, a premise quality content, determined that it should be both unique and respected: marjorie scardino chief executive 2.
We add services, generally enabled and delivered bytechnology, to make that content more useful and morevaluable: 3.
We work in markets around the world, with an increasing emphasis on those in the developing world: 4.
Those first three priorities all require consistent investment.
We make room for that investment throughefficiency gains, measured in margin and working capital improvements.
