66 pearson plc Annual report and accounts 2010 report on directors remuneration continued We use these companies because they represent the Before the base salaries and remuneration packages wider executive talent pool from which we might for the Pearson Management Committee are set for expect to recruit externally and the pay market to the coming year, the committee considers a report which we might be vulnerable if our remuneration from the chief executive and director for people on wasnot competitive.
general pay trends and pay increases across the company and an assessment by the Committees Market assessments against the three groups take independent advisers of remuneration relative to account of those factors which Towers Watsons themarket.
research shows differentiate remuneration for jobs ofasimilar nature, such as financial size, board For 2011, the company has reviewed or is reviewing membership, reporting relationships and international salaries for employees taking into account the location activities.
and economic conditions of each business as it did for 2010.
For executive directors and other members For benchmarking purposes, comparison with practice ofthe Pearson Management Committee, we have in other organisations and consistency with survey reviewed base salaries consistent with the policy and data, the main elements of remuneration are valued as process set out above.
Full details of the executive follows: directors remuneration for 2011 will be set out in element of remuneration valuation thereport on directors remuneration for 2011.
Base salary Actual base salary For 2010, with the exception of one slightly higher increase, the executive directors and other members Annual incentive Target level of annual incentive of the Pearson Management Committee received Bonus share matching Expected value of matching increases of broadly 2% in line with the general level of award based on 50% of target increases elsewhere across the company.
Full details of level of annual incentive the executive directors 2010 remuneration are set out Long-term incentive Expected value of long-term in table 1 on page 79. incentive award Pension and benefits Cost to company of providing allowances and benefits pension and other benefits The companys policy is that benefit programmes Total remuneration Sum of all elements should be competitive in the context of the local of remuneration labour market, but as an international company werequire executives to operate worldwide and Note Expected value means our independent advisers recognise that recruitment also operates worldwide.
assessment of the awards net present value taking into account the vesting schedule, risk of forfeiture and their view of the likelihood that any performance target will be met.
annual incentives base salary The committee establishes the annual incentive plans for the executive directors and the chief executives of The committees normal policy is to review the base the companys principal operating companies, including salaries of the executive directors and other members performance measures and targets.
These plans of the Pearson Management Committee taking thenbecome the basis of the annual incentive plans intoaccount general economic conditions and the below the level of the principal operating companies, wider pay scene, the level of increases applicable particularly with regard to the performance measures toemployees across the company as a whole, used and the relationship between the relevant theremuneration of directors and executives in business unit operating plans, and the incentive targets.
comparable companies and individual performance.
introduction our strateGy our perFormance our impact on society Governance Financial statements section 5 Governance 67 We will continue to review the annual incentive plans incentive opportunities each year and to revise the performance measures, In each years report on directors remuneration, targets and individual incentive opportunities in light of we describe any changes to target and maximum current conditions.
We will continue to disclose details incentive opportunities for the chief executive and of the operation of the annual incentive plans in the theother executive directors for the year ahead.
report on directors remuneration each year.
For 2011, there are no changes to the target and Annual incentive payments do not form part of maximum annual incentive opportunities for the pensionable earnings.
chiefexecutive which remain at 100% and 180% respectively, of base salary as in 2010. performance measures The financial performance measures relate to the For the other members of the Pearson Management companys main drivers of business performance at Committee, individual incentive opportunities take both the corporate, operating company and business into account their membership of that committee and unit level.
Performance is measured separately for the contribution of their respective businesses or role each item.
For each performance measure, the to Pearsons overall financial goals.
In the case of the committee establishes threshold, target and maximum executive directors, the target individual incentive levels of performance for different levels of payout.
opportunity for 2011 is in a range from 80% to 87.5% ofbase salary as in 2010.
The maximum opportunity A proportion which for 2011 may be up to 30% of the remains at twice target as in 2010. total annual incentive opportunity for the executive directors and other members of the Pearson The annual incentive plans are discretionary and the Management Committee is based on performance committee reserves the right to make adjustments to against personal objectives as agreed with the chief payouts up or down if it believes exceptional factors executive or, in the case of the chief executive, the warrant doing so.
These comprise functional, operational, The committee may also award individual discretionary strategic and non-financial objectives relevant to the incentive payments.
executives specific areas of responsibility and inter alia may include objectives relating to environmental, social For 2010, total annual incentive opportunities were and governance issues.
based on Pearson plc and operating company financial performance and performance against personal For 2011, the principal financial performance objectives as follows: measuresare: sales: operating profit for the operating companies and growth in underlying earnings per operating company personal share for continuing operations at constant exchange name pearson plc companies objectives rates for Pearson plc : average working capital as a Marjorie Scardino 90% 10% ratio to sales: and operating cash flow.
The selection Will Ethridge 30% 60% 10% and weighting of performance measures takes into account the strategic objectives and the business Rona Fairhead 30% 60% 10% priorities relevant to each operating company and Robin Freestone 80% 20% toPearson overall each year.
