INTroDucTIoN our sTrATeGy our PerFormANce our ImPAcT oN socIeTy GoverNANce FINANcIAl sTATemeNTs section 6 Financial statements 155 31. cash generated from operations continued Net cash generated from operations is translated at an exchange rate approximating to the rate at the date of cash flow.
Thedifference between this rate and the average rate used to translate profit gives rise to a currency adjustment in the reconciliation between net profit and net cash generated from operations.
This adjustment reflects the timing difference between recognition of profit and the related cash receipts or payments.
Operating cash flow, operating free cash flow and total free cash flow are non-GAAP measures and have been disclosed asthey are part of Pearsons corporate and operating measures.
In the cash flow statement, proceeds from sale of property, plant and equipment comprise: All figures in millions 2010 2009 Net book amount 3 3 Loss on sale of property, plant and equipment 3 2 Proceeds from sale of property, plant and equipment 1 The principal other non-cash transactions are movements in finance lease obligations of 2m 2009: 8m.
32. contingencies There are contingent Group liabilities that arise in the normal course of business in respect of indemnities, warranties and guarantees in relation to former subsidiaries and in respect of guarantees in relation to subsidiaries, joint ventures and associates.
In addition there are contingent liabilities of the Group in respect of legal claims and rights and royalty agreements.
None of these claims are expected to result in a material gain or loss to the Group.
33. commitments There were no commitments for capital expenditure contracted for at the balance sheet date but not yet incurred.
The Group leases various offices and warehouses under non-cancellable operating lease agreements.
The leases have varying terms and renewal rights.
The Group also leases various plant and equipment under operating lease agreements, also with varying terms.
The lease expenditure charged to the income statement during the year is disclosed in note 4.
The future aggregate minimum lease payments in respect of operating leases are as follows: All figures in millions 2010 2009 Not later than one year 164 153 Later than one year and not later than two years 151 144 Later than two years and not later than three years 130 129 Later than three years and not later than four years 112 114 Later than four years and not later than five years 95 99 Later than five years 785 848 1,437 1,487
