42 pearson plc Annual report and accounts 2010 our impact on society continued Helping close achievement gaps for individual learners case study: great colombian teachers and schools.
Pearson is investing in new models of education to help turn around failing schools and The Great Colombian Teachers initiative aims to districts by helping make fundamental changes and provide academic support and recognition to sustain improvements for the long term.
We draw English language teachers in Colombia.
The initiative onPearsons research base and proven resources is based on open-source content management including curriculum, assessment, technology, and software, providing the means for teachers to teacher professional development products and contribute and share their thoughts and ideas.
Helping share what works between education case study: americas choice policymakers.
Active in education in more than 70 countries, Pearson helps to bring together education Building on our existing school improvement leaders to share experiences and best practice.
service in the United States, the acquisition of One example is Strong Performers and Successful Americas Choice significantly extends our reach.
Reformers in Education, a Pearson Foundation The Americas Choice system instruction, partnership with the Organisation for Economic professional development, assessment, leadership Co-operation andDevelopment OECD.
development, coaching and ongoing consulting Wecommissioned an investigative video series services is designed to help transform whole documenting policies and programmes that schools where students are having difficulty localeducation leaders credit with improving meeting state standards across multiple subjects.
Our services are applied in more than 2,000 www.
For example, after one year ofworking with the lowest-performing elementary schools in Arkansas, students from Americas contrIButIng to competItIveness 3 Choice schools outpaced state gains in proficiency in both literacy and mathematics.
The connection between education and long-term economic growth is well-documented and increasingly well understood.
Helping individuals get ready for work.
Securing a professional or vocational qualification is an important factor in getting a job.
We create and administer millions of admissions tests, certifications, vocational assessments and general qualifications including: BTEC, the vocational qualification recognised by schools, colleges, universities, employers and professional bodies across the United Kingdom andinover 100 countries worldwide.
Supporting teacher education and development.
We Graduate Management Admission Test GMAT, the work with teachers to improve teaching effectiveness leading test for entrance to business schools and with content and services that shape teachers from management programmes worldwide.
their earliest undergraduate experiences up to and NCLEX Nursing examination, required to obtain a throughout their teaching careers.
licence necessary to apply for work as a nurse in the United States.
CTI Education Group, one of the leading private higher education groups in South Africa, serving more than 9,000 students.
