iNtroDuCtioN our StrAtEGy our PErForMANCE our iMPACt oN SoCiEty GovErNANCE FiNANCiAl StAtEMENtS Section 5 Governance 61 Pearson also operates a nominee shareholding Appointment and replacement of directors arrangement known as Sharestore which holds shares The Articles contain the following provisions in relation on behalf of employees.
There were 2,027,976 shares to directors: so held as at 31 December 2010.
The trustees holding these shares seek voting instructions from the employee Directors shall number no less than two.
Directors as beneficial owner, and voting rights are not exercised may be appointed by the company by ordinary if no instructions are given.
resolution or by the board.
A director appointed by the board shall hold office only until the next AGM and transfer of shares shall then be eligible for reappointment, but shall not be taken into account in determining the directors or The board may refuse to register a transfer of a the number of directors who are to retire by rotation certificated share which is not fully paid, provided that at that meeting.
The board may from time to time the refusal does not prevent dealings in shares in the appoint one or more directors to hold executive office company from taking place on an open and proper with the company for such period subject to the basis.
The board may also refuse to register a transfer provisions of the Act and upon such terms as the of a certificated share unless i the instrument of board may decide and may revoke or terminate any transfer is lodged, duly stamped if stampable, at the appointment so made.
registered office of the company or any other place decided by the board, and is accompanied by the At every AGM of the company, one-third of the certificate for the share to which it relates and such directors shall retire by rotation or, if their number other evidence as the board may reasonably require to isnot a multiple of three, the number nearest to show the right of the transferor to make the transfer: one-third.
The first directors to retire by rotation ii it is in respect of only one class of shares: and iii it shall be those who wish to retire and not offer is in favour of not more than four transferees.
Any further directors so toretire shall be those of the other directors subject Transfers of uncertificated shares must be carried out to retirement by rotation who have been longest in using CREST and the board can refuse to register a office since they were last re-elected but, as between transfer of an uncertificated share in accordance with persons who became or were last re-elected on the the regulations governing the operation of CREST.
same day, thoseto retire shall unless they otherwise agree among themselves be determined by lot.
In variation of rights addition, any director who would not otherwise be If at any time the capital of the company is divided into required to retire shall retire by rotation at the third different classes of shares, the special rights attaching AGM after they were last re-elected.
to any class may be varied or revoked either: However, although not required by the Articles, the i with the written consent of the holders of at least board has resolved that for this year, and in future 75% in nominal value of the issued shares of the years, all directors should offer themselves for relevant class: or re-election annually, in accordance with good corporate governance.
ii with the sanction of a special resolution passed at a separate general meeting of the holders of the shares The company may by ordinary resolution remove any of the relevant class.
director before the expiration of his her term of office.
In addition, the board may terminate an Without guidance to any special rights previously agreement or arrangement with any director for the conferred on the holders of any existing shares or class provision of his her services to the company.
of shares, any share may be issued with such preferred, deferred, or other special rights, or such restrictions, whether in regard to dividend, voting, return of capital or otherwise as the company may from time to time byordinary resolution determine.
