70 pearson plc Annual report and accounts 2010 report on directors remuneration continued long-term incentives Total shareholder return is the return to shareholders from any growth in Pearsons share price and We are asking shareholders by separate resolution to reinvested dividends over the performance period.
approve the renewal of the long-term incentive plan Forlong-term incentive awards, TSR is measured first introduced in 2001 and renewed again in 2006. relative to the constituents of the FTSE World Media Full details are set out in the circular to shareholders.
Companies that The committee has reviewed the operation of this plan dropout of the index are normally excluded i. e. only in light of the companys strategic goals.
The committee companies in the index for the entire period are has concluded that the plan is achieving its objectives counted.
and, looking forward, will continue to enable the Share price is averaged over 20 days at the start and company to recruit and retain the most able managers end of the performance period, commencing on the worldwide and to ensure their long-term incentives date of Pearsons results announcement in the year of encourage outstanding performance and are competitive grant and the year of vesting.
Dividends are treated as in the markets in which we operate.
reinvested on the ex-dividend date, in line with the We are therefore seeking approval of its renewal on Datastream methodology.
Subject to shareholders The vesting of shares based on relative TSR is subject approval, executive directors, senior executives and to the committee satisfying itself that the recorded other managers can participate in this plan which can TSR is a genuine reflection of the underlying financial deliver restricted stock and or stock options.
Approximately 6% of the companys employees currently hold awards under this plan.
The committee chose TSR relative to the constituents of the FTSE World Media Index because, in line with The aim is to give the committee a range of tools with many of our shareholders, it felt that part of executive which to link corporate performance to managements directors rewards should be linked to performance long-term reward in a flexible way.
It is not the relative to the companys peers.
committees intention to grant stock options in 2011 orfor the foreseeable future.
Return on invested capital is adjusted operating profit less cash tax expressed as a percentage of Restricted stock granted to executive directors vests gross invested capital net operating assets plus only if stretching corporate performance targets over gross goodwill.
a specified period have been met.
Awards vest on a sliding scale based on performance over the period.
We chose ROIC because, over the past few years, the There is no retesting.
transformation of Pearson has significantly increased the capital invested in the business mostly in the form performance measures of goodwill associated with acquisitions and required The committee determines the performance measures substantial cash investment to integrate those and targets governing an award of restricted stock acquisitions.
Adjusted earnings per share is calculated by dividing the The performance measures that will apply for the adjusted earnings attributable to equity shareholders executive directors for awards in 2011 and subsequent of the company by the weighted average number of years will continue to be focused on delivering and ordinary shares in issue during the year, excluding any improving returns to shareholders.
These measures, ordinary shares purchased by the company and held in which have applied since 2004, are relative total trust see note 8 of the financial statements for a shareholder return TSR, return on invested capital detailed description of adjusted earnings per share.
ROIC and earnings per share EPS growth.
introduction our strateGy our perFormance our impact on society Governance Financial statements section 5 Governance 71 Since 2008, EPS growth has been calculated using the Future awards point-to-point method.
This method compares the For awards beyond 2011, the committee may use the adjusted EPS in the companys accounts for the same performance measures and targets, or apply financial year ended prior to the grant date with the different ones that are consistent with the companys adjusted EPS for the financial year ending three years objectives and which it considers to be similarly later and calculates the implicit compound annual demanding.
The committee also has the flexibility to growth rate over the period.
We chose EPS growth because strong bottom-line The committee will consult with shareholders before growth is imperative if we are to improve our TSR and making any significant changes to its approach to, or our ROIC.
policy on, performance measures or targets or the range of award levels established by awards in recent Pearsons reported financial results for the relevant years.
periods are used to measure performance.
dividends The committee has discretion to make adjustments Where shares vest, in accordance with the plan, taking into account exceptional factors that distort participants also receive additional shares underlying business performance.
In exercising such representing the gross value of dividends that would discretion, the committee is guided by the principle have been paid on these shares during the ofaligning shareholder and management interests.
Restricted stock may be granted without performance conditions to satisfy recruitment and retention retention period objectives.
Restricted stock awards that are not We encourage executives and managers to build up subject to performance conditions will not be granted along-term holding of shares so as to demonstrate to any of the current executive directors.
their commitment to the company.
performance targets To achieve this, for awards of restricted stock We will set targets for the 2011 awards that are thatare subject to performance conditions over consistent with the companys strategic objectives athree-year period, a percentage of the award overthe period to 2013 and that are no less stretching normally 75% vests at the end of the three-year than in previous years.
Full details of the performance period.
The remainder of the award normally 25% targets for 2011 will be set out in the circular to only vests if the participant retains the after-tax shareholders on the renewal of the plan and in the number of shares that vest at year three for a further report on directors remuneration for 2011. two years.
value of awards All of the executive directors hold awards under the Our approach to the level of individual awards takes long-term incentive plan.
Details are set out in table 4 into account a number of factors.
on pages 82 to 84 and itemised as b or b.
First, we take into account the face value of individual awards at the time of grant assuming that the performance targets are met in full.
Secondly, we take into account the assessments by our independent advisers of market practice for comparable companies and of directors total remuneration relative to the market.
And thirdly, we take into account individual roles and responsibilities, and company and individual performance.
72 pearson plc Annual report and accounts 2010 report on directors remuneration continued based on relative total shareholder return 25% released awards vest aFter 75% of vested conditional based on three years on a after shares released share award return on invested capital slidinG scale based further after three years on perFormance two years based on earnings per share growth outstanding awards Details of awards made, outstanding, vested and held or released under the long-term incentive plan are as follows subject to audit : performance share measures price on award split % of date date of vesting equally across performance payout at payout at actual award status of of award award date three measures period threshold maximum performance vested award 03 03 10 962.0p 03 03 13 Relative TSR 2010 to 30% at 100% at Outstanding 2013 median upper quartile ROIC 2012 25% for 100% for Outstanding ROIC of ROIC of 8.5% 10.5% EPS growth 2012 30% 100% Outstanding compared for EPS For EPS to 2009 growth of growth 6.0% of 12.0% 03 03 09 654.0p 03 03 12 Relative TSR 2009 to 30% at 100% at Outstanding 2012 median upper quartile ROIC 2011 25% for 100% for Outstanding ROIC of ROIC of 8.5% 10.5% EPS growth 2011 30% 100% Outstanding compared for EPS for EPS to 2008 growth of growth 6.0% of 12.0% 04 03 08 649.5p 04 03 11 Relative TSR 2008 to 30% at 100% at Outstanding 2011 median upper quartile ROIC 2010 25% for 100% for 10.3% 92.5% Vested and ROIC of ROIC of remain held 8.5% 10.5% pending release EPS growth 2010 30% 100% 18.4% 100% Vested and compared for EPS for EPS remain held to 2007 growth of growth pending release 6.0% of 12.0%
