66 pearson plc Annual report and accounts 2010 report on directors remuneration continued We use these companies because they represent the Before the base salaries and remuneration packages wider executive talent pool from which we might for the Pearson Management Committee are set for expect to recruit externally and the pay market to the coming year, the committee considers a report which we might be vulnerable if our remuneration from the chief executive and director for people on wasnot competitive.
general pay trends and pay increases across the company and an assessment by the Committees Market assessments against the three groups take independent advisers of remuneration relative to account of those factors which Towers Watsons themarket.
research shows differentiate remuneration for jobs ofasimilar nature, such as financial size, board For 2011, the company has reviewed or is reviewing membership, reporting relationships and international salaries for employees taking into account the location activities.
and economic conditions of each business as it did for 2010.
For executive directors and other members For benchmarking purposes, comparison with practice ofthe Pearson Management Committee, we have in other organisations and consistency with survey reviewed base salaries consistent with the policy and data, the main elements of remuneration are valued as process set out above.
Full details of the executive follows: directors remuneration for 2011 will be set out in element of remuneration valuation thereport on directors remuneration for 2011.
Base salary Actual base salary For 2010, with the exception of one slightly higher increase, the executive directors and other members Annual incentive Target level of annual incentive of the Pearson Management Committee received Bonus share matching Expected value of matching increases of broadly 2% in line with the general level of award based on 50% of target increases elsewhere across the company.
Full details of level of annual incentive the executive directors 2010 remuneration are set out Long-term incentive Expected value of long-term in table 1 on page 79. incentive award Pension and benefits Cost to company of providing allowances and benefits pension and other benefits The companys policy is that benefit programmes Total remuneration Sum of all elements should be competitive in the context of the local of remuneration labour market, but as an international company werequire executives to operate worldwide and Note Expected value means our independent advisers recognise that recruitment also operates worldwide.
assessment of the awards net present value taking into account the vesting schedule, risk of forfeiture and their view of the likelihood that any performance target will be met.
annual incentives base salary The committee establishes the annual incentive plans for the executive directors and the chief executives of The committees normal policy is to review the base the companys principal operating companies, including salaries of the executive directors and other members performance measures and targets.
These plans of the Pearson Management Committee taking thenbecome the basis of the annual incentive plans intoaccount general economic conditions and the below the level of the principal operating companies, wider pay scene, the level of increases applicable particularly with regard to the performance measures toemployees across the company as a whole, used and the relationship between the relevant theremuneration of directors and executives in business unit operating plans, and the incentive targets.
comparable companies and individual performance.
