introduction our strateGy our perFormance our impact on society Governance Financial statements section 5 Governance 65 main elements of remuneration Total remuneration is made up of fixed and performance-linked elements, with each element supporting differentobjectives.
element objective performance period performance conditions Base salary Reflects competitive Not applicable Normally reviewed annually taking into account see page 66 marketlevel, role and general economic conditions and the wider  payscene, the level of increases applicable to employees across the company as a whole, theremuneration of directors and executives in comparable companies and individual performance Annual incentives Motivates achievement of One year Subject to achievement of targets for sales, see page 66 annual strategic goals earnings per share or profit, working capital, cashflow and personal objectives Bonus share Encourages executive Three years Subject to achievement of target for earnings per matching directorsand other senior share growth see page 68 executives to acquire and holdPearson shares.
Aligns executives and shareholders interests Long-term Drives long-term earnings Three years Subject to achievement of targets for relative total incentives and share price growth shareholder return, return oninvested capital and see page 70 and value creation.
earnings per sharegrowth Aligns executives and shareholders interests Consistent with its policy, the committee places We will continue to review the mix of fixed and considerable emphasis on the performance-linked performance-linked remuneration on an annual basis, elements i. e. annual incentives, bonus share matching consistent with our overall philosophy.
Our assessment of the relative importance of fixed and performance-related benchmarking remuneration for each of the directors based on our The committee wants our executive directors policy and the data set out in this report is as follows: remuneration to be competitive with those of PROPORTION OF TOTAL COMPENSATION directors and executives in similar positions in comparable companies.
Marjorie Scardino For benchmarking purposes, we review remuneration 36.2% 30.0% 33.8% by reference to the UK and US market depending on Will Ethridge the relevant market or markets for particular jobs.
42.6% 33.6% 23.8% Robin Freestone We look separately at three comparator groups.
39.1% 32.5% 28.4% First, we use a select peer group of FTSE 100 Rona Fairhead companies with very substantial overseas operations.
40.9% 32.4% 26.7% These companies are of a range of sizes around John Makinson Pearson, but the method our independent advisers 49.5% 28.1% 22.4% useto make comparisons on remuneration takes this variation in size into account.
Secondly, for the US, Base salary and other xed remuneration including retirement benets Annual incentive and bonus share matching weuse a broad media industry group.
And thirdly, Long-term incentives welook at the FTSE 20-50, excluding financial services.
Note The method for valuing the different elements of remuneration is summarised in the table on page 66.
