IntroductIon our strategy our performance our Impact on socIety governance fInancIal statements section 4 Our impact on society 39 overview In pursuing these goals, there are several key aspects of our business strategy that influence our approach As thinking develops about what responsible and priorities for corporate responsibility.
businesses do, Pearson is constantly assessing and Theyinclude: reassessing the opportunities and challenges of responsible business practice.
Public and private sector International As detailed elsewhere in this report, customers regularly seek information from us about weare making significant investments to build how we go about our business, while many consumers Pearsons business in new markets, particularly in and employees want to understand our approach thedeveloping world.
Socially responsible investors and Digital Our strategy includes a deliberate and non-governmental organisations look at issues such significant shift from print to digital media.
Over time, assupply chain standards and ethics.
Our approach that changes the environmental footprint of our isinformed by the priorities and views of our many business and offers opportunities to enhance stakeholders.
accessibility to our content and services.
Wherever we operate in the world, our businesses Partnership We aim to extend our reach and impact and people pursue a common purpose: to help people by working with partners in the public, private and notof all ages to progress through their lives through for-profit sectors, through our operating companies learning.
Our financial and commercial success sustains and, most notably, through the Pearson Foundation.
us, providing the means to invest and innovate to deliver on that goal.
raIsIng lIteracy levels 1 Although our purpose is deliberately broad and we contribute to learning in many forms, we are focusing Through our products and partnerships, we aim much of our activity and reporting on three priority toplay a part in raising literacy levels, helping people issues.
tolearn to read and to enjoy reading.
One in five adults or nearly 800 million people our tHree prIorIty Issues cannot read.
But that gift of reading has aprofound influence on modern life: from how we perform Raising literacy levels, the foundation both atschool to the kind of job we can find to our 1 for learning and reading for pleasure.
participation in society and our local community.
Alldepend, to a very large degree, on literacy.
Improving learning outcomes, for learners, 2 teachers, their education institutions and For a business built on the premise that people want to for policymakers.
We aim to create education read, learn and enjoy doing it, we have a keen interest in programmes that have a demonstrable doing all we can to nurture enthusiastic readers.
impact on student learning and institutional effectiveness.
We believe that will be a source our approach both of educational and competitive advantage.
We play a part in three main ways: Contributing to competitiveness, For many, the first story that they read or that is read 3 supporting both personal success aloud to them will be one of our titles.
Our reading programmes both print and digital arefound in classrooms the world over.
We run projects and campaigns, often through the Pearson Foundation, that encourage reading and promote literacy.
40 pearson plc Annual report and accounts 2010 our impact on society continued reading in the classroom Sometimes students need extra help.
We have developed research-based programmes proven to lead We have a full suite of print and digital services to greater student success for those falling behind.
designed to help students to learn to read.
These reflect our belief in a virtuous circle of learning where digital technology empowers teachers to assess case study: successmaker students, identify their learning needs, develop SuccessMaker is a digitally driven set of courses methods for personalised learning, and constantly tailored to the needs of the individual learner that monitor progress.
supplements regular classroom reading and mathematics instruction.
It combines one-on-one instruction, fun ways to engage and involve students and progress reporting for the teacher to aid timely assessment intervention.
From its initial development 30 years ago, through to ongoing improvement of the product usability and efficacy testing, the research that went into SuccessMaker constitutes the biggest learning curriculum ongoing research effort to date for any of our digital management design products.
com reading in the home personalised content Children need access to quality and fun ways to read.
Our Penguin Young Readers Puffin, Frederick Warne and Ladybird books all provide plenty of options.
case study: reading street case study: ladybird Books Reading Street is on the front line of improving For millions of people the world over, Ladybird books student reading skills in thousands of schools in are known and loved.
As the most recognisable every state in the United States.
As part of our brand in childrens books, they play an essential role commitment to independent research, recent in helping kids to learn to read and to discover the findings by Gatti Evaluation showed that magic of books.
Ladybird today offers its widest kindergarten and first-grade students using Reading everrange of formats and styles from birth to eight Street gained between 46 and 48 percentiles in years old.
Ladybirds award-winning baby range is reading skills, including significant gains in informed by the latest research relating to how babies comprehension and vocabulary.
Reading Street, learn and respond.
The toddler list uses rhyme, available as a print, blended or fully digital stories and songs in interactive formats to give programme, combines instruction and embedded children a head start in learning.
assessment with videos, animation, activities, songs and audio.
It is designed to allow teachers to personalise instruction for every child.
