172 Pearson plc Annual report and accounts 2010 other risks Principal risks and uncertainties are outlined on page 35 of section 3 Our performance.
Additional risks are set out below.
other risks mitigating factors Changes in students buying and distribution behaviour We are continuing to improve our pricing strategies, put downward pressure on price.
product bundling and contract terms.
We are monitoring the development of rental programs.
Our professional services and school assessment In addition to the internal business procedures and businesses involve complex contractual relationships controls implemented to ensure we successfully deliver with both government agencies and commercial on our contractual commitments, we also seek to customers for the provision of various testing services.
develop and maintain good relationships with our Our financial results, growth prospects and or customers to minimise associated risks.
We also look reputation may be adversely affected if these contracts todiversify our portfolio to minimise reliance on any and relationships are poorly managed.
We operate in markets which are dependent on We mitigate these IT risks by establishing strong IT Information Technology IT systems and technological policies and operational controls, employing project change.
management techniques to manage new software developments and or system implementations and have implemented an array of security measures to protect our IT assets from attacks or failures that could impactthe confidentiality, availability or integrity ofoursystems.
Failure to generate anticipated revenue growth, We perform pre-acquisition due diligence and closely synergies and or cost savings from acquisitions could monitor the post-integration performance to ensure we lead to goodwill and intangible asset impairments.
are meeting operational and financial targets.
Any divergence from these plans will result in management action to improve performance and minimise the risk ofany impairments.
Executive management and the board receive regular reports on the status of acquisition performance.
Expected benefits from our finance transformation We monitor the programme performance closely and programme initiatives may not be realised.
seek to mitigate this risk through strong project management techniques and developed project plans.
The project is managed by an executive committee and governance programmes have been established with our outsource providers.
Changes in our tax position can significantly affect our We employ internal tax professionals in the UK and the reported earnings and cash flows.
US who review all significant arrangements around the world and respond to changes in tax legislation.
They work closely with local management and external taxadvisors.
We generate a substantial proportion of our revenue in The Groups policy on managing foreign currency risk is foreign currencies particularly the US dollar, and foreign described in note 19 to the financial statements.
exchange rate fluctuations could adversely affect our earnings and the strength of our balance sheet.
inTroduCTion our sTraTEGy our PErFormanCE our imPaCT on soCiETy GovErnanCE FinanCial sTaTEmEnTs section 6 Financial statements 173 other risks mitigating factors The inherent volatility of advertising could adversely The diversification of the FT Group into other business affect the profitability of our newspaper business.
models and revenue streams, e. g. subscription based businesses, digital revenues, business to business products, conferences, in addition to its global reach, offsets reliance on newspaper print advertising and circulation revenue streams.
A significant deterioration in Group profitability The Groups approach to funding is described on and orcash flow caused by a severe economic page31and the Groups approach to the management depression could reduce our liquidity and or impair offinancial risks is set out in note 19 to the ourfinancial ratios, and trigger a need to raise additional financialstatements.
funds from the capital markets and or renegotiate our banking covenants.
Social, environmental and ethical risk.
We consider social, environmental and ethical SEE risks no differently to the way we manage any other business risk.
Our 2009 risk assessment did not identify any significant under-managed SEE risks, nor have any ofour most important SEE risks, many concerned with reputational risks, changed year-on-year.
These are: journalistic author integrity, ethical business behaviour, intellectual copyright protection, compliance with UN Global Compact standards, environmental impact, people and data privacy.
For more information, see the Pearson corporate responsibility report Live and Learn: Our Impact on Society.
The web link is available at www.
