IntroductIon our strategy our performance our Impact on socIety governance fInancIal statements section 4 Our impact on society 41 partnering with others to encourage reading case study: pearson north america When parents read aloud to their children, they can A distinguishing characteristic for us is our ongoing have a significant impact on their vocabulary and significant investment in research and efficacy.
We work with others to Weare the only educational instruction provider encourage that kind of shared reading.
For example, toconsistently employ randomised control trials Jumpstarts Read for the Record, our flagship thegold standard in research to determine the nationwide campaign to promote reading in the United effectiveness of our curricula in the classroom States run with the Pearson Foundation, again set a new andto evaluate the impact on student learning.
world record for the largest shared reading experience Wecommission independent third-party research on a single day, involving over two million people.
For firms to work with school districts across the US the first time, we were able to provide the opportunity toconduct these efficacy studies that use the same to help people set the record online for free at rigorous scientific model that the Department of www.
Created by Penguin andthe Educations What Works Clearinghouse requires.
Pearson Foundation, We Give Books is a digital reading initiative that allows anyone who reads a free book online to donate a book to a literacy project of their case study: mylabs choice.
In conjunction with this years Read for the Record campaign, We Give Books also donated more The MyLabs our digital learning, homework and than 200,000 copies of The Snowy Day to young people.
assessment programmes grew by 33% to eight million students registered in 2010.
Evaluation studies show the efficacy of the model.
For ImprovIng learnIng outcomes 2 MyMathLab, institutions across the United States Pearsons transition from textbook publisher to are reporting pass-rate increases of 30% to 40% education technology and service provider is a major and at less cost to the institution than traditional strategic opportunity.
Where we once sold products courses.
to education institutions, we now also provide services to help them and their students succeed.
That means we are becoming more directly involved in the process of learning, and more accountable for outcomes.
We are devoting significant resources to improving student success and institutional effectiveness by: Ensuring that our own education programmes are developed and assessed for quality, efficacy and usability.
Our usability lab allows Pearsons instructional design teams and researchers to develop and improve our programmes.
Building on this approach, we opened the Pearson iDEA Innovation Centre, a digital laboratory focused on user-centred design, software usability testing, and efficacy research for use by the business globally.
