60 Pearson plc Annual report and accounts 2010 Board governance continued Additional information for shareholders Any dividend which has not been claimed for 12 years after it became due for payment will be forfeited and Amendment to Articles of Association will then belong to the company, unless the directors decide otherwise.
Any amendments to the Articles of Association the Articles of the company may be made in accordance If the company is wound up, the liquidator can, with with the provisions of the Companies Act 2006 the the sanction of a special resolution passed by the Act by way of a special resolution.
shareholders, divide among the shareholders all or any part of the assets of the company and he she can value rights attaching to shares assets and determine how the division shall be carried out as between the members or different classes of The rights attaching to the ordinary shares are defined members.
The liquidator can also transfer the whole in the companys Articles.
A shareholder whose name or any part of the assets to trustees upon any trusts appears on the companys register of members can for the benefit of the members.
choose whether his her shares are evidenced by share certificates i. e. in certificated form or held voting at general meetings electronically i. e. uncertificated form in CREST theelectronic settlement system in the UK.
Any form of proxy sent by the company to shareholders in relation to any general meeting must be delivered to Subject to any restrictions below, shareholders may the company, whether in written or electronic form, not attend any general meeting of the company and, less than 48 hours before the time appointed for holding onashow of hands, every shareholder or his her the meeting or adjourned meeting at which the person representative who is present at a general meeting named in the appointment proposes to vote.
has one vote on each resolution for every ordinary share of which they are the registered holder.
No shareholder is, unless the board decides otherwise, Aresolution put to the vote at a general meeting is entitled to attend or vote either personally or by proxy decided on a show of hands unless before, or on the at a general meeting or to exercise any other right declaration of the result of, a vote on a show of hands, conferred by being a shareholder if he she or any a poll is demanded.
A poll can be demanded by person with an interest in shares has been sent a thechairman of the meeting, or by at least three notice under section 793 of the Act which confers shareholders or their representatives present in upon public companies the power to require person and having the right to vote, or by any information with respect to interests in their voting shareholders or their representatives present in shares and he she or any interested person failed to person having at least 10% of the total voting rights supply the company with the information requested ofall shareholders, or by any shareholders or their within 14 days after delivery of that notice.
The board representatives present in person holding ordinary may also decide, where the relevant shareholding shares on which an aggregate sum has been paid up comprises at least 0.25% of the nominal value of the ofat least 10% of the total sum paid up on all issued shares of that class, that no dividend is payable ordinaryshares.
in respect of those default shares and that no transfer of any default shares shall be registered.
At this years AGM voting will be conducted on a poll.
Pearson operates two employee benefit trusts to hold Shareholders can declare a final dividend by passing an shares, pending employees becoming entitled to them ordinary resolution but the amount of the dividend under the companys employee share plans.
There were cannot exceed the amount recommended by the 14,008,555 shares so held as at 31December 2010. board.
The board can pay interim dividends on any Each trust has an independent trustee which has full class of shares of the amounts and on the dates and for discretion in relation to the voting of such shares.
the periods they decide, provided the distributable Adividend waiver operates onthe shares held in profits of the company justify such payment.
Theboardmay, if authorised by an ordinary resolution of the shareholders, offer any shareholder the right toelect to receive new ordinary shares, which will be credited as fully paid, instead of their cash dividend.
