174 Pearson plc Annual report and accounts 2010 Shareholder information Pearson ordinary shares are listed on the London Share dealing facilities Stock Exchange and on the New York Stock Exchange Equiniti offers telephone and internet services in the form of American Depositary Receipts.
for dealing in Pearson shares.
For further information, please contact them on 08456 037 037 Corporate website telephone dealing weekdays only or log on to The investors section of our corporate website www.
co. uk dealing online dealing.
com provides a wealth of information You will need your shareholder reference number for shareholders.
It is also possible to sign up to as shown on your share certificate.
receive email alerts for reports and press releases A weekly postal dealing service is also available relating to Pearson.
Please telephone 0871 384 2248 for details or log on to www.
co. uk to download Shareholder information online a form.
Equiniti provides a range of shareholder information online.
You can check your holding and find practical ShareGift help on transferring shares or updating your details at Shareholders with small holdings of shares, whose www.
For more information, please value makes them uneconomic to sell, may wish to contact our registrar, Equiniti, Aspect House, Spencer donate them to ShareGift, the share donation charity Road, Lancing, West Sussex BN99 6DA.
Further 0871 384 2233 or, for those shareholders with information about ShareGift and the charities it has hearing difficulties, textphone number 0871 384 2255. supported may be obtained from their website, www.
org or by contacting them at 17 Information about the Pearson share price Carlton House Terrace, London SW1Y 5AH.
The companys share price can be found on our website at www.
It also appears in the American Depositary Receipts ADRs financial columns of the national press.
Pearsons ADRs are listed on the New York Stock Exchange and traded under the symbol PSO.
Each Payment of dividends to mandated accounts ADR represents one ordinary share.
For enquiries Should you elect to have your dividends paid through regarding registered ADR holder accounts and BACS, this can be done directly into a bank or building dividends, please contact BNY Mellon Shareowner society account, with the tax voucher sent to the Services, PO Box 358516, Pittsburgh, PA 15252-8516, shareholders registered address.
Equiniti can be telephone 1 866 259 2289 toll free within the US or contacted for information on 0871 384 2043.
Alternatively, you may e-mail shrrelations@bnymellon.
com, or log on to Dividend reinvestment plan DRIP www.
Voting rights for registered ADR holders can be exercised through The The DRIP gives shareholders the right to buy the Bank of New York Mellon, and for beneficial ADR companys shares on the London stock market with holders and or nominee accounts through your US their cash dividend.
For further information, please brokerage institution.
Pearson will file with the contact Equiniti on 0871 384 2268.
Securities and Exchange Commission a Form 20-F. Calls to these numbers are charged at 8p per minute from a Individual Savings Accounts ISAs BT landline.
Other provider costs may vary.
Lines open Equiniti offers ISAs in Pearson shares.
For more 8.30am to 5.30pm Monday to Friday.
information, please go to www.
co. uk dealing or call customer services on 0845 300 0430.
IntRoDuCtIon ouR StRAteGy ouR PeRFoRmAnCe ouR ImPACt on SoCIety GoveRnAnCe FInAnCIAl StAtementS Section 6 Financial statements 175 Share register fraud: protecting your investment Advisers Pearson does not contact its shareholders directly to Auditors  LLP provide recommendation advice and neither does it Bankers HSBC Bank plc appoint third parties to do so.
As required by law, our Brokers JPMorgan Cazenove Limited and Citigroup shareholder register is available for public inspection Financial advisers Goldman Sachs, but we cannot control the use of information obtained JPMorgan Cazenove Limited and Citigroup by persons inspecting the register.
Please treat any Solicitors Freshfields Bruckhaus Deringer LLP, Herbert approaches purporting to originate from Pearson Smith LLP and Morgan, Lewis & Bockius LLP withcaution.
2011 Financial calendar tips on protecting your shares Ex-dividend date 6 April Keep any documentation that contains your Record date 8 April shareholder reference number in a safe place and Last date for dividend reinvestment election 12 April shred any unwanted documentation.
Annual General Meeting 28 April Inform the registrar promptly when you change address.
Payment date for dividend and share Be aware of dividend payment dates and contact the purchase date for dividend reinvestment 6 May registrar if you do not receive your dividend cheque or Interim results 1 August better still, make arrangements to have the dividend Payment date for interim dividend 16 September paid directly into your bank account.
Consider holding your shares electronically in a CREST account via a nominee.
For more information, please log on to our website at www.
