IntroductIon our strategy our performance our Impact on socIety governance fInancIal statements section 2 Our strategy 13 3.
Information wants to be valuable And in some cases, what we publish is a commodity or so generally important that we ought to find a way to For a few years now, the idea that information wants make it available more widely and easily, and take a to be free that consumers wont pay for content in a different account of its value.
hyper-connected digital world has echoed round the ether.
We resisted that movement, believing rather All of that means that we have to keep an open mind unfashionably that high quality content costs real about the terms under which we create and sell our money to create and should be worth paying for if that content and services.
And we have to make our piece money is well-spent.
The pendulum swung back in our of this digital and mobile world easy for people to direction last year, as other media companies began access and connected to what else they do and who toexperiment with paid-for online services and as they do it with.
theapp economy helped stimulate the market for We also have to work to educate people on the value digital reading.
of intellectual property in an economy based on Im proud that we held our ground and proved that, if brain-power.
The first step, of course, is to respect the content and the experience is good enough, users intellectual property ourselves which reminds me to are willing to pay.
But we cant say that weve won the give due credit to the FTs media editor, who wrote argument on all counts.
In some parts of the world, that headline above Information wants to be valuable.
weface potential changes to copyright and intellectual property laws that might weaken the ability of authors and publishers to generate a return from their creative endeavours, and in turn weaken incentives to invest.
our strategy 3 4 International expansion efficiency We are already present in more than 70 countries and we are Our investments in content, services and new geographic investing to become a much larger global company, with markets are fuelled by steady efficiency gains.
Since 2006, our particular emphasis on fast-growing markets in China, India, operating profit margins have increased from 12.7% to 15.1% Africa and Latin America.
Over the past five years, our and our ratio of average working capital to sales has international education business has grown headline sales improved from 26.3% to 20.1%.
atan average annual rate of 18% through strong organic growth and acquisitions, generating more than 1.2bn of revenues in 2010.
RAPID GROWTH IN EMERGING MARKETS PEARSON MARGINS % PEARSON REVENUES $m 10 $834m 10 15.1% 09 $648m 09 13.8% 08 $513m 08 14.6% 07 $471m 07 13.7% 06 $348m 06 12.7% China Hong Kong India Africa Central Latin America Middle East
