96 Pearson plc Annual report and accounts 2010 Notes to the consolidated financial statements General information toexpense acquisition costs and the requirement to recognise adjustments to contingent consideration in Pearson plc the company and its subsidiaries the income statement.
together theGroup are international media businesses covering education, business information Amendments to IAS 39 Financial Instruments: and consumer publishing.
Recognition and Measurement, effective for annual reporting periods beginning on or after 1 July 2009.
The company is a public limited liability company The amendments clarifythat inflation may only be incorporated anddomiciled in England.
The address of hedged where changes in inflation are a specified its registered officeis 80 Strand, London WC2R 0RL.
portion of cash flows of a financial instrument, and The company has its primary listing on the London alsoclarify hedging with options.
Management have StockExchange and is also listed on the New York assessed that the amendments have no impact on StockExchange.
These consolidated financial statements were Amendments to IFRS 2 Share-based Payment: Group approved forissue by the board of directors cash-settled share-based payment transactions, on7March 2011. effective forannual reporting periods beginning on or after 1 January 2010.
Accounting policies scope and accounting for group cash-settled sharebased payment transactions.
Management have The principal accounting policies applied in the assessed that the amendments have no impact on the preparationof these consolidated financial statements Groups financial statements.
IFRIC 17 Distributions of Non-cash Assets to a.
Basis of preparation Owners, effective for annual reporting periods These consolidated financial statements have been beginning on or after 1July 2009.
IFRIC 17 provides prepared in accordance with International Financial guidance on the appropriate accounting treatment Reporting Standards IFRS and International Financial when an entity distributes assets other than cash as Reporting Interpretations Committee IFRIC dividends, including recognition upon authorisation interpretations as adopted by the European Union and measurement at fair value of assets distributed, EU andwith those parts of the Companies Act 2006 with any difference between fair value and carrying applicable to companies reporting under IFRS.
In value of these assets being recognised in the income respect of the accounting standards applicable to the statement when an entity settles the dividend payable.
Group there is no difference between EU-adopted and This does not apply to distributions of non-cash assets IASB-adopted IFRS.
The Group transitioned from UK under common control.
Management have assessed GAAP to IFRS on 1 January 2003. that this interpretation has no impact on the Groups These consolidated financial statements have been financial statements as the Group does not currently prepared under the historical cost convention as distribute non-cash assets.
modifiedby the revaluation of financial assets and IFRIC 18 Transfers of Assets from Customers, liabilities including derivative financial instruments effective fortransfers of assets from customers tofair value.
Interpretations and amendments to published standards when an item of property, plant and equipment is effective in 2010 received from a customer and it meets the definition of IFRS 3 Revised Business Combinations and an asset from the perspective of the recipient, the amendments to IAS 27 Consolidated and Separate recipient should recognise the asset at its fair value at Financial Statements, effective for annual reporting the date of transfer and recognise the credit in periods beginning on or after 1July 2009.
The accordance with IAS 18 Revenue.
Management have amendments affect the accounting for business assessed that this interpretation has no impact on the combinations, including the requirement to reGroups financial statements as the Group has not measure the fair value of previously held interests received such assets from customers.
instepacquisitions with any gain or loss arising being recognised in the income statement, the requirement iNtroductioN our strAteGy our PerFormANce our imPAct oN society GoverNANce FiNANciAl stAtemeNts section 6 Financial statements 97 1.
Accounting policies continued Amendments to IFRS 7 Financial Instruments: Disclosures Transfers of Financial Assets, effective a.
Basis of preparation continued for annual reporting periods beginning on or after 1 1.
Interpretations and amendments to published July 2011.
The amendments require enhanced standardseffective in 2010 continued disclosure where anasset is transferred but not Improvements to IFRSs 2009, effective dates vary derecognised, and new disclosure for assets that are upon the amendment.
This is the second set of derecognised but to which theentity continues to have amendments published under the IASBs annual an exposure.
improvements process and incorporates minor amendments to 12 standards and interpretations.
Amendments to IAS 12 Deferred Tax Recoverability Management have assessed that these amendments of Underlying Assets, effective for annual reporting have no impact on the Groups financial statements.
periods beginning on or after 1 January 2012.
The amendments provide, for certain investment 2.
Standards, interpretations and amendments to properties, an exception to the principle that the published standards that are not yet effective measurement of deferred tax assets and liabilities The Group has not early adopted the following new should reflect the tax consequences that would follow pronouncements that are not yet effective: from the manner in which the entity expects to Amendments to IAS 24 Related Parties, effective for recover the carrying amount of an asset.
annual reporting periods beginning on or after 1 Improvements to IFRSs 2010, effective dates vary January 2011.
The amendments simplify disclosure for uponthe amendment.
This is the third set of government related entities and clarify the definition of amendments published under IASBs annual a related party.
improvements process and incorporates minor Amendments to IAS 32 Financial Instruments: amendments to seven standards and interpretations.
Presentation Classification of Rights, effective for Management are currently assessing the impact of annual reporting periods beginning on or after 1 these new standards, interpretations and amendments February 2010.
Theamendments clarify that rights, on the Groups financial statements.
options or warrants issued to acquire a fixed number of an entitys own non-derivative equity instruments 3.
Critical accounting assumptions and judgements for a fixed amount in any currency are classified as The preparation of financial statements in conformity equity instruments provided the offer is made pro-rata withIFRS requires the use of certain critical accounting to all existing owners of the same class of the entitys assumptions.
It also requires management to exercise own non-derivative equity instruments.
itsjudgement in the process of applying the Groups accounting policies.
The areas requiring a higher IFRS 9 Financial Instruments, effective for annual degree ofjudgement or complexity, or areas where reporting periods beginning on or after 1 January 2013. assumptions and estimates are significant to the The new standard details the requirements for the consolidated financial statements, are discussed classification and measurement of financial assets intherelevant accounting policies under the andliabilities.
followingheadings: IFRIC 19 Extinguishing Financial Liabilities with Equity Intangible assets: Goodwill Instruments, effective for annual reporting periods Intangible assets: Pre-publication assets beginning on or after 1 July 2010.
IFRIC 19 clarifies Royalty advances accounting required by entities issuing equity instruments Taxation to extinguish all or part of a financial liability.
Employee benefits: Pension obligations Amendments to IFRIC 14 Prepayments of a Minimum Revenue recognition Funding Requirement, effective for annual reporting periods beginning on or after 1 January 2011.
The amendments remedy a consequence of IFRIC 14 where, in certain circumstances, an entity was not permitted to recognise prepayments of a minimum funding requirement as anasset.
98 Pearson plc Annual report and accounts 2010 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 1.
Transactions with non-controlling interests Transactions with non-controlling interests are treated as b. consolidation transactions with shareholders.
Any surplus or deficit 1. Business combinations The acquisition method of arising from disposals to a non-controlling interest accounting is used to account for business isrecorded in equity.
For purchases from a noncombinations ofthe Group with an acquisition date on controlling interest, the difference between or after 1 January 2010.
The consideration transferred consideration paid and the relevant share acquired for the acquisition ofasubsidiary is the fair value of the ofthe carrying value of the subsidiary is recorded assets transferred, theliabilities incurred and the inequity.
equity interest issued by the Group.
The consideration transferred includes the fair valueof any asset or 4.
Joint ventures and associates Joint ventures are liability resulting from a contingent consideration entities inwhich the Group holds an interest on a arrangement.
Acquisition related costs are expensed long-term basis andwhich are jointly controlled, with as incurred.
one or more other venturers, under a contractual arrangement.
Associates areentities over which the Identifiable assets and contingent assets acquired and Group has significant influence but not the power to identifiable liabilities and contingent liabilities assumed control the financial and operating policies, generally in abusiness combination are measured initially at their accompanying a shareholding of between 20% and 50% fair values at the acquisition date.
For material of the voting rights.
Investments in joint ventures and acquisitions, thefair value of the acquired intangible associates are accounted for by the equity method and assets is determinedby an external, independent are initially recognised at cost.
The excess of the consideration transferred, the amount of any non-controlling interest in the The Groups share of its joint ventures and associates acquiree and the acquisition date fair value of any post-acquisition profits or losses is recognised in the previous equity interest in the acquiree overthe fair income statement and its share of post-acquisition value of the identifiable net assets acquired is recorded movements in reserves is recognised in reserves.
See note 1e 1 for the accounting policy on Groups share of itsjoint ventures and associates goodwill.
If this is less than the fair value of the net results is recognised as acomponent of operating assets of the subsidiary acquired, in the case of a profit as these operations form part of the core bargain purchase, the difference is recognised directly publishing business of the Group and are anintegral in the incomestatement.
part of existing wholly-owned businesses.
Thecumulative post-acquisition movements are On an  basis, the Group adjusted against the carrying amount of the recognises any non-controlling interest in the acquiree investment.
When the Groups share of losses in a either at fair value or at the non-controlling interests joint venture or associate equals or exceeds its interest proportionate share of the acquirees net assets.
in the joint venture or associate the Group does not 2.
Subsidiaries Subsidiaries are entities over which the recognise further losses unless the Group has incurred Group has the power to govern the financial and obligations or made payments on behalf of the joint operating policies, generally accompanying a venture or associate.
shareholding of more than one half of the voting rights.
c. Foreign currency translation Subsidiaries are fully consolidated from the date on 1.
Functional and presentation currency Items included in which control is transferred to the Group and are the financial statements of each of the Groups entities fide-consolidated from the date that control ceases.
are measured using the currency of the primary economic environment in which the entity operates the functional currency.
The consolidated financial statements are presented in sterling, which is the companys functional andpresentation currency.
iNtroductioN our strAteGy our PerFormANce our imPAct oN society GoverNANce FiNANciAl stAtemeNts section 6 Financial statements 99 1.
Accounting policies continued d. Property, plant and equipment Property, plant and equipment are stated at historical c. Foreign currency translation continued cost less depreciation.
Transactions and balances Foreign currency Depreciation onother assets is calculated using the transactions are translated into the functional currency straight-line method to allocate their cost less their using the exchange rates prevailing at the dates of the residual values over their estimated useful lives transactions.
Foreign exchange gains and losses asfollows: resulting from the settlement of such transactions and from the translation at year end exchange rates of Buildings freehold : 2050 years monetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign Buildings leasehold : over the period of the lease currencies are recognised in the income statement, Plant and equipment: 310 years except when deferred in equity as qualifying net investment hedges.
The assets residual values and useful lives are reviewed, andadjusted if appropriate, at each balance 3.
Group companies The results and financial position of sheet date.
all Group companies that have a functional currency different from the presentation currency are translated The carrying value of an asset is written down to its into the presentation currency as follows: recoverable amount if the carrying value of the asset isgreater than its estimated recoverable amount.
i assets and liabilities are translated at the closing rate at the date of the balance sheet: e. intangible assets 1.
Goodwill For the acquisition of subsidiaries made on ii income and expenses are translated at average or after 1 January 2010 goodwill represents the excess exchangerates: of the consideration transferred, the amount of any iii all resulting exchange differences are recognised non-controlling interest in the acquiree and the asaseparate component of equity.
acquisition date fair value of any previous equity interest in the acquiree over the fair value of the On consolidation, exchange differences arising from identifiable net assets acquired.
For the acquisition of the translation of the net investment in foreign entities, subsidiaries made from the date of transition to IFRS and of borrowings and other currency instruments to31 December 2009 goodwill represents the excess designated as hedges of such investments, are taken to of the cost ofanacquisition over the fair value of the shareholders equity.
The Group treats specific Groups share ofthe net identifiable assets acquired.
inter-company loan balances, which are not intended Goodwill on acquisitions of subsidiaries is included in to be repaid in the foreseeable future, as part of its net intangible assets.
Goodwill on acquisition of associates investment.
When a foreign operation is sold, such and joint ventures represents the excess of the cost of exchange differences are recognised in the income an acquisition over the fair value of the Groups share statement as part of the gain or loss on sale.
of the net identifiable assets acquired.
Goodwill on At the date of transition to IFRS the cumulative acquisitions of associates andjoint ventures is included translation differences in respect of foreign operations in investments in associates and joint ventures.
have been deemed to be zero.
Goodwill is tested annually for impairment and Any gains and losses on disposals of foreign operations carriedatcost less accumulated impairment losses.
willexclude translation differences that arose prior to Animpairment loss is recognised to the extent the transition date.
thatthecarrying value of goodwill exceeds the recoverable amount.
The recoverable amount is the The principal overseas currency for the Group is the higher of fair value less costs to sell and value in use.
The average rate for the year against sterling These calculations require the use of estimates and was$1.54 2009: $1.57 and the year end rate was significant management judgement.
the key assumptions and sensitivities is included in note 11.
Goodwill is allocated to cash-generating units for the purpose of impairment testing.
The allocation is made to those cash-generating units that are expected tobenefit from the business combination in which the goodwill arose.
100 Pearson plc Annual report and accounts 2010 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 1.
Pre-publication assets Pre-publication assets represent direct costs incurred in the development of e. intangible assets continued educational programmes and titles prior to their 1.
Thesecosts are recognised as current Gains and losses on the disposal of an entity include intangible assets where the title will generate probable the carrying amount of goodwill relating to the future economic benefits and costs can be measured entitysold.
 are amortised upon IFRS 3 Business Combinations has not been applied publication of thetitle over estimated economic lives retrospectively to business combinations before the of five years or less, being an estimate of the expected date oftransition to IFRS.
Subject to the transition operating life cycle of the title, with a higher adjustments toIFRS required by IFRS 1, the accounting proportion of the amortisation taken in the for business combinations before the date of transition earlieryears.
The investment in pre-publication assets has been 2.
Acquired software Software separately acquired for disclosed as part of cash generated from operations in internal use is capitalised at cost.
Software acquired in the cash flow statement see note 31. material business combinations is capitalised at its fair The assessment of the recoverability of pre-publication value as determined by an independent valuer.
assets and the determination of the amortisation Acquired software is amortised on a straight-line basis profile involve a significant degree of judgement based over its estimated useful life of between three and on historical trends and management estimation of eight years.
Internally developed software Internal and external profile could result in excess amounts being carried costs incurred during the preliminary stage of forward as intangible assets that would otherwise developing computer software for internal use are havebeen written off to the income statement in expensed as incurred.
Internal and external costs anearlier period.
incurred to develop computer software for internal Reviews are performed regularly to estimate use during the application development stage are recoverability of pre-publication assets.
The carrying capitalised if the Group expects economic benefits amount of pre-publication assets is set out in note 20. from the development.
Capitalisation in the application development stage begins once the Group can reliably f. other financial assets measure the expenditure attributable to the software Other financial assets, designated as available for sale development and has demonstrated its intention to investments, are non-derivative financial assets complete and use the software.
Internally developed measured at estimated fair value.
Changes in the fair software is amortised on a straight-line basis over its value are recorded in equity in the fair value reserve.
estimated useful life of between three and eight years.
On the subsequent disposal of the asset, the net fairvalue gains or losses are taken to the income 4.
Acquired intangible assets Acquired intangible assets statement.
include customer lists and relationships, trademarks and brands, publishing rights, content and technology.
g. inventories Theseassets are capitalised on acquisition at cost and Inventories are stated at the lower of cost and net included in intangible assets.
Intangible assets acquired realisable value.
Cost is determined using the first in in material business combinations are capitalised at first out FIFO method.
The cost of finished goods their fair value as determined by an independent andwork in progress comprises raw materials, direct valuer.
Intangible assets are amortised over their labour, other direct costs and related production estimated useful lives of between two and 20 years, overheads.
Net realisable value is the estimated selling using an amortisation method that reflects the pattern price in the ordinary course of business, less estimated of their consumption.
costs necessary to make the sale.
Provisions are made for slow moving and obsolete stock.
iNtroductioN our strAteGy our PerFormANce our imPAct oN society GoverNANce FiNANciAl stAtemeNts section 6 Financial statements 101 1.
Accounting policies continued k. share capital Ordinary shares are classified as equity.
h. royalty advances Advances of royalties to authors are included within Incremental costs directly attributable to the issue of trade and other receivables when the advance is paid new shares or options are shown in equity as a less any provision required to adjust the advance to its deduction, net oftax, from the proceeds.
The realisable value of royalty Where any Group company purchases the companys advances relies on a degree of management judgement equity share capital treasury shares the consideration in determining the profitability of individual author paid, including any directly attributable incremental contracts.
If the estimated realisable value of author costs, net of income taxes, is deducted from equity contracts is overstated, this will have an adverse effect attributable to the companys equity holders until the on operating profits as these excess amounts will be shares are cancelled, reissued or disposed of.
such shares are subsequently sold or reissued, any The recoverability of royalty advances is based upon consideration received, net of any directly attributable an annual detailed management review of the age of transaction costs and the related income tax effects, the advance, the future sales projections for new isincluded in equity attributable to the companys authors and prior sales history of repeat authors.
Theroyalty advance is expensed at the contracted or l. Borrowings effective royalty rate as the related revenues are Borrowings are recognised initially at fair value, which earned.
Royalty advances which will beconsumed is proceeds received net of transaction costs incurred.
within one year are held in current assets.
Royalty Borrowings are subsequently stated at amortised cost advances which will be consumed after one year are with any difference between the proceeds net of held in non-current assets.
transaction costs and the redemption value being i.
Newspaper development costs recognised in the income statement over the period of Investment in the development of newspaper titles the borrowings using the effective interest method.
consists of measures to increase the volume and Accrued interest is included as part of borrowings.
The measures Where a debt instrument is in a fair value hedging include additional andenhanced editorial content, relationship, an adjustment is made to its carrying extended distribution andremote printing.
These value in the income statement to reflect the hedged costs are expensed as incurred as they do not meet risk.
Interest on borrowings is expensed in the income the criteria under IAS 38 Intangible Assets to be statement as incurred.
m. derivative financial instruments j. cash and cash equivalents Derivatives are recognised at fair value and reCash and cash equivalents in the cash flow statement measured ateach balance sheet date.
The fair value of include cash in hand, deposits held on call with banks, derivatives is determined by using market data and the othershort-term highly liquid investments with original use of established estimation techniques such as maturities of three months or less, and bank discounted cash flow and option valuation models.
Bank overdrafts are included in borrowings Group designates certain ofthe derivative instruments in current liabilities in the balance sheet.
within its portfolio to be hedges of the fair value of its bonds fair value hedges orhedges ofnet investments Short-term deposits and marketable securities with in foreign operations netinvestment hedges.
maturities of greater than three months do not qualify as cash and cash equivalents.
Movements on these Changes in the fair value of derivatives that are financial instruments are classified as cash flows designated and qualify as fair value hedges are fromfinancing activities in the cash flow statement recorded in the income statement, together with any asthese amounts are used to offset the borrowings changes in the fair value ofthehedged asset or liability ofthe Group.
that are attributable to the hedged risk.
102 Pearson plc Annual report and accounts 2010 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 1.
Accounting policies continued The Group is subject to income taxes in numerous jurisdictions.
Significant judgement is required in m. derivative financial instruments continued determining the estimates in relation to the worldwide The effective portion of changes in the fair value of provision for income taxes.
There are many derivatives that are designated and qualify as net transactions and calculations for which the ultimate tax investment hedges are recognised in other determination is uncertain during the ordinary course comprehensive income.
Gains and losses accumulated of business.
The Group recognises liabilities for in equity are included in the income statement when anticipated tax audit issues based on estimates of the corresponding foreign operation is disposed of.
whether additional taxes will be due.
Where the final Gains or losses relating to the ineffective portion are tax outcome of these matters is different from the recognised immediately in finance income or finance amounts that were initially recorded, such differences costs in the income statement.
will impact the income tax and deferred tax provisions Certain derivatives do not qualify or are not in the period in which such determination is made.
Such derivatives Deferred tax assets and liabilities require management are classified at fair value and any movement in their judgement in determining the amounts to be fair value is recognised immediately in finance income recognised.
Inparticular, significant judgement is used or finance costs in the income statement.
when assessing the extent to which deferred tax assets n. taxation should be recognised with consideration given to the Current tax is recognised on the amounts expected to timing and level of future taxable income together with be paid or recovered under the tax rates and laws that any future tax planning strategies.
have been enacted or substantively enacted at the o. employee benefits balance sheetdate.
Pension obligations The retirement benefit asset and Deferred income tax is provided, using the liability obligation recognised in the balance sheet represents method, on temporary differences arising between the the net of the present value of the defined benefit tax bases of assets and liabilities and their carrying obligation andthe fair value of plan assets at the amounts.
Deferred income tax is determined using tax balance sheet date.
The defined benefit obligation is rates and laws that have been enacted or substantively calculated annually by independent actuaries using the enacted by the balance sheetdate and are expected to projected unit credit method.
The present value of the apply when the related deferred tax asset is realised or defined benefit obligation is determined by discounting the deferred income tax liability is settled.
estimated future cash flows using yields on high quality corporate bonds which have terms to maturity Deferred tax assets are recognised to the extent approximating the terms of the relatedliability.
thatitis probable that future taxable profit will be available against which the temporary differences The determination of the pension cost and defined canbe utilised.
benefit obligation of the Groups defined benefit pension schemes depends on the selection of certain Deferred income tax is provided in respect of the assumptions, which include the discount rate, inflation undistributed earnings of subsidiaries other than where rate, salary growth, longevity and expected return on it isintended that those undistributed earnings will not scheme assets.
be remitted in the foreseeable future.
Actuarial gains and losses arising from differences Current and deferred tax are recognised in the income between actual and expected returns on plan assets, statement, except when the tax relates to items experience adjustments on liabilities and changes in charged or credited directly to equity or other actuarial assumptions are recognised immediately in comprehensive income, in which case the tax is also other comprehensive income.
recognised in equity or other comprehensive income.
iNtroductioN our strAteGy our PerFormANce our imPAct oN society GoverNANce FiNANciAl stAtemeNts section 6 Financial statements 103 1.
Accounting policies continued The Group recognises a provision for onerous lease contracts when the expected benefits to be derived o. employee benefits continued from a contract are less than the unavoidable costs of 1.
Pension obligations continued meeting the obligations under the contract.
The service cost, representing benefits accruing over the year, is included in the income statement as an The provision is based on the present value of future operating cost.
The unwinding of the discount rate on payments for surplus leased properties under the scheme liabilities and the expected return on non-cancellable operating leases, net of estimated scheme assets are presented as finance costs or sub-leasing income.
q. revenue recognition Obligations for contributions to defined contribution Revenue comprises the fair value of the consideration pension plans are recognised as an operating expense received or receivable for the sale of goods and in theincome statement as incurred.
services netof sales taxes, rebates and discounts, and after eliminating sales within the Group.
Other post-retirement obligations The expected costs of post-retirement healthcare and life assurance Revenue from the sale of books is recognised when benefits are accrued over the period of employment, title passes.
A provision for anticipated returns is made using a similar accounting methodology as for defined based primarily on historical return rates.
If these benefit pension obligations.
The liabilities and costs estimates do not reflect actual returns in future relating to significant other post-retirement obligations periods then revenues could be understated or are assessed annually by independent qualified overstated for a particular period.
Circulation and advertising revenue is recognised when 3.
Share-based payments The fair value of options or the newspaper or other publication is published.
shares granted under the Groups share and option Subscription revenue is recognised on a straight-line plans is recognised as an employee expense after basis over the life ofthe subscription.
taking into account the Groups best estimate of the Where a contractual arrangement consists of two or number of awards expected to vest.
Fair value is more separate elements that can be provided to measured at the date of grant and is spread over the customers either on a stand-alone basis or as an vesting period of the option or share.
The fair value of optional extra, such as the provision of supplementary the options granted is measured using an option model materials with textbooks, revenue is recognised for that is most appropriate to the award.
The fair value of each element as if it were an individual contractual shares awarded is measured using the share price at arrangement.
the date of grant unless another method is more appropriate.
Any proceeds received are credited to Revenue from multi-year contractual arrangements, share capital and share premium when the options are such ascontracts to process qualifying tests for exercised.
The Group has applied IFRS 2 Share-based individual professions and government departments, is Payment retrospectively to all options granted but not recognised asperformance occurs.
The assumptions, fully vested at the date of transition to IFRS.
risks, and uncertainties inherent in long-term contract accounting canaffect the amounts and timing of p. Provisions revenue and related expenses reported.
Certain of Provisions are recognised if the Group has a present these arrangements, either as a result of a single legal orconstructive obligation as a result of past service spanning more than one reporting period or events, it is more likely than not that an outflow of where the contract requires the provision of a number resources will be required to settle the obligation of services that together constitute asingle project, are andthe amount can be reliably estimated.
Provisions treated as long-term contracts with revenue recognised are discounted to present value where the effect on a percentage of completion basis.
contracts are recognised in the period in which the The Group recognises a provision for deferred loss first becomes foreseeable.
Contract losses are consideration when the payment of the deferred determined to be the amount by which estimated total consideration is probable.
costs of the contract exceed the estimated total revenues that will be generated by the contract.
104 Pearson plc Annual report and accounts 2010 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 1.
Accounting policies continued s. dividends Dividends are recorded in the Groups financial q. revenue recognition continued statements in the period in which they are approved On certain contracts, where the Group acts as agent, by the companys shareholders.
Interim dividends only commissions and fees receivable for services arerecorded in the period in which they are approved rendered are recognised as revenue.
costs incurred on behalf of the principal that are rechargeable under the contractual arrangement are t. Non-current assets and liabilities held for sale not included in revenue.
Assets and liabilities are classified as held for sale and stated at the lower of carrying amount and fair value Income from recharges of freight and other activities less costs tosell if it is intended to recover their which are incidental to the normal revenue generating carrying amount principally through a sale transaction activities is included in other income.
rather than through continuing use.
No depreciation r. leases ischarged in respect of non-current assets classified Leases of property, plant and equipment where the asheld for sale.
Amounts relating to non-current Group has substantially all the risks and rewards of assets and liabilities held for sale areclassified as ownership are classified as finance leases.
Finance discontinued operations in the income statement leases are capitalised at the commencement of the where appropriate.
lease at the lower of the fair value of the leased u. trade receivables property and the present value of the minimum lease Trade receivables are stated at fair value after payments.
Each lease payment is allocated between provision for bad and doubtful debts and anticipated the liability and finance charges to achieve a constant future sales returns see also note 1q.
rate on the finance balance outstanding.
Thecorresponding rental obligations, net of finance charges, are included in financial liabilities borrowings.
The interest element of the finance cost is charged to the income statement over the lease period to produce a constant periodic rate of interest on the remaining balance of the liability for each period.
The property, plant and equipment acquired under finance leases are depreciated over the shorter of the useful life of the asset or the lease term.
Leases where a significant portion of the risks and rewards of ownership are retained by the lessor are classified as operating leases by the lessee.
Payments made under operating leases net of any incentives received from the lessor are charged to the income statement on a straight-line basis over the period of the lease.
