96 Pearson plc Annual report and accounts 2010 Notes to the consolidated financial statements General information toexpense acquisition costs and the requirement to recognise adjustments to contingent consideration in Pearson plc the company and its subsidiaries the income statement.
together theGroup are international media businesses covering education, business information Amendments to IAS 39 Financial Instruments: and consumer publishing.
Recognition and Measurement, effective for annual reporting periods beginning on or after 1 July 2009.
The company is a public limited liability company The amendments clarifythat inflation may only be incorporated anddomiciled in England.
The address of hedged where changes in inflation are a specified its registered officeis 80 Strand, London WC2R 0RL.
portion of cash flows of a financial instrument, and The company has its primary listing on the London alsoclarify hedging with options.
Management have StockExchange and is also listed on the New York assessed that the amendments have no impact on StockExchange.
These consolidated financial statements were Amendments to IFRS 2 Share-based Payment: Group approved forissue by the board of directors cash-settled share-based payment transactions, on7March 2011. effective forannual reporting periods beginning on or after 1 January 2010.
Accounting policies scope and accounting for group cash-settled sharebased payment transactions.
Management have The principal accounting policies applied in the assessed that the amendments have no impact on the preparationof these consolidated financial statements Groups financial statements.
IFRIC 17 Distributions of Non-cash Assets to a.
Basis of preparation Owners, effective for annual reporting periods These consolidated financial statements have been beginning on or after 1July 2009.
IFRIC 17 provides prepared in accordance with International Financial guidance on the appropriate accounting treatment Reporting Standards IFRS and International Financial when an entity distributes assets other than cash as Reporting Interpretations Committee IFRIC dividends, including recognition upon authorisation interpretations as adopted by the European Union and measurement at fair value of assets distributed, EU andwith those parts of the Companies Act 2006 with any difference between fair value and carrying applicable to companies reporting under IFRS.
In value of these assets being recognised in the income respect of the accounting standards applicable to the statement when an entity settles the dividend payable.
Group there is no difference between EU-adopted and This does not apply to distributions of non-cash assets IASB-adopted IFRS.
The Group transitioned from UK under common control.
Management have assessed GAAP to IFRS on 1 January 2003. that this interpretation has no impact on the Groups These consolidated financial statements have been financial statements as the Group does not currently prepared under the historical cost convention as distribute non-cash assets.
modifiedby the revaluation of financial assets and IFRIC 18 Transfers of Assets from Customers, liabilities including derivative financial instruments effective fortransfers of assets from customers tofair value.
Interpretations and amendments to published standards when an item of property, plant and equipment is effective in 2010 received from a customer and it meets the definition of IFRS 3 Revised Business Combinations and an asset from the perspective of the recipient, the amendments to IAS 27 Consolidated and Separate recipient should recognise the asset at its fair value at Financial Statements, effective for annual reporting the date of transfer and recognise the credit in periods beginning on or after 1July 2009.
The accordance with IAS 18 Revenue.
Management have amendments affect the accounting for business assessed that this interpretation has no impact on the combinations, including the requirement to reGroups financial statements as the Group has not measure the fair value of previously held interests received such assets from customers.
instepacquisitions with any gain or loss arising being recognised in the income statement, the requirement
