64 pearson plc Annual report and accounts 2010 report on directors remuneration continued reliable cash returns to our investors through healthy 8 december 2010 and growing dividends.
We believe those are, in Considered Towers Watsons report on remuneration concert, good indicators that we are building the for the Pearson Management Committee for 2011 long-term value of Pearson.
So those measures orothers that contribute to them, such as operating Reviewed status of outstanding long-term incentive margins and working capital form the basis of our awards annual budgets and plans, and the basis for bonuses Discussed 2011 renewal of long-term incentive plan and long-term incentives.
Considered the approach to 2011 long-term incentive We determine whether or not targets have been met plan awards for the Pearson Management Committee under the companys various performance-related Reviewed 2011 annual incentive plan metrics annual or long-term incentive plans based on relevant Reviewed the chairmans remuneration internal information and input from external advisers.
In light of the prevailing economic conditions and the summary of policy changes in 2010 impact of these on the companys objectives and As described in the report on directors remuneration strategy, we continue to keep our remuneration policy for 2009, in light of market data and practice elsewhere under review particularly with regard to its approach in the company, we increased the maximum annual to annual and long-term incentives.
incentive for the chief executive from 150% to 180% Our starting point continues to be that total ofbase salary.
In addition, for the other members of remuneration base compensation plus annual and the Pearson Management Committee we adopted a long-term incentives should reward both shortand structure of relating individual incentive opportunities long-term results, delivering competitive rewards for to base salary taking into account their membership target performance, but outstanding rewards for ofthat committee and the contribution of their exceptional company performance.
respective businesses or role to Pearsons overall financial goals.
Further details are set out on page 67.
The performance conditions that we select for the companys various performance-related annual or remuneration policy long-term incentive plans are linked to the companys strategic objectives set out above and aligned with the This report sets out the companys policy on directors interests of shareholders.
remuneration that applies to executive directors for 2011 and, so far as practicable, for subsequent years.
Generally speaking, we have concluded that no The committee considers that a successful fundamental changes are required to the performance remuneration policy needs to be sufficiently flexible measures used in the companys annual and long-term totake account of future changes in the companys incentive plans.
business environment and in remuneration practice.
We will however continue to give careful consideration Future reports, which will continue to be subject to to the selection and weighting of these measures shareholder approval, will describe any changes in andthe targets that apply taking into account the thispolicy.
companys shortand longer term strategy and risk Our goal as a company is to make an impact on and the impact on the sustainability and future peoples lives and on society through education and development of the company.
Our strategy to achieve that goal is In accordance with the UK Corporate Governance pursued by all Pearsons businesses in some shape or Code, the committee has considered the companys form and has four parts: investment in quality content: powers to reclaim variable remuneration in adding services to this content: working in markets exceptional circumstances of misstatement or around the world, particularly in the developing world: misconduct.
The company will follow its legal rights and efficiency.
and reclaim rewards gained in the event of proven An important measure of our strategy is, of course, wrong doing which led to misstatement of the financial performance.
Here, our goal is to achieve companys accounts.
sustainable growth in three key financial measures earnings, cash and return on invested capital and
