introduction our strateGy our perFormance our impact on society Governance Financial statements section 5 Governance 75 We summarise the service agreements that applied during 2010 and that continue to apply for 2011 as follows: compensation on termination by the name date of agreement notice periods company without notice or cause Glen Moreno 29 July 2005 12 months from the director: 100% of annual fees at the date 12 months from the company of termination Marjorie Scardino 27 February 2004 Six months from the director: 100% of annual salary at the date 12 months from the company of termination, the annual cost ofpension and all other benefits and 50% of potential annual incentive Will Ethridge 26 February 2009 Six months from the director: 100% of annual salary at the date 12 months from the company of termination, the annual cost of pension and all other benefits and target annual incentive Rona Fairhead 24 January 2003 Six months from the director: 100% of annual salary at the date 12 months from the company of termination, the annual cost ofpension and all other benefits and 50% of potential annual incentive Robin Freestone 5 June 2006 Six months from the director: No contractual provisions 12 months from the company John Makinson 24 January 2003 Six months from the director: 100% of annual salary at the date 12 months from the company of termination, the annual cost ofpension and all other benefits and 50% of potential annual incentive retirement benefits Executive directors are entitled to life insurance cover while in employment, and to a pension in the event of We describe the retirement benefits for each of the ill-health or disability.
A pension for their spouse and executive directors.
Details of directors pension or dependants is also available on death.
arrangements are set out in table 2 on page 80 of thisreport.
In the US, the defined benefit arrangement is the Pearson Inc. Pension Plan.
This plan provides a lump Executive directors participate in the pension sum convertible to an annuity on retirement.
The lump arrangements set up for Pearson employees.
sum accrued at 6% of capped compensation until Marjorie Scardino, Will Ethridge, John Makinson, 31December 2001 when further benefit accruals RonaFairhead and Robin Freestone will also have ceased for most employees.
Employees who satisfied other retirement arrangements because of the cap criteria of age and service at that time continued to onthe amount of benefits that can be provided from accrue benefits under the plan.
Will Ethridge is the pension arrangements in the US and the UK.
included in this group and continues to accrue benefits under this plan.
Marjorie Scardino is not and her benefit The differences in the arrangements for the current accruals under this plan ceased at the end of 2001. executive directors reflect the different arrangements in the UK and the US and the changes in pension The defined contribution arrangement in the US is a arrangements generally over the periods of 401 k plan.
At retirement, the account balances will their employment.
be used to provide benefits.
In the event of death before retirement, the account balances will be used to provide benefits for dependants.
76 pearson plc Annual report and accounts 2010 report on directors remuneration continued In the UK, the pension plan is the Pearson Group The notional cash balance of the legacy unfunded plan Pension Plan and executive directors participate in increases annually by a specified notional interest rate.
either the Final Pay or the Money Purchase 2003 The unfunded plan also provides the opportunity to section.
Normal retirement age is 62, but, subject to convert a proportion of this notional cash account company consent, retirement is currently possible intoa notional share account reflecting the value of a from age 55.
In the Final Pay section, the accrued number of Pearson ordinary shares.
Thenumber of pension is reduced on retirement prior to age 60. shares in the notional share account is determined by Pensions in payment are guaranteed to increase each reference to the market value of Pearson shares at the year at 5% or the rise in inflation each year, if lower.
Pensions for a members spouse, dependant children will ethridge and or nominated financial dependant are payable Will Ethridge is a member of the Pearson Inc. Pension inthe event of death.
In the Money Purchase 2003 Plan and the approved 401 k plan.
He also participates section the account balances are used to provide in an unfunded, non-qualified Supplemental Executive benefits at retirement.
In the event of death before Retirement Plan SERP that provides an annual accrual retirement pensions for a members spouse, of 2% of final average earnings, less benefits accrued in dependant children and or nominated financial the Pearson Inc. Pension Plan and US Social Security.
Additional defined contribution benefits are provided Members of the Pearson Group Pension Plan who through a funded, non-qualified Excess Plan.
joined after May 1989 are subject to an upper limit of rona Fairhead earnings that can be used for pension purposes, known Rona Fairhead is a member of the Pearson Group as the earnings cap.
This limit, 108,600 as at 6 April Pension Plan.
Her pension accrual rate is 1 30th of 2006, was abolished by the Finance Act 2004. pensionable salary per annum, restricted to the plan However the Pearson Group Pension Plan has retained earnings cap.
its own cap, which will increase annually in line with the UK Governments Index of Retail Prices All Items.
Until April 2006, the company also contributed to a The cap was 123,600 as at 6 April 2010.
Funded Unapproved Retirement Benefits Scheme FURBS on her behalf.
Since April 2006, she has As a result of the UK Governments A-Day changes received a taxable and non-pensionable cash effective from April 2006, UK executive directors and supplement in replacement of the FURBS.
other members of the Pearson Group Pension Plan who are, or become, affected by the lifetime allowance robin Freestone are provided with a cash supplement as an alternative Robin Freestone is a member of the Money Purchase to further accrual of pension benefits on a basis that is 2003 section of the Pearson Group Pension Plan.
broadly cost neutral to the company.
Company contributions are 16% of pensionable salary per annum, restricted to the plan earnings cap.
marjorie scardino Marjorie Scardino participates in the Pearson Inc. Until April 2006, the company also contributed to a Pension Plan and the approved 401 k plan.
Until 2010, Funded Unapproved Retirement Benefits Scheme additional benefits were provided through an unfunded FURBS on his behalf.
Since April 2006, he has unapproved defined contribution plan.
received a taxable and non-pensionable cash supplement in replacement of the FURBS.
Since 2010, additional pension benefits are provided through a taxable and non-pensionable cash supplement in place of the unfunded plan, a funded defined contribution plan approved by HM Revenue and Customs as a corresponding plan, and amounts inthe legacy unfunded plan.
In aggregate, the cash supplement and contributions to the funded plan arebased on a percentage of salary and a fixed cash amount index-linked to inflation.
