iNtroDuCtioN our StrAtEGy our PErForMANCE our iMPACt oN SoCiEty GovErNANCE FiNANCiAl StAtEMENtS Section 5 Governance 59 The audit committee receives regular reports The directors are responsible for the maintenance and summarising the amount of fees paid to the auditors.
integrity of the companys website.
Legislation in the United Kingdom governing the preparation and A full statement of the fees for audit and services is dissemination of financial statements may differ from provided in note 4 to the accounts on page 109. legislation in other jurisdictions.
Statement of directors responsibilities Each of the directors, whose names and functions are listed on pages 48 and 49, confirm that to the best of The directors are responsible for preparing the Annual their knowledge and belief: Report, the Directors Remuneration Report and the financial statements in accordance with applicable law The Group financial statements, prepared in and regulations.
accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the EU, give atrue and fair view of the assets, liabilities, financial Company law requires the directors to prepare position and profit of the Group and company: and financial statements for each financial year.
Under that The directors report contained in the annual report law the directors have prepared the Group and parent includes a fair review of the development and company financial statements in accordance with performance of the business and the position of the International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs company and Group, together with a description of asadopted by the European Union.
Under company the principal risks and uncertainties that they face.
law the directors must not approve the financial statements unless they are satisfied that they give a The directors also confirm that, for all directors in true and fair view of the state of affairs of the company office at the date of this report: and the Group and of the profit or loss of the Group a so far as the directors are aware, there is no for that period.
relevant audit information of which the companys In preparing these financial statements, the directors auditors are unaware: and are required to: b they have taken all the steps that they ought to have Select suitable accounting policies and then apply taken as directors in order to make themselves aware themconsistently: of any relevant audit information and to establish that Make judgements and accounting estimates that are the companys auditors are aware of that information.
reasonable and prudent: Approved by the board on 7 March 2011 and signed on State that the financial statements comply with IFRSs its behalf by as adopted by the European Union or disclose and explain any material departures from those IFRSs: and Prepare the financial statements on a going concern basis, unless it is inappropriate to presume that the company and or the Group will continue in business.
Philip Hoffman Secretary The directors are responsible for keeping adequate accounting records that are sufficient to show and explain the companys transactions and disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the financial position of the company and the Group.
This enables them to ensure that the financial statements and the report ondirectors remuneration comply with the Companies Act 2006 and, as regards the Group financial statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
Theyarealso responsible for safeguarding the assets of the company and the Group and for taking reasonable steps for the prevention and detection of fraud and other irregularities.
