nOTES TO THE FInanCIaL STaTEmEnTS 2.
PrinCiPal aCCountinG PoliCies continued c revenue recognition continued Revenue from long-term service concession arrangements is recognised based on the fair value of work performed.
Where an arrangement includes more than one service, such as construction and operation of waste management facilities, revenue and profit are recognised in proportion to a fair value assessment of the total contract value split across the service provided.
Interest income is recognised on a time-apportioned basis using the effective interest method.
d landfill tax Landfill tax is included within both revenue and operating costs.
It is determined by the Government and is a cost to the Group but is chargeable to customers.
e segmental reporting Each of the Groups business segments provides services which are subject to risks and returns which are different from those of the other business segments.
The Groups internal organisation and management structure and its system of internal financial reporting is based primarily on business segments.
The principal business segments comprise the regulated water and sewerage services undertaken by South West Water Limited and the waste management business of Viridor Limited.
Segmental revenue and results include transactions between businesses.
Inter-segmental transactions are eliminated on consolidation.
f Goodwill Goodwill arising on consolidation from the acquisition of subsidiary and joint venture undertakings represents the excess of the purchase consideration over the fair value of net assets acquired.
Goodwill is recognised as an asset and reviewed for impairment at least annually.
Any impairment is recognised immediately in the income statement and is not subsequently reversed.
Further details are contained in accounting policy j.
When a subsidiary or joint venture undertaking is sold, the profit or loss on disposal is determined after including the attributable amount of unamortised goodwill.
Goodwill arising on acquisitions before 1 April 2004 the Groups date of transition to IFRS has been retained at the previous UK GAAP amounts, subject to being tested for impairment at that date and annually thereafter.
Goodwill written-off to reserves under UK GAAP prior to 1998 was not reinstated on transition to IFRS and will not be included in determining any subsequent profit or loss on disposal.
g other intangible assets Other intangible assets acquired in a business combination are capitalised at fair value at the date of acquisition.
Following initial recognition, finite life intangible assets are amortised on a straight-line basis over their estimated useful economic lives, with the expense taken to the income statement through operating costs.
h Property, plant and equipment i Infrastructure assets being water mains and sewers, impounding and pumped raw water storage reservoirs, dams, pipelines and sea outfalls Infrastructure assets were included at fair value on transition to IFRS and subsequent additions are recorded at cost less accumulated depreciation.
Expenditure to increase capacity or enhance infrastructure assets is capitalised where it can be reliably measured and it is probable that incremental future economic benefits will flow to the entity.
The cost of day-to-day servicing of infrastructure components is recognised in the income statement as it arises.
Infrastructure assets are depreciated over their useful economic lives, and are principally: Dams and impounding reservoirs 200 years Water mains 40 100 years Sewers 40 100 years Assets in the course of construction are not depreciated until commissioned.
Pennon GrouP AnnuAl rePort And Accounts | 2010 | P. 61
