SHaREHOLDER InFORmaTIOn online portfolio service Brokers Contacting shareholders sHareHolDer serviCes Boiler room scams The online portfolio service provided by share dealing service capita registrars gives shareholders access to A number of companies, including Pennon Group Plc, continue to be aware that their more information on their investments.
details the low-cost share dealing service offered of the portfolio service are available online at shareholders have received unsolicited by Stocktrade enables shareholders to buy phone calls or correspondence concerning capitashareportal.
com and sell shares in the Company on a low-cost investment matters which imply a connection basis and to make regular investments in the electronic communications to the company concerned.
Telephone Stocktrade on 0845 601 The Company has passed a resolution which typically from overseas based brokers who 0995 and quote: LOW CO107.
Commission allows it to communicate with its shareholders target uK shareholders offering to sell them is 0.5% subject to a minimum charge of by means of its website.
what can turn out to be worthless or high risk 17.50 to 10,000, then 0.2% thereafter.
shares in US or UK investments.
They can Shareholders currently receiving a printed be very persistent and extremely persuasive Change of registrar copy of the Annual Report who now wish and a 2006 survey by the Financial Services On 10 May 2010 the Company changed its to sign up to receive all future shareholder Authority FSA has reported that the average registrar from Equiniti to Capita Registrars.
communications electronically, can do so by amount lost by investors is around 20,000. capita registrars can be contacted as follows: registering with capita registrars share portal.
It is not just the novice investor who has been Go to capitashareportal.
com to register, duped in this way: many of the victims had capita registrars select Account Registration and then follow been successfully investing for several years.
northern House the on-screen instructions by inputting your Woodsome Park surname, your Investor Code which can Shareholders are advised to be wary of any Fenay Bridge be found on your Form of Proxy and your unsolicited advice, offers to buy shares at a Huddersfield postcode as well as entering an e-mail address discount or offers of free reports into the HD8 0GA and selecting a password.
If you are contacted in this manner, require an activation code which will be sent please make sure you obtain the correct name Telephone: 0871 664 9234 to you in the post following registration.
of the person and organisation and where they Overseas telephone: 44 800 141 2951 are based.
You should also check that they are email: pennon@capitaregistrars.
com electronic Proxy voting properly authorised by the FSA before getting Shareholders also have the opportunity to involved and should call the organisation back calls cost 10p per minute plus network extras register the appointment of a proxy for any using their details in the FSA register to verify Lines are open 8:30am - 5.30pm Mon - Fri general meeting of the Company once notice their authorisation - you can check online of the meeting has been given and may do so fsa.
do If you deal share gift service via capitashareportal.
com shareholders with an unauthorised firm, you would not Through Sharegift, an independent charity who register an e-mail preference will not be eligible to receive any payment under the share donation scheme, shareholders who receive a paper proxy form.
Instead they Financial Services Compensation Scheme.
The only have a small number of shares with a will receive an e-mail alert advising them of FSA can be contacted by completing an online value that makes it uneconomical to sell them, general meetings of the Company, with links form at fsa.
uk pages Doing regulated can donate such shares to charity.
Donations to the notices of Meetings and annual and half law alerts overseas.
shtml can be made by completion of a simple share yearly accounts.
transfer form which is available from the Details of any share dealing facilities that Companys registrars, Capita Registrars.
the Pennon website the Company endorses will be included in Pennons website pennon-group.
individual savings accounts provides news and details of the Companys By holding their shares in the Company in an activities plus links to its business websites.
More detailed information on this or similar Individual savings Account IsA, shareholders the Investor Information section contains activity can be found on the FSA website may gain tax advantages.
up-to-date information for shareholders moneymadeclear.
uk consumer including comprehensive share price scrip Dividend alternative information: financial results: dividend The Company operates a Scrip Dividend payment dates and amounts: and Stock Alternative.
the scrip dividend Alternative Exchange announcements.
There is also a provides shareholders with an opportunity comprehensive share services section on to invest the whole of, or part of, the cash the website which includes information dividend they receive on their Pennon on buying, selling and transferring shares: Group Plc shares to buy further shares in and on the action to be undertaken by the Company without incurring stamp duty shareholders in the event of a change in or dealing expenses.
Subject to obtaining personal circumstances, for example, a change shareholder approval at the 2010 Annual of address.
General Meeting to the payment of a final dividend for the year ended 31 March 2010, full details of the scrip dividend Alternative, including how to join, will be sent out to shareholders on 27 August 2010. the full timetable for offering the scrip dividend Alternative is given opposite on page 110.
Pennon Group Plc Registered Office: Peninsula House, Rydon Lane, Exeter EX2 7HR registered in england no.
com Printed on 100% recycled material by Burlington Press, Cambridge.
PENNON GROUP ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS | 2010 PENNON GROUP PLC | ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS | 2010 AnnuAl RepoRt & Accounts 2010 This document is printed on 100% recycled paper When you have finished with this document please recycle it Pennon Group Plc Registered Office: Peninsula House, Rydon Lane, Exeter, Devon, England EX2 7HR pennon-group.
co. uk Registered in England No.
