nOTES TO THE FInanCIaL STaTEmEnTS 1.
General information Pennon Group Plc is a company incorporated in the United Kingdom under the Companies Act 2006.
The address of the registered office is given on page 40.
Pennon Groups business is operated through two main subsidiaries.
South West Water Limited holds the water and sewerage services appointments for Devon, Cornwall and parts of Dorset and Somerset.
Viridor Limiteds business is waste management, recycling and renewable energy.
PrinCiPal aCCountinG PoliCies the principal accounting policies adopted in the preparation of these financial statements are set out below.
these policies have been consistently applied to all the years presented.
a Basis of preparation These financial statements have been prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS and International Financial Reporting Interpretations Committee IFRIC interpretations as adopted by the European Union, with those parts of the Companies Act 2006 applicable to companies reporting under IFRS and the requirements of the Financial Services Authority.
A summary of the principal accounting policies is set out below, together with an explanation where changes have been made to previous policies on the adoption of new accounting standards and interpretations in the year.
The following revisions and amendments to existing standards together with new standards and interpretations have been adopted as of 1 April 2009 and are relevant to the Group: IAs 1 Presentation of financial statements revised The revised standard requires non-owner changes in equity to be presented separately from owner changes in equity.
The Group has elected to present two statements: an income statement and a statement of comprehensive income.
IFRS 7 Financial Instruments: Disclosures amendment The amended standard requires the classification of fair value measurements using a fair value hierarchy which reflects the significance of the inputs used in making the measurement.
Additional disclosure has been made in these financial statements.
IFRS 8 Operating segments The adoption of this standard has not required any change in reported segments.
IFRIC 14 IAS 19 the limit on a defined benefit asset, minimum funding requirements and their interaction The application of this interpretation restricts the circumstances under which a defined benefit scheme asset surplus may be recognised.
During the year the Groups acquisition of Greater Manchester Waste Limited involved two defined benefit pension schemes which had a combined surplus of 6.9m at 31 March 2010.
This surplus was not recognised in accordance with requirements of IFRIC 14.
The following new interpretation is mandatory for the first time in the financial year beginning 1 April 2009 and the Groups accounting policies have been amended accordingly: IFRIC 12 Service concession arrangements The application of this interpretation has necessitated a restatement of amounts for prior years.
Where a contract for the provision of public services meets the scope of IFRIC 12 the service concession is to be treated as a contract receivable, split between the profit on the construction of assets, operation of the service and provision of finance through interest receivable.
The Groups existing contract with West Sussex County Council for the provision of waste collection and disposal services falls within the scope of IFRIC 12 and accordingly comparatives have been restated.
The effect of the restatement on the comparative figures is set out in note 5.
The following revised standards, amended standards and interpretations, which are mandatory for the first time in the financial year beginning 1 April 2009, are relevant to the Group but have no material impact: IAs 23 Borrowing costs revised IFRS 2 Share-based payment amendment IAS 32 Financial instruments: presentation amendment and consequential amendments to IAS 1 Presentation of financial statements Improvements to IFRS 2008 IAS 39 Financial instruments: recognition and measurement amendment IAS 39 Financial instruments: recognition and measurement amendment and consequential amendments to IFRS 7 Financial instruments: disclosures IFRIC 9 Embedded derivates amendments to IFRIC 9 and IAS 39 & IAS 39 Pennon GrouP AnnuAl rePort And Accounts | 2010 | P. 59
