internal Control revieW statements and the directors remuneration DireCtors resPonsiBilities Report comply with the Companies Act 2006 An evaluation of the effectiveness of overall statement and, as regards the Group financial statements, internal control compliance by the Group the directors are responsible for preparing article 4 of the International Accounting is undertaken in respect of each financial the Annual report, the directors Standards IAS Regulation.
They are also year and subsequently up to the date of remuneration report and the financial responsible for safeguarding the assets of this report to assist the Audit committee statements in accordance with applicable law the Group and the Company and hence for in considering the Group internal audit plan and regulations.
taking reasonable steps for the prevention and for the forthcoming financial year and also detection of fraud and other irregularities.
the Business review for the Annual report.
Company law requires the Directors to The Group General Counsel & Company prepare financial statements for each financial Secretary initially carries out the evaluation year.
Under that law the Directors have relations WitH sHareHolDers with directors and senior Management for prepared the Group and Company financial consideration by the Audit Committee and statements in accordance with International the Board encourages the participation of subsequently for final evaluation by the Board.
Financial Reporting Standards IFRS as shareholders at the Annual General Meeting adopted by the European Union.
The financial and complies with the provisions of the In addition the Audit Committee regularly statements are required by law to give a true combined code in respect of relations with reviews the operation and effectiveness of and fair view of the state of affairs of the shareholders.
the internal control framework and annually Group and the Company and of their profits reviews the scope of work, authority and and cash flows for the year.
A regular dialogue with the Companys resources of the Companys internal audit institutional shareholders is maintained function.
The Committee reports and makes In preparing these financial statements the through a comprehensive investor relations recommendations to the Board on such Directors are required to: programme.
During the year meetings with reviews.
For 2009 10 and up to the date institutional shareholders were held and select suitable accounting policies and then of the approval of the Annual report and attended by the Group Director of Finance apply them consistently Accounts, both the Audit committee and the and the Companys Investor Relations Board were satisfied with the effectiveness of make judgements and estimates which are Manager.
on certain occasions the chairman, the risk management policy and the internal reasonable and prudent the Chief Executive of South West Water and control framework and their operation within state that the financial statements comply the Chief Executive of Viridor also attended.
with IFRS as adopted by the European The Group Director of Finance reports to the union.
Board regularly on major shareholders views about the Company.
The Directors confirm that they have GoinG ConCern complied with the above requirements in The Directors consider, after making preparing the financial statements.
appropriate enquiries, that the Company and the Group have adequate resources to The Directors are responsible for keeping By Order of the Board continue in operational existence for the proper accounting records which disclose with KEN WOODIER, Group General Counsel foreseeable future.
For this reason they reasonable accuracy at any time the financial & Company Secretary continue to adopt the going concern basis in position of the Group and the Company and preparing the financial statements.
to enable them to ensure that the financial 24 June 2010 P. 52 | Pennon GrouP AnnuAl rePort And Accounts | 2010 CORpORaTE GOVERnanCE anD InTERnaL COnTROL
