nOTES TO THE FInanCIaL STaTEmEnTS 2.
PrinCiPal aCCountinG PoliCies continued l Joint ventures Joint ventures are entities over which the Group exercises joint control.
Investments in joint ventures are accounted for using the equity method of accounting.
Any excess of the cost of acquisition over the Groups share of the fair values of the identifiable net assets of the joint venture at the date of acquisition is recognised as goodwill and is included in the carrying value of the investment in the joint venture.
The carrying value of the Groups investment is adjusted for the Groups share of post-acquisition profits or losses recognised in the income statement and statement of comprehensive income.
Losses of a joint venture in excess of the Groups interest are not recognised unless the Group has a legal or constructive obligation to fund those losses.
m Cash and cash deposits Cash and cash deposits comprise cash in hand and short-term deposits held at banks.
Bank overdrafts are shown within current borrowings.
n Derivatives and other financial instruments the Group classifies its financial instruments in the following categories: i Loans and receivables All loans and borrowings are initially recognised at fair value, net of transaction costs incurred.
Following initial recognition interestbearing loans and borrowings are subsequently stated at amortised cost using the effective interest method.
Gains and losses are recognised in the income statement when the instruments are derecognised or impaired.
Premia, discounts and other costs and fees are recognised in the income statement through the amortisation process.
Borrowings are classified as current liabilities unless the Group has an unconditional right to defer settlement of the liability for at least 12 months after the balance sheet date.
The fair value of the liability component of a convertible bond is determined using the market interest rate for an equivalent non-convertible bond.
This amount is recorded as a liability on an amortised cost basis using the effective interest method until extinguished on conversion or maturity of the bonds.
The remainder of the proceeds are allocated to the conversion option.
This is recognised in shareholders equity.
ii Derivative financial instruments and hedging activities The Group uses derivative financial instruments, principally interest rate swaps, to hedge risks associated with interest rate fluctuations.
Derivative instruments are initially recognised at fair value on the date the derivative contract is entered into and subsequently remeasured at fair value for the reported balance sheet.
The gain or loss on remeasurement is taken to the income statement except for cash flow hedges which meet the conditions for hedge accounting, when the portion of the gain or loss on the hedging instrument which is determined to be an effective hedge is recognised directly in equity, and the ineffective portion in the income statement.
The gains or losses deferred in equity in this way are subsequently recognised in the income statement in the same period in which the hedged underlying transaction or firm commitment is recognised in the income statement.
In order to qualify for hedge accounting the Group is required to document in advance the relationship between the item being hedged and the hedging instrument.
The Group is also required to document and demonstrate an assessment of the relationship between the hedged item and the hedging instrument which shows that the hedge will be highly effective on an ongoing basis.
This effectiveness testing is reperformed at the end of each reporting period to ensure that the hedge remains highly effective.
The full fair value of a hedging derivative is classified as a non-current asset or liability when the remaining maturity of the hedged item is more than one year, and as a current asset or liability when the remaining maturity of the hedged item is less than one year.
Derivative financial instruments which do not qualify for hedge accounting are classified as a current asset or liability with any change in fair value recognised immediately in the income statement.
iii Trade receivables Trade receivables do not carry any interest and are recognised initially at fair value and subsequently at amortised cost using the effective interest method, less provision for impairment.
A provision for impairment of trade receivables is established when there is objective evidence that the Group will not be able to collect all amounts due according to the original terms of the receivables.
Pennon GrouP AnnuAl rePort And Accounts | 2010 | P. 63
