nOTES TO THE FInanCIaL STaTEmEnTS 2.
PrinCiPal aCCountinG PoliCies continued At the date of approval of these financial statements the following revised standards, amended standards and interpretations, which have not been applied in these financial statements, were in issue, but not yet effective: IAs 27 consolidated and separate financial statements revised IFRS 3 Business combinations revised Improvements to IFRS 2009 IFRS 1 First-time adoption of IFRS revised IFRS 2 Share-based payment amendment IAS 32 Financial instruments: presentation IFRS 9 Financial instruments IAS 24 Related party disclosures IFRS 1 First-time adoption of IFRS amendment IFRIC 14 Prepayments of a minimum funding requirement amendment IFRIC 15 Agreements for the construction of real estate IFRIC 16 Hedges of a net investment in a foreign operation IFRIC 17 Distribution of non-cash assets to owners IFRIC 18 Transfers of assets from customers IFRIC 19 Extinguishing financial liabilities with equity instruments The presentational impact of these standards and interpretations is being assessed.
The Directors expect that the adoption of these standards and interpretations will have no material impact on the financial statements of the Group.
The preparation of financial statements in conformity with generally accepted accounting principles requires the use of estimates and assumptions which affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities at the date of the financial statements and the reported amounts of revenues and expenses during the reporting period.
Although these estimates are based on managements best assessment of the amounts, actual events or actions and results may ultimately differ from those estimates.
b Basis of consolidation The Group financial statements include the results of Pennon Group Plc and its subsidiary and joint venture undertakings.
The results of subsidiaries and joint venture undertakings are included from the date of acquisition or incorporation, and excluded from the date of disposal.
The results of subsidiaries are consolidated where the Group has the power to control a subsidiary.
The results of joint venture undertakings are accounted for on an equity basis where the Group exercises joint control under a contractual arrangement.
Intra-group trading and loan balances and transactions are eliminated on consolidation.
On acquisition the assets and liabilities and contingent liabilities of a subsidiary or joint venture acquired are measured at their fair values and any excess of the cost of acquisition over the fair values of the identifiable net assets acquired is recognised as goodwill.
Where the cost of acquisition is below the fair values of the identifiable net assets acquired a credit is recognised in the income statement in the year of acquisition.
c revenue recognition Revenue represents the fair value of consideration receivable, excluding value added tax, trade discounts and inter company sales, in the ordinary course of business for goods and services provided.
revenue is recognised once the services or goods have been provided to the customer.
Income from main water and waste water charges includes billed amounts for estimated usage and also an estimation of the amount of unbilled charges at the period end based upon a defined methodology reflecting historical consumption and current tariffs.
Income from electricity generated from waste management landfill gas production includes an estimation of the amount to be received under renewables obligation certificates.
Accrued income from waste management contracts at the Balance Sheet date is recognised using managements expectation of amounts to be subsequently billed for services rendered to the client in accordance with the terms of the contract.
Income from recycling activities within waste management includes amounts based upon market prices for recyclate products and industry schemes for waste electrical and electronic equipment WEEE notes and packaging volumes PRNs processed.
P. 60 | Pennon GrouP AnnuAl rePort And Accounts | 2010
