nOTES TO THE FInanCIaL STaTEmEnTS 3. finanCial risK manaGement a financial risk factors The Groups activities expose it to a variety of financial risks: market risk interest rate risk, liquidity risk and credit risk.
The Groups treasury function seeks to ensure that sufficient funding is available to meet foreseeable needs, maintains reasonable headroom for contingencies and manages inflation and interest rate risk.
The principal financial risks faced by the Group relate to interest rate and counterparty credit risk.
These risks and treasury operations are managed by the Group Director of Finance in accordance with policies established by the Board.
Major transactions are individually approved by the Board.
Treasury activities are reported to the Board and are subject to review by internal audit.
Financial instruments are used to raise finance, manage risk and optimise the use of surplus funds.
The Group does not engage in speculative activity.
i Market risk The Group has a policy of maintaining at least 50% of interest bearing liabilities at fixed rates.
The Group uses a combination of fixed rate and index-linked borrowings and fixed rate interest swaps as cash flow hedges of future variable interest payments to achieve this policy.
At the year end 65% of net borrowings were at fixed rates including 50% of South West Waters borrowings fixed for the period to March 2015 and 23% index-linked after the impact of financial derivatives.
The notional principal amounts of the interest rate swaps are used to determine settlement under those swaps and are not therefore an exposure for the Group.
These instruments are analysed in note 27.
The interest rate for index-linked debt is based upon an RPI measure which is also used in determining the amount of income from customers in South West Water.
The Group has no significant interest-bearing assets upon which the net return fluctuates from market risk.
Deposit interest receivable is expected to fluctuate in line with interest payable on floating rate borrowings.
Consequently the Groups income and operating cash flows are substantially independent of changes in market interest rates.
For 2010 if interest rates on net borrowings had been on average 0.5% higher lower with all other variables held constant, post-tax profit for the year would have decreased increased by 2.3m 2009 2.0m.
ii Liquidity risk The Group actively maintains a mixture of long-term and short-term committed facilities which are designed to ensure the Group has significant available funds for operations and planned expansions equivalent to at least one years forecast requirements at all times.
details of undrawn committed facilities and short-term uncommitted facilities are provided in note 27.
Refinancing risk is managed under a Group policy that permits no more than 20% of Group net borrowings to mature in any financial year.
The Group and South West Water have entered into covenants with lenders.
Whilst terms vary, these typically provide for limits on gearing primarily based on South West Water Limiteds Regulatory Capital Value and Viridor Limiteds EBITDA and interest cover.
More details are provided in the directors report on page 31.
P. 66 | Pennon GrouP AnnuAl rePort And Accounts | 2010
