nOTES TO THE FInanCIaL STaTEmEnTS 2.
PrinCiPal aCCountinG PoliCies continued h Property, plant and equipment continued ii Landfill sites Landfill sites are included within land and buildings at cost less accumulated depreciation.
Cost includes acquisition and development expenses.
The cost of a landfill is depreciated to its residual value which is linked to gas production at the site post-closure over its estimated operational life taking account of the usage of void space.
Where the obligation to restore a landfill site is an integral part of its future economic benefits, a non-current asset within property, plant and equipment is recognised.
The asset recognised is depreciated based on the usage of void space.
iii Other assets including properties, overground plant and equipment other assets are included at cost less accumulated depreciation.
Freehold land is not depreciated.
Other assets are depreciated evenly to their residual value over their estimated economic lives, and are principally: Freehold buildings 30 60 years leasehold buildings over their estimated economic lives or the finance lease period, whichever is the shorter Operational structures 40 80 years Fixed plant 20 40 years Vehicles, mobile plant and computers 3 10 years Assets in the course of construction are not depreciated until commissioned.
The cost of assets includes directly attributable labour and overhead costs which are incremental to the Group.
Borrowing costs directly attributable to the construction of a qualifying asset an asset necessarily taking a substantial period of time to be prepared for its intended use are capitalised as part of the asset.
Asset lives and residual values are reviewed annually.
i leased assets Assets held under finance leases are included as property, plant and equipment at the lower of their fair value at commencement or the present value of the minimum lease payments and are depreciated over their estimated economic lives or the finance lease period, whichever is the shorter.
The corresponding liability is recorded as borrowings.
The interest element of the rental costs is charged against profits using the actuarial method over the period of the lease.
Rental costs arising under operating leases are charged against profits in the year they are incurred.
j impairment of non-financial assets Assets with an indefinite useful life are not subject to amortisation and are tested annually for impairment, or whenever events or changes in circumstance indicate that the carrying amount may not be recoverable.
Assets subject to amortisation or depreciation are tested for impairment whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying amount may not be recoverable.
An impairment loss is recognised for the amount by which an assets carrying amount exceeds its recoverable amount.
The recoverable amount is the higher of an assets fair value, less costs to sell, and value in use.
For the purposes of assessing impairment, assets are grouped at the lowest levels for which there are separately identifiable cash flows cash-generating units.
Value in use represents the present value of projected future cash flows expected to be derived from a cash-generating unit, discounted using a pre-tax discount rate which reflects an assessment of the market cost of capital of the cash-generating unit.
Impairments are charged to the income statement in the year in which they arise.
k investment in subsidiary undertakings Investments in subsidiary undertakings are initially recorded at cost, being the fair value of the consideration paid, including associated acquisition costs.
Subsequently, investments are reviewed for impairment on an individual basis annually or if events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying value may not be fully recoverable.
P. 62 | Pennon GrouP AnnuAl rePort And Accounts | 2010
