104 Petrofac Annual report and accounts 2010 Notes to the consolidated financial statements For the year ended 31 December 2010 1 Corporate information New standards and interpretations The consolidated financial statements of Petrofac Limited the The group has adopted new and revised Standards and Interpretations Company for the year ended 31 December 2010 were authorised for issued by the International Accounting Standards Board IASB and the issue in accordance with a resolution of the directors on 4 March 2011. International Financial Reporting Interpretations Committee IFRIC of the IASB that are relevant to its operations and effective for accounting Petrofac Limited is a limited liability company registered and domiciled periods beginning on or after 1 January 2010.
The principal effects of in Jersey under the Companies Jersey Law 1991 and is the holding the adoption of these new and amended standards and interpretations company for the international group of Petrofac subsidiaries together are discussed below: the group.
The Companys 31 December 2010 financial statements are shown on pages 146 to 158.
The groups principal activity is IFRS 3 Business Combinations Revised the revised standard the provision of facilities solutions to the oil & gas production and increases the number of transactions to which it must be applied processing industry.
including business combinations of mutual entities and combinations without consideration.
IFRS 3 revised introduces significant changes A full listing of all group companies, and joint venture companies, in the accounting for business combinations such as valuation of is contained in note 35 to these consolidated financial statements.
non-controlling interest, business combination achieved in stages, the initial recognition and subsequent measurement of a contingent 2 Summary of significant accounting policies consideration and the accounting for transaction costs.
These Basis of preparation changes will have a significant impact on profit or loss reported in The consolidated financial statements have been prepared on a the period of an acquisition, the amount of goodwill recognised in historical cost basis, except for derivative financial instruments and a business combination and profit or loss reported in future periods.
available-for-sale financial assets which have been measured at fair value.
The presentation currency of the consolidated financial IAS 27 Consolidated and Separate Financial Statements statements is United States Dollars and all values in the financial Amendments the amended standard requires that a change in the statements are rounded to the nearest thousand US$000 except ownership interest of a subsidiary without loss of control is accounted where otherwise stated.
The directors have re-considered the nature for as a transaction with owners in their capacity as owners and these of the contractual commitments to a joint venture on a lump sum transactions will no longer give rise to goodwill or gains and losses.
construction contract in the Engineering & Construction reporting The standard also specifies the accounting when control is lost and segment and as a result, the amount of US$9,226,000 shown as part any retained interest is remeasured to fair value with gains or losses of non-controlling interest in December 2009 in the income statement recognised in profit or loss.
has been reclassified to Cost of Sales.
Similarly US$4,200,000 shown within Other Comprehensive Income has been shown as attributable IFRIC 17 Distributions of Non-cash Assets to owners this interpretation to Petrofac.
US$9,226,000 in the statement of financial position has provides guidance in respect of accounting for non-cash asset been reclassified as trade and other payables.
This interpretation is effective for periods beginning on or after 1 July 2009.
See note 11 for distributions in Statement of compliance respect of EnQuest demerger.
The consolidated financial statements of Petrofac Limited and its subsidiaries have been prepared in accordance with International IFRS 8 Operating Segments the amendment clarifies that segment Financial Reporting Standards IFRS and applicable requirements assets and liabilities need not be reported if they are not used as a of Jersey law.
measure by the chief operating decision maker.
As segment assets and liabilities are not reviewed by the chief operating decision maker Basis of consolidation for operational and financial decisions, the group has opted not to The consolidated financial statements comprise the financial disclose segment assets and liabilities in note 3. statements of Petrofac Limited and its subsidiaries.
The financial statements of its subsidiaries are prepared for the same reporting IAS 36 Impairment of assets the amendment clarifies that operating year as the Company and where necessary, adjustments are made segments as defined in IFRS 8 prior to aggregation for reporting to the financial statements of the groups subsidiaries to bring their purposes, are the largest unit for allocating goodwill on acquisitions.
accounting policies into line with those of the group.
The amendment has no impact on the group as goodwill impairment testing is performed on cash generating units before aggregation.
Subsidiaries are consolidated from the date on which control is transferred to the group and cease to be consolidated from the Certain new standards, amendments to and interpretations of date on which control is transferred out of the group.
Control existing standards have been issued and are effective for the groups is achieved where the Company has the power to govern the accounting periods beginning on or after 1 January 2011 or later financial and operating policies of an investee entity so as to obtain periods which the group has not early adopted.
The following are benefits from its activities.
All intra-group balances and transactions, applicable to the group for which the impact on the groups operating including unrealised profits, have been eliminated on consolidation.
results or financial position will be assessed on adoption of these standards and interpretations: Non-controlling interests in subsidiaries consolidated by the group are disclosed separately from the groups equity and income statement.
i IFRS 9 Financial Instruments effective for annual periods beginning Prior to 1 January 2010 losses incurred by the group were attributed on or after 1 January 2013, reflects the first phase of the IASBs to non-controlling interests until the balance is reduced to nil.
Any work on the replacement of IAS 39 and applies to the classification further excess losses were attributed to the parent, unless there was and measurement of financial assets.
It specifies that all financial a binding obligation on the part of the non-controlling interest to cover assets should be initially measured at fair value and gives further these.
Losses prior to 1 January 2010 were not reallocated between guidance on the measurement of debt instruments and equity non-controlling interests and the parent shareholders.
In subsequent phases, the IASB will address the classification and measurement of financial liabilities, hedge accounting and derecognition.
The completion of this project is expected in early 2011.
The management believes that this standard will not have a significant effect on the groups financial position.
Group financial statements 105 Petrofac Annual report and accounts 2010 Notes to the consolidated financial statements ii IAS 24 Related party disclosures Revised effective for annual income tax: the Company and its subsidiaries are subject to routine periods beginning on or after 1 January 2011.
The revision simplifies tax audits and also a process whereby tax computations are the identification of related party relationships, particularly in relation discussed and agreed with the appropriate authorities.
Whilst the to significant influence and joint control.
The management believes ultimate outcome of such tax audits and discussions cannot be that this standard will not have a significant effect on the groups determined with certainty, management estimates the level of financial position.
provisions required for both current and deferred tax on the basis of professional advice and the nature of current discussions with Other amendments resulting from improvements to IFRS to the the tax authority concerned following standards and interpretations did not have any impact on recoverable value of intangible oil & gas and other intangible assets: the accounting policies, financial position or performance of the group: the group determines at each statement of financial position date whether there is any evidence of indicators of impairment in the IAS 1 Presentation of Financial Statements carrying value of its intangible oil & gas and other intangible assets.
IAS 32 Financial Instruments: Presentation Classification of Where indicators exist, an impairment test is undertaken which Rights Issues Amendment requires management to estimate the recoverable value of its IFRIC 14 Prepayments of a Minimum Funding Requirement intangible assets for example by reference to quoted market values, Amendment similar arms length transactions involving these assets or value in IFRIC 19 Extinguishing Financial Liabilities with Equity Instruments use calculations units of production depreciation: estimated proven plus probable Significant accounting judgements and estimates reserves are used in determining the depreciation of oil & gas assets Judgements such that the depreciation charge is proportional to the depletion of In the process of applying the groups accounting policies, the remaining reserves over their life of production.
These calculations management has made the following judgements, apart from those require the use of estimates including the amount of economically involving estimations, which have the most significant effect on recoverable reserves and future oil & gas capital expenditure the amounts recognised in the consolidated financial statements: revenue recognition on fixed-price engineering, procurement Interests in joint ventures and construction contracts: the group recognises revenue on The group has a number of contractual arrangements with other fixed-price engineering, procurement and construction contracts parties which represent joint ventures.
These take the form of using the  method, based on surveys agreements to share control over other entities jointly controlled of work performed.
The group has determined this basis of entities and commercial collaborations jointly controlled operations.
revenue recognition is the best available measure of progress The groups interests in jointly controlled entities are accounted for by on such contracts proportionate consolidation, which involves recognising the groups proportionate share of the joint ventures assets, liabilities, income and Estimation uncertainty expenses with similar items in the consolidated financial statements The key assumptions concerning the future and other key sources on a line-by-line basis.
Where the group collaborates with other entities of estimation uncertainty at the statement of financial position date, in jointly controlled operations, the expenses the group incurs and its that have a significant risk of causing a material adjustment to the share of the revenue earned is recognised in the consolidated income carrying amounts of assets and liabilities within the next financial year statement.
Assets controlled by the group and liabilities incurred by it are discussed below: are recognised in the statement of financial position.
Where necessary, project cost to complete estimates: at each statement of financial adjustments are made to the financial statements of the groups jointly position date the group is required to estimate costs to complete controlled entities and operations to bring their accounting policies into on fixed price contracts.
Estimating costs to complete on such line with those of the group.
contracts requires the group to make estimates of future costs to be incurred, based on work to be performed beyond the statement Investment in associates of financial position date The groups investment in associates is accounted for using the equity onerous contract provisions: the group provides for future losses method where the investment is initially carried at cost and adjusted on long-term contracts where it is considered probable that the for post acquisition changes in the groups share of net assets of the contract costs are likely to exceed revenues in future years.
Goodwill on the initial investment forms a part of the carrying Estimating these future losses involves a number of assumptions amount of the investment and is not individually tested for impairment.
about the achievement of contract performance targets and the likely levels of future cost escalation over time The group recognises its share of the net profits after tax and impairment of goodwill: the group determines whether goodwill is non-controlling interest of the associates in its consolidated income impaired at least on an annual basis.
This requires an estimation statement.
Share of associates changes in equity is also recognised in of the value in use of the cash-generating units to which the the groups consolidated statement of changes in equity.
Any unrealised goodwill is allocated.
Estimating the value in use requires the group gains and losses resulting from transactions between the group and to make an estimate of the expected future cash flows from each the associate are eliminated to the extent of the interest in associates.
cash-generating unit and also to determine a suitable discount rate in order to calculate the present value of those cash flows.
The financial statements of the associate are prepared using the same The carrying amount of goodwill at 31 December 2010 was accounting policies and reporting periods as that of the group.
US$105,832,000 2009: US$97,922,000 note 12 deferred tax assets: the group recognises deferred tax assets The carried value of the investment is tested for impairment at each on all applicable temporary differences where it is probable that reporting date.
Impairment, if any, is determined by the difference future taxable profits will be available for utilisation.
This requires between the recoverable amount of the associate and its carried management to make judgements and assumptions regarding value and is reported within the share of income of an associate the amount of deferred tax that can be recognised based on the in the groups consolidated income statement.
magnitude and likelihood of future taxable profits.
The carrying amount of deferred tax assets at 31 December 2010 was US$26,301,000 2009: US$49,726,000 106 Petrofac Annual report and accounts 2010 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued For the year ended 31 December 2010 2 Summary of significant accounting policies continued The carrying amount of an item of property, plant and equipment is Foreign currency translation derecognised on disposal or when no future economic benefits are The Companys functional and presentational currency is United expected from its use or disposal.
The gain or loss arising from the States Dollars.
In the financial statements of individual subsidiaries, derecognition of an item of property, plant and equipment is included joint ventures and associates, transactions in currencies other than in profit or loss when the item is derecognised.
Gains are not classified a companys functional currency are recorded at the prevailing rate as revenue.
of exchange at the date of the transaction.
At the year end, monetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies are retranslated Non-current assets held for sale at the rates of exchange prevailing at the statement of financial position Non-current assets or disposal groups are classified as held for date.
Non-monetary assets and liabilities that are measured at sale when it is expected that the carrying amount of an asset will historical cost in a foreign currency are translated using the rate of be recovered principally through sale rather than continuing use.
exchange as at the dates of the initial transactions.
Non-monetary Assets are not depreciated when classified as held for sale.
assets and liabilities measured at fair value in a foreign currency are translated using the rate of exchange at the date the fair value was Borrowing costs determined.
All foreign exchange gains and losses are taken to Borrowing costs directly attributable to the construction of qualifying the consolidated income statement with the exception of exchange assets, which are assets that necessarily take a substantial period of differences arising on monetary assets and liabilities that form time to prepare for their intended use, are added to the cost of those part of the groups net investment in subsidiaries.
These are taken assets, until such time as the assets are substantially ready for their directly to statement of changes in equity until the disposal of the intended use.
All other borrowing costs are recognised as interest net investment at which time they are recognised in the consolidated payable in the consolidated income statement in the period in which income statement.
The statement of financial positions of overseas subsidiaries, joint Goodwill ventures and associates are translated into US Dollars using the Goodwill acquired in a business combination is initially measured at closing rate method, whereby assets and liabilities are translated at cost, being the excess of the cost of the business combination over the rates of exchange prevailing at the statement of financial position the net fair value of the identifiable assets, liabilities and contingent date.
The income statements of overseas subsidiaries and joint liabilities of the entity at the date of acquisition.
Following initial ventures are translated at average exchange rates for the year.
recognition, goodwill is measured at cost less any accumulated Exchange differences arising on the retranslation of net assets are impairment losses.
Goodwill is reviewed for impairment annually, or taken directly to other reserves within statement of changes in equity.
more frequently if events or changes in circumstances indicate that such carrying value may be impaired.
All transaction costs associated On the disposal of a foreign entity, accumulated exchange differences with business combinations post 1 January 2010 are charged to the are recognised in the consolidated income statement as a component consolidated income statement in the year of such combination.
of the gain or loss on disposal.
For the purpose of impairment testing, goodwill acquired is allocated Property, plant and equipment to the cash-generating units that are expected to benefit from the Property, plant and equipment is stated at cost less accumulated synergies of the combination.
Each unit or units to which goodwill depreciation and any impairment in value.
Cost comprises the is allocated represents the lowest level within the group at which the purchase price or construction cost and any costs directly attributable goodwill is monitored for internal management purposes and is not to making that asset capable of operating as intended.
The purchase larger than an operating segment determined in accordance with price or construction cost is the aggregate amount paid and the IFRS8 Operating Segments.
fair value of any other consideration given to acquire the asset.
Depreciation is provided on a straight-line basis other than on Impairment is determined by assessing the recoverable amount of oil & gas assets at the following rates: the cash-generating units to which the goodwill relates.
Where the recoverable amount of the cash-generating units is less than the Oil & gas facilities 10% 12.5% carrying amount of the cash-generating units and related goodwill, Plant and equipment 4% 33% an impairment loss is recognised.
Buildings and leasehold improvements 5% 33% or lease term if shorter Where goodwill has been allocated to cash-generating units and Office furniture and equipment 25% 100% part of the operation within those units is disposed of, the goodwill Vehicles 20% 33% associated with the operation disposed of is included in the carrying amount of the operation when determining the gain or loss on Tangible oil & gas assets are depreciated, on a field-by-field basis, disposal of the operation.
Goodwill disposed of in this circumstance using the unit-of-production method based on entitlement to is measured based on the relative values of the operation disposed proven and probable reserves, taking account of estimated of and the portion of the cash-generating units retained.
future development expenditure relating to those reserves.
Deferred consideration payable on acquisition Each assets estimated useful life, residual value and method When, as part of a business combination, the group defers a of depreciation are reviewed and adjusted if appropriate at each proportion of the total purchase consideration payable for an financial year end.
acquisition, the amount provided for is the acquisition date fair value of the consideration.
The unwinding of the discount element is No depreciation is charged on land or assets under construction.
recognised as a finance cost in the income statement.
For business combinations prior to 1 January 2010, all changes in estimated deferred consideration payable on acquisition is adjusted against the carried goodwill.
For business combinations after 1 January 2010, Group financial statements 107 Petrofac Annual report and accounts 2010 Notes to the consolidated financial statements changes in estimated deferred consideration payable on acquisition Decommissioning are recognised in the consolidated income statement unless they are Provision for future decommissioning costs is made in full when measurement period adjustments which are as a result of additional the group has an obligation to dismantle and remove a facility or an information obtained after the acquisition date about the facts and item of plant and to restore the site on which it is located, and when circumstances existing at the acquisition date, which are adjusted a reasonable estimate of that liability can be made.
The amount against carried goodwill.
recognised is the present value of the estimated future expenditure.
An amount equivalent to the discounted initial provision for Intangible assets non oil & gas assets decommissioning costs is capitalised and amortised over the life Intangible assets acquired in a business combination are initially of the underlying asset on a unit-of-production basis over proven and measured at cost being their fair values at the date of acquisition and probable reserves.
Any change in the present value of the estimated are recognised separately from goodwill where the asset is separable expenditure is reflected as an adjustment to the provision and the or arises from a contractual or other legal right and its fair value can oil & gas asset.
After initial recognition, intangible assets are carried at cost less accumulated amortisation and any accumulated The unwinding of the discount applied to future decommissioning impairment losses.
Intangible assets with a finite life are amortised provisions is included under finance costs in the income statement.
over their useful economic life using a straight line method unless a better method reflecting the pattern in which the assets future Available-for-sale financial assets economic benefits are expected to be consumed can be determined.
Investments classified as available-for-sale are initially stated at fair The amortisation charge in respect of intangible assets is included value, including acquisition charges associated with the investment.
in the selling, general and administration expenses line of the consolidated income statement.
The expected useful lives of assets After initial recognition, available-for-sale financial assets are measured are reviewed on an annual basis.
Any change in the useful life or at their fair value using quoted market rates or in the absence of pattern of consumption of the intangible asset is treated as a change market data other fair value calculation methodologies.
Gains and in accounting estimate and is accounted for prospectively by changing losses are recognised as a separate component of equity until the the amortisation period or method.
Intangible assets are tested investment is sold or impaired, at which time the cumulative gain for impairment whenever there is an indication that the asset may or loss previously reported in equity is included in the consolidated be impaired.
Oil & gas assets Impairment of assets excluding goodwill Capitalised costs At each statement of financial position date, the group reviews The groups activities in relation to oil & gas assets are limited to the carrying amounts of its tangible and intangible assets to assess assets in the evaluation, development and production phases.
whether there is an indication that those assets may be impaired.
If any such indication exists, the group makes an estimate of the Oil & gas evaluation and development expenditure is accounted assets recoverable amount.
An assets recoverable amount is the for using the successful efforts method of accounting.
higher of an assets fair value less costs to sell and its value in use.
In assessing value in use, the estimated future cash flows attributable Evaluation expenditures to the asset are discounted to their present value using a pre-tax Expenditure directly associated with evaluation or appraisal activities discount rate that reflects current market assessments of the time is capitalised as an intangible asset.
Such costs include the costs value of money and the risks specific to the asset.
of acquiring an interest, appraisal well drilling costs, payments to contractors and an appropriate share of directly attributable overheads If the recoverable amount of an asset is estimated to be less than its incurred during the evaluation phase.
For such appraisal activity, carrying amount, the carrying amount of the asset is reduced to its which may require drilling of further wells, costs continue to be carried recoverable amount.
An impairment loss is recognised immediately as an asset whilst related hydrocarbons are considered capable in the consolidated income statement, unless the relevant asset is of commercial development.
Such costs are subject to technical, carried at a revalued amount, in which case the impairment loss is commercial and management review to confirm the continued intent treated as a revaluation decrease.
to develop, or otherwise extract value.
When this is no longer the case, the costs are written-off in the income statement.
When such assets Where an impairment loss subsequently reverses, the carrying are declared part of a commercial development, related costs are amount of the asset is increased to the revised estimate of its transferred to tangible oil & gas assets.
All intangible oil & gas assets recoverable amount, but so that the increased carrying amount does are assessed for any impairment prior to transfer and any impairment not exceed the carrying amount that would have been determined loss is recognised in the consolidated income statement.
had no impairment loss been recognised for the asset in prior years.
A reversal of an impairment loss is recognised immediately in the Development expenditures consolidated income statement, unless the relevant asset is carried Expenditure relating to development of assets which include the at a revalued amount, in which case the reversal of the impairment construction, installation and completion of infrastructure facilities is treated as a revaluation increase.
such as platforms, pipelines and development wells, is capitalised within property, plant and equipment.
Inventories Inventories are valued at the lower of cost and net realisable value.
Changes in unit-of-production factors Net realisable value is the estimated selling price in the ordinary Changes in factors which affect unit-of-production calculations course of business, less estimated costs of completion and the are dealt with prospectively, not by immediate adjustment of prior estimated costs necessary to make the sale.
purchase price, cost of production, transportation and other directly allocable expenses.
Costs of inventories, other than raw materials, are determined using the first-in-first-out method.
Costs of raw materials are determined using the weighted average method.
108 Petrofac Annual report and accounts 2010 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued For the year ended 31 December 2010 2 Summary of significant accounting policies continued Financial liabilities Work in progress and billings in excess of cost and A financial liability is derecognised when the obligation under the estimated earnings liability is discharged or cancelled or expires.
Fixed price lump sum engineering, procurement and construction contracts are presented in the statement of financial position as follows: If an existing financial liability is replaced by another from the same for each contract, the accumulated cost incurred, as well as the lender, on substantially different terms, or the terms of an existing estimated earnings recognised at the contracts percentage of liability are substantially modified, such an exchange or modification completion less provision for any anticipated losses, after deducting is treated as a derecognition of the original liability and the recognition the progress payments received or receivable from the customers, of a new liability such that the difference in the respective carrying are shown in current assets in the statement of financial position amounts together with any costs or fees incurred are recognised in under Work in progress the consolidated income statement.
where the payments received or receivable for any contract exceed the cost and estimated earnings less provision for any anticipated Pensions and other long-term employment benefits losses, the excess is shown as Billings in excess of cost and The group has various defined contribution pension schemes in estimated earnings within current liabilities accordance with the local conditions and practices in the countries in which it operates.
The amount charged to the consolidated income Trade and other receivables statement in respect of pension costs reflects the contributions Trade receivables are recognised and carried at original invoice payable in the year.
Differences between contributions payable during amount less an allowance for any amounts estimated to be the year and contributions actually paid are shown as either accrued uncollectable.
An estimate for doubtful debts is made when there liabilities or prepaid assets in the statement of financial position.
is objective evidence that the collection of the full amount is no longer probable under the terms of the original invoice.
Impaired debts are The groups other long-term employment benefits are provided derecognised when they are assessed as uncollectable.
in accordance with the labour laws of the countries in which the group operates, further details of which are given in note 27.
Cash and cash equivalents Cash and cash equivalents consist of cash at bank and in hand Share-based payment transactions and short-term deposits with an original maturity of three months Employees including directors of the group receive remuneration or less.
For the purpose of the cash flow statement, cash and cash in the form of share-based payment transactions, whereby equivalents consists of cash and cash equivalents as defined above, employees render services in exchange for shares or rights net of outstanding bank overdrafts.
Interest-bearing loans and borrowings Equity-settled transactions All interest-bearing loans and borrowings are initially recognised at The cost of equity-settled transactions with employees is measured the fair value of the consideration received net of issue costs directly by reference to the fair value at the date on which they are granted.
In valuing equity-settled transactions, no account is taken of any service or performance conditions, other than conditions linked to the After initial recognition, interest-bearing loans and borrowings are price of the shares of Petrofac Limited market conditions, if applicable.
subsequently measured at amortised cost using the effective interest rate method.
Amortised cost is calculated by taking into account The cost of equity-settled transactions is recognised, together with a any issue costs, and any discount or premium on settlement.
corresponding increase in equity, over the period in which the relevant employees become fully entitled to the award the vesting period.
Provisions The cumulative expense recognised for equity-settled transactions at Provisions are recognised when the group has a present legal or each reporting date until the vesting date reflects the extent to which the constructive obligation as a result of past events, it is probable that vesting period has expired and the groups best estimate of the number an outflow of resources will be required to settle the obligation and a of equity instruments that will ultimately vest.
The income statement reliable estimate can be made of the amount of the obligation.
If the charge or credit for a period represents the movement in cumulative time value of money is material, provisions are discounted using a expense recognised as at the beginning and end of that period.
current pre-tax rate that reflects, where appropriate, the risks specific to the liability.
Where discounting is used, the increase in the provision No expense is recognised for awards that do not ultimately vest, due to the passage of time is recognised in the consolidated income except for awards where vesting is conditional upon a market or statement as a finance cost.
non-vesting condition, which are treated as vesting irrespective of whether or not the market or non-vesting condition is satisfied, Derecognition of financial assets and liabilities provided that all other performance conditions are satisfied.
Equity Financial assets awards cancelled are treated as vesting immediately on the date of A financial asset or, where applicable a part of a financial asset cancellation, and any expense not recognised for the award at that is derecognised where: date is recognised in the income statement.
the rights to receive cash flows from the asset have expired: the group retains the right to receive cash flows from the asset, Petrofac Employee Benefit Trust but has assumed an obligation to pay them in full without material The Petrofac Employee Benefit Trust was established on 7 March delay to a third party under a pass-through arrangement: or 2007 to warehouse ordinary shares purchased to satisfy various new the group has transferred its rights to receive cash flows from the share scheme awards made to the employees of the Company, which asset and either a has transferred substantially all the risks and will be transferred to the members of the scheme on their respective rewards of the asset, or b has neither transferred nor retained vesting dates subject to satisfying the performance conditions of each substantially all the risks and rewards of the asset, but has scheme.
The trust has been presented as part of both the Company transferred control of the asset and group financial statements in accordance with SIC 12 Special Purpose Entities.
The cost of shares temporarily held by Petrofac Employee Benefit Trust is reflected as treasury shares and deducted from equity.
Group financial statements 109 Petrofac Annual report and accounts 2010 Notes to the consolidated financial statements Leases Oil & gas activities Energy Developments The determination of whether an arrangement is, or contains a lease is Oil & gas revenues comprise the groups share of sales from the based on the substance of the arrangement at inception date of whether processing or sale of hydrocarbons on an entitlement basis, when the fulfilment of the arrangement is dependent on the use of a specific the significant risks and rewards of ownership have been passed to asset or assets or the arrangement conveys the right to use the asset.
The group has entered into various operating leases the payments Pre-contract bid costs for which are recognised as an expense in the consolidated income Pre-contract bid costs incurred are recognised as an expense until statement on a straight-line basis over the lease terms.
there is a high probability that the contract will be awarded, after which all further costs are recognised as assets and expensed out over the Revenue recognition life of the contract.
Revenue is recognised to the extent that it is probable economic benefits will flow to the group and the revenue can be reliably Income taxes measured.
The following specific recognition criteria also apply: Income tax expense represents the sum of current income tax and deferred tax.
Engineering, procurement and construction services Engineering & Construction Current income tax assets and liabilities for the current and prior Revenues from fixed-price lump-sum contracts are recognised on periods are measured at the amount expected to be recovered from, the  method, based on surveys of work or paid to the taxation authorities.
Taxable profit differs from profit performed once the outcome of a contract can be estimated reliably.
as reported in the consolidated income statement because it In the early stages of contract completion, when the outcome of excludes items of income or expense that are taxable or deductible a contract cannot be estimated reliably, contract revenues are in other years and it further excludes items that are never taxable recognised only to the extent of costs incurred that are expected or deductible.
The groups liability for current tax is calculated using to be recoverable.
tax rates that have been enacted or substantively enacted by the statement of financial position date.
Revenues from cost-plus-fee contracts are recognised on the basis of costs incurred during the year plus the fee earned measured by Deferred income tax is recognised on all temporary differences at the the cost-to-cost method.
statement of financial position date between the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities in the financial statements and the corresponding Revenues from reimbursable contracts are recognised in the period tax bases used in the computation of taxable profit, with the following in which the services are provided based on the agreed contract exceptions: schedule of rates.
where the temporary difference arises from the initial recognition of goodwill or of an asset or liability in a transaction that is not a Provision is made for all losses expected to arise on completion business combination that at the time of the transaction affects of contracts entered into at the statement of financial position date, neither accounting nor taxable profit or loss: whether or not work has commenced on these contracts.
in respect of taxable temporary differences associated with investments in subsidiaries, associates and joint ventures, where Incentive payments are included in revenue when the contract is the timing of reversal of the temporary differences can be controlled sufficiently advanced that it is probable that the specified performance and it is probable that the temporary differences will not reverse in standards will be met or exceeded and the amount of the incentive the foreseeable future: and payments can be measured reliably.
Claims and variation orders deferred income tax assets are recognised only to the extent that are only included in revenue when negotiations have reached an it is probable that a taxable profit will be available against which the advanced stage such that it is probable the claim variation orders deductible temporary differences, carried forward tax credits or tax will be accepted and can be measured reliably.
losses can be utilised Facilities management, engineering and training services Offshore The carrying amount of deferred income tax assets is reviewed at Engineering & Operations, Engineering, Training Services and each statement of financial position date and reduced to the extent Production Solutions that it is no longer probable that sufficient taxable profit will be Revenues from reimbursable contracts are recognised in the period available to allow all or part of the deferred income tax assets to be in which the services are provided based on the agreed contract utilised.
Unrecognised deferred income tax assets are reassessed schedule of rates.
at each statement of financial position date and are recognised to the extent that it has become probable that future taxable profit will allow Revenues from fixed-price contracts are recognised on the the deferred tax asset to be recovered.
 method, measured by milestones completed or earned value once the outcome of a contract can be Deferred income tax assets and liabilities are measured on an estimated reliably.
In the early stages of contract completion, when the undiscounted basis at the tax rates that are expected to apply when outcome of a contract cannot be estimated reliably, contract revenues the asset is realised or the liability is settled, based on tax rates and are recognised only to the extent of costs incurred that are expected tax laws enacted or substantively enacted at the statement of financial to be recoverable.
Incentive payments are included in revenue when the contract is Current and deferred income tax is charged or credited directly to sufficiently advanced that it is probable that the specified performance other comprehensive income or equity if it relates to items that are standards will be met or exceeded and the amount of the incentive credited or charged to respectively, other comprehensive income payments can be measured reliably.
Claims are only included in or equity.
Otherwise, income tax is recognised in the consolidated revenue when negotiations have reached an advanced stage such that income statement.
it is probable the claim will be accepted and can be measured reliably.
110 Petrofac Annual report and accounts 2010 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued For the year ended 31 December 2010 2 Summary of significant accounting policies continued Cash flow hedges Derivative financial instruments and hedging For cash flow hedges, the effective portion of the gain or loss on the The group uses derivative financial instruments such as forward hedging instrument is recognised directly in statement of changes currency contracts, interest rate collars and swaps and oil price in equity, while the ineffective portion is recognised in the income collars and forward contracts to hedge its risks associated with statement.
Amounts taken to equity are transferred to the income foreign currency, interest rate and oil price fluctuations.
Such derivative statement when the hedged transaction affects the consolidated financial instruments are initially recognised at fair value on the date income statement.
on which a derivative contract is entered into and are subsequently remeasured at fair value.
Derivatives are carried as assets when the If the hedging instrument expires or is sold, terminated or exercised fair value is positive and as liabilities when the fair value is negative.
without replacement or rollover, or if its designation as a hedge is revoked, any cumulative gain or loss existing in equity at that time Any gains or losses arising from changes in the fair value of derivatives remains in equity and is recognised when the forecast transaction that do not qualify for hedge accounting are taken to the consolidated is ultimately recognised in the consolidated income statement.
a forecast transaction is no longer expected to occur, the cumulative gain or loss that was reported in statement of changes in equity The fair value of forward currency contracts is calculated by reference is immediately transferred to the consolidated income statement.
to current forward exchange rates for contracts with similar maturity profiles.
The fair value of interest rate cap, swap and oil price collar Embedded derivatives contracts is determined by reference to market values for similar Contracts are assessed for the existence of embedded derivatives instruments.
at the date that the group first becomes party to the contract, with reassessment only if there is a change to the contract that significantly For the purposes of hedge accounting, hedges are classified as: modifies the cash flows.
Embedded derivatives which are not clearly fair value hedges when hedging the exposure to changes in the and closely related to the underlying asset, liability or transaction are fair value of a recognised asset or liability: or separated and accounted for as standalone derivatives.
cash flow hedges when hedging exposure to variability in cash flows that is either attributable to a particular risk associated with a recognised asset or liability or a highly probable forecast transaction The group formally designates and documents the relationship between the hedging instrument and the hedged item at the inception of the transaction, as well as its risk management objectives and strategy for undertaking various hedge transactions.
The documentation also includes identification of the hedging instrument, the hedged item or transaction, the nature of risk being hedged and how the group will assess the hedging instruments effectiveness in offsetting the exposure to changes in the hedged items fair value or cash flows attributable to the hedged risk.
The group also documents its assessment, both at hedge inception and on an ongoing basis, of whether the derivatives that are used in the hedging transactions are highly effective in offsetting changes in fair values or cash flows of the hedged items.
The treatment of gains and losses arising from revaluing derivatives designated as hedging instruments depends on the nature of the hedging relationship, as follows: Group financial statements 111 Petrofac Annual report and accounts 2010 Notes to the consolidated financial statements 3 Segment information For management purposes Petrofac is organised into seven main types of business unit activities which have been split into four reportable segments below.
Whilst Engineering, Training Services and Production Solutions are three fairly diverse businesses none have ever met the quantitative thresholds set by IFRS 8 Operating Segments for determining reportable segments.
The four reportable segments shown below consist of: Engineering & Construction which provides engineering, procurement and construction project execution services to the onshore oil & gas industry Offshore Engineering & Operations which provides operations management services to the offshore oil & gas industry Energy Developments which co-invests with partners in oil & gas production, processing and transportation assets Engineering, Training Services and Production Solutions activities consist of the provision of early stage engineering services such as conceptual FEED studies, oil & gas related technical competency training and consultancy services and production improvement services under value aligned commercial structures Management separately monitors the trading results of its seven business units for the purpose of making an assessment of their performance and making decisions about how resources are allocated to them.
Each business unit segment performance is measured based on its profitability which is reflected in a manner consistent with the results shown below.
However, certain shareholder services related overheads, group financing and consolidation adjustments are managed at a corporate level and are not allocated to operating segments.
The following tables represent revenue and profit information relating to the groups reporting segments for the year ended 31 December 2010.
Year ended 31 December 2010 United Arab United Saudi Other Algeria Emirates Kingdom Kuwait Oman Syria Arabia countries Consolidated US$000 US$000 US$000 US$000 US$000 US$000 US$000 US$000 US$000 Revenues from external customers 1,037,966 798,328 753,842 360,624 350,313 277,196 235,936 540,012 4,354,217 United United Arab Other Kingdom Emirates Tunisia Algeria Malaysia Indonesia countries Consolidated US$000 US$000 US$000 US$000 US$000 US$000 US$000 US$000 Non-current assets: Property, plant and equipment 54,326 94,292 52,031 30,737 14,836 1,555 39,381 287,158 Intangible oil & gas assets 69,532 69,532 Other intangible assets 9,365 6,940 16,305 Goodwill 90,093 15,240 499 105,832 Group financial statements 113 Petrofac Annual report and accounts 2010 Notes to the consolidated financial statements Year ended 31 December 2009 United United Arab Other Kingdom Emirates Syria Algeria Oman Kuwait Kazakhstan countries Consolidated US$000 US$000 US$000 US$000 US$000 US$000 US$000 US$000 US$000 Revenues from external customers 705,281 695,118 530,269 492,378 380,601 203,577 184,305 463,897 3,655,426 United United Arab Other Kingdom Tunisia Emirates Algeria Malaysia countries Consolidated US$000 US$000 US$000 US$000 US$000 US$000 US$000 Non-current assets: Property, plant and equipment 447,591 57,078 74,093 55,229 25,279 18,726 677,996 Intangible oil & gas assets 53,888 53,888 Other intangible assets 11,654 7,565 19,219 Goodwill 85,155 12,099 668 97,922 Revenues disclosed in the above tables are based on where the project is located.
Revenue from two customers amounted to S$1,422,410,000 2009: US$801,723,000 in the Engineering & Construction segment.
Revenue 2010 2009 US$000 US$000 Rendering of services 4,202,371 3,446,037 Sale of crude oil & gas 146,075 202,770 Sale of processed hydrocarbons 5,771 6,619 4,354,217 3,655,426 Included in revenues from rendering of services are Offshore Engineering & Operations, Engineering, Training Services and Production Solutions revenues of a pass-through nature with zero or low margins amounting to US$227,974,000 2009: US$230,262,000.
Cost of sales Included in cost of sales for the year ended 31 December 2010 is US$154,000 2009: US$908,000 gain gain on disposal of property, plant and equipment used to undertake various engineering and construction contracts.
In addition depreciation charged on property, plant and equipment of US$85,186,000 during 2010 2009: US$104,997,000 is included in cost of sales note 9.
Also included in cost of sales are forward points and ineffective portions on derivatives designated as cash flow hedges and loss on maturity of undesignated derivatives of US$3,409,000 2009: US$19,508,000 gain.
These amounts are an economic hedge but do not meet the criteria within IAS39 and are most appropriately recorded in cost of sales.
c. Selling, general and administration expenses 2010 2009 US$000 US$000 Staff costs 126,475 94,583 Depreciation 8,206 6,907 Amortisation note 13 2,511 1,083 Impairment 4,793 Other operating expenses 84,257 78,927 221,449 186,293 Other operating expenses consist mainly of office, travel, legal and professional and contracting staff costs.
d. Staff costs 2010 2009 US$000 US$000 Total staff costs: Wages and salaries 828,439 708,684 Social security costs 31,809 27,877 Defined contribution pension costs 12,621 11,155 Other long-term employee benefit costs note 27 12,770 10,438 Expense of share-based payments note 24 14,784 13,263 900,423 771,417 114 Petrofac Annual report and accounts 2010 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued For the year ended 31 December 2010 4 Revenues and expenses continued Of the US$900,423,000 2009: US$771,417,000 of staff costs shown above, US$773,948,000 2009: US$676,834,000 are included in cost of sales, with the remainder in selling, general and administration expenses.
The average number of persons employed by the group during the year was 12,807 2009: 11,628. e. Auditors remuneration The group paid the following amounts to its auditors in respect of the audit of the financial statements and for other services provided to the group: 2010 2009 US$000 US$000 Audit of the group financial statements 1,209 1,369 Other fees to auditors: Local statutory audits of subsidiaries 812 546 Tax services 520 178 All other services 93 15 2,634 2,108 f. Other income 2010 2009 US$000 US$000 Foreign exchange gains 720 2,342 Gain on sale of property, plant and equipment 8 Gain on sale of intangible assets 2,338 Other income 1,947 1,733 5,013 4,075 g. Other expenses 2010 2009 US$000 US$000 Foreign exchange losses 3,452 2,675 Loss on sale of property, plant and equipment 477 124 Other expenses 124 199 4,053 2,998 5 Finance costs income 2010 2009 US$000 US$000 Interest payable: Long-term borrowings 2,908 3,171 Other interest, including short-term loans and overdrafts 581 310 Unwinding of discount on deferred consideration and decommissioning provisions 1,642 2,101 Total finance cost 5,131 5,582 Interest receivable: Bank interest receivable 9,945 11,487 Other interest receivable 264 455 Total finance income 10,209 11,942 6 Income tax a.
Tax on ordinary activities The major components of income tax expense are as follows: 2010 2009 US$000 US$000 Current income tax Current income tax charge 115,199 100,985 Adjustments in respect of current income tax of previous years 2,843 31,448 Deferred income tax Relating to origination and reversal of temporary differences 907 5,570 Adjustments in respect of deferred income tax of previous years 2,718 9,408 Income tax expense reported in the income statement 110,545 84,515 Group financial statements 115 Petrofac Annual report and accounts 2010 Notes to the consolidated financial statements b. Reconciliation of total tax charge A reconciliation between the income tax expense and the product of accounting profit multiplied by the Companys domestic tax rate is as follows: 2010 2009 US$000 US$000 Accounting profit before tax including gain on EnQuest demerger 668,397 438,320 At Jerseys domestic income tax rate of 0% 2009: 0% Expected tax charge in higher rate jurisdictions 116,199 107,320 Expenditure not allowable for income tax purposes 1,073 14,706 Income not taxable 396 Adjustments in respect of previous years 5,561 22,040 Tax effect of utilisation of tax losses not previously recognised 568 252 Unrecognised tax losses 1,634 618 Other permanent differences 2,157 15,441 Effect of change in tax rates 75 At the effective income tax rate of 16.5% 2009: 19.3% 110,545 84,515 The groups effective tax rate for the year ended 31 December 2010, including the US$124,864,000 gain on the demerger of Energy Developments UKCS business is 16.5% and excluding this gain, the effective tax rate is 20.3% 2009: 19.3%.
On 5 April 2010, the group completed the demerger of its UKCS business to EnQuest PLC, an independent company which is listed on the London and Stockholm stock exchanges.
No chargeable gain arose on the transaction for UK corporate tax purposes.
This decreased the groups effective tax rate for the period.
Excluding the gain from the demerger, there has been a small increase in the groups effective tax rate.
Factors contributing to this increase compared to 2009 include ring fence expenditure supplement no longer being available for claim following the demerger of Petrofac Energy Developments Limited, no additional adjustments being made in respect of the applicability of the lower tax rate to the groups project in Oman, material changes in jurisdictions in which profits are expected to be earned by the Engineering & Construction reporting segment and due to recent acquisitions.
There has also been an increase in reportable profit within taxable jurisdictions.
In June 2010, the UK Government announced its intention to propose to Parliament to reduce the UK corporation tax rate from 28% to 24% over the course of four years.
From 1 April 2011 the UK corporate rate is 27% and will impact the reversal of the temporary difference from this date onwards, reducing the UK tax assets and liabilities.
This UK tax rate change has been substantively enacted at the statement of financial position date.
c. Deferred income tax Deferred income tax relates to the following: Consolidated Statement of Financial Position Consolidated Income Statement 2010 2009 2010 2009 US$000 US$000 US$000 US$000 Deferred income tax liabilities Fair value adjustment on acquisitions 1,412 2,599 597 139 Accelerated depreciation 36,580 27,515 14,630 15,472 Other temporary differences 10,094 12,078 4,336 1,441 Gross deferred income tax liabilities 48,086 42,192 Deferred income tax assets Losses available for offset 2,259 18,413 14,135 11,130 Decelerated depreciation for tax purposes 2,404 7,596 327 9,409 Share scheme 15,721 18,636 230 1,142 Other temporary differences 5,917 5,081 2,530 3,949 Gross deferred income tax assets 26,301 49,726 Deferred income tax credit charge 1,811 14,978 116 Petrofac Annual report and accounts 2010 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued For the year ended 31 December 2010 6 Income tax continued d. Unrecognised tax losses and tax credits Deferred income tax assets are recognised for tax loss carry-forwards and tax credits to the extent that the realisation of the related tax benefit through future taxable profits is probable.
The group did not recognise deferred income tax assets of US$18,366,000 2009: US$15,452,000.
2010 2009 US$000 US$000 Expiration dates for tax losses No earlier than 2022 9,466 11,451 No expiration date 6,384 3,360 15,850 14,811 Tax credits no expiration date 2,516 641 18,366 15,452 7 Earnings per share Basic earnings per share amounts are calculated by dividing the net profit for the year attributable to ordinary shareholders by the weighted average number of ordinary shares outstanding during the year.
Diluted earnings per share amounts are calculated by dividing the net profit attributable to ordinary shareholders, after adjusting for any dilutive effect, by the weighted average number of ordinary shares outstanding during the year, adjusted for the effects of ordinary shares granted under the employee share award schemes which are held in trust.
Additions to oil & gas assets in 2009 mainly comprise development expenses capitalised on the groups interest in the Don area assets of US$274,114,000.
During the year, the Don assets were demerged and as a result oil & gas assets with a net book value of US$410,855,000 were disposed of note 11.
Included in oil & gas assets are US$2,196,000 2009: US$50,726,000 of capitalised decommissioning costs net of depreciation provided on the PM304 asset in Malaysia and the Chergui asset in Tunisia.
The decrease in the 31 December 2010 oil & gas assets balance is due to the demerger of the Don area assets in the United Kingdom note 11.
Of the total charge for depreciation in the income statement, US$85,186,000 2009: US$104,997,000 is included in cost of sales and US$8,206,000 2009: US$6,907,000 in selling, general and administration expenses.
Assets under construction comprises of expenditures incurred in relation to the group ERP project.
118 Petrofac Annual report and accounts 2010 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued For the year ended 31 December 2010 10 Business combinations Scotvalve Services Limited On 14 January 2010, the group acquired a 100% interest in the share capital of Scotvalve Services Limited Scotvalve, a United Kingdom based company, involved in the servicing and repair of oilfield pressure control equipment.
The Scotvalve acquisition will enhance the groups mechanical services offering and expand its geographical footprint.
The consideration for the acquisition was Sterling 4,630,000 equivalent US$7,512,000 comprising of Sterling 2,801,000 equivalent US$4,545,000 as an initial cash payment, Sterling 150,000 equivalent US$243,000 to be settled in cash during the year and the balance being the discounted value of deferred consideration amounting to Sterling 1,679,000 equivalent US$2,724,000 payable based on the estimated future profitability of Scotvalve.
The range of deferred consideration payable is from zero to a maximum of Sterling 2,000,000 equivalent US$3,122,000 over a three year period.
The fair values of the identifiable assets and liabilities of Scotvalve on completion of the acquisition are analysed below: Recognised on Carrying acquisition value US$000 US$000 Property, plant and equipment 1,891 1,978 Investments in associates note 14 777 777 Intangible assets note 13 1,107 Trade and other receivables 2,606 2,606 Cash and short-term deposits 410 410 Total assets 6,791 5,771 Less: Deferred tax liability 325 16 Income tax liability 279 279 Trade and other payables 1,220 1,220 Total liabilities 1,824 1,515 Fair value of net assets acquired 4,967 4,256 Goodwill arising on acquisition 2,545 Consideration at acquisition 7,512 US$000 Cash outflow on acquisition: Cash acquired with subsidiary 410 Cash paid on acquisition 4,545 Net cash outflow on the acquisition of subsidiary 4,135 Intangible assets recognised on acquisition comprise equipment manufacturer warranty repair licenses which are being amortised over their remaining economic useful lives of five years on a straight-line basis.
The residual goodwill above comprises the fair value of expected future synergies and business opportunities arising from the integration of the business in to the group.
From the date of acquisition, Scotvalve has contributed revenues of US$6,903,000 and net income of US$1,020,000 to the net profit of the group.
If the above combination had taken place at the beginning of the year, net profit of Scotvalve would have been US$1,020,000 and revenue would have been US$6,903,000.
The transaction costs of Sterling 102,000 equivalent US$154,000 relating to the acquisition have been expensed in the year and are included within selling, general and administration and are included as cash flows from operating activities in the consolidated cash flow statement.
The deferred consideration payable was re-assessed at year end in light of latest financial projections for the business and the current carried amount was reduced by Sterling 135,000 equivalent US$208,000 with a corresponding increase in other income within the consolidated income statement.
Group financial statements 119 Petrofac Annual report and accounts 2010 Notes to the consolidated financial statements Stephen Gillespie Consultants Limited On 1 April 2010, the group acquired a 100% interest in the share capital of Stephen Gillespie Consultants Limited SGC, a United Kingdom based provider of software consultancy to flow metering control system manufacturers for a consideration of Sterling 4,523,000 equivalent US$6,853,000 comprising of Sterling 3,178,000 equivalent US$4,815,000 paid upfront in cash and the balance being the discounted value of deferred consideration amounting to Sterling 1,345,000 equivalent US$2,038,000 payable based on the estimated future revenue of the company.
This acquisition will enhance the groups existing metering service offering and also its ability to provide turnkey metering solutions to both brownfield and greenfield international oil & gas projects.
The range of deferred consideration payable is from Sterling 600,000 equivalent US$937,000 to a maximum of Sterling 1,200,000 equivalent US$1,873,000 based on future revenue of SGC over a two year period.
The fair values of the identifiable assets and liabilities of SGC on completion of the acquisition are analysed below: Recognised on Carrying acquisition value US$000 US$000 Property, plant and equipment 61 61 Intangible assets note 13 2,065 Trade and other receivables 1,424 1,424 Cash and short-term deposits 1,920 1,920 Total assets 5,470 3,405 Less: Deferred tax liability 579 Income tax liability 383 383 Trade and other payables 1,126 1,254 Total liabilities 2,088 1,637 Fair value of net assets acquired 3,382 1,768 Goodwill arising on acquisition 3,471 Consideration at acquisition 6,853 US$000 Cash outflow on acquisition: Cash acquired with subsidiary 1,920 Cash paid on acquisition 4,815 Net cash outflow on the acquisition of subsidiary 2,895 Intangible assets recognised on acquisition comprise of software related to metering technology which is being amortised over its remaining economic useful lives of five years on a straight-line basis.
From the date of acquisition, SGC has contributed revenues of US$6,549,000 and net income of US$165,000 to the net profit of the group.
If the above combination had taken place at the beginning of the year, net profit of SGC would have been US$205,000 and revenue would have been US$7,412,000.
The transaction costs of Sterling 65,000 equivalent US$99,000 relating to the acquisition have been expensed in the year and are included within selling, general and administration and are included as cash flows from operating activities in the consolidated cash flow statement.
The deferred consideration payable was re-assessed at year end in light of latest financial projections for the business and the current carried amount was reduced by Sterling 188,000 equivalent US$293,000 with a corresponding increase in other income within the consolidated income statement.
120 Petrofac Annual report and accounts 2010 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued For the year ended 31 December 2010 10 Business combinations continued CO2DeepStore Limited On 27 April 2010, the group acquired a 100% interest in the share capital of CO2DeepStore Limited CO2DeepStore, a United Kingdom based company focused on the CO2 geological storage sector of the carbon capture and storage market for a cash consideration of Sterling 220,000 equivalent US$340,000.
This acquisition represents the groups first step into the strategically important emerging low carbon energy sector.
The fair values of the identifiable assets and liabilities of CO2DeepStore on completion of the acquisition are analysed below: Recognised on Carrying acquisition value US$000 US$000 Property, plant and equipment 3 3 Trade and other receivables 134 134 Cash and short-term deposits 263 263 Total assets 400 400 Less: Income tax liability 31 31 Trade and other payables 29 29 Total liabilities 60 60 Fair value of net assets acquired 340 340 Goodwill arising on acquisition Consideration at acquisition 340 US$000 Cash outflow on acquisition: Cash acquired with subsidiary 263 Cash paid on acquisition 340 Net cash outflow on the acquisition of subsidiary 77 From the date of acquisition, CO2DeepStore has contributed revenues of US$88,000 and a net loss of US$823,000 to the net profit of the group.
If the above combination had taken place at the beginning of the year, net profit of CO2DeepStore would have been US$573,000 and revenue would have been US$905,000.
The transaction costs of Sterling 17,000 equivalent US$26,000 relating to the acquisition have been expensed in the year and are included within selling, general and administration and are included as cash flows from operating activities in the consolidated cash flow statement.
Under the terms of the acquisition agreement, costs of up to Sterling 200,000 equivalent US$312,000 will be payable to the former owners of CO2DeepStore three years from the date of completion based on the estimated future profitability of the company and will be recognised as an expense in the income statement over this period.
The charge for the current year is Sterling 44,000 equivalent US$68,000.
Group financial statements 121 Petrofac Annual report and accounts 2010 Notes to the consolidated financial statements TNEI Services Limited On 14 June 2010, the group acquired a 100% interest in the share capital of TNEI Services Limited TNEI through the acquisition of its holding company New Energy Industries Limited for a cash consideration of Sterling 6,123,000 equivalent US$8,913,000.
TNEI provides services in the areas of power transmission and distribution, planning and environmental consent and energy management.
The acquisition of TNEI further broadens the groups technical consulting services offering in the rapidly developing power and renewable energy markets.
The fair values of the identifiable assets and liabilities of TNEI on completion of the acquisition are analysed below: Recognised on Carrying acquisition value US$000 US$000 Property, plant and equipment 215 215 Acquired goodwill 881 881 Trade and other receivables 1,779 1,779 Cash and short-term deposits 910 910 Total assets 3,785 3,785 Less: Trade and other payables 1,198 1,198 Total liabilities 1,198 1,198 Fair value of net assets acquired 2,587 2,587 Goodwill arising on acquisition 6,326 Consideration at acquisition 8,913 US$000 Cash outflow on acquisition: Cash acquired with subsidiary 910 Cash paid on acquisition 8,913 Net cash outflow on the acquisition of subsidiary 8,003 The residual goodwill above comprises the fair value of expected future synergies and business opportunities arising from the integration of the business into the group.
From the date of acquisition, TNEI has contributed revenue of US$3,898,000 and a net loss of US$5,000 to the group.
If the above combination had taken place at the beginning of the year, net profit of TNEI would have been US$301,000 and revenue would have been US$6,296,000.
The transaction costs of Sterling 38,000 equivalent US$58,000 relating to the acquisition have been expensed in the year and are included within selling, general and administration and are included as cash flows from operating activities in the consolidated cash flow statement.
Under the terms of the acquisition agreement, Sterling 1,538,000 equivalent US$2,370,000 will be payable 50% in Petrofac shares and 50% in cash to the former owners of TNEI who remain as employees of the Petrofac group in three equal tranches over three years from the date of completion which will be recognised as an expense in the income statement on a straight line basis over the three years.
The charge for the current year is Sterling 278,000 equivalent US$428,000.
122 Petrofac Annual report and accounts 2010 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued For the year ended 31 December 2010 11 Gain on EnQuest demerger On 5 April 2010, the groups interests in the Don area oil assets were demerged via a transfer of three of its subsidiaries, Petrofac Energy Developments Limited PEDL, Petrofac Energy Developments Oceania Limited PEDOL and PEDL Limited PEDLL to EnQuest PLC for a deemed consideration for accounting purposes of US$553,300,000 which was settled by the issue of EnQuest PLC shares directly to Petrofac Limited shareholders.
The gain on the demerger transaction has been computed as follows: US$000 Fair value of consideration 553,300 Less: Property, plant and equipment 410,855 Deferred tax asset 27,394 Inventories 5,578 Trade and other receivables 107,039 Cash and bank 16,147 Total book value of assets transferred 567,013 Provision for decommissioning 55,967 Trade and other payables 130,348 Translation reserve 3,308 Total book value of liabilities transferred 183,007 Net assets transferred 384,006 Transaction costs 1,636 Release of foreign currency translation reserve 45,818 Allocated goodwill written off note 12 1,146 Other consolidation adjustments 4,170 Gain on demerger 124,864 In order to effect the demerger of the PEDL sub group to EnQuest, the existing issued ordinary share capital of Petrofac Limited was subdivided and converted into new ordinary Petrofac shares with a nominal value of US$0.02 each and Petrofac B shares of US$0.005 each and subsequent to this share split the B shares were purchased and cancelled in exchange for an allotment and issue of EnQuest ordinary shares directly to holders of Petrofac B shares.
As a result of this capital re-organisation and purchase of Petrofac B shares US$1,728,000 of Petrofac issued ordinary share capital was extinguished and transferred to retained earnings and the non-cash distribution to Petrofac shareholders for accounting purposes of US$553,300,000 was made via the utilisation of the existing share premium account balance of US$71,172,000 with the remaining amount of US$482,128,000 being transferred out of retained earnings.
In addition US$8,803,000 of proceeds generated by the Petrofac Employee Benefit Trust selling its holding of EnQuest shares arising from the demerger have been credited to retained earnings leaving a net impact on retained earnings of US$473,325,000.
12 Goodwill A summary of the movements in goodwill is presented below: 2010 2009 US$000 US$000 At 1 January 97,922 97,534 Acquisitions during the year note 10 13,223 Reassessment of deferred consideration payable 1,313 8,992 Write off on EnQuest demerger note 11 1,146 Exchange difference 2,854 9,380 At 31 December 105,832 97,922 Reassessment of deferred consideration payable mainly comprises of the reduction in deferred consideration payable on Caltec Limited of US$4,285,000 2009: US$2,929,000 decrease and an increase in deferred consideration payable on SPD Group Limited of US$3,141,000 2009: US$4,351,000 decrease.
Goodwill acquired through business combinations has been allocated to five groups of cash-generating units, which are operating segments, for impairment testing as follows: Offshore Engineering & Operations Engineering Services Production Solutions Training Services Energy Developments These represent the lowest level within the group at which the goodwill is monitored for internal management purposes.
Group financial statements 123 Petrofac Annual report and accounts 2010 Notes to the consolidated financial statements Offshore Engineering & Operations, Engineering Services, Production Solutions and Training cash-generating units The recoverable amounts for the Offshore Engineering & Operations, Engineering Services, Production Solutions and Training units have been determined based on value in use calculations, using discounted pre-tax cash flow projections.
Management has adopted a ten-year projection period to assess each units value in use as it is confident based on past experience of the accuracy of long-term cash flow forecasts that these projections are reliable.
The cash flow projections are based on financial budgets approved by senior management covering a five year period, extrapolated for a further five years at a growth rate of 5% for Offshore Engineering & Operations, Engineering Services and Training cash-generating units and 2.5% per annum for Production Solutions cash-generating unit since it includes newly acquired businesses where there is less historic track record of achieving financial projections.
Energy Developments cash-generating unit The recoverable amount of the Energy Developments unit is also determined on a value in use calculation using discounted pre-tax cash flow projections based on financial budgets and economic assumptions for the unit approved by senior management and covering a five-year period, as referred to in IAS 36.
Carrying amount of goodwill allocated to each group of cash-generating units 2010 2009 US$000 US$000 Offshore Engineering & Operations unit 27,992 22,975 Engineering Services 7,728 Production Solutions unit 49,739 52,496 Training Services unit 19,302 20,234 Energy Developments unit 1,071 2,217 105,832 97,922 Key assumptions used in value in use calculations The calculation of value in use for the Offshore Engineering & Operations, Engineering Services, Production Solutions and Training Services units is most sensitive to the following assumptions: Market share: the assumption relating to market share for the Offshore Engineering & Operations unit is based on the unit re-securing those existing customer contracts in the UK which are due to expire during the projection period: for the Training Services unit, the key assumptions relate to managements assessment of maintaining the units market share in the UK and developing further the business in international markets.
Growth rate: estimates are based on managements assessment of market share having regard to macro-economic factors and the growth rates experienced in the recent past by each unit.
A growth rate of 5% per annum has been applied for Offshore Engineering & Operations, Engineering Services and Training Services cash-generating units for the remaining five years of the ten-year projection period and 2.5% per annum for Production Solutions cash-generating unit since it includes newly acquired businesses where there is less historic track record of achieving financial projections.
Net profit margins: estimates are based on managements assumption of achieving a level of performance at least in line with the recent past performance of each of the units.
Discount rate: management has used a pre-tax discount rate of 14.6% per annum for each of Offshore Engineering & Operations 2009: 14.5%, Engineering Services 2009: n a Production Solutions 2009: 14.5% and Training 2009: 14.5% cash-generating units which are derived from the estimated weighted average cost of capital of the group.
This discount rate has been calculated using an estimated risk free rate of return adjusted for the groups estimated equity market risk premium and the groups cost of debt.
The calculation of value in use for the Energy Developments unit is most sensitive to the following assumptions: Discount rate: management has used an estimate of the pre-tax weighted average cost of capital of the group plus a risk premium to reflect the particular risk characteristics of each individual asset.
The discount rate used for 2010 was 13.4% for each asset 2009: 10.5%.
Oil & gas prices: management has used an oil price assumption of US$75.00 2009: US$70.00 per barrel and a gas price of US$8.73 2009: US$8.30 per mcf for the impairment testing of its individual oil & gas investments.
Reserve volumes and production profiles: management has used its internally developed economic models of reserves and production as a basis of calculating value in use.
Sensitivity to changes in assumptions Other than the assumed success of the Ticleni contract in Production Solutions with regard to the assessment of value in use of the cash generating units, management believes that no reasonably possible change in any of the above key assumptions would cause the carrying value of the relevant unit to exceed its recoverable amount, after giving due consideration to the macro-economic outlook for the oil & gas industry and the commercial arrangements with customers underpinning the cash flow forecasts for each of the units.
124 Petrofac Annual report and accounts 2010 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued For the year ended 31 December 2010 13 Intangible assets 2010 2009 US$000 US$000 Intangible oil & gas assets Cost: At 1 January 53,888 43,137 Additions 15,644 29,230 Disposal 18,479 At 31 December 69,532 53,888 Accumulated impairment: At 1 January 13,686 Impairment 4,793 Disposal 18,479 At 31 December Net book value of intangible oil & gas assets at 31 December 69,532 53,888 Other intangible assets Cost: At 1 January 25,476 13,892 Additions on acquisition note 10 3,172 Additions 153 10,375 Disposal 4,220 Exchange difference 43 1,209 At 31 December 24,538 25,476 Accumulated amortisation: At 1 January 6,257 4,990 Amortisation 2,511 1,083 Disposal 540 Exchange difference 5 184 At 31 December 8,233 6,257 Net book value of other intangible assets at 31 December 16,305 19,219 Total intangible assets 85,837 73,107 Intangible oil & gas assets Oil & gas asset part of the Energy Development segment additions above comprise of US$15,644,000 2009: US$29,230,000 of capitalised expenditure on the groups assets in Malaysia.
There were investing cash outflows relating to capitalised intangible oil & gas assets of US$15,644,000 2009: US$29,230,000 in the current period arising from pre-development activities.
Other intangible assets Other intangible assets comprising customer contracts, proprietary software, LNG intellectual property and patent technology are being amortised over their remaining estimated economic useful life of three, six, eight and ten years respectively on a straight-line basis and the related amortisation charges included in selling, general and administrative expenses note 4c.
During the year, proprietary software was disposed of with a resulting gain disclosed in other income note 4f.
14 Investment in associates 2010 2009 US$000 US$000 Investment in Gateway Storage Company Limited 15,795 Associates acquired through acquisition of Scotvalve note 10 777 Share of associate loss 131 Exchange difference 92 16,349 Group financial statements 125 Petrofac Annual report and accounts 2010 Notes to the consolidated financial statements Gateway Storage Company Limited On 6 December 2010, the group acquired a 20% equity interest in Gateway Storage Company Limited Gateway, an unlisted entity, to progress and develop the Gateway Gas Storage project in the East Irish Sea.
The initial cost of the investment was Sterling 5,000,000 equivalent US$7,795,000 together with, transaction costs of US$664,000 and contracted value of free services to be provided by the group of Sterling 500,000 equivalent US$780,000.
Additional contingent payments may become payable under the terms of the investment, subject to key project development milestones being achieved, including the outcome of further successful equity sales.
Deferred consideration of Sterling 4,160,000 equivalent US$6,556,000 has been estimated as payable using a discounted storage project cash flow model assuming certain project scenarios to which estimated probabilities were assigned by management.
The deferred consideration in no event will exceed an additional amount of Sterling 28,000,000 equivalent US$43,705,000.
The share of the associates statement of financial position is as follows: 2010 US$000 Non-current assets 123 Current assets 3,050 Current liabilities 795 Equity 2,378 Transaction costs incurred 664 Fair value of free services to be provided 780 Deferred consideration payable 6,556 Exchange on deferred consideration payable 63 Residual goodwill 5,417 Share of loss 131 Carrying value of investment 15,601 Share of associates revenues and net loss: Revenue Net loss 131 15 Interest in joint ventures In the normal course of business, the group establishes jointly controlled entities for the execution of certain of its operations and contracts.
A list of these joint ventures is disclosed in note 35.
The groups share of assets, liabilities, revenues and expenses relating to jointly controlled entities is as follows: 2010 2009 US$000 US$000 Revenue 194,848 31,573 Cost of sales 171,233 28,293 Gross profit 23,615 3,280 Selling, general and administration expenses 14,286 16,374 Other expense income, net 6,553 47 Finance income, net 643 5 Profit loss before income tax 3,419 13,042 Income tax 263 268 Net profit loss 3,156 13,310 Current assets 94,935 61,677 Non-current assets 27,634 4,830 Total assets 122,569 66,507 Current liabilities 120,892 64,619 Non-current liabilities 1,658 3,686 Total liabilities 122,550 68,305 Net assets liabilities 19 1,798 126 Petrofac Annual report and accounts 2010 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued For the year ended 31 December 2010 16 Available-for-sale financial assets 2010 2009 US$000 US$000 Seven Energy International Limited 101,251 Shares listed 243 Units in a mutual fund 539 101,494 539 On 25 November 2010, the group paid US$101,251,000 for 15% 12.6% on a fully diluted basis of the share capital of Seven Energy International Limited Seven Energy, a leading Nigerian gas development and production company.
The group also has the option to subscribe for 148,571 `of additional warrants in Seven Energy at a cost of a further US$52,000,000, subject to the satisfaction of certain performance conditions and milestones in relation to project execution.
These warrants have been fair valued as derivative financial instruments under IAS 39 using a Black Scholes Model and are included in other financial assets note 17 with a corresponding entry in trade and other payables representing deferred revenue relating to the performance conditions.
This will be recognised as a gain once the warrants become exercisable.
17 Other financial assets 2010 2009 US$000 US$000 Other financial assets non-current Fair value of derivative instruments note 33 12 9,655 Restricted cash 266 2,880 Other 1,945 2,223 12,535 Other financial assets current Seven Energy warrants note 16 11,969 Fair value of derivative instruments note 33 9,183 22,306 Interest receivable 731 845 Restricted cash 19,196 7,431 Other 1,271 375 42,350 30,957 Restricted cash comprises deposits with financial institutions securing various guarantees and performance bonds associated with the groups trading activities note 31.
This cash will be released on the maturity of these guarantees and performance bonds.
18 Inventories 2010 2009 US$000 US$000 Crude oil 2,119 5,272 Processed hydrocarbons 90 31 Stores and spares 4,083 2,943 Raw materials 910 1,552 7,202 9,798 Included in the consolidated income statement are costs of inventories expensed of US$28,840,000 2009: US$37,306,000.
19 Work in progress and billings in excess of cost and estimated earnings 2010 2009 US$000 US$000 Cost and estimated earnings 7,812,897 3,918,368 Less: billings 7,008,911 3,584,670 Work in progress 803,986 333,698 Billings 2,144,252 3,406,412 Less: cost and estimated earnings 1,965,823 2,945,268 Billings in excess of cost and estimated earnings 178,429 461,144 Total cost and estimated earnings 9,778,720 6,863,636 Total billings 9,153,163 6,991,082 Group financial statements 127 Petrofac Annual report and accounts 2010 Notes to the consolidated financial statements 20 Trade and other receivables 2010 2009 US$000 US$000 Trade receivables 785,383 614,837 Retentions receivable 26,297 8,772 Advances 179,101 139,550 Prepayments and deposits 34,059 35,143 Other receivables 31,919 80,368 1,056,759 878,670 Trade receivables are non-interest bearing and are generally on 30 to 60 days terms.
Trade receivables are reported net of provision for impairment.
Advances represent payments made to certain of the groups sub-contractors for projects in progress, on which the related work had not been performed at the statement of financial position date.
The increase in advances during 2010 relates to new contract awards in the Engineering & Construction business partly offset by the unwinding of advances on more mature contracts.
Included in other receivables are US$ nil 2009: US$46,697,000 recoverable from venture partners on the Don assets being their share of accrued expenses.
All trade and other receivables are expected to be settled in cash.
Certain trade and other receivables will be settled in cash using currencies other than the reporting currency of the group, and will be largely paid in Sterling and Kuwaiti Dinars.
128 Petrofac Annual report and accounts 2010 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued For the year ended 31 December 2010 21 Cash and short-term deposits 2010 2009 US$000 US$000 Cash at bank and in hand 244,018 203,105 Short-term deposits 818,987 1,214,258 Total cash and bank balances 1,063,005 1,417,363 Short-term deposits are made for varying periods of between one day and three months depending on the immediate cash requirements of the group, and earn interest at respective short-term deposit rates.
For the purposes of the consolidated cash flow statement, cash and cash equivalents comprise the following: 2010 2009 US$000 US$000 Cash at bank and in hand 244,018 203,105 Short-term deposits 818,987 1,214,258 Bank overdrafts note 26 28,908 26,619 1,034,097 1,390,744 22 Share capital The share capital of the Company as at 31 December was as follows: 2010 2009 US$000 US$000 Authorised 750,000,000 ordinary shares of US$0.020 each 2009: 750,000,000 ordinary shares of US$0.025 each 15,000 18,750 Issued and fully paid 345,715,053 ordinary shares of US$0.020 each 2009: 345,532,388 ordinary shares of US$0.025 each 6,914 8,638 The movement in the number of issued and fully paid ordinary shares is as follows: Number Ordinary shares: Ordinary shares of US$0.025 each at 1 January 2009 345,434,858 Issued during the year as further deferred consideration payable for the acquisition of a subsidiary 97,530 Ordinary shares of US$0.025 each at 1 January 2010 345,532,388 Issued during the year as further deferred consideration payable for the acquisition of subsidiaries 182,665 Ordinary shares of US$0.020 each at 31 December 2010 345,715,053 The share capital comprises only one class of ordinary shares.
The ordinary shares carry a voting right and the right to a dividend.
In order to effect the demerger of the PEDL sub group to EnQuest, the existing issued ordinary share capital of Petrofac Limited was subdivided and converted into new ordinary Petrofac shares with a nominal value of US$0.02 each and Petrofac B shares of US$0.005 each and subsequent to this share split the B shares were purchased and cancelled in exchange for an allotment and issue of EnQuest ordinary shares directly to holders of Petrofac B shares.
23 Treasury shares For the purpose of making awards under its employee share schemes, the Company acquires its own shares which are held by the Petrofac Employee Benefit Trust.
All these shares have been classified in the statement of financial position as treasury shares within equity.
The movements in total treasury shares are shown below: 2010 2009 Number US$000 Number US$000 At 1 January 7,210,965 56,285 9,540,306 69,333 Acquired during the year 2,122,960 36,486 Vested during the year 2,576,586 27,454 2,329,341 13,048 At 31 December 6,757,339 65,317 7,210,965 56,285 During the year 5,467,852 Petrofac shares previously held in a Lehman Brothers custody account pending the finalisation of their legal administration were released to the Employee Benefit Trust.
Shares vested during the year include dividend shares of 120,504 2009: 76,931 with a cost of US$1,284,000 2009: US$431,000.
Group financial statements 129 Petrofac Annual report and accounts 2010 Notes to the consolidated financial statements 24 Share-based payment plans Performance Share Plan PSP Under the Performance Share Plan of the Company, share awards are granted to executive directors and a restricted number of other senior executives of the group.
The shares cliff vest at the end of three years subject to continued employment and the achievement of certain pre-defined non-market and market-based performance conditions.
The non-market-based condition governing the vesting of 50% of the total award, is subject to achieving between 10% and 20% earning per share EPS growth targets over a three-year period.
The fair values of the equity-settled award relating to the EPS part of the scheme are estimated based on the quoted closing market price per Company share at the date of grant with an assumed vesting rate per annum built into the calculation subsequently trued up at year end based on the actual leaver rate during the period from award date to year end over the three-year vesting period of the plan.
The fair value and assumed vesting rates of the EPS part of the scheme are shown below: Fair value Assumed per share vesting rate 2010 awards 1,103p 95.0% 2009 awards 545p 93.6% 2008 awards 522p 89.1% 2007 awards 415p 94.3% The remaining 50% market performance based part of these awards is dependent on the total shareholder return TSR of the group compared to an index composed of selected relevant companies.
The fair value of the shares vesting under this portion of the award is determined by an independent valuer using a Monte Carlo simulation model taking into account the terms and conditions of the plan rules and using the following assumptions at the date of grant: 2010 awards 2009 awards 2008 awards 2007 awards Expected share price volatility based on median of comparator groups three-year volatilities 50.0% 49.0% 32.0% 29.0% Share price correlation with comparator group 39.0% 36.0% 22.0% 17.0% Risk-free interest rate 1.50% 2.10% 3.79% 5.20% Expected life of share award 3 years 3 years 3 years 3 years Fair value of TSR portion 743p 456p 287p 245p The following shows the movement in the number of shares held under the PSP scheme outstanding but not exercisable: 2010 2009 Number Number Outstanding at 1 January 1,432,680 1,298,809 Granted during the year 390,278 576,780 Vested during the year 407,316 418,153 Forfeited during the year 65,453 24,756 Outstanding at 31 December 1,350,189 1,432,680 The number of outstanding shares exclude the 8% uplift adjustment made in respect of the EnQuest demerger 82,594 shares and any rolled up declared dividends 64,264 shares 2009: 60,830.
The 8% uplift adjustment compensated the existing share plan holders for the loss in market value of Petrofac shares on flotation of EnQuest and employees have no legal right to receive dividend shares until the shares ultimately vest.
The number of awards still outstanding but not exercisable at 31 December 2010 is made up of 390,278 in respect of 2010 awards 2009: nil, 538,602 in respect of 2009 awards 2009: 576,780, 421,309 in respect of 2008 awards 2009: 431,843, and nil in respect of 2007 awards 2009: 424,057.
The charge recognised in the current year amounted to US$3,208,000 2009: US$2,727,000.
Deferred Bonus Share Plan DBSP Executive directors and selected employees were originally eligible to participate in this scheme although the Remuneration Committee decided in 2007 that executive directors should no longer continue to participate.
Participants are required, or in some cases invited, to receive a proportion of any bonus in ordinary shares of the Company Invested Awards.
Following such an award, the Company will generally grant the participant an additional award of a number of shares bearing a specified ratio to the number of his or her invested shares Matching Shares.
A change in the rules of the DBSP scheme was approved by shareholders at the Annual General Meeting of the Company on 11 May 2007 such that the 2007 share awards and for any awards made thereafter, the invested and Matching Shares would, unless the Remuneration Committee of the Board of Directors determined otherwise, vest 33.33% on the first anniversary of the date of grant, a further 33.33% on the second anniversary of the date of grant and the final 33.34% of the award on the third anniversary of the date of grant.
130 Petrofac Annual report and accounts 2010 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued For the year ended 31 December 2010 24 Share-based payment plans continued Deferred Bonus Share Plan DBSP continued At the year end the values of the bonuses settled by shares cannot be determined until all employees have confirmed the voluntary portion of their bonus they wish to be settled by shares rather than cash and until the Remuneration Committee has approved the mandatory portion of the employee bonuses to be settled in shares.
Once the voluntary and mandatory portions of the bonus to be settled in shares are determined, the final bonus liability to be settled in shares is transferred to the reserve for share-based payments.
The costs relating to the Matching Shares are recognised over the relevant vesting period and the fair values of the equity-settled Matching Shares granted to employees are based on the quoted closing market price at the date of grant adjusted for the trued up percentage vesting rate of the plan.
The details of the fair values and assumed vesting rates of the DBSP scheme are below: Fair value Assumed per share vesting rate 2010 awards 1,185p 94.4% 2009 awards 545p 93.9% 2008 awards 522p 90.9% 2007 awards 415p 89.6% The following shows the movement in the number of shares held under the DBSP scheme outstanding but not exercisable: 2010 2009 Number Number Outstanding at 1 January 4,694,191 3,755,383 Granted during the year 1,397,094 2,773,020 Vested during the year 1,792,895 1,743,372 Forfeited during the year 216,079 90,840 Outstanding at 31 December 4,082,311 4,694,191 Includes Invested and Matching Shares.
The number of outstanding shares exclude the 8% uplift adjustment made in respect of the EnQuest demerger 327,058 shares and rolled up declared dividends of 184,599 2009: 169,836.
The number of awards still outstanding but not exercisable at 31 December 2010 is made up of 1,313,894 in respect of 2010 awards 2009: nil, 1,948,340 in respect of 2009 awards 2009: 2,696,752, 820,077 in respect of 2008 awards 2009: 1,237,786, and nil in respect of 2007 awards 2009: 759,653.
The charge recognised in the 2010 income statement in relation to matching share awards amounted to US$9,195,000 2009: US$8,064,000.
Share Incentive Plan SIP All UK employees, including UK resident directors, are eligible to participate in the scheme.
Employees may invest up to Sterling 1,500 per tax year of gross salary or, if lower, 10% of salary to purchase ordinary shares in the Company.
There is no holding period for these shares.
Restricted Share Plan RSP Under the Restricted Share Plan scheme, selected employees are granted shares in the Company over a discretionary vesting period which may or may not be, at the direction of the Remuneration Committee of the Board of Directors, subject to the satisfaction of performance conditions.
At present there are no performance conditions applying to this scheme nor is there currently any intention to introduce them in the future.
The fair values of the awards granted under the plan at various grant dates during the year are based on the quoted market price at the date of grant adjusted for an assumed vesting rate over the relevant vesting period.
For details of the fair values and assumed vesting rate of the RSP scheme, see below: Weighted average fair Assumed value per share vesting rate 2010 awards 990p 95.8% 2009 awards 430p 69.4% 2008 awards 478p 88.0% 2007 awards 456p 94.3% The following shows the movement in the number of shares held under the RSP scheme outstanding but not exercisable: 2010 2009 Number Number Outstanding at 1 January 1,082,461 1,184,711 Granted during the year 203,384 86,432 Vested during the year 176,360 167,053 Forfeited during the year 105,773 21,629 Outstanding at 31 December 1,003,712 1,082,461 Group financial statements 131 Petrofac Annual report and accounts 2010 Notes to the consolidated financial statements The number of outstanding shares exclude the 8% uplift adjustment made in respect of the EnQuest demerger 78,156 shares and rolled up declared dividends of 48,474 2009: 33,691.
The number of awards still outstanding but not exercisable at 31 December 2010 is made up of 195,580 in respect of 2010 awards 2009: nil, 36,658 in respect of 2009 awards 2009: 86,432, 665,542 in respect of 2008 awards 2009: 786,826, and 105,932 in respect of 2007 awards 2009: 209,203.
During the year the Company recognised a charge of US$2,381,000 2009: US$2,472,000 in relation to the above.
The group has recognised a total charge of US$14,784,000 2009: US$13,263,000 in the consolidated income statement during the year relating to the above employee share-based schemes see note 4d which has been transferred to the reserve for share-based payments along with US$12,750,000 of the bonus liability accrued for the year ended 31 December 2009 which has been settled in shares granted during the year 2009: US$10,942,000.
For further details on the above employee share-based payment schemes refer to pages 88 to 90 of the directors remuneration report.
25 Other reserves Net unrealised gains losses Net unrealised on available-forlosses Foreign Reserve for sale-financial gains on currency share-based assets derivatives translation payments Total US$000 US$000 US$000 US$000 US$000 Balance at 1 January 2009 74 7,847 79,415 32,202 39,292 Foreign currency translation 15,087 15,087 Net gains on maturity of cash flow hedges recycled in the year 4,303 4,303 Net changes in fair value of derivatives and financial assets designated as cash flow hedges 29,229 29,229 Share-based payments charge note 24 13,263 13,263 Transfer during the year note 24 10,942 10,942 Shares vested during the year note 24 12,617 12,617 Deferred tax on share based payments reserve 13,085 13,085 Balance at 1 January 2010 74 32,773 64,328 56,875 25,394 Foreign currency translation 908 908 Foreign currency translation recycled to consolidated income statement in the year on EnQuest demerger note 11 45,818 45,818 Net gains on maturity of cash flow hedges recycled in the year 16,612 16,612 Net changes in fair value of derivatives and financial assets designated as cash flow hedges 18,958 18,958 Net changes in fair value of available-for-sale financial assets 70 70 Disposal of available-for-sale financial assets 74 74 Share-based payments charge note 24 14,784 14,784 Transfer during the year note 24 12,750 12,750 Shares vested during the year note 24 26,170 26,170 Deferred tax on share based payments reserve 1,366 1,366 Balance at 31 December 2010 70 2,797 19,418 56,873 34,728 Nature and purpose of other reserves Net unrealised gains losses on available-for-sale financial assets This reserve records fair value changes on available-for-sale financial assets held by the group net of deferred tax effects.
Realised gains and losses on the sale of available-for-sale financial assets are recognised as other income or expenses in the consolidated income statement.
Net unrealised gains losses on derivatives The portion of gains or losses on cash flow hedging instruments that are determined to be effective hedges are included within this reserve net of related deferred tax effects.
When the hedged transaction occurs or is no longer forecast to occur, the gain or loss is transferred out of equity to the consolidated income statement.
Realised net gains amounting to US$16,764,000 2009: US$5,161,000 relating to foreign currency forward contracts and financial assets designated as cash flow hedges have been recognised in cost of sales, realised net losses of US$ nil 2009: US$1,470,000 loss relating to interest rate derivatives have been classified as a net interest expense and a realised net loss of US$152,000 2009: US$611,000 gain was added to revenues in respect of oil derivatives.
132 Petrofac Annual report and accounts 2010 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued For the year ended 31 December 2010 25 Other reserves continued Net unrealised gain losses on derivatives continued The forward currency points element and ineffective portion of derivative financial instruments relating to forward currency contracts and gains on the maturity of un-designated derivatives amounting to a net loss of US$3,409,000 2009: US$19,508,000 gain have been recognised in the cost of sales.
Foreign currency translation reserve The foreign currency translation reserve is used to record exchange differences arising from the translation of the financial statements in foreign subsidiaries.
It is also used to record exchange differences arising on monetary items that form part of the groups net investment in subsidiaries.
Reserve for share-based payments The reserve for share-based payments is used to record the value of equity settled share-based payments awarded to employees and transfers out of this reserve are made upon vesting of the original share awards.
The transfer during the year reflects the transfer from accrued expenses within trade and other payables of the bonus liability relating to the year ended 2009 of US$12,750,000 2008 bonus of US$10,942,000 which has been voluntarily elected or mandatorily obliged to be settled in shares during the year note 24.
26 Interest-bearing loans and borrowings The group had the following interest-bearing loans and borrowings outstanding: 31 December 2010 31 December 2009 Effective 2010 2009 Actual interest rate % Actual interest rate % interest rate % Maturity US$000 US$000 Current Revolving credit facility i n a US LIBOR US LIBOR 20,000 1.50% 1.50% Bank overdrafts ii UK LIBOR UK LIBOR UK LIBOR on demand 28,908 26,619 1.50%, 1.50%, 1.50%, US LIBOR US LIBOR US LIBOR 1.50% 1.50% 1.50% Other loans: Current portion of term loan iii US UK LIBOR US UK LIBOR 3.26% to 4.14% 14,241 10,489 0.875% 0.875% 2009: 3.14% to 3.71% Current portion of term loan iv US UK LIBOR US UK LIBOR 2.01% to 3.91% 4,286 963 0.875% 0.875% 2009: 2.65% to 3.44% 47,435 58,071 Non-current Term loan iv US UK LIBOR US UK LIBOR 2.01% to 3.91% 2010-2013 13,809 18,291 0.875% 0.875% 2009: 2.65% to 3.44% Term loan iii US UK LIBOR US UK LIBOR 3.26% to 4.14% 2010-2013 30,576 46,694 0.875% 0.875% 2009: 3.14% to 3.71% 44,385 64,985 Less: Debt acquisition costs net of 4,159 5,790 accumulated amortisation and effective rate adjustments 40,226 59,195 Details of the groups interest-bearing loans and borrowings are as follows: i Revolving credit facility This facility has been repaid on 31 December 2010. ii Bank overdrafts Bank overdrafts are drawn down in US Dollars and Sterling denominations to meet the groups working capital requirements.
These are repayable on demand.
Group financial statements 133 Petrofac Annual report and accounts 2010 Notes to the consolidated financial statements iii Term loan This term loan at 31 December 2010 comprised drawings of US$23,057,000 2009: US$28,877,000 denominated in US$ and US$21,760,000 2009: US$28,306,000 denominated in Sterling.
Both elements of the loan are repayable over a period of three years ending 30 September 2013. iv Term loan This term loan is to be repaid over a period of three years ending 30 September 2013.
The groups credit facilities and debt agreements contain covenants relating to interest and net borrowings cover.
None of the Companys subsidiaries is subject to any material restrictions on their ability to transfer funds in the form of cash dividends, loans or advances to the Company.
27 Provisions Other long-term Provision Provision for employment for insurance benefits provision decommissioning claims Total US$000 US$000 US$000 US$000 At 1 January 2010 34,130 57,973 92,103 Additions during the year 12,770 984 1,561 15,315 Don assets demerger note 11 55,967 55,967 Unused amounts reversed paid in the year 6,696 90 6,786 Unwinding of discount 776 776 At 31 December 2010 40,204 3,676 1,561 45,441 Other long-term employment benefits provision Labour laws in certain countries in which the group operates require employers to provide for other long-term employment benefits.
These benefits are payable to employees on being transferred to another jurisdiction or on cessation of employment.
Provision for decommissioning The decommissioning provision primarily relates to the groups obligation for the removal of facilities and restoration of the site at the PM304 field in Malaysia and at Chergui in Tunisia.
The liability is discounted at the rate of 3.80% on PM304 2009: 3.80%, 5.25% on Chergui 2009: 5.25% and nil% 2009: 4.50% on demerged Don assets.
The unwinding of the discount is classified as finance cost note 5.
The group estimates that the cash outflows against these provisions will arise in 2014 on PM304 and in 2018 on Chergui.
Provision for insurance claims The provision for insurance claims relates to the amount set aside to cover potential future insurance claims against the group which will be settled by the captive insurance company Jermyn Insurance Company Limited.
28 Other financial liabilities 2010 2009 US$000 US$000 Other financial liabilities non-current Deferred consideration payable 11,279 27,438 Fair value of derivative instruments note 33 174 Other 47 11,453 27,485 Other financial liabilities current Deferred consideration payable 24,595 1,622 Interest payable 9 22 Fair value of derivative instruments note 33 12,197 1,813 Other 253 177 37,054 3,634 Included in deferred consideration payable above is an amount payable of US$3,918,000 2009: US$4,890,000 relating to the groups purchase of a floating platform and US$6,556,000 2009: US$ nil relating to the groups investment in an associate note 14.
29 Trade and other payables Restated 2010 2009 US$000 US$000 Trade payables 278,383 292,414 Advances received from customers 412,044 379,684 Accrued expenses 251,512 260,290 Other taxes payable 12,755 14,699 Other payables 66,742 29,930 1,021,436 977,017 134 Petrofac Annual report and accounts 2010 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued For the year ended 31 December 2010 29 Trade and other payables continued Advances from customers represent payments received for contracts on which the related work had not been performed at the statement of financial position date.
Included in other payables are retentions held against subcontractors of US$6,170,000 2009: US$938,000.
Also included in other payables above is U$11,969,000 deferred revenue relating to the provision of services required to earn the right to subscribe for the additional Seven Energy warrants note 16.
Certain trade and other payables will be settled in currencies other than the reporting currency of the group, mainly in Sterling, Euros and Kuwaiti Dinars.
30 Accrued contract expenses 2010 2009 US$000 US$000 Accrued contract expenses 1,272,942 832,503 Reserve for contract losses 2,523 4,153 1,275,465 836,656 The reserve for contract losses is to cover costs in excess of revenues on certain contracts.
31 Commitments and contingencies Commitments In the normal course of business the group will obtain surety bonds, letters of credit and guarantees, which are contractually required to secure performance, advance payment or in lieu of retentions being withheld.
Some of these facilities are secured by issue of corporate guarantees by the Company in favour of the issuing banks.
At 31 December 2010, the group had letters of credit of US$2,984,000 2009: US$91,042,000 and outstanding letters of guarantee, including performance, advance payments and bid bonds, of US$2,951,553,000 2009: US$2,124,134,000 against which the group had pledged or restricted cash balances of, in aggregate, US$19,462,000 2009: US$2,675,000.
At 31 December 2010, the group had outstanding forward exchange contracts amounting to US$188,561,000 2009: US$351,803,000.
These commitments consist of future obligations to either acquire or sell designated amounts of foreign currency at agreed rates and value dates note 33.
Leases The group has financial commitments in respect of non-cancellable operating leases for office space and equipment.
These non-cancellable leases have remaining non-cancellable lease terms of between one and 17 years and, for certain property leases, are subject to renegotiation at various intervals as specified in the lease agreements.
The future minimum rental commitments under these non-cancellable leases are as follows: 2010 2009 US$000 US$000 Within one year 18,031 35,796 After one year but not more than five years 41,239 57,127 More than five years 76,914 73,030 136,184 165,953 Included in the above are commitments relating to the lease of an office building extension in Aberdeen, United Kingdom of US$49,232,000 2009: US$39,735,000, lease of mobile operating production unit and floating storage and offloading unit US$15,619,000 2009: US$35,665,000 in Block PM304, offshore Malaysia and mobile drilling rig for the Don Southwest project of US$ nil 2009: US$10,089,000.
Minimum lease payments recognised as an operating lease expense during the year amounted to US$35,625,000 2009: US$33,063,000.
Capital commitments At 31 December 2010, the group had capital commitments of US$90,416,000 2009: US$18,786,000 excluding the above lease commitments.
Included in the above are commitments to refurbish the floating production, storage and offloading unit for East Fortune of US$52,800,000 2009: US$ nil, further appraisal and development of wells as part of the Cendor project in Malaysia amounting to US$7,269,000 2009: US$14,572,000, commitments in respect of the Ticleni Production Enhancement contract in Romania US$21,046,000 2009: US$ nil and commitments in respect of IT projects of US$9,281,000 2009: US$3,300,000.
Group financial statements 135 Petrofac Annual report and accounts 2010 Notes to the consolidated financial statements 32 Related party transactions The consolidated financial statements include the financial statements of Petrofac Limited and the subsidiaries listed in note 35.
Petrofac Limited is the ultimate parent entity of the group.
The following table provides the total amount of transactions which have been entered into with related parties: Amounts owed Sales to related Purchases from by related Amounts owed parties related parties parties to related parties US$000 US$000 US$000 US$000 Joint ventures 2010 101,370 88,796 327 11,098 2009 27,337 15,434 17,773 56,925 Key management personnel interests 2010 1,688 612 2009 1,405 487 401 All sales to and purchases from joint ventures are made at normal market prices and the pricing policies and terms of these transactions are approved by the groups management.
All related party balances will be settled in cash.
Purchases in respect of key management personnel interests of US$1,601,000 2009: US$1,336,000 reflect the market rate based costs of chartering the services of an aeroplane used for the transport of senior management and directors of the group on company business, which is owned by an offshore trust of which the Group Chief Executive of the Company is a beneficiary.
Also included in purchases in respect of key management personnel interests is US$87,000 2009: US$69,000 relating to client entertainment provided by a business owned by a member of the groups key management.
Amounts owed by key management personnel comprises of a temporary loan of US$ nil 2009: US$487,000 provided in respect of income tax payable on vesting of Restricted Share Plan shares pending disposal of shares to meet this liability once the close period for trading Petrofac shares ends.
Compensation of key management personnel The following details remuneration of key management personnel of the group comprising of executive and non-executive directors of the Company and other senior personnel.
Further information relating to the individual directors is provided in the directors remuneration report on pages 84 to 95.
2010 2009 US$000 US$000 Short-term employee benefits 11,870 11,209 Other long-term employment benefits 142 129 Share-based payments 3,827 3,368 Fees paid to non-executive directors 581 506 16,420 15,212 33 Risk management and financial instruments Risk management objectives and policies The groups principal financial assets and liabilities, other than derivatives, comprise available-for-sale financial assets, trade and other receivables, amounts due from to related parties, cash and short-term deposits, work-in-progress, interest-bearing loans and borrowings, trade and other payables and deferred consideration.
The groups activities expose it to various financial risks particularly associated with interest rate risk on its variable rate cash and short-term deposits, loans and borrowings and foreign currency risk on both conducting business in currencies other than reporting currency as well as translation of the assets and liabilities of foreign operations to the reporting currency.
These risks are managed from time to time by using a combination of various derivative instruments, principally interest rate swaps, caps and forward currency contracts in line with the groups hedging policies.
The group has a policy not to enter into speculative trading of financial derivatives.
The Board of Directors of the Company has established an Audit Committee and Risk Committee to help identify, evaluate and manage the significant financial risks faced by the group and their activities are discussed in detail on pages 80 to 83.
136 Petrofac Annual report and accounts 2010 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued For the year ended 31 December 2010 33 Risk management and financial instruments continued The other main risks besides interest rate and foreign currency risk arising from the groups financial instruments are credit risk, liquidity risk and commodity price risk and the policies relating to these risks are discussed in detail below: Interest rate risk Interest rate risk arises from the possibility that changes in interest rates will affect the value of the groups interest-bearing financial liabilities and assets.
The groups exposure to market risk arising from changes in interest rates relates primarily to the groups long-term variable rate debt obligations and its cash and bank balances.
The groups policy is to manage its interest cost using a mix of fixed and variable rate debt.
The groups cash and bank balances are at floating rates of interest.
Interest rate sensitivity analysis The impact on the groups pre-tax profit and equity due to a reasonably possible change in interest rates on loans and borrowings at the reporting date is demonstrated in the table below.
The analysis assumes that all other variables remain constant.
Pre-tax profit Equity 100 basis 100 basis 100 basis 100 basis point increase point decrease point increase point decrease US$000 US$000 US$000 US$000 31 December 2010 710 710 31 December 2009 1,096 1,096 The following table reflects the maturity profile of these financial liabilities and assets: Year ended 31 December 2010 Within 1-2 2-3 3-4 4-5 More than 1 year years years years years 5 years Total US$000 US$000 US$000 US$000 US$000 US$000 US$000 Financial liabilities Floating rates Bank overdrafts note 26 28,908 28,908 Term loans note 26 18,527 23,823 20,562 62,912 47,435 23,823 20,562 91,820 Financial assets Floating rates Cash and short-term deposits note 21 1,063,005 1,063,005 Restricted cash balances note 17 19,196 266 19,462 1,082,201 266 1,082,467 Year ended 31 December 2009 Within 1-2 2-3 3-4 4-5 More than 1 year years years years years 5 years Total US$000 US$000 US$000 US$000 US$000 US$000 US$000 Financial liabilities Floating rates Revolving credit facility note 26 20,000 20,000 Bank overdrafts note 26 26,619 26,619 Term loans note 26 11,452 18,901 24,221 21,863 76,437 58,071 18,901 24,221 21,863 123,056 Financial assets Floating rates Cash and short-term deposits note 21 1,417,363 1,417,363 Restricted cash balances note 17 7,431 226 2,654 10,311 1,424,794 226 2,654 1,427,674 Financial liabilities in the above table are disclosed gross of debt acquisition costs and effective rate adjustments of US$4,159,000 2009: US$5,790,000.
Interest on financial instruments classified as floating rate is re-priced at intervals of less than one year.
The other financial instruments of the group that are not included in the above tables are non-interest bearing and are therefore not subject to interest rate risk.
Group financial statements 137 Petrofac Annual report and accounts 2010 Notes to the consolidated financial statements Derivative instruments designated as cash flow hedges At 31 December 2010, the group held no derivative instruments, designated as cash flow hedges in relation to floating rate interest-bearing loans and borrowings.
Foreign currency risk The group is exposed to foreign currency risk on sales, purchases, and translation of assets and liabilities that are in a currency other than the functional currency of its operating units.
The group is also exposed to the translation of the functional currencies of its units to the US Dollar reporting currency of the group.
The following table summarises the percentage of foreign currency denominated revenues, costs, financial assets and financial liabilities, expressed in US Dollar terms, of the group totals.
2010 2009 % of foreign % of foreign currency currency denominated denominated items items Revenues 41.6% 39.5% Costs 62.2% 50.1% Current financial assets 34.8% 35.3% Non-current financial assets 0.0% 1.0% Current financial liabilities 51.2% 42.3% Non-current financial liabilities 59.4% 34.6% The group uses forward currency contracts to manage the currency exposure on transactions significant to its operations.
It is the groups policy not to enter into forward contracts until a highly probable forecast transaction is in place and to negotiate the terms of the derivative instruments used for hedging to match the terms of the hedged item to maximise hedge effectiveness.
Foreign currency sensitivity analysis The income statements of foreign operations are translated into the reporting currency using a weighted average exchange rate of conversion.
Foreign currency monetary items are translated using the closing rate at the reporting date.
Revenues and costs in currencies other than the functional currency of an operating unit are recorded at the prevailing rate at the date of the transaction.
The following significant exchange rates applied during the year in relation to US Dollars: 2010 2009 Average rate Closing rate Average rate Closing rate Sterling 1.54 1.56 1.56 1.62 Kuwaiti Dinar 3.49 3.55 3.47 3.48 Euro 1.32 1.34 1.40 1.44 The following table summarises the impact on the groups pre-tax profit and equity due to change in the fair value of monetary assets, liabilities and derivative instruments of a reasonably possible change in US Dollar exchange rates with respect to different currencies: Pre-tax profit Equity 10% US Dollar -5% US Dollar 10% US Dollar -5% US Dollar rate increase rate decrease rate increase rate decrease US$000 US$000 US$000 US$000 31 December 2010 3,750 1,875 6,272 3,136 31 December 2009 10,238 5,141 7,980 3,990 Derivative instruments designated as cash flow hedges At 31 December 2010, the group had foreign exchange forward contracts as follows: Contract value Fair value undesignated Fair value designated Net unrealised gain loss 2010 2009 2010 2009 2010 2009 2010 2009 US$000 US$000 US$000 US$000 US$000 US$000 US$000 US$000 Euro currency purchases 171,072 101,909 1,794 5,017 2,046 24,479 1,827 28,430 Sterling currency purchases 14,405 38,700 135 1,583 4,703 1,695 4,966 Yen currency purchases sales 1,721 160 128 76 942 117 862 Swiss Francs purchases 1,363 175 14 Kuwaiti Dinars sales 211,034 53 1,349 266 1 32,800 The above foreign exchange contracts mature and will affect income between January 2011 and July 2013 2009: between January 2010 and July 2013.
138 Petrofac Annual report and accounts 2010 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued For the year ended 31 December 2010 33 Risk management and financial instruments continued At 31 December 2010, the group had cash and short-term deposits designated as cash flow hedges with a fair value loss of US$1,633,000 2009: US$1,786,000 gain as follows: Fair value Net unrealised gain loss 2010 2009 2010 2009 US$000 US$000 US$000 US$000 Euro currency cash and short-term deposits 15,730 91,660 1,798 1,163 Sterling currency cash and short-term deposits 2,086 5,264 120 772 Yen currency cash and short-term deposits 4,510 278 Swiss Francs cash and short-term deposits 660 7 Kuwaiti Dinars cash and short-term deposits 19,146 149 1,633 1,786 During 2010, changes in fair value losses of US$19,456,000 2009: losses US$28,043,000 relating to these derivative instruments and financial assets were taken to equity and US$16,764,000 of gains 2009: US$5,161,000 gains were recycled from equity into cost of sales in the income statement.
The forward points and ineffective portions of the above foreign exchange forward contracts and loss on maturity of un-designated derivatives of US$3,409,000 2009: US$19,508,000 gains were recognised in the income statement note 4b.
Commodity price risk oil prices The group is exposed to the impact of changes in oil & gas prices on its revenues and profits generated from sales of crude oil & gas.
The groups policy is to manage its exposure to the impact of changes in oil and gas prices using derivative instruments, primarily swaps and collars.
Hedging is only undertaken once sufficiently reliable and regular long term forecast production data is available.
During the year the group entered into various crude oil swaps hedging oil production of 176,400 bbl 2009: 96,000 bbl with maturities ranging from 1 April 2010 to 31 December 2011.
In addition, fuel oil swaps were also entered into for hedging gas production of 43,750MT 2009: 27,000MT with maturities from 1 April 2010 to 31 December 2011.
The fair value of oil derivatives at 31 December 2010 was US$1,163,000 liability 2009: US$1,813,000 liability with a loss recognised in equity of US$1,163,000 2009: US$1,813,000 loss.
During the year, a loss of US$152,000 2009: US$611,000 gain was recognised in the consolidated income statement on the occurrence of the hedged transactions.
The following table summarises the impact on the groups pre-tax profit and equity due to a change in the fair value of oil derivative instruments and the underlifting asset overlifting liability of a reasonably possible change in the oil price: Pre-tax profit Equity 10 US$ bbl -10 US$ bbl 10 US$ bbl -10 US$ bbl increase decrease increase decrease US$000 US$000 US$000 US$000 31 December 2010 194 194 802 802 31 December 2009 82 82 861 861 Credit risk The group trades only with recognised, creditworthy third parties.
Business Unit Risk Review Committees BURRC have been set up by the Board of Directors to evaluate the creditworthiness of each individual third party at the time of entering into new contracts.
Limits have been placed on the approval authority of the BURRC above which the approval of the Board of Directors of the Company is required.
Receivable balances are monitored on an ongoing basis with appropriate follow-up action taken where necessary.
At 31 December 2010, the groups five largest customers accounted for 72.0% of outstanding trade receivables and work in progress 2009: 57.5%.
With respect to credit risk arising from the other financial assets of the group, which comprise cash and cash equivalents, available-for-sale financial assets and certain derivative instruments, the groups exposure to credit risk arises from default of the counterparty, with a maximum exposure equal to the carrying amount of these instruments.
Group financial statements 139 Petrofac Annual report and accounts 2010 Notes to the consolidated financial statements Liquidity risk The groups objective is to maintain a balance between continuity of funding and flexibility through the use of overdrafts, revolving credit facilities, project finance and term loans to reduce its exposure to liquidity risk.
The maturity profiles of the groups financial liabilities at 31 December 2010 are as follows: Year ended 31 December 2010 Contractual 6 months 6-12 1-2 2-5 More than undiscounted Carrying or less months years years 5 years cash flows amount US$000 US$000 US$000 US$000 US$000 US$000 US$000 Financial liabilities Interest-bearing loans and borrowings 37,776 9,659 23,823 20,562 91,820 87,661 Trade and other payables excluding advances from customers 551,233 58,159 609,392 609,392 Due to related parties 11,710 11,710 11,710 Deferred consideration 24,595 11,279 35,874 35,874 Derivative instruments 11,034 1,163 174 12,371 12,371 Interest payable 9 9 9 Interest payments 421 388 632 206 1,647 636,778 69,369 35,908 20,768 762,823 757,017 Year ended 31 December 2009 Contractual 6 months 6-12 1-2 2-5 More than undiscounted Carrying or less months years years 5 years cash flows amount US$000 US$000 US$000 US$000 US$000 US$000 US$000 Financial liabilities Interest-bearing loans and borrowings 31,863 26,208 18,901 46,084 123,056 117,266 Trade and other payables excluding advances from customers 585,490 11,843 597,333 597,333 Due to related parties 44,496 12,830 57,326 57,326 Deferred consideration 1,622 20,519 11,356 33,497 29,060 Derivative instruments 907 906 1,813 1,813 Interest payable 22 22 22 Interest payments 816 1,148 2,094 2,291 6,349 665,216 52,935 41,514 59,731 819,396 802,820 The group uses various funded facilities provided by banks and its own financial assets to fund the above mentioned financial liabilities.
140 Petrofac Annual report and accounts 2010 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued For the year ended 31 December 2010 33 Risk management and financial instruments continued Capital management The groups policy is to maintain a healthy capital base to sustain future growth and maximise shareholder value.
The group seeks to optimise shareholder returns by maintaining a balance between debt and capital and monitors the efficiency of its capital structure on a regular basis.
The gearing ratio and return on shareholders equity is as follows: Restated 2010 2009 US$000 US$000 Cash and short-term deposits 1,063,005 1,417,363 Interest-bearing loans and borrowings A 87,661 117,266 Net cash B 975,344 1,300,097 Equity attributable to Petrofac Limited shareholders C 776,462 894,710 Profit for the year attributable to Petrofac Limited shareholders D 557,817 353,603 Gross gearing ratio A C 11.3% 13.1% Net gearing ratio B C Net cash Net cash position position Shareholders return on investment D C 71.8% 39.5% Fair values of financial assets and liabilities The fair value of the groups financial instruments and their carrying amounts included within the groups statement of financial position are set out below: Carrying amount Fair value 2010 2009 2010 2009 US$000 US$000 US$000 US$000 Financial assets Cash and short-term deposits 1,063,005 1,417,363 1,063,005 1,417,363 Restricted cash 19,462 10,311 19,462 10,311 Available-for-sale financial assets 101,494 539 101,494 539 Seven Energy warrants 11,969 11,969 Forward currency contracts-designated as cash flow hedge 7,961 26,891 7,961 26,891 Forward currency  1,234 5,070 1,234 5,070 Financial liabilities Interest-bearing loans and borrowings 87,661 117,266 87,661 117,266 Deferred consideration 35,874 30,178 35,874 30,178 Oil derivative 1,163 1,813 1,163 1,813 Forward currency contracts-designated as cash flow hedge 8,173 8,173 Forward currency  3,035 3,035 Fair values of financial assets and liabilities Market values have been used to determine the fair values of available-for-sale financial assets, forward currency contracts and oil derivatives.
Seven Energy warrants fair value has been calculated using a Black Scholes option valuation model note 16.
The fair values of long-term interest-bearing loans and borrowings are equivalent to their amortised costs determined as the present value of discounted future cash flows using the effective interest rate.
The Company considers that the carrying amounts of trade and other receivables, work-in-progress, trade and other payables, other current and non-current financial assets and liabilities approximate their fair values and are therefore excluded from the above table.
Group financial statements 141 Petrofac Annual report and accounts 2010 Notes to the consolidated financial statements Fair value hierarchy The following financial instruments are measured at fair value using the hierarchy below for determination and disclosure of their respective fair values: Tier 1: Unadjusted quoted prices in active markets for identical financial assets or liabilities Tier 2: Other valuation techniques where the inputs are based on all observation data directly or indirectly Tier 3: Other valuation techniques where the inputs are based on unobservable market data Assets measured at fair value Year ended 31 December 2010 Tier 1 Tier 2 2010 US$000 US$000 US$000 Financial assets Available-for-sale financial assets 243 101,251 101,494 Seven Energy warrants 11,969 11,969 Forward currency contracts-designated as cash flow hedge 7,961 7,961 Forward currency  1,234 1,234 Financial liabilities Interest-bearing loans and borrowings 87,661 87,661 Forward currency contracts-designated as cash flow hedge 8,173 8,173 Forward currency  3,035 3,035 Oil derivative 1,163 1,163 Year ended 31 December 2009 Tier 1 Tier 2 2009 US$000 US$000 US$000 Financial assets Available-for-sale financial assets 539 539 Forward currency contracts-designated as cash flow hedge 26,891 26,891 Forward currency  5,070 5,070 Financial liabilities Interest-bearing loans and borrowings 117,266 117,266 Oil derivative 1,813 1,813 34 Events after the reporting date On 31 January 2011, Energy Developments signed an RSC to lead the development of the Berantai field, offshore Peninsular Malaysia for Petronas, the Malaysian national oil company.
Petrofac has a 50% interest in the RSC alongside our two local partners who each hold a 25% interest and the joint venture will develop the field and subsequently operate it for seven years after first gas production.
As part of the fast track development of the field, the group has committed as at 31 December 2010 to acquire an FPSO vessel which will be jointly owned by Berantai joint venture partners see note 31 for details.
142 Petrofac Annual report and accounts 2010 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued For the year ended 31 December 2010 35 Subsidiaries and joint ventures At 31 December 2010, the group had investments in the following subsidiaries and incorporated joint ventures: Proportion of nominal value of issued shares controlled by the group Name of company Country of incorporation 2010 2009 Trading subsidiaries Petrofac Inc. USA 100 100 Petrofac International Ltd Jersey 100 100 Petrofac Energy Development UK Limited England 100 Petrofac Energy Developments Limited England 100 Petrofac Energy Developments International Limited Jersey 100 100 Petrofac UK Holdings Limited England 100 100 Petrofac Facilities Management International Limited Jersey 100 100 Petrofac Services Limited England 100 100 Petrofac Services Inc. USA 100 100 Petrofac Training International Limited Jersey 100 100 Petroleum Facilities E & C Limited Jersey 100 100 Petrofac ESOP Trustees Limited Jersey 100 100 Jermyn Insurance Company Limited Guernsey 100 Atlantic Resourcing Limited Scotland 100 100 Petrofac Algeria EURL Algeria 100 100 Petrofac Engineering India Private Limited India 100 100 Petrofac Engineering Services India Private Limited India 100 100 Petrofac Engineering Limited England 100 100 Petrofac Offshore Management Limited Jersey 100 100 Petrofac FZE United Arab Emirates 100 100 Petrofac Facilities Management Group Limited Scotland 100 100 Petrofac Facilities Management Limited Scotland 100 100 Petrofac International Nigeria Ltd Nigeria 100 100 Petrofac Pars PJSC Iran 100 100 Petrofac Iran PJSC Iran 100 100 Plant Asset Management Limited Scotland 100 100 Petrofac Nuigini Limited Papua New Guinea 100 100 PFMAP Sendirian Berhad Malaysia 100 100 Petrofac Caspian Limited Azerbaijan 100 100 Petrofac Malaysia-PM304 Limited England 100 100 Petrofac Training Group Limited Scotland 100 100 Petrofac Training Holdings Limited Scotland 100 100 Petrofac Training Limited Scotland 100 100 Petrofac Training Inc. USA 100 100 Petrofac Training Trinidad Limited Trinidad 100 100 Monsoon Shipmanagement Limited Jersey 100 100 Petrofac E&C International Limited United Arab Emirates 100 100 Petrofac Saudi Arabia Limited Saudi Arabia 100 100 Petrofac Energy Developments Ohanet Jersey Limited Jersey 100 100 Petrofac Energy Developments Ohanet LLC USA 100 100 PEDL Limited England 100 Petrofac Cyprus Limited Cyprus 100 100 PKT Technical Services Ltd Russia 50 50 PKT Training Services Ltd Russia 100 100 Pt PCI Indonesia Indonesia 80 80 Petrofac Training Institute Pte Limited Singapore 100 100 Petrofac Training Sdn Bhd Malaysia 100 100 Directly held by Petrofac Limited Companies consolidated as subsidiaries on the basis of control.
Group financial statements 143 Petrofac Annual report and accounts 2010 Notes to the consolidated financial statements Proportion of nominal value of issued shares controlled by the group Name of company Country of incorporation 2010 2009 Trading subsidiaries continued Sakhalin Technical Training Centre Russia 80 80 Petrofac Norge AS Norway 100 100 SPD Group Limited British Virgin Islands 51 51 SPD UK Limited Scotland 51 51 SPD LLC United Arab Emirates 25 25 Petrofac Energy Developments Oceania Limited Cayman Islands 100 PT.
Petrofac IKPT International Indonesia 51 51 Petrofac Kazakhstan Limited England 100 100 Petrofac International UAE LLC United Arab Emirates 100 100 Petrofac E&C Oman LLC Oman 100 100 Petrofac International South Africa Pty Limited South Africa 100 100 Eclipse Petroleum Technology Limited England 100 100 Eclipse Petroleum Technology Inc United States 100 100 Caltec Limited England 100 100 i Perform Limited Scotland 100 100 Petrofac FPF1 Limited Jersey 100 100 Petrofac Platform Management Services Limited Jersey 100 100 Petrokyrgyzstan Limited Jersey 100 100 Scotvalve Services Limited Scotland 100 Stephen Gillespie Consultants Limited Scotland 100 CO2DeepStore Limited Scotland 100 CO2DeepStore Holdings Limited Jersey 100 CO2DeepStore Aspen Limited England 100 TNEI Services Limited England 100 Petrofac E&C Sdn Bhd Malaysia 100 Petrofac FPSO Holding Limited Jersey 100 The New Energy Industries Limited England 100 Petrofac Information Services Private Limited India 100 Petrofac Solutions & Facilities Support S. R. L Romania 100 Joint Ventures Costain Petrofac Limited England 50 50 Kyrgyz Petroleum Company Kyrgyz Republic 50 50 MJVI Sendirian Berhad Brunei 50 50 Spie Capag Petrofac International Limited Jersey 50 50 TTE Petrofac Limited Jersey 50 50 Petrofac Emirates LLC United Arab Emirates 49 49 Dormant subsidiaries Joint Venture International Limited Scotland 100 100 Montrose Park Hotels Limited Scotland 100 100 RGIT Ethos Health & Safety Limited Scotland 100 100 Scota Limited Scotland 100 100 Monsoon Shipmanagement Limited Cyprus 100 100 Rubicon Response Limited Scotland 100 100 Companies consolidated as subsidiaries on the basis of control.
144 Petrofac Annual report and accounts 2010 Company financial statements
