Petropavlovsk Annual Report 2010 Appendix Forward-looking statements Basis of reporting reserves and resources Certain statements contained in this Annual Report are forward-looking Mineral Resource and Ore Reserve estimates included within this statements.
Generally, these forward-looking statements can be Annual Report, Financial Statements and Sustainability Report 2010 identified by the use of forward-looking terminology, including the terms are reported in accordance with the Australasian Code for Reporting believes, estimates, anticipates, intends, may, will or should of Exploration Results, Mineral Resources and Ore Reserves as or in each case their negative, or other variations or comparable prepared by the Joint Ore Reserves Committee of the Australian terminology.
Such forward-looking statements involve risks, Institute of Mining and Metallurgy, Australian Institute of Geosciences uncertainties and other factors which may cause the actual results, and Minerals Council of Australia JORC Code 2004. performance or achievements of the Group, or industry results, to be The basis for reporting reserves and resources for the Groups alluvial materially different from any future results, performance or achievements deposits is in accordance with the Russian Classification System, expressed or implied by such forward-looking statements.
Such risks, approved by the State Committee on Reserves GKZ in 1965 uncertainties and other factors include, among other things, general amended in 1981 and 2008. economic and business conditions, industry trends, competition, commodity prices, changes in law or regulation, currency fluctuations The Russian Classification System is based principally on the degree including fluctuations in the US Dollar or Rouble, the Groups ability to of geological knowledge and the technical ability to extract a mineral recover its reserves or develop new reserves and to implement its reserve.
Although economic considerations form a part of the expansion plans and achieve cost reductions and efficiency measures, justification for A, B, C1, and C2 category reserves, the system does changes in business strategy or development, political and economic not take into account the economic viability of extraction in the same uncertainty and other risks described in the section entitled Principal manner as the JORC Code 2004, or other internationally recognised Risks Report.
There can be no assurance that the results and events mineral reserves classification codes.
The Russian Classification System contemplated by the forward-looking statements contained in this also classifies reserves as on-balance if they economically viable at Annual Report will, in fact, occur.
the time of the estimate and off-balance if the economic viability is yet to be demonstrated.
Licence holders must register A, B, C1, and C2 Any forward-looking statements in this Annual Report reflect the category reserves with the GKZ to be able to extract them depending Groups current view with respect to future events and are subject to upon the structural complexity class of the deposit.
Gold deposits are risks relating to future events and other risks, uncertainties and usually in complexity class 2, 3 or 4 which require categories C1 and or assumptions relating to the Groups operations and growth strategy.
C2 only: categories A and B are rarely recorded for such deposits.
Shareholders should specifically consider the factors identified in this Annual Report which could cause results to differ before making an The contents of this Annual Report, Financial Statements and investment decision.
These forward-looking statements speak only as Sustainability Report 2010 have been approved for release by Dr P. at the date of this Annual Report, the Financial Statements and Newall, BSc, PhD, CEng, FIMMM, of Wardell Armstrong International.
The Group will not undertake any obligation Dr P. Newall has consented to the inclusion of the material in the form to release publicly any revisions to these forward-looking statements to and context in which it appears.
reflect events, circumstances or unanticipated events occurring after the date of this Annual Report, Financial Statements and Sustainability Report, except as required by law or by any appropriate regulatory authority.
Nothing in this publication should be considered as a profit forecast.
Past performance cannot be relied on as a guide to future performance.
