42 43 Overview Performance Petropavlovsk Annual Report 2010 Our Assets 94,600oz Alluvial Operations Total attributable production from alluvials and joint ventures in 2010 and Joint Ventures 2010 alluvial production and costs Alluvial operations: in production In 2010, alluvial production, including Tokur but excluding Omchak, Petropavlovsk has a large number of licences to mine alluvial gold.
was 28,000oz of gold, representing an increase of 15% on the same These are held by OJSC Koboldo and subsidiaries of Omchak.
Current gold production from Tokur comes from placer extraction, beneath and adjacent to the mine waste dumps, although the waste Omchak dumps from the old mine are now being worked and stockpiled.
Omchak was formed in 2003 when Petropavlovsk then Peter Hambro The share of alluvial production in the Groups total gold output Mining Plc entered into a 50:50 joint venture with OJSC Susumanzoloto amounted to 16% in 2010, compared to 11% in 2009. and OJSC Shkolnoye, both established and respected Russian gold mining companies.
Due to the greater emphasis placed on alluvial mining in 2010, the Group has taken the decision to publish total cash costs for its alluvial In 2010, Omchak became a subsidiary of the Group following an operations going forward.
2010 total cash costs for the Groups alluvial increase in the Groups total holding in Omchak to 90% after the operations were US$862 oz.
This figure was broadly in line with acquisition of 32.5% and 7.5% of the issued capital of the joint venture expectations, as alluvial mining typically requires more costly overheads from Susumanzoloto and Shkolnoye, respectively.
Omchak and its subsidiaries own gold licences for both alluvial and hard-rock deposits, of which only its alluvial operations are currently in production.
Joint ventures & investments Total attributable gold production from Omchak during 2010 was 52,300oz of gold.
This figure was in-line with the Groups forecast.
It is Petropavlovsks strategy of organic growth is also implemented expected that Omchak assets will produce c. 56,000oz of gold in 2011. through collaboration with other recognised players in the Russian gold mining industry.
This has enabled the Group to enter regions Omchak currently own licences relating to five hard-rock exploration where it otherwise would have had no presence and which are and development gold assets, located in several regions of Russia: logistically challenging.
Verkne-Aliinskoye, Kulinskoye and Bukhtinskaya in the Zabaikalskiy region, Birusinskiy in the Irkutsk region, and Kaurchak in the Republic of Altai.
None of these assets are currently in production.
The Group and OJSC Priisk Solovievskiy, a 13.76% investment by the On 18 February 2011, Petropavlovsk entered into a non-binding Group, each hold a 50% interest in LLC GDK Odolgo.
Heads of Agreement with Meridian Minerals Limited relating to the Odolgo currently possesses four combined mining and exploration potential sale by the Group of a 75% interest in Omchak.
The alluvial licences relating to properties in the Amur region, two of which are assets currently owned by Omchak and its subsidiaries, are not alluvial operations.
intended to form part of the sale and it is anticipated that these assets will be transferred to the Group prior to the sale.
Therefore, the potential sale would only relate to the non-producing hard-rock assets.
2010 production from joint ventures Total attributable gold production from the Groups joint ventures for Koboldo 2010 was 21,600oz, of which 7,300oz were produced by Omchak prior to Omchak becoming a subsidiary of the Group.
2010 production Koboldo currently holds 29 licences to mine alluvial gold deposits from joint ventures was in line with Petropavlovsks forecast following in the Amur region.
Koboldo operates the following alluvial mining this transaction.
methods: open cut and selective hydraulic separation, bulk hydraulic and dredge mining.
Some alluvial assets currently held by Omchak subsidiaries are mined by Koboldo.
