74 75 Overview Performance Petropavlovsk Annual Report 2010 Glossary and Definitions References to the Group, Petropavlovsk Total attributable gold production and IRC Total attributable gold production, as stated throughout this document, is comprised of 100% of production from the Groups subsidiaries For the purposes of this Annual Report, Financial Statements and the and the relevant share of production from joint ventures and other Sustainability Report 2010, references to the Group should be read investments.
Figures for the comparative period are restated as the Petropavlovsk PLC Group of Companies and IRC Limited Group accordingly.
The Group has held a c. 1.1% interest in Rusoro Mining Ltd of Companies combined.
References to Petropavlovsk should be since March 2009: no attributable ounces are included in the Group read as the Petropavlovsk PLC Group of Companies, excluding the figures.
The Companys direct and indirect interest in Pokrovskiy Rudnik IRC Limited Group of Companies.
References to IRC should be read the holder of the Groups Pokrovskiy, Pioneer and Malomir interests as the IRC Group of Companies, excluding the Petropavlovsk Group is 98.61%.
In August 2010, the Group increased its total holding in of Companies.
Omchak, predominantly an alluvial operation, to 90% after the acquisition of 32.5% and 7.5% of the issued capital of Omchak from Underlying EBITDA OJSC Susumanzoloto and Shkolnoye respectively.
Accordingly, Underlying EBITDA is the profit for the period before financial income, Omchak has become a subsidiary of the Group and production from financial expenses, foreign exchange gains and losses, fair value Omchak for H2 2010 is 100% attributable to Group.
Production from changes, taxation, depreciation, amortisation and impairment.
Omchak for H1 2010 and for 2009 was 50% attributable to the Group.
Reconciliation of profit for the year and underlying EBITDA is set out Cumulative gold production, as stated throughout this Annual Report, in note 39 to the Consolidated Financial Statements on page 89 of Financial Statements and the Sustainability Report 2010, consists of the accompanying Financial Statements.
gold physically recovered and gold in circuit.
Accordingly gold produced in the year consists of gold recovered during the period and adjusted for the movement in gold still in the circuit.
