Petropavlovsk Annual Report 2010 Operational Structure Petropavlovsks management structure ensures that its key operational team report directly to both the Board and its appointed Executive Committee, facilitating the execution of the Boards strategy and ensuring that the Board is kept up to date with the latest developments of the Groups projects.
In addition, the Board The Board of Directors Operational Management established an Executive Committee, Strategic The Board is responsible for the determination The Board works closely with operational Committee and Technical Committee consisting and monitoring of the Companys strategic management to achieve the Companys of a mix of Executive Directors and key aims, budgets, major items of capital objectives.
The Group is proud of its operational management.
The operation of each expenditure, senior appointments and the experienced and strong management team, of these committees is within their respective direction and control of the Company and the many of whom have been with the Group Terms of Reference, which are available on the management of capital structure.
The Board since inception and have been instrumental in Companys website, www.
seeks to ensure that the necessary financial building the Group from its initial beginnings into and human resources are, and will continue the multi-mine Russian gold producer that it is The Executive Committee to be, in place to enable the Company to meet today.
Several of the Groups senior operational its objectives.
The Board currently consists The Board has appointed an Executive management sit on the Executive Committee.
of a Chairman, five Executive Directors, and, Committee, consisting of six Executive as at the date of the AGM, five Non-Executive Directors and four members of senior Further Details Directors following the announcement of management, and has delegated to this Further details on the Board of Directors, Peter Hill-Wood to stand down.
committee the authority to make decisions including details of meetings, the roles of the relating to the day-to-day management of The Board is responsible for ensuring an Chairman and Chief Executive, Board balance the Company and oversee the execution appropriate level of corporate governance and and independence, appointments to the Board and implementation of the Companys strategy intends, where possible, to comply with the UK and re-election of Directors, professional and the decisions made at Board level.
Corporate Governance Code which applies to development, performance evaluation, the Company from 1 January 2011.
The Board the Board Committees and the Executive, The Technical and Strategic is responsible for ensuring that appropriate Strategic and Technical Committees may be Committees measures are taken by the Group in order for found in the Corporate Governance Statement it to comply with the UK Bribery Act 2010, in the accompanying Financial Statements.
The Board conducted a strategic review of when that Act comes into force, which will the business in the fourth quarter of 2010. be on 1 July 2011.
As a result of this review, the Board formed IRC Management two new committees: the Strategic Committee IRC is a 65.6% owned subsidiary of Board Committees and the Technical Committee.
The Technical Petropavlovsk PLC which is listed on the Stock Committee and the Strategic Committee The Board has established five committees Exchange of Hong Kong Limited HKEx.
support each other and report to the Executive at Board level to oversee different aspects of the In accordance with the listing rules of HKEx, IRC Committee.
The functions of the Strategic Groups business and to monitor, review and has a separate board of directors.
Further details Committee are to formulate annual and make recommendations to the Board.
may be found in IRCs 2010 Annual Report, long-term budgets and forecasts and to These committees are currently: the Audit available at www.
Committee, the Remuneration Committee, the Risk Committee, the Nomination Committee and the Health, Safety and Environmental 30 31 Overview Performance Petropavlovsk Annual Report 2010 Board of Directors Responsible for strategy and governance The Company has a strong Board consisting of six Executive Directors and six Non-Executive Directors.
The Board is responsible for overseeing the strategic direction of the Company.
The Board and its sub-committees adhere to high standards of corporate governance.
Strategic Committee Technical Committee Responsible for formulating Responsible for providing annual and long-term budgets, technical analysis of the Groups setting production forecasts budgets, forecasts and and for monitoring the Accountability Governance Accountability investment plans.
Groups performance against these targets.
The Executive Committee Operational Management Responsible for execution Responsible for delivery and implementation Petropavlovsk employs an experienced The Executive Committee reports directly local management team, many of to the Board and is accountable to the whom have been with the Group since Board.
The Executive Committee makes its formation.
Operational management recommendations to the Board regarding are responsible for advising the Board the business objectives and the strategic and the Executive Committee on direction of the Company.
The Executive Petropavlovsks ability to deliver its Committee ensures coordination objectives and targets, reporting the between senior managers, manages progress and the day-to-day running of the Groups operations, financials, Petropavlovsks subsidiaries, operations administration, health and safety and or departments within Petropavlovsk.
environmental performance and is Several of the Groups senior responsible for the assessment and operational management sit on the review of risk.
The Committee also Executive Committee.
approves transactions considered to be in the ordinary course of business.
