43 Statement on Corporate Governance The board Role of the board The Company is led by a strong and experienced board which brings The board determines the strategic direction of the Group and reviews a depth and diversity of expertise to the leadership of the Company.
operating, financial and risk performance.
There is a formal schedule The board of directors the board currently has eight members, of matters reserved for the board, including approval of the Groups comprising four executive directors, the non-executive chairman, annual business plan, the Groups strategy, acquisitions, disposals two independent non-executive directors and one non-independent and capital expenditure projects above certain thresholds, all non-executive director.
Brief biographical details of the directors are guarantees, treasury policies, the financial statements, the Companys set out on pages 36 and 37. dividend policy, transactions involving the issue or purchase of Company shares, borrowing powers, appointments to the board, The roles of chairman and chief executive are separate and there is alterations to the memorandum and articles of association, legal actions a clear division of responsibilities between those roles.
The chairman brought by or against the Group above certain thresholds, and the leads the board and ensures the effective engagement and contribution scope of delegations to board committees, subsidiary boards and of all non-executive and executive directors.
The chief executive has the management committee.
Responsibility for the development responsibility for all Group businesses and acts in accordance with of policy and strategy and operational management is delegated to the authority delegated from the board.
the executive directors and a management committee, which includes six senior managers as at the date of this report.
The board considers that J. S. Espey is independent, notwithstanding the fact that he has served on the board for more than nine years.
Board performance evaluation The board does not consider that a directors tenure necessarily reduces During the year, the chairman carried out a performance evaluation his ability to act independently and, following performance evaluations, of the board, the board committees and each of the directors.
As in believes that J. S. Espey is independent in character and judgement and previous years, this was an internal exercise led by the chairman of that there are no relationships or circumstances which are likely to affect the board, who conducted a detailed and comprehensive evaluation his judgement.
The board considers that J. Warburton is independent process by a combination of written survey questionnaires followed and that the relationships and circumstances set out in provision A.
The outcome of these evaluations showed of the revised Combined Code on Corporate Governance as issued that directors were positive about the performance and process of the by the Financial Reporting Council in June 2008 the Code do not board and the board committees.
The practice of separate Company apply.
The board considers that, on appointment, the chairman was strategy discussions outwith the normal board meeting schedule was independent for the purposes of provision A.
J. S. Espey welcomed by the directors last year and this practice has continued is the senior independent director.
R. G. Hanna holds directorships with a number of companies.
In addition The chairman is pleased to con rm that, following formal performance to his role as chairman of the Company, he is chairman of Bowleven plc evaluation of the directors, all of the directors performances continue and Troy Income & Growth Trust plc formerly Glasgow Income Trust to be effective and the directors offering themselves for re-election at plc.
The board does not consider that R. G. Hannas other commitments the AGM continue to demonstrate commitment to the role of director, have any impact on his ability to discharge his duties as chairman of including commitment of time for board meetings and committee the Company effectively.
meetings and any other relevant duties.
The Articles require directors to retire and submit themselves for election Independent professional advice at the first AGM following appointment and to retire no later than the Directors can obtain independent professional advice at the Companys third AGM after the AGM at which they were last elected or re-elected.
expense in performance of their duties as directors.
None of the directors obtained independent professional advice in the period under Details of directors remuneration and interests in shares of the review.
All directors have access to the advice and the services of the Company are given in the Directors Remuneration Report on pages Company Secretary.
The non-executive directors have access to senior 47 to 52. management of the business.
Training and development On appointment to the board, directors are provided with a full, formal and tailored programme of induction, to familiarise them with the Groups businesses, the risks and strategic challenges the Group faces, and the economic, competitive, legal and regulatory environments in which the Group operates.
A programme of strategic and other reviews, together with other training provided during the year, ensures that directors continually update their skills, their knowledge and familiarity with the Groups businesses, and their awareness of sector, risk, regulatory, legal, financial and other developments to enable them to ful l effectively their role on the board and committees of the board.
Statement on Corporate Governance 44 Statement on Corporate Governance continued Meetings and attendance Audit Committee Board meetings are scheduled to be held twelve times each year.
The Audit Committee currently consists of three non-executive Between these meetings, as required, additional board meetings may directors: W. R. G. Barr, J. S. Espey and J. Warburton who joined be held to progress the Companys business.
The Audit Committee is chaired by J. S. Espey.
In advance of all board meetings the directors are supplied with The Audit Committee meets with executive directors and management, detailed and comprehensive papers covering the Groups operating as well as privately with the external and internal auditors.
Members of the management team attend and make presentations as appropriate at meetings of the board.
The Company In the current year the Audit Committee has: Secretary is responsible to the board for the timeliness and quality of information provided to it.
The chairman holds meetings with the monitored the financial reporting process: non-executive directors during the year without the executive directors monitored the statutory audit of the annual and consolidated accounts: being present.
reviewed and advised the board on the integrity of the Groups interim and annual financial statements and announcements relating Attendance at board and committee meetings in year to the Groups financial performance: to 30 January 2010: reviewed the control of the Groups financial and business risks: Audit Remuneration Nomination discussed and agreed the nature and scope of the work to Board Committee Committee Committee be performed by the external auditors and internal auditors: Maximum 15 Maximum 5 Maximum 4 Maximum 2 reviewed the results of this audit work and the response of management: Executive reviewed the effectiveness of the Groups system of internal R. A.
White 15 control including financial, operational, compliance and risk A.
B. C. Short 15 management controls and the appropriateness of the Groups J. D. Kemp 12 whistle-blowing procedures: A. L. Memmott 12 monitored and reviewed the effectiveness of the Groups internal audit activities: Non-executive made recommendations to the board on the appointment, R. G. Hanna 12 2 4 2 reappointment, removal and remuneration of the external auditors W. R. G. Barr 14 4 4 2 and monitored the performance of the auditors: and J. S. Espey 11 5 4 2 reviewed the non-audit services provided to the Group by the J. Warburton 8 3 4 1 external auditors and monitored and assessed the independence of both the external and internal auditors.
J. Warburton was appointed to the board on 16 March 2009, the Remuneration Committee on 26 March 2009, and the Audit Committee and Nomination Committee on 26 May 2009.
J. Warburton could have attended a maximum of The Audit Committee has ensured that both the board and the 14 board meetings, 4 Remuneration Committee meetings, 4 Audit Committee external auditors have safeguards in place to prevent the compromise meetings and 1 Nomination Committee meeting.
of the auditors independence and objectivity.
The external auditors also reported regularly to the Audit Committee on the actions that they Con icts of Interest have taken to comply with professional and regulatory requirements The Articles were amended at the 2009 AGM to allow the board and current best practice in order to maintain their independence.
to authorise potential con icts of interest that may arise from time to time, subject to certain conditions.
The Company has established The Audit Committee reviews the auditors independence annually and appropriate con icts authorisation procedures, whereby actual or ensures that they comply with the Auditing Practices Boards Ethical potential con icts are regularly reviewed and authorisations sought Standards.
At the year end meeting to review the annual report and as appropriate.
From the period since the 2009 AGM to the date accounts the Audit Committee formally considers the level of non-audit of this report, these procedures have been followed and have services and fees provided by the Groups auditors.
The detail and operated effectively.
level of fees are fully discussed and the Audit Committee is satis ed that there is no risk to the objectivity and independence of the external Committees of the board audit arising from the level of non-audit fees.
Any services to be provided The terms of reference of the principal committees of the board by the external auditors above a level set by the Audit Committee must Audit, Remuneration and Nomination are available on request from be approved in advance by the Audit Committee.
Those terms of reference have been reviewed in the current year and are reviewed at least annually.
The work carried out by the Audit and Nomination Committees in discharging their responsibilities is summarised below.
The work carried out by the Remuneration Committee is described within the Directors Remuneration Report on pages 47 to 52.
A. G. BARR p. l. c. Annual Report and Accounts 2010
