42 Directors Report continued Contracts of signi cance At 30 January 2010 Robert Barr Limited, as trustee of the Group There were no contracts of signi cance as fide ned by Listing Rule 9.8 Employee Bene t Trust, the Savings Related Bene t Trust and the subsisting during the financial year.
Long Service Award Trust the Trustee, held 1.35% of the issued share capital of the Company in trust for the bene t of the executive Going concern directors and employees of the Group.
As at 30 January 2010, The Groups business activities, together with the factors likely to affect the trustees of the Pro t Linked Share Plan the PLSP Trustees its future development, performance and position are set out in the held 0.30% of the issued share capital of the Company in trust for Business Review on pages 4 to 13.
The financial position of the Group, the bene t of the executive directors and employees of the Group.
its cash ows, liquidity position and borrowing facilities are described A dividend waiver is in place in respect of the Trustees and the in the Financial Review on pages 14 to 20.
The voting rights in relation to these shares are exercised by the Trustee or the PLSP Trustees, as the case may After making the appropriate enquiries, the directors have concluded be, who may vote or abstain from voting the shares as they see t. that the Group will be able to meet its term loan obligations and will continue to generate positive free cash ow for the foreseeable future Under the rules of the All-Employee Share Ownership Plan the Plan, and therefore have a reasonable expectation that the Company and eligible employees are entitled to acquire shares in the Company.
the Group overall have adequate resources to continue in operational Details of the Plan are set out on page 47.
Plan shares are held in trust existence for the foreseeable future and, accordingly, consider it for participants by Equiniti Share Plan Trustees Limited the Trustees.
appropriate to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the annual Voting rights are exercised by the Trustees on receipt of participants report and accounts.
If a participant does not submit an instruction to the Trustees, no vote is registered.
In addition, the Trustees do not vote Directors statement as to disclosure of information to auditors any unawarded shares held under the Plan as surplus assets.
As at So far as each director is aware, there is no relevant audit information 30 January 2010 Equiniti Share Plan Trustees Limited held 1.49% of the as fide ned by the Companies Act 2006 of which the Companys issued share capital of the Company.
Each director has taken all steps that ought to be taken by a director to make themselves aware of and to establish The Executive Share Option Scheme ESOS was approved that the auditors are aware of any relevant audit information.
by shareholders at the AGM held on 19 May 2003 and amended by resolution of the shareholders at the AGM held on 26 May 2009 Auditors but to date no options have been awarded.
The Audit Committee has responsibility delegated from the board for making recommendations on the appointment, reappointment, The Company is not aware of any agreements between shareholders removal and remuneration of the external auditors.
During the year, that may result in restrictions on the transfer of securities or on the Groups external audit was tendered, as a result of which the voting rights.
Audit Committee recommended to the board that KPMG Audit plc be appointed as auditors of the Group.
The change of external Change of control auditors was subsequently unanimously approved by shareholders As disclosed in the Directors Remuneration Report, under certain at the 2009 AGM.
conditions the notice period for executive directors may increase from one year to two years in the event of a takeover of or by the Company The auditors, KPMG Audit plc, have indicated their willingness to or a Company reconstruction.
continue in of ce, and a resolution proposing their reappointment will be proposed at the 2010 AGM.
All of the Companys share incentive plans contain provisions relating to a change of control of the Company.
Full details of these plans are Corporate governance provided in the Directors Remuneration Report on pages 47 to 52.
The Companys statement on Corporate Governance is included in The Companys banking facilities may, at the discretion of the lender, the Corporate Governance Report on pages 43 to 46 of this report.
be repayable upon a change of control.
Annual general meeting Articles of association The Companys AGM will be held at 9.30am on 24 May 2010 at the The Companys Articles may only be amended by a special resolution of ces of KPMG, 191 West George Street, Glasgow G2 2LJ.
The Notice at a general meeting of shareholders.
At the 2010 AGM, a special of the AGM is set out in a separate circular which has been sent to all resolution will be put to shareholders proposing amendments to the shareholders with this report.
Articles principally to give effect to certain provisions of the Companies Shareholder Rights Regulations 2009.
By order of the board Financial risk management Information on the exposure of the Group to certain financial risks and on the Groups objectives and policies for managing each of the Groups main financial risk areas is detailed in the Financial risk management disclosure in note 25.
A. Barr Company Secretary 22 March 2010 A. G. BARR p. l. c. Annual Report and Accounts 2010
