47 Directors Remuneration Report Remuneration Committee During the year, the Remuneration Committee the Committee There have been no changes to the policy from the preceding year comprised the following non-executive directors: and no departures from the policy in the current year.
The current policy is expected to continue in place through the next financial year.
J. S. Espey Committee chairman W. R. G. Barr appointed 26 May 2009 Long-Term Incentive Plan LTIP R. G. Hanna This scheme was approved by shareholders at the AGM held J. Warburton appointed 26 March 2009 on 19 May 2003 and amended by resolution of the shareholders at the AGM held on 26 May 2009.
It is available to reward executive Remit directors if the average earnings per share EPS of the three years The Committee is responsible for determining all aspects of executive running up to and including the year of calculation exceeds the average directors remuneration and for monitoring the remuneration of senior EPS of the three years preceding that period, both being adjusted for management.
The Committee is also responsible for recommending Retail Price Index, by 10% or more.
No part of an award vests if EPS the remuneration of the chairman to the board.
No director makes a growth is less than 10% above RPI growth over the three year period.
decision relating to their own remuneration.
Individual directors leave 20% 99.9999% of an award vests on a sliding scale where EPS the meeting when their own remuneration is being discussed.
The full growth exceeds RPI growth by 10% or more but by less than 32.5%.
terms of reference of the Committee are available from the Company 1 00% of an award vests where EPS growth exceeds RPI growth by on application to the Company secretarial department.
The maximum value of any award of shares is 100% of basic salary.
Advisers The Committee has access to professional advice, both inside The revised vesting conditions for the LTIP scheme, as outlined and outside the Company, and consults with the chief executive.
above, were approved by shareholders at the AGM on 26 May 2009.
During the year, advice was obtained from Mercer Limited who provided The revised vesting conditions applied to outstanding awards under advice on retirement bene ts and administered the Groups fide ned the scheme as well as to new awards.
The total amount which may bene t and fide ned contribution pension schemes.
vest under outstanding awards and the maximum potential award for each existing award holder was not altered as a result of the revised Remuneration policy vesting conditions.
The ongoing policy of the Committee is to reward the executive directors in line with the current remuneration of directors in The LTIP performance conditions were chosen to align executive comparable businesses taking into consideration the advice of directors share awards to Company performance over a three year independent bene t consultants in order to recruit, motivate and period, thereby aligning the interests of the directors with those retain high quality executives within a competitive marketplace.
Consistent with this policy, the bene t packages awarded to In addition to the above elements of remuneration, there are two executive directors are intended to be competitive and comprise a further elements which are available to all qualifying employees: mix of performance and non-performance related elements designed to incentivise directors and align their longer term interests with those All-Employee Share Ownership Plan AESOP of shareholders.
The AESOP is HMRC approved and the executive directors participate in both sections of the scheme, which is open In the year to 30 January 2010, a signi cant proportion of the executive to all qualifying employees.
directors remuneration was performance related through the annual performance bonus and share awards pursuant to the LTIP.
During the The partnership share element provides that for every three shares year, the performance related elements of the remuneration package that a participant purchases in the Company, up to a maximum amounted to approximately one third of the total executives package contribution of 125 per month, the Company will purchase one 2009: approximately one third.
The matching shares purchased are held in trust in the name of the individual.
The executive directors remuneration consists of the following elements: There are various rules as to the period of time that the shares must Base salary and bene ts be held in trust but after five years the shares can be released tax free Basic salaries and bene ts in kind are reviewed within the policy to the participant.
Basic salaries are reviewed each year to take account of movements in the marketplace and individual contribution.
The free share element allows participants to receive shares to the value of a common percentage of their earnings, related to the performance Annual bonus of the Group.
The maximum value of the annual award is 3,000 and This scheme is available to create focus within the senior executives, the shares awarded are held in trust for five years.
including executive directors, on the annual financial performance of the Group.
It is principally based on Pro t Before Tax excluding exceptional items : the Committees view is that this is the most appropriate performance measure since it represents a key short-term operational driver of the business.
A maximum of 75% of each executive directors base salary is currently payable in cash under the scheme.
Directors Remuneration Report 48 Directors Remuneration Report continued Under the terms of this scheme, the matching shares will be Non-executive directors are appointed for an initial period of three forfeited if the participant leaves the employment of the Company years.
It is the Companys current policy that non-executive directors within three years of the award.
All other partnership, matching and may serve a maximum of three consecutive three-year terms.
free shares must be removed from the trust if employment with the Thereafter, they are reappointed annually.
Their service contracts Company ceases.
are terminable by either the Company or the directors themselves upon three months notice.
The terms and conditions of appointment Savings Related Share Option Scheme SAYE of the non-executive directors are available for inspection at the The SAYE is HMRC approved and is available to all qualifying Companys registered of ce during business hours and at the AGM.
It is based on a five year savings contract which provides the participant with an option The executive and non-executive directors have no contractual to purchase shares after five years at a discounted price xed entitlement to compensation payments in the event of loss of of ce at the time the contract is taken out, or earlier as provided by other than those related to their period of notice.
No performance conditions require to be met by any participant in order to exercise their option under the SAYE.
Details of the service contracts of the executive directors and of the letters of appointment for the non-executive directors are as follows: Executive Share Option Scheme 2010 ESOS 2010 Notice period Notice period It is proposed that a new ESOS 2010 be adopted at the 2010 AGM, Effective required from required from details of which are set out in the Notice of AGM.
date of contract director Company Pension schemes Executive Executive directors are all members of the A. G. BARR p. l. c. 2008 R. A.
White 30 September 2002 6 months 1 year Pension and Life Assurance Scheme.
The scheme has a fide ned A.
B. C. Short 28 May 2008 6 months 1 year bene t section and a fide ned contribution section.
The fide ned J. D. Kemp 11 October 2003 6 months 1 year bene t section was closed to new entrants from 14 August 2003.
A. L. Memmott 1 March 2008 6 months 1 year Details of the entitlements accruing to the three directors who are Non-executive currently members of the fide ned bene t section are detailed in the W. R. G. Barr 26 May 2009 3 months 3 months table on page 51.
The contributions paid to the fide ned contribution R. G. Hanna 26 May 2009 3 months 3 months section in respect of three directors are disclosed on page 51.
J. S. Espey 1 April 2009 3 months 3 months J. Warburton 16 March 2009 3 months 3 months Non-executive directors remuneration The remuneration of non-executive directors is determined by J. S. Espeys term of appointment comes to an end on 31 March 2010. the board within the limits set by the Articles and reviewed annually.
It is anticipated that J. S. Espeys appointment will be continued for a Non-executive directors received remuneration for their services further period of one year subject to his re-election at the forthcoming AGM.
during the year as disclosed in the table of directors detailed emoluments on page 49.
The non-executive directors do not Performance review participate in any of the Companys share option schemes, The graph below shows the Companys Total Shareholder Return share award schemes, or bonus schemes.
With the exception TSR performance against the FTSE 250 excluding investment trusts of W. R. G. Barr, the non-executive directors do not participate over the past five years.
In the opinion of the board, the FTSE 250 in the Companys pension schemes.
excluding investment trusts is the most appropriate index against which the TSR of the Company should be measured because Directors service contracts it represents a broad equity market index in which the Company Executive directors are appointed on rolling contracts which do is a constituent member.
not have a set termination date.
An executive directors contract 250 will terminate following either the Company or the executive director giving the other requisite notice that they wish to terminate 200 an executive directors contract.
It is the Companys current policy that executive directors service 150 contracts have a notice period of not normally more than one year.
The service contract for each of the executive directors provides for 100 a notice period of one year except during the six months following either a takeover of or by the Company or a Company reconstruction.
50 Under these conditions and certain circumstances the notice period reverts to two years for each of the executive directors.
The Committee 0 considers that, given the shareholding structure of the Company, 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 this condition is appropriate in order to attract and retain high calibre Year to January executive directors.
A. G. BARR FTSE 250 Excluding Investment Trusts A. G. BARR p. l. c. Annual Report and Accounts 2010 Total Shareholder Return 49 Directors detailed emoluments This section of the remuneration report is audited.
Salary Bene ts Annual 2010 2009 and fees in kind bonus Total Total 000 000 000 000 000 Executive R. A.
No director waived emoluments in respect of the years ended 30 January 2010 or 31 January 2009.
No amount was paid by way of expense allowance which was chargeable to U. K. income tax or paid to or receivable by any director in respect of qualifying services.
From April 2009 salary sacri ce was introduced by the Company.
Members that joined this arrangement no longer pay contributions to the pension scheme but receive a lower taxable salary.
All four executive directors participated in this arrangement from April 2009 to the year end.
W. R. G. Barr was appointed a non-executive director on 26 May 2009 after retiring from the role of executive chairman.
The comparative remuneration gures for the year to 31 January 2009 have been included in the non-executive section of the table.
The gures for the year to 30 January 2010 include four months salary and bene t in kind as an executive director and his fees as a non-executive director.
AESOP free shares The following awards were made under the AESOP free shares to the executive directors: Share price At 31 At 30 on date January Shares Shares Shares January Valued Date of award 2009 awarded vested lapsed 2010 vested Director of award Pence Number Number Number Number Number 000 Vesting date R. A.
White 22 June 2009 629.5 476 476 3 22 June 2009 J. D. Kemp 22 June 2009 629.5 476 476 3 22 June 2009 A. L. Memmott 22 June 2009 629.5 476 476 3 22 June 2009 The share price disclosed in the AESOP free shares table is the value of the shares after the share subdivision.
The number of shares awarded is double the award made on 22 June 2009 to re ect the share subdivision note 27.
Directors Remuneration Report 50 Directors Remuneration Report continued Directors interests in the Long-Term Incentive Plan Shares awarded to the executive directors under the LTIP are as follows: Restated Restated share price at 31 At 30 on date January Shares Shares Shares January Valued of award 2009 awarded vested lapsed 2010 vested Director Year Date of award Pence Number Number Number Number Number 000 Vesting date R. A.
The number of shares vested and the number of shares lapsed in the year are stated as if the share subdivision had taken place on 1 February 2009.
The LTIP awards vest shortly after the relevant year end date.
The award is nalised after the year end accounts are prepared and the relevant performance conditions can be measured.
The vesting date disclosed has been estimated to be 30 April of the relevant year.
There have been no variations in the terms and conditions of the scheme interests in the year.
Directors share options The options of the executive directors, all held under the SAYE, at 30 January 2010 over the ordinary share capital of the Company were as follows: Restated options Options Options Options Options Market as at 31 granted exercised lapsed as at 30 Restated value at January during during during January exercise date of Date 2009 the year the year the year 2010 price exercise from which Number Number Number Number Number Pence Pence exercisable Expiry date R. A.
The highest and lowest prices during the year were 595p and 949p respectively.
The options as at 30 January 2010 and the exercise price have been restated to re ect the share subdivision that took place during the year see note 27.
A. G. BARR p. l. c. Annual Report and Accounts 2010 51 Directors Pensions All executive directors are members of the A. G. BARR p. l. c. 2008 Pension and Life Assurance Scheme the Scheme on a contributory basis.
Their dependants are eligible for dependants pensions and the payment of a lump sum in the event of death in service.
Where the Scheme provides a pension on a fide ned bene t basis, Final Pensionable Salary is used to determine the directors pension entitlement.
Where bene ts are provided on a fide ned contribution basis, the bene ts depend on the directors accumulated fund.
Lump sum life assurance cover is provided at four times Pensionable Salary.
The pension entitlements earned by the directors during the year calculated in accordance with the requirements of the U. K. Listing Authority listing rules and the Companies Act 1995 were as follows: Total accrued Transfer value Total change in Increase in pension of net increase Value Value value during accrued pension entitlement in year, net of accrued of accrued year, net during the year at 30 of member pension at 31 pension at 30 of member net of in ation January 2010 contributions January 2009 January 2010 contributions 000 000 000 000 000 000 W. R. G. Barr 7 239 136 4,273 4,381 108 R. A.
The value of bene ts at 30 January 2010 represents the transfer value of his accrued bene ts to date of retirement.
A. L. Memmott ceased his accrual under the fide ned bene t plan on 1 March 2008.
His accrued bene t retains a link to his final pensionable salary.
The accrued pension entitlement is the amount that the director would receive if he retired at the year end.
The transfer value has been calculated on the basis of actuarial advice in accordance with the Occupational Pension Schemes Transfer Values Amendment Regulations 2008.
The gures showing the transfer value of net increase in accrued pension include an allowance for the costs of providing death in service bene ts.
The change in the amount of the transfer value during the year is made up of the following elements: a transfer value of the increase in accrued pension: b change in the transfer value of accrued pension at the start of the year due to ageing: and c the impact of any change in the economic or mortality assumptions underlying the transfer value basis.
Directors pay contributions as required by the Scheme and these amounts are offset in calculating the values shown in columns headed Transfer value of net increase in year and Total change in value in year.
From April 2009 salary sacri ce was introduced.
Members that joined this arrangement no longer pay contributions to the Scheme.
The transfer value of the accrued entitlements represent the value of assets that the Scheme would need to transfer to another pension provider on transferring the Schemes liabilities in respect of the directors pension bene ts.
They do not represent sums payable to individual directors and, accordingly, have been excluded from the remuneration table.
The Company paid contributions to the fide ned contribution section of the Scheme during the year in respect of the following members: Contributions paid 2010 2009 J. D. Kemp 34,950 24,550 A. L. Memmott 35,367 22,640 A.
B. C. Short 49,041 25,333 During the year the Group introduced a salary sacri ce arrangement under which a salary reduction was made and members no longer pay contributions to the Scheme.
This has resulted in an increase in the contributions paid by the Company in this year.
Directors Remuneration Report 52 Directors Remuneration Report continued Gains made by directors The aggregate value of gains realised on the exercise of share options and awards in the year to 30 January 2010 was 166,062 under the LTIP 31 January 2009: 840,768 under the LTIP and SAYE.
Interests in shares The interests of directors in the ordinary share capital at 30 January 2010 are as follows: 2010 2009 Bene cial Non-bene cial Bene cial Non-bene cial Executive R. A.
The 2009 interests in shares have been restated to re ect the effect of the share subdivision that took place during the year note 27.
There have been the following changes noti ed in the directors shareholdings between 30 January 2010 and 22 March 2010: A.
B. C. Short an increase in bene cial holding of 8,454 shares and an increase in non-bene cial holding of 3,262 shares, R. A.
White an increase in bene cial holding of 40 shares, A. L. Memmott an increase in bene cial holding of 6,350 shares and J. D. Kemp an increase in bene cial holding of 39 shares.
A. Barr 22 March 2010 Company Secretary A. G. BARR p. l. c. Annual Report and Accounts 2010 Directors Remuneration Report 53 Independent Auditors Report to the Members of A. G. BARR p. l. c. Opinion on other matters prescribed by the Companies Act 2006 We have audited the financial statements of A. G. BARR p. l. c. for the In our opinion: year ended 30 January 2010 set out on pages 54 to 93.
The financial the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited reporting framework that has been applied in their preparation has been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies is applicable law and International Financial Reporting Standards Act 2006: and IFRSs as adopted by the EU and, as regards the parent Company the information given in the Directors Report for the financial financial statements, as applied in accordance with the provisions year for which the financial statements are prepared is consistent of the Companies Act 2006. with the financial statements.
This report is made solely to the Companys members, as a body, Matters on which we are required to report by exception in accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006.
We have nothing to report in respect of the following: Our audit work has been undertaken so that we might state to the Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, Companys members those matters we are required to state to them in our opinion: in an auditors report and for no other purpose.
To the fullest extent adequate accounting records have not been kept by the parent permitted by law, we do not accept or assume responsibility to anyone Company, or returns adequate for our audit have not been received other than the Company and the Companys members, as a body, from branches not visited by us: or for our audit work, for this report, or for the opinions we have formed.
the parent Company financial statements and the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited are not in agreement Respective responsibilities of directors and auditors with the accounting records and returns: or As explained more fully in the Directors Responsibilities Statement certain disclosures of directors remuneration speci ed by law set out on page 46, the directors are responsible for the preparation are not made: or of the financial statements and for being satis ed that they give a we have not received all the information and explanations we require true and fair view.
Our responsibility is to audit the financial statements for our audit.
in accordance with applicable law and International Standards on Auditing U. K. and Ireland.
Those standards require us to comply with Under the Listing Rules we are required to review: the Auditing Practices Boards APBs Ethical Standards for Auditors.
the directors statement, set out on page 42, in relation to going concern: and Scope of the audit of the financial statements the part of the Corporate Governance Statement relating to the A description of the scope of an audit of financial statements is Companys compliance with the nine provisions of the June 2008 provided on the APBs web-site at www.
Combined Code speci ed for our review.
Opinion on financial statements In our opinion: the financial statements give a true and fair view of the state of the Groups and of the parent Companys affairs as at 30 January 2010 and of the Groups pro t for the year then ended: the Group financial statements have been properly prepared Craig Anderson in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the EU: Senior Statutory Auditor the parent Company financial statements have been properly for and on behalf of: prepared in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the EU and as applied in accordance with the provisions of the Companies KPMG Audit Plc, Statutory Auditor Act 2006: and Chartered Accountants the financial statements have been prepared in accordance with 1 91 West George Street the requirements of the Companies Act 2006 and, as regards Glasgow the Group financial statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
G2 2LJ 22 March 2010 Independent Auditors Report to the Members of A. G. BARR p. l. c.
