46 Statement on Corporate Governance continued Audits and reviews The key internal risks identi ed in the Group are subject to regular Company law requires the directors to prepare financial statements audits or reviews by the internal auditors.
This role is ful lled by an for each financial year.
Accordingly, the directors have prepared external professional services rm who are independent from the the Group and Company financial statements in accordance with board and the Company.
International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs as adopted by the European Union and applicable law.
Under company law The review of the internal auditors work by the Audit Committee and the directors must not approve the financial statements unless they monitoring procedures in place ensure that the findings of the audits are satis ed that they give a true and fair view of the state of affairs are acted upon and subsequent reviews con rm compliance with any of the Group and the Company and of the pro t or loss of the Group agreed action plans.
In preparing these financial statements, the directors are required to: The board con rms that there has been an independent internal audit function in place for the year.
select suitable accounting policies and then apply them consistently: make judgements and accounting estimates that are reasonable Combined Code compliance and prudent: The Company is committed to the principles of corporate governance state whether they have been prepared in accordance with IFRSs contained in the Code.
A copy of the Code is available on the Financial as adopted by the European Union: Reporting Councils website, www.
uk prepare the financial statements on the going concern basis unless it is inappropriate to presume that the Group and Company Each of the provisions of the Code has been reviewed and, where will continue in business.
necessary, steps have been taken to ensure that the Company is in compliance with all of those provisions as at the date of this report.
The directors are responsible for keeping adequate accounting records The directors consider that the Company has complied throughout that are suf cient to show and explain the Companys transactions and the year ended 30 January 2010 with the provisions set out in section 1 disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the financial position of the Code, except in relation to provisions A.
2.1 and C. 3.1. of the Company and the Group and enable them to ensure that the financial statements and the Directors Remuneration Report The board comprises three independent non-executive directors and comply with the Companies Act 2006.
They are also responsible for four executive directors.
In addition, W. R. G. Barr is a non-executive safeguarding the assets of the Company and the Group and hence director although he is not considered by the board to be independent.
for taking reasonable steps for the prevention and detection of fraud The composition of the Companys Remuneration Committee and Audit and other irregularities.
Committee does not, at present, comply with the recommendations of the Code.
Following a performance evaluation, the directors believe Directors statement pursuant that the board, the Remuneration Committee and the Audit Committee to the Disclosure and Transparency Rules are currently able to discharge their respective duties and obligations Each of the directors, whose names and functions are set out on pages successfully.
The board is mindful of its obligations under the Code 36 and 37 of this report con rm that, to the best of their knowledge: and regularly reviews the composition of the board and its committees to ensure that each is able to effectively and successfully discharge the financial statements, prepared in accordance with IFRSs as its duties.
adopted by the EU, give a true and fair view of the assets, liabilities, financial position and pro t or loss of the Group and Company: and Provision B.
1.6 of the Code recommends that executive directors the Business Review on pages 2 to 34 includes a fair review of the contracts contain a maximum notice period of one year.
As disclosed development and performance of the business and the position of in the Directors Remuneration Report, in the event of a takeover of the Group and Company, together with a description of the principal or by the Company or a Company reconstruction the notice period of risks and uncertainties that they face.
the executive directors reverts to two years in certain circumstances.
The Remuneration Committee considers that, given the shareholding A copy of the financial statements is placed on the Companys website, structure of the Company, this condition is appropriate in order to attract www.
The maintenance and integrity of this website is and retain high calibre executive directors.
the responsibility of the directors.
Legislation in the U. K. governing the preparation and dissemination of financial statements may differ Statement of directors responsibilities from legislation in other jurisdictions.
The directors are responsible for preparing the annual report and the Group and Company financial statements in accordance By order of the board with applicable law and regulations.
A. Barr Company Secretary 22 March 2010 A. G. BARR p. l. c. Annual Report and Accounts 2010 Statement on Corporate Governance
