45 Details of the amounts paid to the external auditors during the year The board has reviewed the effectiveness of the internal control for audit and other services are set out in note 2 to the financial systems, including controls related to financial, operational and statements.
The external auditors report their audit results to the reputational risks identi ed by the Group, in accordance with the Audit Committee, including a summary of the signi cant accounting Code for the period from 31 January 2009 to the date of approval and auditing issues, internal control findings and a summary of audit of this annual report.
The Audit Committee would consider any disagreements in accounting treatment between management and No signi cant failings or weaknesses were identi ed during this the external auditors, should any arise.
Had any failings or weaknesses been identi ed then the board would have taken the action required to remedy them.
At the beginning of each year, an internal control plan is developed by the internal auditors with reference to the signi cant risks At the Audit Committee meeting on 21 January 2010, following a contained within the Company risk register and identi ed controls.
review and evaluation of the controls and systems in place, the Audit The Audit Committee receives updates on the internal control Committee concluded that the Group has a sound system of internal workplan regularly throughout the year.
The external auditors do not place any direct reliance on the work The board con rms that there is an ongoing process, embedded undertaken by the internal auditors due to the nature of the scope and in the Groups integrated internal control systems, allowing for the the timing of their work.
In addition to the standing members of the identi cation, evaluation and management of signi cant business Audit Committee and representatives from the external and internal risks, as well as a reporting process to the board.
B. C. Short, the finance director, routinely attends.
the departments within the Company to undertake at least an annual review to identify new or potentially under-managed risks.
The results Nomination Committee of these reviews are reported to the board via the Audit Committee.
The Nomination Committee currently consists of R. G. Hanna, This process has been in place throughout the current year and up W. R. G. Barr, J. S. Espey and J. Warburton who joined on 26 May to the date of the approval of this annual report and it accords with 2009.
The Committee is chaired by R. G. Hanna.
The Committee the Turnbull guidance.
leads the process for making appointments to the board, ensures that there is a formal, rigorous and transparent procedure for the Following a review of the internal control processes, further appointment of new directors to the board, reviews the composition improvements were identi ed and have been put into place during of the board through a full evaluation of the skills, knowledge and the course of the year.
experience of directors, and ensures plans are in place for orderly succession for appointments to the board and to other senior executive The three main elements of the Groups internal control system, management positions.
No external search consultancy or open including risk identi cation, are as follows: advertising process was used in the appointment of J. Warburton to the board, who was identi ed by the Nomination Committee as The board a candidate who had outstanding breadth of commercial experience The board has overall responsibility for the Groups internal control in the fast-moving consumer goods sector.
systems and exercises this through an organisational structure with clearly fide ned levels of responsibility and authority as well Treasury Committee as appropriate reporting procedures.
The Treasury Committee consists of R. A.
B. C. Short and senior members of the finance and purchasing departments.
The board usually meets at twelve scheduled board meetings each The Treasury Committee reviews purchase requirements in foreign year and has a schedule of matters that are brought to it, or its duly currencies and implements foreign exchange hedging to reduce authorised committees, for decision aimed at maintaining effective the risk of foreign exchange exposure and provide certainty over control over strategic, financial, operational and compliance issues.
the value of non-domestic purchases in the short to medium term.
This structure includes the Audit Committee which, with the finance The Treasury Committee also uses financial instruments to hedge the director, reviews the effectiveness of the internal financial and Groups exposure to interest rate uctuations.
Further details of the operating control environment.
work carried out by the Treasury Committee are contained within the Financial Review on pages 14 to 20.
Financial reporting There is a comprehensive strategic planning, budgeting and Internal control forecasting system with an annual operating plan approved by the The board has overall responsibility for the Groups internal control board.
Monthly financial information, including trading results, cash systems and annually reviews its effectiveness, including a review ow statements, statement of financial position and indebtedness, of financial, operational, compliance and risk management controls.
The implementation and maintenance of the risk management and internal control systems are the responsibility of the executive directors The board and the management committee review their business and other senior management.
The systems are designed to manage and financial performance against the prior years budget and forecast.
rather than eliminate the risk of failure to achieve business objectives, and provide reasonable, but not absolute, assurance against material misstatement or loss.
