Notes to the financial statements 1 The Group and a summary of its significant accounting policies and financial risk management 1a General information about the Group The business of the Group ARM Holdings plc and its subsidiary companies ARM or the Group designs microprocessors, physical IP and related technology and software, and sells development tools, to enhance the performance, cost-effectiveness and energy-efficiency of high-volume embedded applications.
The Group licenses and sells its technology and products to leading international electronics companies, which in turn manufacture, market and sell microprocessors, application-specific integrated circuits ASICs and application-specific standard processors ASSPs based on ARMs technology to systems companies for incorporation into a wide variety of end products.
By creating a network of Partners, and working with them to best utilise ARMs technology, the Group is establishing its processor architecture and physical IP for use in many high-volume embedded microprocessor applications, including cellular phones, digital televisions and PC peripherals and for potential use in many growing markets, including smart cards and microcontrollers.
The Group also licenses and sells development tools direct to systems companies and provides support services to its licensees, systems companies and other systems designers.
The Groups principal geographic markets are Europe, the US and Asia Pacific.
Incorporation and history ARM is a public limited company incorporated and domiciled under the laws of England and Wales.
The registered office of the Company is 110 Fulbourn Road, Cambridge, CB1 9NJ, UK.
The Company was formed on 16 October 1990, as a joint venture between Apple Computer UK Limited and Acorn Computers Limited, and operated under the name Advanced RISC Machines Holdings Limited until 10 March 1998, when its name was changed to ARM Holdings plc.
Its initial public offering was on 17 April 1998.
Group undertakings include ARM Limited incorporated in the UK, ARM Inc. incorporated in the US, ARM KK incorporated in Japan, ARM Korea Limited incorporated in South Korea, ARM France SAS incorporated in France, ARM Germany GmbH incorporated in Germany, ARM Norway AS incorporated in Norway, ARM Sweden AB incorporated in Sweden, ARM Embedded Technologies Pvt.
Limited incorporated in India, ARM Physical IP Asia Pacific Pte.
Limited incorporated in Singapore, ARM Taiwan Limited incorporated in Taiwan and ARM Consulting Shanghai Co. Limited incorporated in PR China.
1b Summary of significant accounting policies The principal accounting policies applied in the presentation of these consolidated financial statements are set out below.
These policies have been consistently applied to all the years presented, unless otherwise stated.
Basis of preparation These consolidated financial statements have been prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS, as adopted by the EU, IFRIC interpretations and with those parts of the Companies Act 2006 applicable to companies reporting under IFRS.
This is in accordance with the Listing Rules of the Financial Services Authority.
The consolidated financial statements have been prepared under the historical cost convention as modified by the revaluation to fair value of available-for-sale investments: share-based payments: financial assets and liabilities including derivative instruments at fair value through the income statement: and embedded derivatives.
Critical accounting estimates and judgements The preparation of these financial statements requires the directors to make critical accounting estimates and judgements that affect the amounts reported in the financial statements and accompanying notes.
These estimates and judgements are summarised in note 1d.
78 ARM Holdings plc Annual Report 2010 1b Summary of significant accounting policies continued New standards, amendments and interpretations a Standards, amendments and interpretations effective in 2010 IFRS 3 Revised, Business combinations This is equivalent to FAS 141R issued by the FASB in December 2007.
The revision to this standard changes accounting for business combinations.
While the acquisition method is still applied, there are significant changes to the treatment of contingent payments, transaction costs and the calculation of goodwill.
Published by the IASB in January 2008, the standard is applicable to business combinations occurring in accounting periods beginning on or after 1 July 2009 and was endorsed by the EU on 3 June 2009.
This could impact the Groups financial statements in the future if it makes further acquisitions.
Amendment to IAS 39, Financial Instruments: Recognition and measurement of eligible hedged items This amendment makes two significant changes.
It prohibits designating inflation as a hedgeable component of a fixed rate debt.
It also prohibits including time value in the one-sided hedged risk when designating options as hedges.
Published by the IASB in July 2008, it is effective for periods beginning on or after 1 July 2009 and must be applied retrospectively.
This was endorsed by the EU on 15 September 2009 and has not impacted the Group since it does not currently designate any financial instruments as hedges.
Amendment to IFRS 2, Share-based payments: group cash-settled transactions This amendment provides a clear basis to determine the classification of share-based payment awards in both consolidated and separate financial statements.
Published by the IASB in 2009, it is effective for periods beginning on or after 1 January 2010 and was endorsed by the EU on 23 March 2010.
This has had no material impact on the Group.
Annual improvements 2009 This is a series of amendments to 12 standards as part of the IASB programme on annual improvement.
Published by the IASB in April 2009, these are effective for accounting periods beginning on or after 1 January 2010.
These were endorsed by the EU on 23 March 2010.
These improvements have had no material impact on the results of the Group.
Included within these improvements were: IAS 36 amendment, Impairment of assets This amendment clarifies that the largest cash-generating unit or group of units to which goodwill should be allocated for the purposes of impairment testing is an operating segment.
This has no impact on the Group since it does not aggregate segments for this purpose.
IAS 1 amendment, Presentation of financial statements The amendment clarifies that the potential settlement of a liability by the issue of equity is not relevant to its classification as current or non-current.
By amending the definition of current liability, the amendment permits a liability to be classified as non-current provided that the entity has an unconditional right to defer settlement by transfer of cash or other assets for at least 12 months after the accounting period notwithstanding the fact that the entity could be required by the counterparty to settle in shares at any time.
This has no impact on the Group as it does not settle liabilities in this manner.
IAS 38 amendment, Intangible assets The amendment clarifies guidance in measuring the fair value of an intangible asset acquired in a business combination and permits the grouping of intangible assets as a single asset if each asset has similar useful economic lives.
This standard could have an impact on the Group in the event that it makes an acquisition and chooses to adopt this policy.
IFRS 5 amendment Non-current assets held for sale and discontinued operations This amendment clarifies that IFRS5 specifies the disclosures required in respect of non-current assets classified as held for sale or discontinued operations.
This could have an impact on the Group if it holds such assets in the future.
ARM Holdings plc Annual Report 2010 79 Notes to the financial statements continued 1b Summary of significant accounting policies continued b Standards, amendments and interpretations effective in 2010 but not relevant to the Group IFRIC 15, Agreements for construction of real estate This clarifies which standard IAS 18, Revenue, or IAS 11, Construction contracts should be applied to particular transactions and means that IAS 18 is applied to a wider range of transactions.
This is not relevant to the Group as it does not have any transactions involving real estate.
Published by the IASB in July 2008, it is effective for periods beginning on or after 1 January 2009.
This standard was endorsed by the EU on 1 January 2010 for periods beginning on or after 1 December 2010.
IFRIC 16, Hedges of a net investment in a foreign operation This clarifies the usage and requirements of IAS 21 with respect to net investment hedging.
This is not relevant to the Group as it does not undertake such activities.
Published by the IASB in July 2008, it is effective for periods beginning on or after 1 October 2008.
This interpretation was endorsed by the EU for periods beginning on or after 1 July 2009.
IFRIC 17, Distributions of non-cash assets to owners This clarifies how an entity should measure distributions of assets, other than cash, when it pays dividends to its owners.
This is not relevant to the Group as it does not make any distributions of assets to its owners, other than cash.
Published by the IASB in November 2008, it is effective for periods beginning on or after 1 July 2009.
IFRIC 18, Transfer of assets from customers This clarifies the accounting for arrangements where an item of property, plant and equipment, which is provided by the customer, is used to provide an ongoing service.
This is not relevant to the Group as it does not engage in such activities.
Published by the IASB in January 2009, it is effective for transfers of assets from customers received on or after 1 July 2009.
This interpretation was endorsed by the EU for periods beginning on or after October 2010.
Amendments to IFRIC 9 and IAS 39, Embedded derivatives This amendment allows entities to reclassify particular financial instruments from the fair value through the income statement or available-for-sale categories in specific circumstances.
This is not relevant to the Group since it currently does not meet the criteria of the amendment.
Published by the IASB in March 2009, it is effective for periods commencing on or after 30 June 2009.
It was endorsed by the EU on 30 November 2009.
IAS 27 Revised, Consolidated and separate financial statements This amendment revises the accounting for transactions with non-controlling interests.
Published by the IASB in January 2008, this is effective for accounting periods beginning on or after 1 July 2009 and was endorsed by the EU on 3 June 2009.
This is not relevant to the Group as it does not have any non-controlling interests.
c Standards, amendments and interpretations that are not yet effective and have not been early adopted Amendment to IAS 24, Related party disclosures This removes the requirement for government-related entities to disclose details of all transactions with the government and it clarifies and simplifies the definition of a related party.
Published by the IASB in November 2009, this is effective for accounting periods beginning on or after 1 January 2011.
This amendment was endorsed by the EU on 19 July 2010.
IFRS 9, Financial instruments on classification and measurement This is the first part of a new standard to replace IAS 39.
IFRS 9 has two measurement categories: amortised cost and fair value.
All equity instruments are measured at fair value.
A debt instrument is measured at amortised cost only if the entity is holding it to collect contractual cash flows and the cash flows represent principal and interest.
Otherwise it is measured at fair value through the income statement.
Published by the IASB in November 2009, this is effective for accounting periods beginning on or after 1 January 2013.
This standard is not yet endorsed by the EU.
Amendment to IFRIC 14, Prepayments of a minimum funding requirement This relates to companies that are required to make minimum funding contributions to a defined benefit pension plan.
The Group does not have any such schemes and therefore it will not be relevant.
Published by the IASB in November 2009, it is effective for annual periods beginning on or after 1 January 2011.
This interpretation was endorsed by the EU on 19 July 2010.
IFRIC 19, Extinguishing financial liabilities with equity instruments This clarifies the accounting when an entity re-negotiates the terms of its debt with the result that the liability is extinguished through the debtor issuing its own equity instruments to the creditor.
Published by the IASB in November 2009, this is effective for accounting periods beginning on or after 1 July 2010.
This was endorsed by the EU on 23 July 2010.
Annual improvements 2010 This set of amendments includes changes to six standards and one IFRIC.
These are minor amendments and are not expected to have a significant impact on the Group.
Published by the IASB in May 2010, these are generally applicable for accounting periods beginning after 1 January 2011.
80 ARM Holdings plc Annual Report 2010 1b Summary of significant accounting policies continued Amendment to IAS 32, Rights Issues This addresses the accounting for rights issues which are denominated in a currency other than the functional currency of the issuer.
Published by the IASB October 2009, this is effective for accounting periods beginning on or after 1 February 2010.
This was endorsed by the EU on 23 December 2009.
Amendment to IAS 12, Income taxes on deferred tax This amendment introduces an exception to the existing principle for the measurement of deferred tax assets or liabilities arising on investment property measured at fair value.
This is not relevant to the Group as it does not currently own any investment properties.
Published by the IASB in December 2010, it is effective for accounting periods on or after 1 January 2012.
This is not yet endorsed by the EU.
It is too early to tell whether the adoption of these standards, annual improvements and interpretations will have an impact in future periods on the financial statements when they come into effect for accounting periods after 1 January 2011.
Principles of consolidation The consolidated financial statements incorporate the financial statements of the Company and all its subsidiaries.
Intra-group transactions, including sales, profits, receivables and payables, have been eliminated on consolidation.
All subsidiaries use uniform accounting policies for like transactions and other events and similar circumstances.
Business combinations The results of subsidiaries acquired in the year are included in the income statement from the date they are acquired.
On acquisition, all of the subsidiaries assets and liabilities that exist at the date of acquisition are recorded at their fair values reflecting their condition at that date.
Segment reporting At 31 December 2010, the Group was organised on a world-wide basis into three business segments, namely the Processor Division PD, the Physical IP Division PIPD and the System Design Division SDD.
This is based upon the Groups internal organisation and management structure and is the primary way in which the Chief Operating Decision Maker CODM and the rest of the board are provided with financial information.
The directors believe that the CODM is the Chief Executive Officer of the Group.
Segment expenses are expenses that are directly attributable to a segment together with the relevant portion of other expenses that can reasonably be allocated to the segment.
Foreign exchange gains or losses, investment income, interest payable and similar charges and tax are not allocated by segment.
Segment assets and liabilities include items that are directly attributable to a segment plus an allocation on a reasonable basis of shared items.
Corporate assets and liabilities are not included in business segments and are thus unallocated.
At 31 December 2010 and 2009, these comprised cash and cash equivalents, shortand long-term deposits, short-term marketable securities, available-for-sale financial assets, loans and receivables, embedded derivatives, and the fair value of currency exchange contracts.
Any current and deferred tax assets and liabilities are also not included in business segments and are thus unallocated.
Foreign currency translation a Functional and presentation currency The functional currency of each Group entity is the currency of the primary economic environment in which each entity operates.
The consolidated financial statements are presented in sterling, which is the presentation currency of the Group.
b Transactions and balances Transactions denominated in foreign currencies have been translated into the functional currency of each Group entity at actual rates of exchange ruling at the date of transaction.
Monetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies have been translated at rates ruling at the balance sheet date.
Exchange differences have been included in general and administrative expenses.
c Group companies The results and financial position of all Group entities none of which has the currency of a hyper-inflationary economy not based in the UK are translated into sterling as follows: i Assets and liabilities for each balance sheet presented are translated at the closing rate of exchange at the balance sheet date: ii Income and expenses for each income statement presented are translated at the exchange rate ruling at the time of each transaction during the period: and iii All resulting exchange differences are recognised as a separate component of equity, being taken directly to equity via the cumulative translation adjustment.
When a foreign operation is partially disposed of or sold, exchange differences that were recognised in equity are recognised in the income statement as part of the gain or loss on sale.
Goodwill and fair value adjustments arising on the acquisition of a foreign entity are treated as assets and liabilities of the foreign entity and translated at the closing rate.
ARM Holdings plc Annual Report 2010 81 Notes to the financial statements continued 1b Summary of significant accounting policies continued Fair value estimation The fair value of financial instruments traded in active markets such as trading and available-for-sale securities is based on quoted market prices at the balance sheet date.
The quoted market price used for financial assets held by the Group is the current bid price.
The fair value of financial instruments that are not traded in an active market for example, over-the-counter derivatives is determined using valuation techniques.
The Group uses a variety of methods and makes assumptions that are based on market conditions existing at each balance sheet date.
The fair value of forward exchange contracts is determined using quoted forward exchange rates at the balance sheet date.
The fair value of foreign currency options is based upon valuations performed by an independent bank as well as managements view of market conditions.
The carrying value less impairment provision of trade receivables and payables are assumed to approximate their fair values as this is the amount which would be receivable payable if the assets liabilities had crystallised at the balance sheet date.
Any current tax liabilities are not included in this category.
Revenue recognition The Group follows the principles of IAS 18, Revenue recognition, in determining appropriate revenue recognition policies.
In principle, therefore, revenue associated with the sale of goods is recognised when all of the following conditions have been satisfied: the Group has transferred to the buyer the significant risks and rewards of ownership of the goods: the Group does not retain either continuing managerial involvement to the degree usually associated with ownership or effective control over the goods sold: the amount of revenue can be measured reliably: it is probable that the economic benefits associated with the transaction will flow to the Group: and the costs incurred or to be incurred in respect of the sale can be measured reliably.
Revenue associated with the rendering of services is recognised when all of the following conditions have been satisfied: the amount of revenue can be measured reliably: it is probable that the economic benefits associated with the transaction will flow into the Group: the stage of completion of the transaction at the end of the reporting period can be measured reliably: and the costs incurred for the transaction and the costs to complete the transaction can be measured reliably.
Revenue is shown net of value-added tax, returns, rebates and discounts, and after eliminating sales within the Group.
Revenue comprises the value of sales of licences to ARM technology, royalties arising from the resulting sale of licensees ARM technology-based products, revenues from support, maintenance and training, consulting contracts and the sale of development boards and software toolkits.
Revenue from standard licence products which are not modified to meet the specific requirements of each customer is recognised when the all of the conditions relevant to revenue associated with the sale of goods have been satisfied: The significant risks and rewards of ownership are transferred when a license arrangement has been agreed and the goods have been delivered to the customer: Continuing managerial involvement and effective control over goods sold is relinquished at the point at which goods are delivered to the customer: Revenue is recognised to the extent that it is reliably measurable: any consideration due under the licensing arrangement that is not deemed to be reliably measurable is deferred until it can be measured reliably: and Revenue is recognised to the extent that it is probable that the economic benefits associated with the transaction will flow to the Group: any economic benefits of the transaction that are deemed unlikely to flow to the Group are deferred until it becomes probable that they will flow to the Group.
The majority of the Groups revenues come from the licensing of intellectual property and there are therefore very few direct costs associated with the sale of goods: where there are direct costs of sale, these are measured with reference to the purchasing agreements in place with the Groups suppliers.
82 ARM Holdings plc Annual Report 2010 1b Summary of significant accounting policies continued Revenue recognition continued Many licence agreements are for products which are designed to meet the specific requirements of each customer.
Revenue from the sale of such licences is recognised on a  basis over the period from signing of the licence to customer acceptance.
Under the  method, provisions for estimated losses on uncompleted contracts are recognised in the period in which the likelihood of such losses is determined.
The  is measured by monitoring progress using records of actual time incurred to date in the project compared with the total estimated project requirement, which approximates to the extent of performance.
Where invoicing milestones on licence arrangements are such that the receipts fall due significantly outside the period over which the customisation is expected to be performed or significantly outside its normal payment terms for standard licence arrangements, the Group evaluates whether it is probable that economic benefits associated with these milestones will flow to the Group and therefore whether these receipts should initially be included in the arrangement consideration.
In particular, it considers: whether there is sufficient certainty that the invoice will be raised in the expected timeframe, particularly where the invoicing milestone is in some way dependent on customer activity: whether it has sufficient evidence that the customer considers that the Groups contractual obligations have been, or will be, fulfilled: whether there is sufficient certainty that only those costs expected to be incurred will indeed be incurred before the customer will accept that a future invoice may be raised: and the extent to which previous experience with similar product groups and similar customers supports the conclusions reached.
Where the Group considers that there is insufficient evidence that it is probable that the economic benefits associated with such future milestones will flow to the Group, taking into account these criteria, such milestones are excluded from the arrangement consideration until there is sufficient evidence that it is probable that the economic benefits associated with the transaction will flow into the Group.
The Group does not discount future invoicing milestones, as the effect of so doing would be immaterial.
Where agreements involve several components, the entire fee from such arrangements is allocated to each of the individual components based on each components fair value, where fair value is the price that is regularly charged for an item when sold separately.
Where a component in a multiple-component agreement has not previously been sold separately, the assessment of fair value for that component is based on other factors including, but not limited to, the price charged when it was sold alongside other items and the book price of the component relative to the book prices of the other components in the agreement.
If fair value of one or more components in a multiple-component agreement is not determinable where such component is not considered incidental to the overall arrangement, the entire arrangement fee is deferred until such fair value is determinable, or the component has been delivered to the licensee.
Where, in substance, two or more elements of a contract are linked and fair values cannot be allocated to the individual components, the revenue recognition criteria are applied to the elements as if they were a single element.
Agreements including rights to unspecified future products as opposed to unspecified upgrades and enhancements are accounted for using subscription accounting, with revenue from the arrangement being recognised on a straightline basis over the term of the arrangement, or an estimate of the economic life of the products offered if no term is specified, beginning with the delivery of the first product.
In addition to the licence fees, contracts generally contain an agreement to provide post-delivery service support, in the form of support, maintenance and training which consists of the right to receive services and or unspecified product upgrades or enhancements that are offered on a  basis.
Fees for post-delivery service support are generally specified in the contract.
Revenue related to post-delivery service support is recognised based on fair value, which is determined with reference to contractual renewal rates.
If no renewal rates are specified, and fair value of the post-delivery support service cannot be determined by other methods, the entire fee under the transaction is amortised and recognised on a straight-line basis over the contractual post-delivery service support period.
Where renewal rates are specified, revenue for post-delivery service support is recognised on a straight-line basis over the period for which support and maintenance is contractually agreed by the Group with the licensee.
If the amount of revenue recognised exceeds the amounts invoiced to customers, the excess amount is recorded as amounts recoverable on contracts within accounts receivable.
The excess of licence fees and post-delivery service support invoiced over revenue recognised is recorded as deferred revenue.
ARM Holdings plc Annual Report 2010 83 Notes to the financial statements continued 1b Summary of significant accounting policies continued Revenue recognition continued Sales of software, including development systems, which are not specifically designed for a given licence such as off-the-shelf software are recognised upon delivery, when the significant risks and rewards of ownership have been transferred to the customer.
At that time, the Group has no further obligations except that, where necessary, the costs associated with providing post-delivery service support have been accrued.
Services such as training that the Group provides which are not essential to the functionality of the IP are separately stated and priced in the contract and, therefore, accounted for separately.
Revenue is recognised as services are performed and it is probable that the economic benefits associated with the transaction will flow into the Group.
Royalty revenues are earned on sales by the Groups customers of products containing ARM technology.
Royalty revenues are recognised when it is probable that the economic benefits associated with the transaction will flow to the Group and the amount of revenue can be reliably measured.
Revenues are recognised when the Group receives notification from the customer of product sales, or receives payment of any fixed royalties.
Notification is typically received in the quarter following shipment of the products by the customer.
Certain products have been co-developed by the Group and a collaborative partner, where both parties had the right to sell licences to the product.
In those cases where the Group receives royalty revenues from the sale of these products, the total value of the royalty is recorded as revenue and the amount payable to the collaborative partner is recorded as cost of sales.
Where the collaborative partner collects royalties on the sales of these products, the Group records as revenue the commission it is due when informed by the collaborative partner that a sale has been made.
As disclosed above, in accordance with IAS 8, Accounting policies, changes in accounting estimates and errors, the Group makes significant estimates in applying its revenue recognition policies.
In particular, as discussed in detail above, estimates are made in relation to the use of the  accounting method, which requires that the extent of progress toward completion of contracts may be anticipated with reasonable certainty.
The use of the  method is itself based on the assumption that, at the outset of licence agreements, there is an insignificant risk that customer acceptance is not obtained.
The Group also makes assessments, based on prior experience, of the extent to which future milestone receipts represent a probable future economic benefit to the Group.
In addition, when allocating revenue to various components of arrangements involving several components, it is assumed that the fair value of each element is reflected by its price when sold separately.
The complexity of the estimation process and issues related to the assumptions, risks and uncertainties inherent with the application of the revenue recognition policies affect the amounts reported in the financial statements.
If different assumptions were used, it is possible that different amounts would be reported in the financial statements.
Research and development expenditure All ongoing research expenditure is expensed in the period in which it is incurred.
Where a product is technically feasible, production and sale are intended, a market exists, expenditure can be measured reliably, and sufficient resources are available to complete the project, development costs are capitalised and amortised on a straight-line basis over the estimated useful life of the respective product.
The Group believes its current process for developing products is essentially completed concurrently with the establishment of technological feasibility which is evidenced by a working model.
Accordingly, development costs incurred after the establishment of technological feasibility have not been significant and, therefore, no costs have been capitalised to date.
Where no internally-generated intangible asset can be recognised, development expenditure is recognised as an expense in the period in which it is incurred.
Any collaborative agreement whereby a third party agrees to partially fund the Groups research and development is recognised over the period of the agreement as a credit within research and development costs.
Retirement benefit costs The Group contributes to defined contribution plans substantially covering all employees in Europe and the US and to government pension schemes for employees in Japan, South Korea, Taiwan, PR China, Israel and India.
The Group contributes to these plans based upon various fixed percentages of employee compensation, and such contributions are expensed as incurred.
Operating leases Leases in which a significant portion of the risks and rewards of ownership are retained by the lessor are classified as operating leases.
Costs, net of any lease incentives, in respect of operating leases are charged on a straight-line basis over the lease term even if payments are not made on such a basis.
Investment income, and interest payable and similar charges Investment income, and interest payable and similar charges relate to interest income and expense, which is accrued on a time basis, by reference to the principal outstanding and at the effective interest rate applicable.
84 ARM Holdings plc Annual Report 2010 1b Summary of significant accounting policies continued Dividends Distributions to equity holders are not recognised in the income statement under IFRS, but are disclosed as a component of the movement in shareholders equity.
A liability is recorded for a dividend when the dividend is approved by the Companys shareholders.
Interim dividends are recognised as a distribution when paid.
Earnings per share Basic earnings per share is calculated by dividing the earnings attributable to ordinary shareholders by the weighted average number of ordinary shares in issue during the period, excluding treasury, which are treated as cancelled.
For diluted earnings per share, the weighted number of ordinary shares in issue is adjusted to assume conversion of all dilutive potential ordinary shares.
The diluted share base for the year ended 31 December 2010 excludes incremental shares of approximately 185,000 2009: 11,986,000 related to employee share options.
These shares are excluded due to their anti-dilutive effect as a result of the exercise price of these shares being higher than the market price.
Property, plant and equipment The cost of property, plant and equipment is their purchase cost, together with any incidental costs of acquisition.
External costs and internal costs are capitalised to the extent they enhance the future economic benefit of the asset.
Depreciation is calculated so as to write off the cost of property, plant and equipment, less their estimated residual values, which are adjusted, if appropriate, at each balance sheet date, on a straight-line basis over the expected useful economic lives of the assets concerned.
The principal economic lives used for this purpose are: Freehold buildings 25 years Leasehold improvements Five to seven years or term of lease, whichever is shorter Computer equipment Three to five years Fixtures and fittings Five to ten years Motor vehicles Four years Provision is made against the carrying value of property, plant and equipment where an impairment in value is deemed to have occurred.
Asset lives and residual values are reviewed on an annual basis.
Intangible assets a Goodwill Goodwill represents the excess of the fair value of the consideration paid on acquisition of a business over the fair value of the assets, including any intangible assets identified and liabilities acquired.
Goodwill is not amortised but is measured at cost less impairment losses.
In determining the fair value of consideration, the fair value of equity issued is the market value of equity at the date of completion, the fair value of share options assumed is calculated using the Black-Scholes valuation model, and the fair value of contingent consideration is based upon whether the directors believe any performance conditions will be met and thus whether any further consideration will be payable.
ARM Holdings plc Annual Report 2010 85 Notes to the financial statements continued 1b Summary of significant accounting policies continued Intangible assets continued b Other intangible assets Computer software, purchased patents and licences to use technology are capitalised at cost and amortised on a straight-line basis over a prudent estimate of the time that the Group is expected to benefit from them, which is typically three to ten years.
Costs that are directly attributable to the development of new business application software and which are incurred during the period prior to the date that the software is placed into operational use, are capitalised.
Although an independent valuation is made of any intangible assets purchased as part of a business combination, the directors are primarily responsible for determining the fair value of intangible assets.
Developed technology, existing agreements and customer relationships, core technology, trademarks and tradenames, and order backlog are capitalised and amortised over a period of one to ten years, being a best estimate of the time that the Group is expected to benefit from them.
In-process research and development projects purchased as part of a business combination may meet the criteria set out in IFRS 3, Business combinations, for recognition as intangible assets other than goodwill.
The directors track the status of in-process research and development intangible assets such that their amortisation commences when the assets are brought into use.
This typically means a write off period of one to five years.
Amortisation is calculated so as to write off the cost of intangible assets, less their estimated residual values, which are adjusted, if appropriate, at each balance sheet date, on a straight-line basis over the expected useful economic lives of the assets concerned.
The principal economic lives used for this purpose are: Computer software Three to five years Patents and licences Three to ten years In-process research and development One to five years Developed technology One to five years Existing agreements and customer relationships Two to ten years Core technology Five years Trademarks and tradenames Four to five years Order backlog One year Impairment of non-financial assets Assets that have an indefinite useful life, for example goodwill, are not subject to amortisation but are tested annually for impairment.
Assets that are subject to amortisation are reviewed for impairment whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying amount may not be recoverable.
An impairment loss is recognised for the amount by which the assets carrying amount exceeds its recoverable amount.
The recoverable amount is the higher of an assets fair value less costs to sell and value in use.
For purposes of assessing impairment, assets are grouped at the lowest levels for which there are separately identifiable cash flows cash generating units.
Non-financial assets other than goodwill that suffered an impairment are reviewed for possible reversal of the impairment at each reporting date.
The annual impairment tests in 2010 and 2009 showed there was no impairment with respect to goodwill.
Furthermore, no trigger events have been identified that would suggest the impairment of any of the Groups other intangible assets.
Financial assets The Group classifies its financial assets in the following categories: at fair value through the income statement, loans and receivables, and available-for-sale.
The classification depends on the purpose for which the financial assets were acquired.
Management determines the classification of its financial assets at initial recognition.
86 ARM Holdings plc Annual Report 2010 1b Summary of significant accounting policies continued a Financial assets at fair value through the income statement Financial assets at fair value through the income statement are financial assets held for trading that is, assets that have been acquired principally for the purpose of selling in the short-term.
Assets in this category are classified as current assets.
They are initially recognised at fair value with transaction costs being expensed in the income statement.
Specifically, the Groups currency exchange contracts and embedded derivatives fall within this category.
Gains or losses arising from changes in the fair value of financial assets at fair value through the income statement are presented in the income statement within general and administrative expenses in the period in which they arise.
b Loans and receivables Loans and receivables are non-derivative financial assets with fixed or determinable payments that are not quoted in an active market.
They are included in current assets, except for maturities greater than 12 months after the balance sheet date.
These are classified as non-current assets.
Accounts receivable and cash and cash equivalents are classified as Loans and receivables in the balance sheet.
Loan and receivables are measured initially at fair value and then annually are measured at amortised cost.
c Available-for-sale financial assets Available-for-sale financial assets are non-derivatives that are either designated in this category or not classified in any of the other categories.
They are included in non-current assets unless management intends to dispose of the investment within 12 months of the balance sheet date.
Publicly-traded investments are classified as available-for-sale.
Initially recognised at fair value plus transaction costs on the trade date, they are revalued at market value at each period end.
Unrealised holding gains or losses on such securities are included, net of related taxes, directly in equity via a revaluation reserve except where there is evidence of permanent impairment see below.
Equity securities that are not publicly traded are also classified as available-for-sale and are recorded at fair value plus transaction costs at the trade date.
Given that the markets for these assets are not active, the Group establishes fair value by using valuation techniques.
At 31 December 2010 and 2009, the estimated fair value of these investments approximated to cost less any permanent diminution in value, based on estimates determined by the directors.
Impairment of financial assets The Group considers at each reporting date whether there is any indication that any financial asset is impaired.
If there is such an indication, the Group carries out an impairment test by measuring the assets recoverable amount, which is the higher of the assets fair value less costs to sell and their value in use.
If the recoverable amount is less than the carrying amount an impairment loss is recognised, and the assets are written down to their recoverable amount.
In the case of equity securities classified as available-for-sale, a significant or prolonged decline in the fair value of the security below its cost is considered as an indicator that the securities are permanently impaired.
If any such evidence exists for available-for-sale financial assets, the cumulative loss measured as the difference between the acquisition cost and the current fair value, less any permanent impairment loss on that financial asset previously recognised in the income statement is removed from equity and recognised in the income statement.
Impairment losses recognised in the income statement on equity instruments are not reversed through the income statement.
When securities classified as available-for-sale are sold or permanently impaired, the accumulated fair value adjustments recognised in equity are recycled through the income statement.
Impairment testing of trade receivables is described under Accounts receivable below.
Derivative financial instruments The Group utilises currency exchange contracts to manage the exchange risk on actual transactions related to accounts receivable, denominated in a currency other than the functional currency of the business.
The Groups currency exchange contracts do not subject the Group to risk from exchange rate movements because the gains and losses on such contracts offset losses and gains, respectively, on the transactions being hedged.
The currency exchange contracts and related accounts receivable are recorded at fair value at each period end.
Fair value is estimated using the settlement rates prevailing at the period end.
All recognised gains and losses resulting from the settlement of the contracts are recorded within general and administrative expenses in the income statement.
The Group does not enter into currency exchange contracts for the purpose of hedging anticipated transactions.
Cash and cash equivalents Cash and cash equivalents includes cash in hand, deposits held with banks and other short-term highly liquid investments with original maturities of three months or less.
ARM Holdings plc Annual Report 2010 87 Notes to the financial statements continued 1b Summary of significant accounting policies continued Shortand long-term deposits and short-term marketable securities The Group considers all highly-liquid investments with original maturity dates of greater than three months but less than one year to be either short-term deposits or short-term marketable securities.
Deposits with a maturity date of greater than one year from the balance sheet date are classified as long-term.
Accounts receivable Accounts receivable are recognised initially at fair value and subsequently measured at amortised cost using the effective interest method, less provision for impairment.
A provision for impairment of trade receivables is established when there is objective evidence that the Group will not be able to collect all amounts due according to the original terms of the receivables.
Accounts receivable are first assessed individually for impairment.
Significant financial difficulties of the debtor, probability that the debtor will enter bankruptcy or financial reorganisation, and default or delinquency in payments more than 90 days overdue are considered indicators that the trade receivable may be impaired.
The amount of the provision is the difference between the assets carrying amount and the present value of estimated future cash flows, discounted at the original effective interest rate.
Where there is no objective evidence of impairment for an individual receivable, it is included in a group of receivables with similar credit risk characteristics and these are collectively assessed for impairment.
In the case of impairment, the carrying amount of the asset s is reduced through the use of an allowance account, and the amount of the loss is recognised in the income statement within general and administrative costs.
When a trade receivable is uncollectible, it is written off against the allowance account for trade receivables.
Subsequent recoveries of amounts previously written off are credited against general and administrative costs in the income statement.
Inventories Inventories are stated at the lower of cost and net realisable value.
In general, cost is determined on a first-in, first-out basis and includes transport and handling costs.
Where necessary, provision is made for obsolete, slow-moving and defective inventory.
Accounts payable Accounts payable are recognised initially at fair value and subsequently measured at amortised cost using the effective interest method.
Income taxes The current income tax charge is calculated on the basis of tax laws enacted or substantively enacted at the balance sheet date in the countries where the Groups subsidiaries operate and generate taxable income.
Management periodically evaluates positions taken in tax returns with respect to situations in which applicable tax regulation is subject to interpretation and establishes provisions where appropriate on the basis of amounts expected to be paid to the tax authorities.
Deferred income taxes are computed using the liability method.
Under this method, deferred tax assets and liabilities are determined based on temporary differences between the financial reporting and tax bases of assets and liabilities and are measured using enacted rates and laws that will be in effect when the differences are expected to reverse.
The deferred tax is not accounted for if it arises from initial recognition of an asset or liability in a transaction, other than a business combination, that at the time of the transaction affects neither accounting nor taxable profit or loss.
Deferred tax assets are recognised to the extent that it is probable that future taxable profits will arise against which the temporary differences will be utilised.
Deferred tax is provided on temporary differences arising on investments in subsidiaries except where the timing of the reversal of the temporary difference is controlled by the Group and it is probable that the temporary difference will not reverse in the foreseeable future.
Deferred tax assets and liabilities arising in the same tax jurisdiction are offset.
In the UK and the US, the Group is entitled to a tax deduction for amounts treated as compensation on exercise of certain employee share options under each jurisdictions tax rules.
As explained under Share-based payments below, a compensation expense is recorded in the Groups income statement over the period from the grant date to the vesting date of the relevant options and awards.
As there is a temporary difference between the accounting and tax bases, a deferred tax asset is recorded.
The deferred tax asset arising is calculated by comparing the estimated amount of tax deduction to be obtained in the future based on the Companys share price at the balance sheet date with the cumulative amount of the compensation expense recorded in the income statement.
If the amount of estimated future tax deduction exceeds the cumulative amount of the compensation expense at the statutory rate, the excess is recorded directly in equity, against retained earnings.
88 ARM Holdings plc Annual Report 2010 1b Summary of significant accounting policies continued Income taxes continued As explained under Share-based payments below, no compensation charge is recorded in respect of options granted before 7 November 2002 or in respect of those options which have been exercised or have lapsed before 1 January 2005.
Nevertheless, tax deductions have arisen and will continue to arise on these options.
The tax effects arising in relation to these options are recorded directly in equity, against retained earnings.
Provisions Provisions for restructuring costs and legal claims are recognised when: the Group has a present legal or constructive obligation as a result of past events: it is more likely than not that an outflow of resources will be required to settle the obligation: and the amount of the outflow can be reliably estimated.
Embedded derivatives In accordance with IAS 39, Financial instruments: recognition and measurement, the Group has reviewed all its contracts for embedded derivatives that are required to be separately accounted for if they do not meet certain requirements set out in the standard.
From time to time, the Group may enter into contracts denominated in a currency typically US dollars that is neither the functional currency of the Group entity nor the functional currency of the customer or the collaborative partner.
Where there are uninvoiced amounts on such contracts, the Group carries such derivatives at fair value.
The resulting gain or loss is recognised in the income statement under general and administrative expenses, as shown below: 2010 2009 000 000 Loss in income statement 177 9,818 Share-based payments The Group issues equity-settled share-based payments to certain employees.
In accordance with IFRS 2, Sharebased payments, equity-settled share-based payments are measured at fair value at the date of grant.
Fair value is measured by use of the Black-Scholes pricing model.
The fair value determined at the grant date of the equity-settled share-based payments is expensed on a straight-line basis over the vesting period, based on the Groups estimate of the number of shares that will eventually vest.
The Group operates Save As You Earn SAYE schemes in the UK and an Employee Share Purchase Plan ESPP in the US.
Options under the SAYE schemes are granted at a 20% discount to market price of the underlying shares on the date of announcement of the scheme and at a 15% discount to the lower of the market prices at the beginning and end of the scheme for the ESPP.
The UK SAYE schemes are approved by the UK tax authorities, which stipulates that the saving period must be at least 36 months.
The Group has recognised a compensation charge in respect of the SAYE plans and US ESPPs.
The charges for these are calculated as detailed above.
The Group also has a Long Term Incentive Plan LTIP on which it is also required to recognise a compensation charge under IFRS 2, calculated as detailed above.
The share-based payments charge is allocated to cost of sales, research and development expenses, sales and marketing expenses and general and administrative expenses on the basis of headcount.
Employers taxes on share options Employers National Insurance in the UK and equivalent taxes in other jurisdictions are payable on the exercise of certain share options and vesting of share awards.
In accordance with IFRS 2, this is treated as a cash-settled transaction.
A provision is made, calculated using the intrinsic value of the relevant options and awards at the balance sheet date, pro-rated over the vesting period of the options.
Treasury shares Where the Company purchases its own equity share capital treasury shares, the consideration paid, including any directly attributable incremental costs is deducted from equity attributable to the Companys equity holders until the shares are cancelled or reissued.
Where such shares are subsequently sold or reissued, any consideration received, net of any directly attributable incremental transaction costs and the related income tax effects, is included in equity attributable to equity holders of the Company.
Equity instruments Equity instruments issued by the Company are recorded at the proceeds received, net of direct issue costs.
ARM Holdings plc Annual Report 2010 89 Notes to the financial statements continued 1c Financial risk management The Group operates in the intensely competitive semiconductor industry which has been characterised by price erosion, rapid technological change, short product life cycles, cyclical market patterns and heightened foreign and domestic competition.
Significant technological changes in the industry could affect operating results.
The Groups operations expose it to a variety of financial risks that include currency risk, interest rate risk, securities price risk, credit risk and liquidity risk.
Given the size of the Group, the directors have not delegated the responsibility for monitoring financial risk management to a sub-committee of the board.
The policies set by the board of directors are implemented by the Groups finance department.
The Group has a treasury policy that sets out specific guidelines to manage currency risk, interest rate risk, credit risk and liquidity risk and also sets out circumstances where it would be appropriate to use financial instruments to manage these.
Currency risk The Groups earnings and liquidity are affected by fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates, principally in respect of the US dollar, reflecting the fact that most of its revenues and cash receipts are denominated in US dollars, while a significant proportion of its costs are settled in sterling.
The Group seeks to use currency exchange contracts and currency options to manage the US dollar sterling risk as appropriate, by monitoring the timing and value of anticipated US dollar receipts which tend to arise from low-volume, high-value licence deals and royalty receipts in comparison with its requirement to settle certain expenses in US dollars.
The Group reviews the resulting exposure on a regular basis and hedges this exposure using currency exchange contracts and currency options for the sale of US dollars as appropriate.
Such contracts are entered into with the objective of matching their maturity with projected US dollar cash receipts.
The Group is also exposed to currency risk in respect of the foreign currency denominated assets and liabilities of its overseas subsidiaries.
At present, the Group does not mitigate this risk, for example by using foreign currency intragroup loans, as it currently has no requirement for external borrowings.
At 31 December 2010, the Group had outstanding currency exchange contracts to sell $65 million 2009: $45 million for sterling.
In addition, the Group utilises option instruments which have various provisions that, depending on the spot rate at maturity, give either the Group or the counterparty the option to exercise.
At 31 December 2010, the Group had outstanding currency options under which the Group may, under certain circumstances, be required to sell up to $208 million 2009: $106 million for sterling.
A common scenario with options of this type is that the spot price at expiry is such that neither the Group nor the counterparty chooses to exercise the option.
The Group had $153 million 2009: $87 million of accounts receivable denominated in US dollars at that date, and US dollar cash, cash equivalents, short-term deposits and marketable securities balances of $16 million 2009: $26 million.
Thus the Groups currency exchange contracts and currency options at the year-end potentially exceeded its US dollar current assets.
This is because the Group has taken longer term positions through its currency exchange contracts given the predictable nature of the Groups cash flows.
The Group has elected not to apply hedge accounting, and all movements in the fair value of derivative foreign exchange instruments are recorded in the income statement, offsetting the foreign exchange movements on the accounts receivable, cash, cash equivalents, short-term deposits and short-term marketable securities balances being hedged.
In addition, certain customers remit royalties and licence fees in other currencies, primarily the euro.
The Group is also required to settle certain expenses in euros, primarily in its French and German subsidiaries, and as the net amounts involved are not considered significant, the Group does not take out euro currency exchange contracts.
As at 31 December 2010, if sterling had strengthened by 10% against foreign currencies with all other variables held constant, post-tax profit for the year would have been 4.9 million lower 2009: 2.7 million, mainly as a result of the mix of financial instruments at respective year-ends.
90 ARM Holdings plc Annual Report 2010 1c Financial risk management continued Interest rate risk At 31 December 2010, the Group had 305.1 million 2009: 148.8 million of interest-bearing assets.
At 31 December 2010, 89% 2009: 75% of interest-bearing assets comprising cash and cash equivalents, shortand long-term deposits and marketable securities, loans and receivables and the Groups convertible loan notes are at fixed rates and are therefore exposed to fair value interest rate risk.
Floating rate cash earns interest based on relevant national LIBID or base rate equivalents and is therefore exposed to cash flow interest rate risk.
The proportion of funds held in fixed rather than floating rate deposits is determined in accordance with the policy outlined under Liquidity risk below.
Other financial assets, such as available-for-sale investments, are not directly exposed to interest rate risk.
Had interest rates been 1% lower throughout the year, interest receivable would have reduced by approximately 1.9 million 2009: 0.9 million and profit after tax by 1.4 million 2009: 0.6 million.
The Group had no borrowings during 2010 or 2009.
The Group had no derivative financial instruments to manage interest rate fluctuations in place at the year-end since it has no loan financing, and as such no hedge accounting is applied.
The Groups cash flow is carefully monitored on a daily basis.
Excess cash, considering expected future cash flows, is placed on either short-term or long-term deposits to maximise the interest income thereon.
Daily surpluses are swept into higher-interest earning accounts overnight.
Securities price risk The Group is exposed to equity securities price risk on available-for-sale investments.
As there can be no guarantee that there will be a future market for securities which are generally unlisted at the time of investment or that the value of such investments will rise, the directors evaluate each investment opportunity on its merits before committing ARMs funds.
The board of directors reviews holdings in such companies on a regular basis to determine whether continued investment is in the best interests of the Group.
Funds for such ventures are limited in order that the financial effect of any potential decline of the value of investments will not be substantial in the context of the Groups financial results.
i Listed investments At 31 December 2010 and 2009, the Group had no listed investments.
ii Unlisted investments The Group had unlisted investments including convertible loan notes with a carrying value as at 31 December 2010 of 20.3 million 2009: 9.4 million.
A permanent 10% fall in the underlying value of these companies as at 31 December 2010 would therefore have reduced the Groups post-tax profit by 1.5 million 2009: 0.7 million and resulted in a nil 2009: nil reduction in other components of equity.
Credit risk Credit risk is managed on a Group basis.
Credit risk arises from cash and cash equivalents, derivative financial instruments and deposits with banks and financial institutions, as well as credit exposures to customers, including outstanding receivables and committed transactions.
As at 31 December 2010 and 2009, the Group has no significant concentrations of credit risk.
The amount of exposure to any individual counterparty is subject to a limit, which is reassessed periodically by the board of directors.
Financial instrument counterparties are subject to pre-approval by the board of directors and such approval is limited to financial institutions with at least an AA rating, or in the case of UK building societies had over 1 billion in assets, except in certain jurisdictions where the cash holding concerned is immaterial.
At 31 December 2010 and 2009, the majority of the Groups cash, cash equivalents, shortand long-term deposits and marketable securities were deposited with major clearing banks and building societies in the UK and US in the form of money market deposits and corporate bonds for varying periods up to two years.
Over 95% of the Groups cash and cash equivalents, shortand long-term deposits and marketable securities were held with global financial institutions with at least an AA rating, or in the case of UK building societies had over 1 billion in assets, as at 31 December 2010 and 2009.
The Group has implemented policies that require appropriate credit checks on potential customers before sales commence.
The Group generally does not require collateral on accounts receivable, as many of its customers are large, well-established companies.
The Group has not experienced any significant losses related to individual customers or groups of customers in any particular industry or geographic area.
ARM Holdings plc Annual Report 2010 91 Notes to the financial statements continued 1c Financial risk management continued Credit risk continued The Group markets and sells to a relatively small number of customers with individually large value transactions.
At 31 December 2010, three 2009: one customers each accounted for over 10% of accounts receivable.
Monies from two of these customers have been received in full since the year-end.
The remaining customer for which outstanding balances are not yet due is one of the many large, established semiconductor companies that accounted in total for over 90% of the year-end accounts receivable balance, where the risk of default on monies owed is deemed negligible.
The Group performs credit checks on all customers other than those paying in advance in order to assess their creditworthiness and ability to pay its invoices as they become due.
As such, the balance of accounts receivable not owed by the large semiconductor companies is still deemed by management to be of low risk of default due to the nature of the checks performed on them, and accordingly a relatively small allowance against these receivables is in place to cover this low risk of default.
No credit limits were exceeded during the reporting period and management does not expect any significant losses from non-performance by these counterparties.
Liquidity risk The Groups policy is to maintain balances of cash, cash equivalents, shortand long-term deposits and marketable securities, such that highly liquid resources exceed the Groups projected cash outflows at all times.
Surplus funds are placed on fixedor floating-rate deposits depending on the prevailing economic climate at the time with reference to forward interest rates and also on the required maturity of the deposit as driven by the expected timing of the Groups cash receipts and payments over the shortto medium-term.
Management monitors rolling forecasts of the Groups liquidity reserve on the basis of expected cash flow.
This is carried out at both a local and a Group level, with the local subsidiaries being funded by the Group as required.
The table below analyses the Groups financial liabilities, which will be settled on a net basis, into relevant maturity groupings based on the remaining period from the balance sheet to the contractual maturity date.
The amounts disclosed in the table are the contractual undiscounted cash flows.
Balances due within 12 months equal their carrying balances as the impact of discounting is not significant.
Between Less than six months six months and one year 000 000 At 31 December 2010: Accounts payable 4,305 Accrued and other liabilities 41,789 At 31 December 2009: Accounts payable 2,280 Accrued and other liabilities 29,577 The table on the next page analyses the Groups derivative financial instruments which will be settled on a gross basis into relevant maturity groupings based on the remaining period at the balance sheet to the contractual maturity date.
92 ARM Holdings plc Annual Report 2010 1c Financial risk management continued Liquidity risk continued Over three months but Between Less than less than six months three months six months and one year 000s 000s 000s Forward foreign exchange contracts held-for-trading at 31 December 2010 Outflow $65,000 Inflow 41,230 Foreign exchange options held-for-trading at 31 December 2010 Outflow maximum $60,000 $63,000 $85,500 Inflow maximum 40,238 42,034 56,155 Forward foreign exchange contracts held-for-trading at 31 December 2009 Outflow $42,000 $3,000 Inflow 25,911 1,892 Foreign exchange options held-for-trading at 31 December 2009 Outflow maximum $36,000 $32,500 $37,500 Inflow maximum 23,463 21,014 24,599 Capital risk management The Groups objectives when managing capital are to safeguard the Groups ability to continue as a going concern in order to provide returns for shareholders and benefits for other stakeholders and to maintain an optimal capital structure to reduce the cost of capital.
The capital structure of the Group consists of cash, cash equivalents, shortand long-term deposits and marketable securities and capital and reserves attributable to equity holders of the Company, as disclosed in note 19 and the consolidated statement of changes in shareholders equity.
In order to maintain or adjust the capital structure, the Group may adjust the amount of dividends paid to shareholders, return capital to shareholders, issue new shares, sell assets to raise cash or take on debt.
Since 2004, the Groups strategy has been to increase its balance sheet efficiency by reducing its cash balance via returning cash to shareholders through a progressive dividend policy and a share buyback programme.
Whilst the Group intends to further increase balance sheet efficiency over time, since 2008, recognising the uncertain macroeconomic environment, the net cash balance was increased from 51.3 million at the start of 2008 to 78.8 million at 31 December 2008, 141.8 million at 31 December 2009 and to 291.8 million at 31 December 2010.
In the year, the interim dividend was increased by 20% reflecting the boards long-term confidence in the business.
No share buybacks were made in the year, though the programme remains in place and will be used as and when the board believe it is appropriate to do so.
The capital structure is continually monitored by the Group.
Fair value of currency exchange contracts The fair value of currency exchange contracts is estimated using the settlement rates.
The estimation of the fair value of the liability in respect of currency exchange contracts is 201,000 at 31 December 2010 2009: asset of 457,000.
The resulting gains and losses on the movement of the fair value of currency exchange contracts is recognised in the income statement under general and administrative expenses, as shown below: 2010 2009 000 000 Loss gain in income statement 658 18,914 ARM Holdings plc Annual Report 2010 93 Notes to the financial statements continued 1c Financial risk management continued Valuation hierarchy The table below shows the financial instruments carried at fair value by valuation method: Level 1 Level 2 Level 3 Total 2010 000 000 000 000 Assets Fair value through the income statement: Embedded derivatives 2,303 2,303 2,303 2,303 Available-for-sale: Other long-term investments 20,329 20,329 20,32920,329 Total assets 2,303 20,329 22,632 Level 1 valued using unadjusted quoted prices in active markets for identical instruments.
Level 2 valued using techniques based significantly on observable market data.
Level 3 valued using information other than observable market data.
As at 31 December 2010 there was a liability for currency exchange contracts of 201,000 2009: nil, which is considered to be a level 2 valuation.
Level 1 Level 2 Level 3 Total 2009 000 000 000 000 Assets Fair value through the income statement: Embedded derivatives 2,480 2,480 Currency exchange contracts 457 457 2,937 2,937 Available-for-sale: Short-term marketable securities 1,795 1,795 Other long-term investments 9,432 9,432 1,795 9,432 11,227 Total assets 1,795 2,937 9,432 14,164 Level 3 financial assets Other long-term investments 000 Balance, at 1 January 2010 9,432 Additions 11,019 Disposals 122 Balance, at 31 December 2010 20,329 Other long-term investments 000 Balance, at 1 January 2009 1,167 Additions 9,116 Disposals 439 Impairments 412 Balance, at 31 December 2009 9,432 94 ARM Holdings plc Annual Report 2010 1d Critical accounting estimates and judgements The preparation of financial statements in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles requires the directors to make critical accounting estimates and judgements that affect the amounts reported in the financial statements and accompanying notes.
These estimates and judgements are continually evaluated and are based on historical experiences and other factors, including expectations of future events that are believed to be reasonable under the circumstances.
The resulting accounting estimates will, by definition, seldom equal the related actual results.
The estimates and assumptions that have significant risk of causing a material adjustment to the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities within the next financial year are discussed below.
Impairment of goodwill The Group tests goodwill for impairment at least annually.
This requires an estimation of the value in use of the cashgenerating units CGUs to which goodwill is allocated.
As discussed in detail in note 15, estimating the value in use requires the Group to make an estimate of the expected future cash flows from the CGUs and also to choose a suitable discount rate in order to calculate the present values of those cash flows.
The Group uses a pre-tax discount rate of approximately 11% 2009: 12%.
Revenue recognition Revenue from the sale of licence agreements which are designed to meet the specific requirements of each customer is recognised on a  method basis.
Use of this method requires the directors to estimate the total project resource requirement and also any losses on uncompleted contracts.
Provisions for income taxes The Group is subject to income taxes in numerous jurisdictions.
Significant judgement is required in determining the world-wide provision for income taxes.
There are many transactions and calculations for which the ultimate tax determination is uncertain during the ordinary course of business.
The Group recognises liabilities for anticipated tax audit issues based on estimates of whether additional taxes will be due.
Where the final tax outcome of these matters is different from the amounts that were initially recorded, such differences will impact the income tax and deferred tax provisions in the period in which such determination is made.
Provision for impairment of trade receivables The Group assesses trade receivables for impairment which requires the directors to estimate the likelihood of payment forfeiture by customers.
Legal settlements and other contingencies Determining the amount to be accrued for legal settlement requires the directors to estimate the committed future legal and settlement fees the Group is expecting to incur.
Where suits are filed against the Group for infringement of patents, the directors assess the extent of any potential infringement based on legal advice and written opinions received from external counsel and then estimate the level of accrual required.
Contingent consideration for an acquisition is recognised as part of the purchase consideration if the contingent conditions are expected to be satisfied.
This requires the directors to estimate the acquirees future financial performance, typically more than one year post-acquisition.
ARM Holdings plc Annual Report 2010 95 Notes to the financial statements continued 2 Segmental reporting At 31 December 2010 the Group was organised on a world-wide basis into three main business segments: Processor Division PD, encompassing those resources that are centred around microprocessor cores, including specific functions such as graphics IP, fabric IP, embedded software and configurable digital signal processing IP.
Physical IP Division PIPD, concerned with the building blocks necessary for translation of a circuit design into actual silicon.
System Design Division SDD, focused on the tools and models used to create and debug software and systemon-chip SoC designs.
This is based upon the Groups internal organisation and management structure and is the primary way in which the CODM is provided with financial information.
Whilst revenues are also reported into four main revenue streams namely licensing, royalties, development systems and services, the costs, operating results and balance sheets are only analysed into these three divisions.
Further, the information provided to the CODM is based on normalised profit before tax and therefore this information is provided as well as the equivalent profit stated under IFRS.
The reconciling items: intangible amortisation and other acquisition related charges: share-based payments costs including employers taxes: restructuring and investment related charges are analysed below in addition to an analysis of revenues: operating costs: investment income: interest payable and similar charges: profit loss before tax: tax: profit loss after tax: depreciation: capital expenditure: total assets and liabilities: net assets and goodwill for each segment and the Group in total.
Unallocated operating costs are foreign exchange revaluation on monetary items, including cash and cash equivalents.
Unallocated assets and liabilities include: cash and cash equivalents: shortand long-term deposits: available-for-sale investments: marketable securities: loans and receivables: embedded derivatives: fair value of currency exchange contracts: deferred tax balances: current tax and VAT.
Capital expenditure comprises additions to property, plant and equipment and other intangible assets, including additions resulting from acquisitions through business combinations.
The results of each segment have been prepared using accounting policies consistent with those of the Group as a whole.
ARM Holdings plc Annual Report 2010 97 Notes to the financial statements continued 2 Segmental reporting continued Geographical information The Group manages its business segments on a global basis.
The operations are based in three main geographical areas.
The UK is the home country of the parent.
The main operations are in the following principal territories: Europe United States Asia Pacific Analysis of revenue by destination : 2010 2009 000 000 United States 129,252 84,747 Taiwan 51,839 34,828 South Korea 48,664 41,381 Japan 46,405 48,014 China 30,722 15,835 British Virgin Islands 21,346 14,550 Germany 16,271 8,481 Netherlands 14,794 14,347 Switzerland 13,316 10,369 Rest of Europe 13,930 13,936 Rest of Asia Pacific 9,596 7,832 Rest of North America 10,460 10,702 406,595 305,022 Destination is defined as the location of ARMs customers.
The Groups revenue within the home country of the parent company amounted to 3.8 million and 1.7 million for the years ended 31 December 2010 and 2009 respectively.
The Groups exports from the UK were 391.0 million and 293.2 million for the years ended 31 December 2010 and 2009 respectively.
Analysis of revenue by revenue stream: 2010 2009 000 000 Licensing 132,528 98,446 Royalties 217,624 155,447 Services 20,450 18,188 Development systems 35,993 32,941 406,595 305,022 Analysis of non-current assets excluding deferred tax assets, goodwill and other intangible assets : 2010 2009 000 000 Europe 43,134 14,410 United States 7,088 7,975 Asia Pacific 2,808 2,223 53,030 24,608 Includes the UK which had non-current assets excluding deferred tax assets, goodwill and other intangible assets of 42.7 million in 2010 2009: 14.0 million.
98 ARM Holdings plc Annual Report 2010 3 Key management compensation and directors emoluments Key management compensation The directors are of the opinion that the key management of the Group comprises the executive and non-executive directors of ARM Holdings plc together with the Executive Committee comprising all directors of ARM Limited and certain senior management.
These persons have authority and responsibility for planning, directing and controlling the activities of the entity, directly or indirectly.
At 31 December 2010, key management comprised 22 people 2009: 21.
The aggregate amounts of key management compensation are set out below: 2010 2009 000 000 Salaries and short-term employee benefits 8,395 6,441 Share-based payments 2,976 2,697 Group pension contributions to money purchase schemes 393 341 11,764 9,479 Directors emoluments The aggregate emoluments of the directors of the Company are set out below: 2010 2009 000 000 Aggregate emoluments in respect of qualifying services 4,632 3,842 Aggregate Group pension contributions to money purchase schemes 226 203 Aggregate gains on exercise of share options 6,178 976 Aggregate amounts receivable under the Long Term Incentive Plan 5,133 477 16,169 5,498 Detailed disclosures of directors emoluments are shown on page 70.
Details of directors interests in share options and awards are shown on pages 66 to 69 which form part of the financial statements.
4 Employee information The average monthly number of persons, including executive directors, employed by the Group during the year was: 2010 2009 Number Number By segment Processor Division 1,031 893 Physical IP Division 496 512 System Design Division 272 318 1,799 1,723 2010 2009 Number Number By activity Research and development 1,208 1,141 Sales and marketing 337 334 General and administrative 254 248 1,799 1,723 2010 2009 000 000 Staff costs for the above persons Wages and salaries 124,412 106,711 Restructuring costs 373 8,659 Share-based payments note 22 27,129 19,001 Social security costs 16,288 12,362 Other pension costs 5,871 5,281 174,073 152,014 ARM Holdings plc Annual Report 2010 99 Notes to the financial statements continued 5 Profit before tax: analysis of expenses by nature The following items have been charged credited to the income statement in arriving at profit before tax: 2010 2009 000 000 Staff costs, including share-based payments note 4 174,073 152,014 Cost of inventories recognised as an expense 3,308 2,659 Depreciation of property, plant and equipment owned assets note 14 6,119 5,618 Amortisation of other intangible assets note 16 : Cost of sales 255 385 Research and development 3,544 7,656 Sales and marketing 7,851 8,483 General and administrative 2,180 2,811 Impairment of available-for-sale investments 412 Profit on disposal of available-for-sale investments 37 224 Loss on disposal of property, plant and equipment and intangible assets 252 79 Other operating lease rentals payable Plant and machinery 21,837 17,524 Property 6,323 6,610 Accounts receivables impairment including movement in provision 904 1,018 Foreign exchange gains including movement on embedded derivatives 1,501 7,309 Services provided by the Groups auditor and its associates During the year the Group including its overseas subsidiaries obtained the following services from the Groups auditor and its associates: 2010 2009 000 000 Fees payable to the Groups auditor for the audit of the Company and consolidated financial statements 243 241 Fees payable to the Groups auditor and its associates for other services: The audit of the Groups subsidiaries pursuant to legislation 230 238 Services pursuant to section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act 240 247 Other services pursuant to legislation 81 86 Statutory audit, financial reporting and other related services 794 812 Tax services 174 412 All other services 50 109 1,018 1,333 100 ARM Holdings plc Annual Report 2010 6 Tax Analysis of charge in the year: 2010 2009 000 000 Current tax: Current tax on profits for the year 31,391 20,456 Adjustments in respect of prior years 298 2,664 Total current tax 31,689 17,792 Deferred tax 7,636 10,972 Income tax expense 24,053 6,820 Analysis of tax on items charged to equity: 2010 2009 000 000 Deferred tax credit on outstanding share options and awards 29,033 9,593 Current tax benefit on share options and awards 7,601 785 The tax for the year is different to the standard rate of corporation tax in the UK, as explained below: 2010 2009 000 000 Profit before tax 110,027 47,259 Profit before tax multiplied by rate of corporation tax in the UK of 28% 2009: 28% 30,808 13,233 Effects of: Adjustments to tax in respect of prior years 298 2,664 Adjustments in respect of foreign tax rates 1,203 295 Research and development tax credits 7,265 5,650 Permanent differences foreign exchange 4,462 Permanent differences other 1,340 402 Permanent differences recognition of US deferred tax assets 4,005 Foreign withholding tax 2,013 1,648 Amortisation of other intangible assets 641 1,294 Timing differences in respect of share-based payments 302 3,612 Total taxation 24,053 6,820 Includes expenditure disallowable for tax purposes.
Deferred tax Deferred tax is calculated in full on temporary differences under the liability method using the tax rate relevant to each tax jurisdiction.
The movement on the deferred tax account is shown below: 2010 2009 000 000 At 1 January 42,004 22,840 Income statement credit 7,636 10,972 Adjustment in respect of share-based payments 29,033 9,593 Exchange differences 387 1,408 Amount acquired with subsidiary undertakings 7 At 31 December 78,286 42,004 ARM Holdings plc Annual Report 2010 101 Notes to the financial statements continued 6 Tax continued Deferred tax assets have been partially recognised in respect of tax losses and other temporary differences giving rise to deferred tax assets because it is not probable that the unrecognised portion of these assets will be recovered.
Previously unrecognised deferred tax assets of 4,005,000 in the US have been recognised due to the increased likelihood that these will be recoverable.
The amount of deferred tax assets unrecognised at 31 December 2010 is 1,425,000 2009: 7,678,000.
No deferred tax has been recognised in respect of a further 23.0 million 2009: 29.0 million of unremitted earnings of overseas subsidiaries because the Group is in a position to control the timing of the reversal of the differences and either it is probable that such differences will not reverse in the foreseeable future or no tax is payable on the reversal.
In June 2010, the UK government announced its intention to reduce the main rate of UK corporation tax from 28% to 24% by 1 April 2014 by enacting, every year until 2014, a reduction of 1%.
At 31 December 2010, the first of these reductions, being a change in UK corporation tax rate from 28% to 27% on 1 April 2011, had been substantively enacted.
The government also announced that the main rate of capital allowances will decrease from 20% to 18% from 1 April 2012.
These changes have not had a material impact on the deferred tax balances as at 31 December 2010.
The movements in deferred tax assets and liabilities prior to offsetting of balances within the same tax jurisdiction as permitted by IAS 12, Income Taxes during the year are shown below.
Deferred tax assets and liabilities are only offset where there is a legally enforceable right of offset and there is an intention to settle the balances net.
Deferred tax assets Temporary Tax losses Amounts difference Temporary and R&D relating to on availabledifferences tax credits Nonshare-based for-sale relating to carried deductible payments investments fixed assets forward reserves Total 000 000 000 000 000 000 At 1 January 2010 18,945 374 6,914 9,154 12,075 47,462 Income statement credit charge 614 361 1,046 7,621 2,470 4,358 Movement on deferred tax arising on outstanding share options 25,626 25,626 Unutilised current year share option deductions 3,407 3,407 Exchange differences 310 310 At 31 December 2010 prior to offsetting 45,185 13 5,868 19,872 9,605 80,543 Offsetting of deferred tax liabilities 1,956 At 31 December 2010 after offsetting 78,587 At 1 January 2009 5,150 594 7,306 14,074 9,604 36,728 Income statement credit charge 5,311 220 392 4,152 2,471 3,018 Movement on deferred tax arising on outstanding share options 9,593 9,593 Unutilised current year share option deductions 1,109 1,109 Exchange differences 1,877 1,877 At 31 December 2009 prior to offsetting 18,945 374 6,914 9,154 12,075 47,462 Offsetting of deferred tax liabilities 4,738 At 31 December 2009 after offsetting 42,724 102 ARM Holdings plc Annual Report 2010 6 Tax continued Deferred tax liabilities Amounts relating to intangible assets arising on acquisition Other Total 000 000 000 At 1 January 2010 4,763 695 5,458 Movement in respect of amortisation of intangible assets 3,361 3,361 Other short-term differences 83 83 Exchange differences 77 77 At 31 December 2010 prior to offsetting 1,479 778 2,257 Offsetting of deferred tax assets 1,956 At 31 December 2010 after offsetting 301 At 1 January 2009 10,444 3,444 13,888 Acquired with subsidiary Logipard 7 7 Movement in respect of amortisation of intangible assets 5,205 5,205 Other short-term differences 2,749 2,749 Exchange differences 469 469 At 31 December 2009 prior to offsetting 4,763 695 5,458 Offsetting of deferred tax assets 4,738 At 31 December 2009 after offsetting 720 The deferred tax liability due after more than one year prior to offsetting is 1,308,000 2009: 1,198,000.
7 Dividends 2010 2009 000 000 Final 2008 paid at 1.32 pence per share 16,634 Interim 2009 paid at 0.97 pence per share 12,327 Final 2009 paid at 1.45 pence per share 19,022 Interim 2010 paid at 1.16 pence per share 15,301 34,323 28,961 In addition, the directors are proposing a final dividend in respect of the financial year ended 31 December 2010 of 1.74 pence per share which will absorb an estimated 23.4 million of shareholders funds.
It will be paid on 18 May 2011 to shareholders who are on the register of members on 3 May 2011.
8 Earnings per share Basic earnings per share is calculated by dividing the earnings attributable to ordinary shareholders by the weighted average number of ordinary shares in issue during the year, excluding those held as treasury stock which are treated as cancelled.
For diluted earnings per share, the weighted average number of ordinary shares in issue is adjusted to assume conversion of all dilutive potential ordinary shares.
The Company had two categories of dilutive potential ordinary shares during the year: those being share options granted to employees and directors where the exercise price is less than the average market price of the Companys ordinary shares during the year and the awards made under the Companys Restricted Stock Unit RSU, Deferred Annual Bonus Plan DAB and Long Term Incentive Plan LTIP schemes.
For 2010 and 2009 no shares that were allocated for awards under the LTIP were included in the diluted EPS calculation as the performance criteria could not be measured until the conclusion of the performance period.
Reconciliations of the earnings and weighted average number of shares used in the calculations are shown on the face of the income statement.
ARM Holdings plc Annual Report 2010 103 Notes to the financial statements continued 9 Cash and cash equivalents 2010 2009 000 000 Cash at bank and in hand 29,363 32,489 Bank deposits with original maturity of less than three months 2,000 29,363 34,489 Cash and cash equivalents The carrying amount approximates to fair value because of the short-term maturity of these instruments, being no greater than three months.
The effective interest rate on bank deposits with original maturity of less than three months outstanding as at 31 December 2009 was 1.5% and these deposits had an average maturity of 27 days.
10 Accounts receivable 2010 2009 000 000 Trade debtors including receivables from related parties see note 26 99,068 55,289 Less: Provision for impairment of trade debtors 2,091 2,395 Trade debtors, net 96,977 52,894 Amounts recoverable on contracts 8,691 12,353 Current accounts receivable 105,668 65,247 Movements in the Groups provision for impairment of trade debtors are as follows: 2010 2009 000 000 At 1 January 2,395 1,744 Credit charge to income statement 904 1,018 Utilised reclassification 543 263 Foreign exchange 57 104 At 31 December 2,091 2,395 See also note 18 for further disclosure regarding the credit quality of the Groups gross trade debtors.
11 Prepaid expenses and other assets 2010 2009 000 000 Other receivables 5,968 9,414 Prepayments and accrued income 12,463 14,221 Current prepaid expenses and other assets 18,431 23,635 Plus: non-current prepayments and accrued income 1,920 1,611 Total prepaid expenses and other assets 20,351 25,246 12 Inventories 2010 2009 000 000 Finished goods 2,043 2,138 Less: Provision for obsolescence of inventories 259 458 1,784 1,680 104 ARM Holdings plc Annual Report 2010 13 Available-for-sale financial assets Current: Short-term marketable securities 000 At 1 January 2010 1,795 Net cash redeemed in the year 1,950 Revaluation through equity 155 At 31 December 2010 Short-term marketable securities 000 At 1 January 2009 1,816 Revaluation through equity 130 Exchange differences 151 At 31 December 2009 1,795 Non-current: Other long-term investments 000 Net book value At 1 January 2010 9,432 Additions 11,019 Disposals 122 At 31 December 2010 20,329 Other long-term investments 000 Net book value At 1 January 2009 1,167 Additions 9,116 Disposals 439 Impairments 412 At 31 December 2009 9,432 Short-term marketable securities There is a readily available market for these investments.
Unrealised gains and losses on these investments are recognised directly in equity via the revaluation reserve.
The Group recognises an impairment charge when the decline in fair value below cost is judged to be other than temporary.
At 31 December 2009, the fair value was equal to cost.
At 31 December 2010, the Group had no such securities.
ARM Holdings plc Annual Report 2010 105 Notes to the financial statements continued 13 Available-for-sale financial assets continued Other long-term investments Those unlisted companies in which the Group has invested are generally early-stage development enterprises, which are generating value for shareholders through research and development activities, and most do not currently report profits carrying value at 31 December 2010: 20,329,000: 2009: 9,432,000.
The directors are of the opinion that the fair value of these investments approximates to carrying value.
Provisions have been made against other investments to reflect any impairment in value.
Additions in the year included: further convertible loan notes to Cognovo Limited a UK company specialising in software-defined modem techniques and solutions : a 13% investment and a further convertible loan note to Ideaworks 3D Limited a UK software company specialising in enabling games and applications to be deployed across multiple platforms and operating systems on mobile devices : a convertible loan note to Nethra Imaging Inc. a US chip company specialising in imaging solutions : a 27% investment comprising 13% voting and 14% non-voting shares in Calxeda Inc. a US company, formerly called Smooth-stone Inc. specialising in low-power server technology : and a 12% investment in Ambiq Micro Inc. a US company specialising ultra low-power microcontrollers.
During the year, the Group disposed of its investment in CoWare Inc. a company which develops system-on-chip software for a wide range of applications.
Other investments include a 5% holding in Arteris Holdings Inc. a US network-on-chip company, a 5% holding in Carbon Design Systems Inc. a US system-on-chip design solutions company, a 10% holding in Cyclos Semiconductor Inc. a US company specialising in on-chip energy harvesting, a 5% holding in eSol Co. Ltd an embedded software company in Japan and a 5% holding in Triad Semiconductor Inc. a US chip company specialising in mixed signal ASICs.
Available-for-sale financial assets include the following: 2010 2009 000 000 Unlisted short-term marketable securities US 1,795 Total current financial assets 1,795 Unlisted equity securities UK 579 25 Unlisted equity securities China 174 123 Unlisted equity securities Japan 890 890 Unlisted equity securities US 5,613 1,416 Convertible loan notes UK 10,624 6,615 Convertible loan notes US 2,449 363 Total non-current financial assets 20,329 9,432 Total financial assets 20,329 11,227 Available-for-sale financial assets are denominated in the following currencies: 2010 2009 000 000 Sterling 17,880 9,069 US dollars 2,449 2,158 Total financial assets 20,329 11,227 106 ARM Holdings plc Annual Report 2010 14 Property, plant and equipment Fixtures, fittings and Freehold Leasehold Computer motor buildings improvements equipment vehicles Total 000 000 000 000 000 Cost At 1 January 2010 190 20,709 21,686 5,678 48,263 Additions 3245,161697 6,182 Disposals 3,709 1,428 1,298 6,435 Exchange differences 359 512 244 1,115 At 31 December 2010 190 17,683 25,931 5,321 49,125 Aggregate depreciation At 1 January 2010 87 14,178 17,027 3,406 34,698 Charge for the year 7 1,537 3,770 805 6,119 Transfers 3 3 Disposals 3,613 1,431 1,191 6,235 Exchange differences 103 367 226 696 At 31 December 2010 94 12,208 19,730 3,246 35,278 Net book value At 31 December 2010 96 5,475 6,201 2,075 13,847 Fixtures, fittings and Freehold Leasehold Computer motor buildings improvements equipment vehicles Total 000 000 000 000 000 Cost At 1 January 2009 190 19,573 21,689 6,127 47,579 Additions 2,610 2,636 784 6,030 Transfers 18 76 58 Disposals 840 1,717 789 3,346 Exchange differences 616 998 386 2,000 At 31 December 2009 190 20,709 21,686 5,678 48,263 Aggregate depreciation At 1 January 2009 79 13,620 16,218 3,465 33,382 Charge for the year 8 1,434 3,252 924 5,618 Transfers 2 10 12 Disposals 742 1,700 776 3,218 Exchange differences 136 753 195 1,084 At 31 December 2009 87 14,178 17,027 3,406 34,698 Net book value At 31 December 2009 103 6,531 4,659 2,272 13,565 ARM Holdings plc Annual Report 2010 107 Notes to the financial statements continued 15 Goodwill 000 At 1 January 2009 567,844 Revision to consideration and intangible assets Logipard 103 Exchange differences 51,149 At 31 December 2009 516,798 Exchange differences 15,487 At 31 December 2010 532,285 During the fourth quarter of 2010, the Group tested its balance of goodwill for impairment in accordance with IAS 36, Impairment of assets.
No impairment charge was recorded as a result of this annual impairment test.
Goodwill is allocated to the Groups CGUs according to business segment.
The carrying amounts of goodwill by CGU at 31 December 2010 are summarised below: System Processor Physical IP Design Division Division Division Group 000 000 000 000 Goodwill relating to Artisan 125,923 377,767 503,690 Goodwill relating to Falanx 9,400 9,400 Goodwill relating to Axys 7,777 7,777 Goodwill relating to KEG and KSI 7,150 7,150 Goodwill relating to Logipard 2,177 2,177 Goodwill relating to other acquisitions 2,060 31 2,091 Goodwill at 31 December 2010 139,560 377,767 14,958 532,285 Goodwill at 31 December 2009 135,723 366,258 14,817 516,798 The recoverable amount for each CGU has been measured based on a value in use calculation.
Processor Division PD The Processor Division encompasses those resources that are centred around microprocessor cores, including specific functions such as graphics IP, fabric IP, embedded software IP and configurable digital signal processing DSP IP.
The key assumptions in the value in use calculations were: Period over which the directors have projected cash flows A ten-year forecast period is used with an assumed terminal growth rate after 2020 of 3% per annum.
It is considered appropriate to use a ten-year forecast period to properly reflect the period over which the benefits of the acquired businesses to the Processor Division are expected to accrue.
Revenue growth Revenue growth assumptions are based on financial budgets and forecasts approved by senior management, taking into account typical semiconductor industry growth rates and ARMs historical experience in the context of wider industry and economic conditions.
Revenue attributable to the benefits afforded by owning the PIPD unit The directors believe that revenue will accrue to PD as a result of the ownership of the Physical IP Division for the following reasons: The development of faster and more power-efficient microprocessors as a result of collaboration between PD and PIPD engineering teams.
This is expected to generate more PD licensing deals at higher prices: The potential for PD to win more microprocessor licensing business as a result of ARM being able to offer both processor and physical IP in-house: and The improvement in PD operating margins as a result of being able to transfer a number of engineering tasks to the Bangalore design centre acquired with Artisan.
108 ARM Holdings plc Annual Report 2010 15 Goodwill continued Operating margins Operating margins have been assumed to grow steadily over the period of the calculation.
Discount rate Future cash flows are discounted at a rate of 10% per annum post tax.
The directors are confident that the amount of goodwill allocated to PD is appropriate and that the assumptions used in estimating its fair value are appropriate.
Whilst it is conceivable that a key assumption in the calculation could change, the directors believe that no reasonably foreseeable changes to key assumptions would result in an impairment of goodwill, such is the margin by which the estimated fair value exceeds the carrying value.
Physical IP Division PIPD The Physical IP Division is concerned with the building blocks necessary for translation of a circuit design into actual silicon.
Given the long-term nature of the ARM licensing and royalty business model, it is considered appropriate to use a ten-year forecast period to assess the expected future cash flows to be generated from the assets under review.
The Groups experience in PD indicates that the base of licences grows gradually over time as licensees outsource an increasing proportion of their physical IP needs, with royalties, which are a function of the cumulative licensing base, increasing accordingly.
Revenue growth Revenue is assumed to grow by approximately 12% per annum on average for the next five years, falling to 4% per annum by 2020, reflecting the uncertainty of estimating revenues in the years further in the future.
Since the acquisition of Artisan at the end of 2004, PIPD has accelerated the development of leading-edge physical IP technology.
As semiconductor process geometries shrink, PIPD is expected to have more licensing opportunities across a broader range of foundries and other semiconductor companies.
Royalty revenues are expected to increase going forward as a result of the growth in the installed licence base, both before and after the acquisition of Artisan.
US dollar licence revenues increased by 15% year-on-year in 2010 and royalty revenues increased by 21%.
The increase in revenues was due not only to the improved economic climate during 2010 but also further success in signing licences for leading edge physical IP technology.
As a result, backlog increased by 34% in 2010 compared with the beginning of the year.
The directors believe that the investment of the past few years in the technology portfolio will not only bring growth in future years to PIPD but also contribute significantly to the success of PD as the synergistic benefits of the combined technologies begin to accrue.
Further evidence of this was seen in 2010 with a number of licences being signed for Processor Optimisation Packages POPs.
These POPs enable an enhanced performance in PD processors.
Operating margins Operating margins are assumed to increase gradually over time to around 30% by the end of the forecast period.
In 2010, PIPD made a loss, mostly as a result of the continued level of investment in the development of leading-edge technology in advance of the revenues from both licensing and royalties being received.
Margins are expected to improve significantly in future years as licence revenues from leading-edge products gather pace and royalties increase at effectively 100% margins.
Costs are expected to remain relatively flat in real terms.
This timescale is consistent with ARMs experience in developing the processor licensing and royalty model.
ARM has signed over 700 processor licences with more than 250 customers over the last 20 years with less than half of these paying royalties thus far.
As royalty revenues are a function of cumulative licensing, royalty growth gathers momentum as the licensing base grows ARM processor royalties have increased from $38 million in 2002 to $291 million in 2010.
The directors are confident that the amount of goodwill allocated to PIPD and the assumptions used in estimating its fair value are appropriate.
The overall assessment is most sensitive to changes in the assumed revenues.
Although an overall compound annual growth rate of 12% for the next five years, dropping to 4% by 2020 is anticipated by the directors in reaching their conclusions, an annual growth rate of 7% would support the carrying value of goodwill within the division.
ARM Holdings plc Annual Report 2010 109 Notes to the financial statements continued 15 Goodwill continued System Design Division SDD The System Design Division is concerned with the tools and models used to create and debug software and systemon-chip SoC designs.
The key assumptions in the value in use calculations were: Period over which the directors have projected cash flows A five-year forecast period is used with an assumed terminal growth rate after 2015 of 3% per annum.
It is considered appropriate to use a five-year forecast period to properly reflect the weighted average period over which the benefits of the acquisitions of Axys, KEG and KSI are expected to accrue.
Operating margins Operating margins are assumed to be around 14% on average during the period.
The directors are confident that the amount of goodwill allocated to SDD and the assumptions used in estimating its fair value are appropriate.
16 Other intangible assets Existing agreements In-process and Trademarks Computer Patents and research and Developed customer Core and Order software licences development technology relationships technology tradenames backlog Total 000 000 000 000 000 000 000 000 000 Cost At 1 January 2010 9,587 25,430 6,007 38,465 53,825 14,304 4,491 1,982154,091 Additions 1,173 1,173 Disposals 1,064 1,064 Exchange differences 99 181 362 1,224 449 141 62 2,518 At 31 December 2010 9,795 25,430 6,188 38,827 55,049 14,753 4,632 2,044156,718 Aggregate amortisation At 1 January 2010 8,450 16,649 5,521 32,386 45,827 14,304 4,276 1,982129,395 Charge for the year 789 2,102 515 3,028 7,170 226 13,830 Disposals 866 866 Exchange differences 76 152 454 937 449 130 62 2,260 At 31 December 2010 8,449 18,751 6,188 35,868 53,934 14,753 4,632 2,044144,619 Net book value At 31 December 2010 1,346 6,679 2,959 1,115 12,099 110 ARM Holdings plc Annual Report 2010 16 Other intangible assets continued Existing agreements In-process and Trademarks Computer Patents and research and Developed customer Core and Order software licences development technology relationships technology trademarks backlog Total 000 000 000 000 000 000 000 000 000 Cost At 1 January 2009 9,639 25,430 6,497 41,823 58,762 15,760 4,949 2,183165,043 Additions 845 845 Acquisition Logipard 98 296 175 23 Disposals 669 669 Exchange differences 228 588 3,062 5,112 1,456 458 201 11,105 At 31 December 2009 9,587 25,430 6,007 38,465 53,825 14,304 4,491 1,982154,091 Aggregate amortisation At 1 January 2009 7,914 14,417 4,744 31,579 42,033 12,677 4,414 2,183119,961 Charge for the year 1,405 2,232 1,268 3,473 7,776 2,898 283 19,335 Disposals 669 669 Exchange differences 200 491 2,666 3,982 1,271 421 201 9,232 At 31 December 2009 8,450 16,649 5,521 32,386 45,827 14,304 4,276 1,982129,395 Net book value At 31 December 2009 1,137 8,781 486 6,079 7,998 215 24,696 17 Accrued and other liabilities 2010 2009 000 000 Accruals: Provision for payroll taxes on share awards 17,722 6,156 Employee bonus and sales commissions 22,719 10,724 Other accruals 25,001 23,851 Total accruals 65,442 40,731 Other taxation and social security 2,561 1,996 Other payables 4,025 3,961 72,028 46,688 ARM Holdings plc Annual Report 2010 111 Notes to the financial statements continued 18 Financial instruments a Financial instruments by category The accounting policies for financial instruments have been applied to the line items below: Financial assets Assets at fair value through Loans and the income Availablereceivables statement for-sale Total 000 000 000 000 At 31 December 2010 Cash and cash equivalents 29,363 29,363 Short-term deposits 247,466 247,466 Embedded derivatives 2,303 2,303 Accounts receivable gross of impairment provision 107,759 107,759 Total current financial assets 384,588 2,303 386,891 Available-for-sale investments unlisted 20,329 20,329 Long-term deposits 15,000 15,000 Loans and receivables 1,934 1,934 Total non-current financial assets 16,934 20,329 37,263 Total financial assets 401,522 2,303 20,329 424,154 At 31 December 2009 Cash and cash equivalents 34,489 34,489 Short-term deposits 105,524 105,524 Short-term marketable securities 1,795 1,795 Embedded derivatives 2,480 2,480 Currency exchange contracts 457 457 Accounts receivable gross of impairment provision 67,642 67,642 Total current financial assets 207,655 2,937 1,795 212,387 Non-current available-for-sale investments unlisted 9,432 9,432 Total financial assets 207,655 2,937 11,227 221,819 Financial liabilities 2010 2009 000 000 Liabilities at amortised cost at 31 December: Accounts payable 4,305 2,280 Accrued and other liabilities 41,789 29,577 46,094 31,857 Liabilities at fair value through the income statement at 31 December: Currency exchange contracts 201 Total financial liabilities 46,295 31,857 Loans and receivables During 2010 the Group invested 2.5 million in an interest-free charitable bond with Future Business.
This has been recognised in loans and receivables at its initial fair value of 1,934,000, measured using the effective interest method, which resulted in a charge of 566,000 being recognised as interest payable and similar charges.
Short-term deposits The effective interest rate on short-term deposits outstanding at the year-end was 1.78% 2009: 1.92% and these deposits have an average maturity of 159 days 2009: 126 days.
Long-term deposits The effective interest rate on long-term deposits outstanding at the year-end was 2.53% and these deposits have an average maturity of 543 days.
112 ARM Holdings plc Annual Report 2010 18 Financial instruments continued b Credit quality of financial assets Trade debtors On a quarterly basis, all trade debtors more than three months overdue are considered for impairment on a line-byline basis.
Either a provision is made or the lack thereof is justified, with review by senior members of the Groups finance team.
2010 2009 000 000 Trade debtors gross of impairment provision : Not yet due 66,012 30,255 Under 90 days overdue 27,260 18,922 Over 90 days overdue but not provided for 3,705 3,717 Fully provided for 2,091 2,395 Total 99,068 55,289 As shown above, at 31 December 2010 trade debtors less than 90 days overdue amounted to 27.3 million.
Of those outstanding at 31 December 2010, 12.4 million had been collected by 25 February 2011 and 13.8 million were owed by large, established customers.
Similarly, debtors more than 90 days overdue and not provided for amounted to 3.7 million of which 1.5 million had been collected by 25 February 2011 and 1.6 million was owed by large, established customers.
For the remainder, discussions regarding repayment are ongoing and repayment schedules have been agreed with the customers concerned.
These will be monitored on a quarterly basis in accordance with the control outlined above.
No further analysis has been provided here on the quality of these debts as they are not felt to pose a material threat to the Groups future results.
As shown above, at 31 December 2010, trade debtors fully provided for amounted to 2.1 million 2009: 2.4 million.
Of those provided for at 31 December 2010, nil relates to trade debtors that are between three and six months overdue 2009: 0.2 million and 2.1 million relates to trade debtors that are over six months overdue 2009: 2.2 million.
Highly liquid financial assets As at 31 December 2010, 97% 2009: 91% of the Groups cash and cash equivalents, shortand long-term deposits and marketable securities were held with institutions that had either an AA rating or, in the case of UK building societies, had over 1 billion in assets.
At 31 December 2010, a total of 21.6 million shares 2009: 60.3 million were held as treasury stock.
At 31 December 2010, own shares held have a nominal value of 0.05 pence 2009: 0.05 pence and in total represent 1.6% 2009: 4.5% of called-up share capital.
ARM Holdings plc Annual Report 2010 113 Notes to the financial statements continued 21 Acquisitions There were no acquisitions in 2010 or 2009.
22 Share-based payments The Group has several share option schemes in current operation, whereby options over shares in the Company can be granted to employees and directors.
The different schemes are described below, but all options are granted with a fixed exercise price equal to the market price of the shares under option at the date of grant, except for those options within the SAYE and ESPP schemes as detailed below.
Furthermore, from 2006, the Company has issued Restricted Stock Units RSUs to employees instead of options which are actual share awards on vesting rather than options to buy shares at a fixed exercise price.
Whilst the Company reserves the right to award options to employees going forward, the majority of awards to employees will be in RSUs.
Under the UK Inland Revenue Executive Approved Share Option Plan the Executive Scheme, the Company may grant options to employees meeting certain eligibility requirements.
Options under the Executive Scheme are exercisable between three and ten years after their issue, after which time the options expire.
Under the Companys Unapproved Scheme the Unapproved Scheme, for which it has not sought approval from the UK tax authorities, options are exercisable one to seven years after their issue, after which time the options expire.
The Company also operates the US ISO Scheme, which is substantially the same as the Unapproved Scheme, the main difference being that the options are exercisable one to five years after their issue.
Under both of these schemes options are exercisable as follows: 25% maximum on first anniversary, 50% maximum on second anniversary, 75% maximum on third anniversary, 100% maximum on fourth anniversary.
Various options to directors under the Unapproved Scheme have certain performance criteria attached, which if met are exercisable after three years, otherwise they will become exercisable after seven years.
There is a further scheme for our French employees the French Scheme.
In the French Scheme, options are exercisable between four and seven years after their issue.
Upon the acquisition of Artisan in 2004, the Company assumed the share schemes of Artisan existing at acquisition.
The schemes remained substantially the same as prior to the acquisition, other than the options became options to purchase shares in ARM Holdings plc instead of Artisan Components Inc.
The number and value of options were amended in line with the conversion ratio as detailed in the merger agreement.
The schemes assumed were the 1993 Plan, the 2000 Plan, the 2003 Plan, and the ND00 Plan.
Under each plan, there are multiple vesting templates and vesting periods.
The majority of the options were already vested upon acquisition, and the most common template was 25% vesting after one year, and then 6.25% vesting each quarter thereafter, until 100% vest after four years.
Some options vest on a monthly basis, and some vest over five years.
All options lapse ten years from the date of grant.
The Company also offers savings-related share option schemes SAYE for all non-US employees and executive directors of the Group.
The number of options granted is related to the value of savings made by the employee.
The period of savings is three or five years.
The option price for grants made since 2007 was set at 80% of the market share price prior to the announcement of the grant, but in previous years was set at 85%, and the right to exercise normally only arises for a six-month period once the savings have been completed.
In 2007, the Company commenced a new savings-related option scheme for US employees, namely the Employee Share Purchase Plan ESPP.
The period of savings is six months, with the option price being at 85% of the lower of the market share price at the beginning and end of the scheme.
The main RSU awards to employees in all jurisdictions other than France vest similarly to the unapproved scheme above, namely 25% on each anniversary over four years.
RSU awards to our French employees vest 50% after two years, and then a further 25% after three and four years.
Additionally, the Company operates a Deferred Annual Bonus plan DAB.
Under the DAB, which is for directors and selected senior management within the Group, participants are required to defer 50% of any related annual bonus into shares on a compulsory basis.
These shares will be deferred for three years, and then a further matching award will be made depending on the achievement of an EPS performance condition over that time.
The Company also operates the Long Term Incentive Plan LTIP, also for directors and selected senior management, whereby share awards are made and vest depending on the Companys TSR performance compared to two comparator groups over the threeyear performance period.
114 ARM Holdings plc Annual Report 2010 22 Share-based payments continued As disclosed in note 4, staff expenses arising from these share-based compensation schemes of 27.1 million 2009: 19.0 million were charged to the income statement in the year.
This is in line with the Groups policies for recognition and measurement of the costs associated with these remuneration schemes as outlined in note 1.
The fair value of options granted was estimated on the date of grant using the Black-Scholes option pricing model, except for the ESPP whose fair value is the intrinsic value of the award at the date of vest.
As all are share awards with no exercise price, all awards have been deemed to have an exercise price of 0.0000001 in the Black-Scholes model.
The expected life is the expected period to exercise.
A reconciliation of option and share award movements over the year to 31 December 2010 is shown below.
Share awards do not have an exercise price and therefore the reconciliation below shows only the number of awards, with no corresponding weighted average exercise prices.
The following options over ordinary shares were in existence at 31 December: 2010 Weighted Weighted Weighted average average average remaining remaining Number exercise life life Exercise price outstanding price Expected Contractual Outstanding options: 0.22 0.4375 1,604,754 0.30 0.56 1.11 0.47 0.9475 7,417,573 0.71 1.36 2.27 1.005 1.055 1,730,025 1.05 0.67 1.32 1.0575 1.25 461,049 1.20 0.74 1.37 1.325 3.75 2,239,459 1.79 1.45 2.15 Total 13,452,8600.901.17 1.96 Outstanding RSU LTIP DAB awards: 0.00 RSUs 27,690,117 1.25 1.25 0.00 LTIP 11,474,982 0.96 0.96 0.00 DAB 3,304,427 1.16 1.16 Total 42,469,526 1.17 1.17 2009 Weighted Weighted Weighted average average average remaining remaining Number exercise life life Exercise price outstanding price Expected Contractual Outstanding options: 0.19 0.45 5,429,016 0.28 0.76 1.55 0.47 0.9475 9,602,312 0.69 2.13 3.49 1.005 1.055 6,857,892 1.05 0.98 2.20 1.0575 1.25 6,598,545 1.23 0.72 1.34 1.325 7.738 6,374,997 1.85 1.07 2.59 Total 34,862,762 1.01 1.23 2.36 Outstanding RSU LTIP DAB awards: 0.00 RSUs 25,795,320 1.33 1.33 0.00 LTIP 12,099,901 1.32 1.32 0.00 DAB 3,325,820 1.36 1.36 Total 41,221,041 1.33 1.33 ARM Holdings plc Annual Report 2010 117 Notes to the financial statements continued 23 Capital and other financial commitments 2010 2009 000 000 Capital expenditure commitments 694 778 Other financial commitments expenditure on investments 3,044 1,500 Contracts placed for future capital and other financial expenditure not provided in the financial statements 3,738 2,278 24 Operating lease commitments minimum lease payments At 31 December 2010, the Group had commitments under non-cancellable operating leases as follows: 2010 2009 Land and Land and buildings Other Total buildings Other Total 000 000 000 000 000 000 The future aggregate minimum lease payments under non-cancellable operating leases are as follows: Within one year 6,176 14,042 20,218 5,348 16,357 21,705 Later than one year and less than five years 16,932 2,187 19,119 14,759 14,544 29,303 After five years 7,185 7,185 3,263 3,263 At 31 December 30,293 16,229 46,522 23,370 30,901 54,271 25 Financial contingencies Guarantees It is common industry practice for licensors of technology to offer to indemnify their licensees for loss suffered by the licensee in the event that the technology licensed is held to infringe the intellectual property of a third party.
Consistent with such practice, the Group provides such indemnification to its licensees but subject, in all cases, to a limitation of liability.
The obligation for the Group to indemnify its licensees is subject to certain provisos and is usually contingent upon a third party bringing an action against the licensee alleging that the technology licensed by the Group to the licensee infringes such third partys intellectual property rights.
The indemnification obligations typically survive any termination of the licence and will continue in perpetuity.
The Group does not provide for any such guarantees unless it has received notification from the other party that they are likely to invoke the guarantee.
The provision is made if both of the following conditions are met: i information available prior to the issuance of the financial statements indicates that it is probable that a liability had been incurred at the date of the financial statements: and ii the amount of the liability can be reasonably estimated.
Any such provision is based upon the directors estimate of the fair value of expected costs of any such claim.
26 Related party transactions During 2009, the Group received funding for SOI technology development of 1,033,000 from SOI TEC Silicon On Insulator Technologies SA Soitec, a company of which Doug Dunn, Group Chairman, is a non-executive director.
No amounts were outstanding from Soitec in relation to this funding at either 31 December 2010 or 2009.
During 2009 the Group also invoiced 409,000 to Soitec in relation to an IP licence which was fully outstanding at 31 December 2009.
This has been settled in full during 2010.
Furthermore, the Group was invoiced 390,000 in 2009 by Soitec in relation to licence income from the two parties ongoing collaborative agreement to develop SOI technology.
Amounts owed to Soitec at 31 December 2010 in relation to this agreement were nil 2009: 390,000.
As at 31 December 2009 139,000 was owing to the Group by Netronome Systems Inc. a company of which John Scarisbrick a non-executive director of the Group is Chairman.
During 2010 this balance was repaid in full and no further amounts invoiced.
During the year, the Group was invoiced 3,190,000 in subscription fees by its associated company, Linaro Limited.
As at 31 December 2010, 1,029,000 was outstanding.
In addition the Group provided consulting and other services to Linaro of 1,050,000.
As at 31 December 2010, 595,000 was owed to the Group.
Further information relating to Linaro is disclosed in note 28.
There were no other related party transactions during 2010 which require disclosure.
Key management compensation is disclosed in note 3.
118 ARM Holdings plc Annual Report 2010 27 Post-balance sheet events After the year-end, the directors proposed payment of a final dividend in respect of 2010 of 1.74 pence per share.
Subject to shareholder approval, the final dividend will be paid on 18 May 2011 to shareholders on the register on 3 May 2011.
The final dividend has not been recognised as a distribution during the year ended 31 December 2010.
28 Principal subsidiaries and associates Details of principal subsidiary undertakings are shown below.
Not all subsidiaries are included as the list would be excessive in length.
A full list is filed in the Groups Annual Return.
All investments are indirectly held unless otherwise shown.
Proportion of total nominal value of issued Name of undertaking Country of registration Principal activity shares held ARM Limited England and Wales Marketing, research and development of RISC-based microprocessors and physical IP components 100 ARM Inc.
US Marketing, research and development of RISC-based microprocessors and physical IP components 100 ARM KK Japan Marketing of RISC-based microprocessors and physical IP 100 ARM Korea Limited South Korea Marketing of RISC-based microprocessors and physical IP 100 ARM France SAS France Marketing and development of RISC-based microprocessors and physical IP 100 ARM Norway AS Norway Development of IP 100 ARM Sweden AB Sweden Development of IP 100 ARM Germany GmbH Germany Marketing and development of RISC-based microprocessor IP, integrated processor modelling solutions and microcontroller tools 100 ARM Embedded Technologies Pvt.
India Marketing, research and development of Limited RISC-based microprocessors and physical IP 100 ARM Physical IP Asia Pacific Pte.
Singapore Marketing of RISC-based microprocessors Limited and physical IP 100 ARM Taiwan Limited Taiwan Marketing of RISC-based microprocessors and physical IP 100 ARM Consulting Shanghai Co. PR China Marketing of RISC-based microprocessors Limited and physical IP 100 The Company itself owns less than 1% of the share capital of ARM Limited, the remaining shares are held indirectly through ARM Finance UK Limited and ARM Finance UK Three Limited.
Both ARM Finance UK Limited and ARM Finance UK Three Limited are 100% owned within the Group.
During 2010, the Group was a founder member in the creation of Linaro Limited Linaro, a not for profit company created to foster innovation in the Linux community.
Linaro is a company limited by guarantee and as such has no shareholders.
From incorporation to the end of September 2010, the Group controlled a majority of the board of Linaro, and as such treated it as a subsidiary undertaking during that period.
Following the appointment of additional third party directors at the end of September 2010, the Group now controls only 25% of the board and therefore considers Linaro to be an associate rather than a subsidiary.
During 2010, Linaro made no profit or loss and has nil net assets at 31 December 2010.
ARM Holdings plc Annual Report 2010 119 Company balance sheet UK GAAP As at 31 December 2010 2009 Notes 000 000 Fixed assets Investments 4 590,815 563,686 Current assets Debtors 5 28,783 40,702 Cash at bank and in hand 929 172 29,712 40,874 Creditors: amounts falling due within one year 6 432 398 Net current assets 29,280 40,476 Total assets less current liabilities 620,095 604,162 Net assets 620,095 604,162 Capital and reserves Called-up share capital 7 672 672 Option reserve 8 61,474 61,474 Profit and loss reserve 8 557,949 542,016 Equity shareholders funds 9 620,095 604,162 The financial statements on pages 120 to 126 were approved by the board of directors on 28 February 2011 and were signed on its behalf by: Doug Dunn, Chairman 120 ARM Holdings plc Annual Report 2010 Notes to the financial statements UK GAAP 1 Principal accounting policies The financial statements have been prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 2006 and applicable Accounting Standards in the UK.
A summary of the more important accounting policies, which have been consistently applied and reviewed by the board of directors in accordance with Financial Reporting Standard FRS 18, Accounting policies, is set out below: Basis of accounting The financial statements are prepared in accordance with the historical cost convention, as modified for fair value in relation to share-based payments.
Investments in subsidiaries Investments in subsidiaries are initially recorded at cost.
Where an acquisition satisfies the provisions of section 612 of the Companies Act 2006 for merger relief, the investment is stated at the nominal value of shares issued plus the fair value of any other consideration.
Cash flow statement The Company has taken advantage of the exemption in FRS 1 Revised 1996 Cash flow statements which provides that where a company is a member of a group and a consolidated cash flow statement is published, the company does not have to prepare a cash flow statement.
Foreign currency Transactions denominated in foreign currencies have been translated into sterling at actual rates of exchange ruling at the date of the transaction.
Exchange differences have been included in operating profit.
Taxation Current tax is provided at amounts expected to be paid using the tax rates and laws that have been enacted or substantively enacted by the balance sheet date.
Financial instruments The Company does not have any financial instruments, other than intercompany payables and receivables and cash.
Due to the short-term nature of these balances, the Company considers the fair value of these items to equal the carrying value.
Because the Company is included in the consolidated financial statements of the ARM Holdings plc group which are publicly available, and the financial disclosures required by FRS 29 are in those financial statements, no disclosure has been presented in these financial statements.
Share schemes The Company issues equity-settled share-based payments, including an LTIP, to certain employees of subsidiary undertakings.
In accordance with FRS 20, equity-settled share-based payments are measured at fair value at the date of grant.
The fair value determined at the grant date of the equity-settled share-based payments is expensed in the accounts of the subsidiary companies on a straight-line basis over the vesting period, based on the Companys estimate of the number of shares that will eventually vest.
The Company operates Save As You Earn SAYE schemes in the UK and an Employee Share Purchase Plan ESPP in the US.
Options under the SAYE scheme granted since 2007 were at a 20% discount to market price of the underlying shares on the date of announcement of the scheme, whereas all prior years schemes were at a 15% discount.
The UK SAYE schemes are approved by the Inland Revenue, which stipulates that the saving period must be at least 36 months.
The Company has taken advantage of the exemption available, and has applied the provisions of FRS 20 only to those options granted after 7 November 2002 and which were outstanding at 31 December 2004.
The Company does not have any employees and as such, in accordance with UITF 44, all share-based compensation has been recorded as capital contributions to subsidiaries.
Treasury shares The Company has a share buyback programme under which the Company is able to purchase its own shares and hold them as treasury shares.
These shares will be used to satisfy employee share option exercises and other share awards.
In accordance with FRS 25, the Company recognises these shares at cost as a deduction in arriving at shareholders funds.
2 Profit for the financial year As permitted by Section 408 of the Companies Act 2006, the parent companys profit and loss account has not been included in these financial statements.
The parent companys loss after taxation, including dividends receivable and before dividends payable was 888,000 2009: profit of 179,023,000.
The Company has no employees: all six executive directors have contracts of service with ARM Limited, a subsidiary of the Company.
All emoluments of these directors are paid by ARM Limited and are disclosed in the remuneration report within these financial statements.
Audit fees are disclosed in note 5 to the consolidated financial statements on page 100.
ARM Holdings plc Annual Report 2010 121 Notes to the financial statements UK GAAP continued 3 Dividends paid and proposed 2010 2009 000 000 Final dividend paid of 1.45 pence per ordinary share in respect of 2009 2009: 1.32 pence in respect of 2008 19,022 16,634 Interim dividend paid of 1.16 pence 2009: 0.97 pence per ordinary share 15,301 12,327 34,323 28,961 21,624,158 shares were held as treasury stock by the Company at 31 December 2010.
Any shares held in treasury at the record date for a dividend will be waived by the Company.
The directors have recommended the payment of a final dividend of 1.74 pence per share in respect of 2010 estimated total cost of 23.4 million, bringing the total dividend payable in respect of 2010 including the interim of 1.16 pence per share to 2.90 pence per share.
This will be paid to shareholders after approval by the shareholders at the 2011 AGM.
4 Investments The cost and net book value of interests in Group undertakings held by the Company was 590,815,000 at 31 December 2010 and 563,686,000 at 31 December 2009.
The Company took advantage of merger relief in 2004 and did not record the premium on the issue of shares for the acquisition of Artisan Components Inc. now ARM Inc. and thus did not record the premium within the value of the investment in the Company balance sheet at that time.
Investments in subsidiary undertakings 000 Cost and net book value At 1 January 2010 563,686 Capital contributions arising from share-based compensation charges 27,129 At 31 December 2010 590,815 Where options and awards over the Companys shares have been issued to the employees of subsidiary undertakings, the fair value of employee services performed equal to the share-based compensation charge has been recorded as a capital contribution.
Interests in Group undertakings Details of subsidiary undertakings are as follows: Proportion of nominal value Country of Description of issued Name of undertaking registration of shares held shares held ARM Limited England and Wales Ordinary 1 shares less than 0.01% ARM Finance UK Limited England and Wales Ordinary $1 shares 100% The principal activity of ARM Limited is the marketing, research and development of RISC-based microprocessors and physical IP components.
The remaining shares in ARM Limited were held at the balance sheet date by ARM Finance UK Limited AFL and ARM Finance UK Three Limited AFL3 with AFL3 itself being an indirect wholly owned subsidiary of AFL.
The principal activities of both AFL and AFL3 are as intermediate holding companies.
Nominees of the Company hold 100% of the ordinary share capital of ARM Employee Benefit Trustee Ltd, a company which acts as trustee to the Groups ESOP.
Various options to directors under the Unapproved Scheme have certain performance criteria attached which, if met, are exercisable after three years: otherwise they will become exercisable after seven years.
The schemes assumed were the 1993 Plan, the 2000 Plan, the 2003 Plan and the ND00 Plan.
The Company also operates savings-related share option schemes SAYE for all employees and executive directors of the Group, except for ARM Inc.
The period of savings is either three or five years.
The option price for grants made between 2007 and 2010 was set at 80% of the market share price prior to the announcement of the scheme, but in previous years was set at 85%, and the right to exercise normally only arises for a six-month period once the savings have been completed.
In 2007, the Company commenced a new savings-related option scheme for employees of ARM Inc. namely the Employee Share Purchase Plan ESPP.
The Company also issues restricted stock units RSUs to employees which are actual share awards on vesting rather than options to buy shares at a fixed exercise price.
For disclosures relating to the grants in the year and fair value assumptions, reconciliations of opening to closing option balances and related items, please refer to note 22 in the IFRS accounts within these financial statements.
ARM Holdings plc Annual Report 2010 125 Notes to the financial statements UK GAAP continued 8 Reserves Option Profit and reserve loss reserve 000 000 At 1 January 2010 61,474 542,016 Proceeds on issue of treasury shares on exercise of share options 24,015 Credit in respect of capital contributions arising from share-based compensation charges 27,129 Loss profit attributable to shareholders 888 Equity dividends payable 34,323 At 31 December 2010 61,474557,949 The Company has taken advantage of merger relief and not recorded the premium on the issue of shares for the acquisition of Artisan Components Inc. now ARM Inc..
The option reserve represents the fair value of options granted on the acquisition of Artisan Components Inc. in 2004.
The Company considers the option reserve as non-distributable.
Within the profit and loss account is 128,354,000 of credits in respect of FRS 20 employee share scheme charges in respect of services performed by employees of subsidiary undertakings and recorded as a capital contribution.
The Company also considers these credits as nondistributable.
As such, 429,595,000 of the profit and loss account is deemed distributable.
The Company did not undertake any share buy-backs during 2010.
The quantum and frequency of share repurchases is not predetermined and will take into account prevailing market conditions, the shortto medium-term cash needs of the business and the level of employee share-based remuneration going forward.
Offset within retained earnings is an amount of 22,059,000 2009: 65,102,000 representing the cost of own shares held, being 21,624,158 2009: 60,321,361 shares in the Company.
These shares are expected to be used for the benefit of the Groups employees and directors to satisfy share options, restricted stock units RSUs and conditional share awards in future periods.
9 Reconciliation of movements in shareholders funds 2010 2009 000 000 Loss profit attributable to shareholders 888 179,023 Equity dividends payable 34,323 28,961 35,211 150,062 Proceeds on issue of treasury shares on exercise of share options 24,015 19,085 Credit in respect of capital contributions arising from share-based compensation charges 27,129 19,001 Net addition to shareholders funds 15,933 188,148 Opening shareholders funds 604,162 416,014 Closing shareholders funds 620,095 604,162 10 Capital commitments The Company had no capital commitments at 31 December 2010 and 2009.
11 Financial commitments and contingencies At 31 December 2010 and 2009 the Company had no annual commitments under non-cancellable operating leases.
12 Related party transactions The Company has taken advantage of the exemption from disclosure available to parent companies under FRS 8, Related party disclosures, where transactions and balances between Group entities have been eliminated on consolidation.
126 ARM Holdings plc Annual Report 2010
