Other information Glossary Adjusted earnings per share ESOS Interest rate swaps SAP Adjusted earnings per share is defined Premier Foods plc Executive Share An agreement between two parties SAP is the market leader in the as Adjusted Profit before tax less a Option Scheme.
that allows either party to modify the supply of enterprise resources notional tax rate for the Group divided interest cost without changing the planning ERP.
SAP is also the name by the weighted average number of EU characteristics of the underlying debt.
of the software and is an acronym for shares in issue during the period see European Union.
note 11 to the financial statements for KPI This software is being deployed as a full definition.
Fair value Key Performance Indicator.
part of the Fusion programme.
The amount for which an asset could Adjusted Profit before tax be exchanged, or a liability settled, LIBOR SAYE Trading profit less net regular interest between knowledgeable, willing The London Inter-Bank Offered Rate.
parties in an arms length transaction.
LTIP Share Capital AGM FDF Premier Foods plc Long-Term Ordinary shares issued and fully paid.
The Food and Drink Federation.
Share Premium Account Amortisation Finance lease New LTIP Additional paid-in capital or paid-in An annual charge made in a A lease that transfers substantially all Premier Foods plc new Long-Term surplus not distributable.
companys profit and loss account the risks and rewards incidental to Incentive Plan to be proposed at the to reduce the value of an intangible ownership of an asset.
SKU asset to its residual value over its Stock Keeping Unit useful economic life.
FRC Mark to market Each specific product item which Financial Reporting Council.
The recording of a financial asset or is identifiable as separate from any Articles liability to reflect its fair value rather other due to brand, size, flavour, etc.
Articles of Association the Free Cash Flow than its book value.
The amount of money that business Term and Revolving Credit has at its disposal at any given time NED Facility Bps after paying out operating costs, Non-executive director.
The amounts of money borrowed Basis point a unit that is equal to interest payments on bank loans or available for borrowing where 1 100th of 1%.
and bonds, salaries, research and Net regular interest payable the repayment of the debt is development and other fixed costs.
The net interest after excluding nonpredetermined by a contract.
BRC cash items, namely exceptional writeThe British Retail Consortium.
FSA off of financing costs, accelerated Trading Profit Depending on the context, either amortisation of debt issuance costs, Operating profit before exceptional Called-up share capital the Food Standards Agency or the fair value adjustments on interest rate items, amortisation and impairment Ordinary shares, issued and fully Financial Services Authority.
financial instruments and the unwind of intangible assets, the revaluation paid.
of the discount on provisions.
of foreign exchange and other FTSE 250 index derivative contracts under IAS 39 CGU Index comprising of the 250 largest Non branded and pension credits or charges in Cash-generating unit the smallest companies listed on the London Non branded products comprise relation to the difference between the identifiable group of assets that Stock Exchange in terms of their retailer brand and business to expected return in pension assets, generate cash inflows that are largely market capitalisation.
administration costs and interest independent of the cash inflows from costs on pension liabilities.
other assets or groups of assets.
GDAs Non-recourse securitisation Guidance Daily Amounts.
The sale of selected accounts Treasury Shares CIP receivable on a non-recourse basis Shares as defined by the Companies Premier Foods plc Co-Investment Group the where legal title and non-payment Acquisitions of Own Shares Treasury Plan.
The Company and its subsidiaries.
risk is transferred to a third party.
Code HACCP Operating lease TSR The 2008 Combined Code on Hazard Analysis Critical Control A lease that is not a Finance lease.
Total Shareholder Return the Corporate Governance published by Point.
growth in value of a shareholding the FRC.
Operating Profit over a specified period assuming that Higgs Report A companys profit after deducting its dividends are reinvested to purchase Chief Operating Decision Maker Report in the UK by Derek Higgs on operating costs from gross profit.
A function or person that is the role and effectiveness of nonresponsible for allocating resources executive directors.
pp Turnbull report to, and assessing the performance of Percentage points.
Guidance issued by the Institute of operating segments.
HMRC Chartered Accountants in England Her Majestys Revenue & Customs.
Pro forma & Wales on the implementation of Companies Act Pro forma comparisons are the internal control requirements of The Companies Act 2006.
IAS calculated as follows: current the Combined Code on Corporate International Accounting Standards.
year actual results which include Governance at the request of the Company the acquisitions and or disposals from London Stock Exchange.
IFRIC the relevant date of completion International Financial Reporting are compared with prior year UK GAAP DSB Interpretations Committee.
actual results, adjusted to include UK Generally Accepted Accounting Premier Foods plc new Deferred the results of acquisitions and or Principles.
IFRS disposals for the commensurate International Financial Reporting period in the prior year.
Weighted Average Cost of Capital.
Earnings before interest, tax, RIDDOR depreciation and amortisation.
Intangible assets Reporting of Injuries, Diseases and YoY An identifiable non-monetary asset Dangerous Occurrences Regulations.
EBT without physical substance, e. g. Employee Benefit Trust.
patents, goodwill, trade marks and Retailer branded copyrights.
Also known as private label or own EPS label products.
Earnings Per Share calculated Interest rate hedging as total earnings divided by the Entering into a financial derivative weighted average number of shares to protect against unfavourable in issue during the period.
indd 128 09 03 2011 11:26:19 All financial metrics refer to the continuing Group plus the Meat-free business unless otherwise indicated.
For the purposes of the financial statements, the Meat-free business is disclosed within discontinued operations.
1 Trading profit is defined as operating profit before exceptional items, amortisation and impairment of intangible assets, the revaluation of foreign exchange and other derivative contracts under IAS 39 and pension credits or charges in relation to the difference between expected return on pension assets, administration costs and interest costs on pension liabilities.
2 Source: IRI Infoscan, Total Grocery Outlets, 52 weeks ended 25 December 2010.
3 Pro forma adjusted profit is defined as trading profit less net regular interest payable, less a notional tax charge at 28.0% 2009: 28.0%, adjusted in 2009 as if the equity raising and refinancing in March 2009 had been in place for the whole year.
Net regular interest payable is defined as net interest after excluding noncash items, namely exceptional write-off of financing costs, accelerated Cadbury is a trade mark of Cadbury Ltd, Erin is a trade mark of Erin Foods Limited, Ormo is a trade mark of A H Foods Ltd and Roses is a trade mark of L. Rose & amortisation of debt issuance costs, fair value adjustments on interest Company Limited, all of which are used under licence.
The Group has an exclusive worldwide licence to use the Loyd Grossman name on certain products.
rate financial instruments and the unwind of the discount on provisions.
4 Pro forma adjusted earnings per share is defined as pro forma adjusted profit divided by the weighted average number of ordinary shares of the Company adjusted in 2009 as if the equity raising and refinancing in Cautionary Statement March 2009 had been in place for the whole year.
The purpose of this annual report is to provide information to shareholders of Premier Foods plc the Company.
The Company, its directors, employees and 5 Net debt is defined as net borrowings less obligations due under finance advisers do not accept or assume responsibility to any other person to whom this document is shown or into whose hands it may come and any such responsibility leases.
or liability is expressly disclaimed.
It contains certain forward-looking statements with respect to the financial condition, results, operations and businesses of 6 Comparatives have been restated to reflect the classification of the the Company.
These statements and forecasts involve risk and uncertainty because they relate to events and depend upon circumstances that will occur in the Meat-free business as a discontinued operation and to reflect the change future.
There are a number of factors that could cause actual results or developments to differ materially from those expressed or implied by these forward-looking in classification of certain exceptional items as business restructuring and investment costs which have now been included within trading profit.
Nothing in this annual report and accounts should be construed as a profit forecast.
In this report we make references to market size, share and growth, retail sales data and household penetration which are sourced from independent market research and consumer data providers including Kantar and IRI.
indd 4 09 03 2011 11:31:09 Premier House Centrium Business Park Griffiths Way St Albans Hertfordshire AL1 2RE T 01727 815850 F 01727 815982 www.
co. uk Premier Foods Cover Web.
