Shareholder information Electronic communications with shareholders In 2008 shareholders agreed that the Company could use its website Shareholder FAQs as its main method of communication with shareholders.
If you are Notifying the Company of a change of address looking for information about our heritage, our social, environmental Shareholders should notify Equiniti in writing of any change.
If shares and ethical responsibilities, our approach to governance, financial are held in joint names, the notification must be signed by the first reports or the latest press releases please go to our website named shareholder.
Notifying the Company of a change of name Furthermore, much of the information requested from our To notify the Company of a change of name please notify Equiniti in shareholder helpline can be found in the investor section of our writing.
A copy of any marriage certificate or change of name deed website.
Shareholders can also sign up for News Alerts to receive should be provided as evidence of the name change.
an email when news on the Company is released.
These include additional financial news releases throughout the year, which are not Transferring Premier Foods plc shares mailed to shareholders.
Transferring shares to someone else requires the completion of a stock transfer form.
These forms are available by calling Equiniti.
Shareholders can also register at www.
co. uk or contact the registrar contact details below to receive an email notifying them Lost Premier Foods plc share certificate s of new Company publications.
Shareview also enables shareholders Shareholders who have lost their share certificate s or have had their certificate s stolen should inform Equiniti immediately by phone.
to view details of their own shareholding or electronically appoint a proxy to vote on their behalf on any poll that may be held at the AGM 2011 forthcoming AGM.
Date & time: 28 April 2011 at 10.00 am Venue: Haberdashers Hall, 18 West Smithfield, London, EC1A 9HQ.
Information made available on the website does not constitute part of this annual report.
The directors are responsible for the Documents on display maintenance and integrity of the financial information on our website.
The information has been prepared under the relevant accounting The articles of association, memorandum of the Company and other documents referred to in this annual report are available for standards and legislation.
inspection at the registered office.
ShareGift Shareholders with a small number of shares, the value of which Key contacts makes it uneconomic to sell them, may wish to consider donating them to charity through ShareGift, a registered charity administered Registered office and Head Office by The Orr Mackintosh Foundation.
Premier Foods plc, Premier House, Centrium Business Park, Griffiths Way, St Albans, Hertfordshire, AL1 2RE.
Managing your shares For consumer relations tel: 0800 0327111.
The Companys register of shareholders is maintained by our registrar, Equiniti.
Shareholders with queries relating to their Registrar shareholding should contact Equiniti directly using the details below.
Equiniti, Aspect House, Spencer Road, Lancing, West Sussex, BN99 6DA.
Tel: 0871 384 2030 or 44 0 121 415 7047, Duplicate documents Many shareholders still receive duplicate documentation from having www.
more than one account on the share register.
If you think you fall into this group and would like to combine your accounts, please contact For shareholders with hearing difficulties a text phone number is available, 0871 384 2255 or 44 0 121 415 7028.
Investor Relations Gwyn Tyley, Premier Foods plc, Premier House, Centrium Business Park, Griffiths Way, St Albans, Hertfordshire, AL1 2RE.
General Counsel & Company Secretary Suzanne Wise Auditors  LLP, 1 Embankment Place, London, WC2N 6RH.
Lawyers Slaughter and May, One Bunhill Row, London, EC1Y 8YY.
Principal bankers The Groups principal bankers are: Barclays Bank PLC: Bayerische Landesbank: BNP Paribas: Lloyds TSB Bank plc: Rabobank, London: and The Royal Bank of Scotland plc.
Corporate brokers CitiGroup Global Markets Ltd, CitiGroup Centre, 25 Canada Square, Canary Wharf, London, E14 5LB.
RBS Hoare Govett Ltd, 250 Bishopsgate, London, EC2M 4AA.
126 Premier Foods plc Annual report and accounts 2010 18550-04 09 03 2011 Proof 13 18550-04PREMIERF BACK.
