Premier Oil plc 2010 Annual Report and Financial Statements 97 25.
Acquisition of subsidiaries On 21 May 2009 the Premier Oil plc group, through its subsidiary Premier Oil Group Ltd, completed the acquisition of the entire issued share capital of Oilexco North Sea Ltd ONSL and its wholly-owned subsidiary Oilexco North Sea Exploration Ltd ONSEL.
The group funded the acquisition and associated costs by way of a four for nine rights issue of new Ordinary Shares at a price of 485 pence per share to raise gross proceeds of approximately 171.0 million US$252.2 million, new credit facilities and the groups existing cash resources.
ONSL was an oil and gas exploration and production company active in the UK, with its producing properties located in the UK Central North Sea.
The acquisition provided the group with a greater presence in the North Sea, strengthening the groups existing operations in that area by adding a material package of assets comprising existing producing fields, development projects of existing discovered reserves and a portfolio of exploration prospects, together with high-quality UK operatorship capabilities.
The transaction has been accounted for by the acquisition method of accounting with an effective date of 21 May 2009, being the date that the group gained control of ONSL.
The final fair values of the identifiable assets and liabilities are set out in the following table: Final fair values $ million Net assets acquired: Property, plant and equipment oil and gas properties 486.5 Deferred tax assets 140.8 Current assets 114.5 Current liabilities 39.6 Deferred tax liabilities 2.1 Long-term provisions 114.3 Total acquired net assets 585.8 Total consideration 574.2 Excess of fair value over cost 11.6 Total consideration also included 43.3 million US$63.0 million of cash paid by the group which was held in trust for future abandonment obligations, and direct acquisition costs of US$10.5 million.
The cash held in trust was released back to the group in December 2010.
The excess of fair value over cost was recognised immediately in the consolidated income statement in the prior year, and was offset by related acquisition expenses of US$6.0 million.
Due to the inherently uncertain nature of the oil and gas industry the assumptions underlying the final assigned values are judgemental in nature.
Events after the balance sheet date On 23 March 2011 it was announced that the supplementary charge on UK oil and gas production is to be increased from 20 per cent to 32 per cent with effect from 24 March 2011, thereby increasing the combined rate of tax on UK oil and gas production from 50 per cent to 62 per cent.
The government has stated that the supplementary corporation tax rate may be reduced back to 20 per cent if oil prices stay low below US$75 bbl for a sustained period, however it is not clear at this time if this will be incorporated into legislation.
This change in UK tax legislation will not impact the 2010 group financial results as these changes have not been substantively enacted at the balance sheet date, however it is likely to have a material effect on the value of the groups UK deferred tax assets and current tax charge in future reporting periods.
Due to the unavailability of further details from the UK Government related to this legislation, at the time of approval of these financial statements it is not possible to quantify the financial effects on the groups future financial position or income statement.
