Premier Oil plc 2010 Annual Report and Financial Statements 96 Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued For the year ended 31 December 2010 23.
Group pension schemes continued Projected components of pension expense for the year to 31 December 2011: Due to of the significant volatility in investment markets, it is difficult to project forward the IAS 19 figures for the next year with confidence.
The following projections should therefore be treated with caution.
Assumptions implicit in the following projections are: the return on assets from 31 December 2010 is 5.7 per cent pa: contributions to the Scheme will continue throughout 2011 in accordance with the current schedule of contributions in place at the date of signing this report: and there will be no changes to the terms of the Scheme.
The amounts recognised in the components of pension expense are: 2011 $ million Current service cost 0.2 Interest cost 1.7 Expected return on Scheme assets 1.6 Total 0.3 Unfunded pensions In Indonesia the group operates a Service, Severance and Compensation pay scheme under a Collective Labour Agreement with the local workforce.
This is an unfunded post-employment defined benefit scheme in nature.
In addition, the group is paying an unfunded pension to a former director in regard to which annual increases and a reversionary spouses pension apply on the same basis as to pensions paid under the Scheme.
On the same actuarial basis as used to assess the Schemes pension costs, the present value as at 31 December 2010 of the future payments projected to be made in respect of UK unfunded pensions is US$0.9 million 2009: US$0.9 million.
Defined contribution benefit scheme The group operates a defined contribution retirement benefit scheme.
The only obligation of the group with respect to the retirement benefit scheme is to make specified contributions.
Payments to the defined contribution scheme are charged as an expense as they fall due.
The total cost charged to income of US$2.6 million 2009: US$2.0 million represents contributions payable to these schemes by the group at rates specified in the rules of the scheme.
Related party transactions Transactions between the company and its subsidiaries and joint ventures, which are related parties, have been eliminated on consolidation and are not disclosed in this note.
Directors and executive remuneration The remuneration of directors and other key members of management during the year is highlighted below.
Further information regarding the remuneration of individual directors is provided in the audited part of the Remuneration Report.
2010 2009 $ million $ million Short-term employee benefits 5.2 5.3 Post-employment benefits 0.4 0.4 Other long-term benefits: share-based payments 8.4 1.6 14.0 7.3
