Premier Oil plc 2010 Annual Report and Financial Statements 102 Notes to the Parent Company Financial Statements continued For the year ended 31 December 2010 1.
Significant accounting policies continued Derivative financial instruments The company accounts for derivative financial instruments in line with FRS 25 Financial Instruments: Disclosure and Presentation and FRS 26 Financial Instruments: Recognition and Measurement.
The company uses derivative financial instruments derivatives to manage its exposure to oil price fluctuations.
All derivatives are initially recorded at cost, including transaction costs.
Derivatives are subsequently carried at fair value.
All changes in fair value are recorded as financial income or expense in the year in which they arise.
Fair value is the amount for which a financial asset, liability or instrument could be exchanged between knowledgeable and willing parties in an arms length transaction.
It is determined by reference to quoted market prices adjusted for estimated transaction costs that would be incurred in an actual transaction, or by the use of established estimation techniques such as option pricing models and estimated discounted values of cash flows.
Profit for the year As permitted by section 408 of the Companies Act 2006, the company has elected not to present its own profit and loss account for the year.
The company reported a profit for the financial year ended 31 December 2010 of US$7.4 million 2009: profit of US$23.1 million.
The auditors remuneration for audit and other services is disclosed in note 3 to the consolidated financial statements.
Property, plant and equipment Oil and gas properties North Sea 2010 2009 $ million $ million Cost: At 1 January 96.0 Additions during the year 0.9 Disposals during the year 96.9 At 31 December Amortisation and depreciation: At 1 January 29.9 Charge for the year 6.1 Disposals during the year 36.0 At 31 December Net book value: At 1 January 66.1 At 31 December Amortisation and depreciation of oil and gas properties is calculated on a unit-of-production basis, using the ratio of oil and gas production in the period to the estimated quantities of proved and probable reserves on an entitlement basis at the end of the period plus production in the period, on a field-by-field basis.
Proved and probable reserve estimates are based on a number of underlying assumptions including oil and gas prices, future costs, oil and gas in place and reservoir performance, which are inherently uncertain.
Management uses established industry techniques to generate its estimates and regularly references its estimates against those of joint venture partners or external consultants.
However, the amount of reserves that will ultimately be recovered from any field cannot be known with certainty until the end of the fields life.
On 30 June 2009, the companys interest in the Kyle field was transferred to another group company.
