Premier Oil plc 2010 Annual Report and Financial Statements 81 16.
Long-term provisions 2010 2009 Note $ million $ million Asset and Equity Plan: At 1 January 4.2 3.3 Provision in the year 4.2 Reclassification of provision to current liabilities 3.3 Reclassification of provision to retained earnings 4.2 At 31 December 4.2 Decommissioning costs: At 1 January 303.4 139.9 Acquisitions 0.9 114.3 Revision arising from: New provisions and changes in estimates 189.6 24.4 Exchange differences 13.2 16.1 Unwinding of discount on decommissioning provision 5 16.2 8.7 Reclassification of provision to current liabilities 13 23.7 At 31 December 473.2 303.4 Total provisions 473.2 307.6 The company has operated an Asset and Equity Plan to reward employees for improvement in the asset value of the business and the market value of the company over a three-year period.
Further details of this plan are disclosed in note 19.
The decommissioning provision represents the present value of decommissioning costs relating to oil and gas interests in the UK, West Africa, Indonesia, Vietnam and Pakistan which are expected to be incurred up to 2030.
These provisions have been created based on Premiers internal estimates and, where available, operators estimates.
Based on the current economic environment, assumptions have been made which the management believe are a reasonable basis upon which to estimate the future liability.
These estimates are reviewed regularly to take into account any material changes to the assumptions.
However, actual decommissioning costs will ultimately depend upon future market prices for the necessary decommissioning works required, which will reflect market conditions at the relevant time.
Furthermore, the timing of decommissioning is likely to depend on when the fields cease to produce at economically viable rates.
This in turn will depend upon future oil and gas prices, which are inherently uncertain.
New provisions and changes in estimates result from an increase in decommissioning estimates for UK-operated fields following a detailed study undertaken during the year, increased operator estimates for non-operated UK fields, and new provisions for fields in development in Indonesia and Vietnam.
Financial instruments Financial risk management objectives and policies The groups principal financial liabilities, other than derivative financial instruments derivatives, comprise accounts payable, bank loans and convertible bonds.
The main purpose of these financial instruments is to manage short-term cash flow and raise finance for the groups capital expenditure programme.
The group has various financial assets such as accounts receivable and cash and short-term deposits, which arise directly from its operations.
It is group policy that all transactions involving derivatives must be directly related to the underlying business of the group.
The group does not use derivative financial instruments for speculative exposures.
The main risks that could adversely affect the groups financial assets, liabilities or future cash flows are commodity price risk, cash flow interest rate risk, foreign currency exchange risk, credit risk and liquidity risk.
The group uses derivative financial instruments to hedge certain of these risk exposures.
The use of financial derivatives is governed by the groups policies and approved by the Board of Directors, which provide written principles on the use of financial derivatives.
