Financial glossary Beta model Earnings per share EPS A model for pricing share options which applies the same Earnings per share is a performance measure that expresses principles as the binomial model but takes into account the the earnings attributable to ordinary shareholders divided relationship of the share price to a portfolio of a comparator by the weighted average number of ordinary shares in issue group companies shares.
Binomial model EBITDA A model for pricing share options which applies the same EBITDA represents earnings before finance income, finance principles as decision tree analysis by considering the possibilities costs, movement in fair value of interest rate swaps, UK income that prices may increase or decrease by a certain percentage.
tax, depreciation, amortisation and profit on sale of non-current assets.
Black-Scholes model A model for pricing share options using the share price, the Effective interest rate method time to expiration of the option, the risk-free interest rate and A method of calculating the amortised cost of a financial asset the expected standard deviation of the share return.
or financial liability and of allocating the interest income or expense over the relevant period.
Cash flow hedges A hedge of the exposure to variability in cash flows.
Exceptional items Items which management consider will distort comparability, Combined Code either due to their significant non-recurring nature or because The Combined Code on corporate governance sets out standards of specific accounting treatments.
These are separately identified of good practice in relation to issues such as board composition in order to provide a trend measure of underlying performance.
and development, remuneration, accountability and audit, and relations with shareholders.
Experience gains losses Changes in the valuation of defined benefit pension scheme Convertible bond that arise when events have not coincided with the actuarial A corporate bond that can be exchanged for a specific number assumptions made for the previous valuation.
Convertible bonds generally have lower interest rates than non-convertible bonds because they accrue Fair value value as the price of the underlying shares rise.
Convertible bonds The amount at which assets can be exchanged, or liabilities therefore reflect a combination of the benefits of shares and settled, between knowledgeable, willing parties in an arms corporate bonds.
Corporate governance Finance lease Corporate governance describes the system by which an A method of purchasing an asset by making rental payments organisation is directed and controlled.
throughout the expected lifetime of the asset.
The lessee shows an asset and a corresponding liability in the balance sheet.
Debenture notes Finance lease payments are accounted for as a reduction in A form of bond taken out by a company, which it agrees to the liability.
repay at a specified future date and which bears interest either fixed or variable until maturity.
Goodwill Goodwill is the excess of the amount paid for a company over Derivative financial instruments the fair value of the net assets acquired at the date of acquisition.
Financial instruments whose value changes in response to changes in a specified interest rate, financial instrument price, IAS commodity price, foreign exchange rate, or other variable, and International Accounting Standards.
are settled at a future date.
IASB Diluted earnings per share International Accounting Standards Board.
Diluted earnings per share is earnings per share after allowing for the dilutive effect of the conversion into ordinary shares IFRS of the weighted average number of options outstanding International Financial Reporting Standards.
during the period and shares from the assumed conversion of convertible bonds.
IFRIC International Financial Reporting Interpretations Committee.
107 Punch Taverns plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2010 Financial statements Financial statements Financial glossary continued Indexation allowance Projected unit credit method Indexation allowance is tax relief given when calculating capital The accounting method used to calculate provisions for pensions.
gains that takes into account inflation based on the Retail Prices It includes not only the pensions and vested interests accrued at Index RPI.
Indexation allowance can only reduce an un-indexed the date of calculation, but also anticipated increases in salaries gain to nil and cannot create or increase a capital loss.
Interest cover Securitisation A performance measure that shows the number of times The process of raising finance by creating a financial instrument EBITDA covers the net finance income and finance cost.
secured by pooling other financial assets to back the instrument.
Interest rate swap Segmental reporting A derivative financial instrument used to minimise exposure to Information regarding the financial position and results of changes in interest rates by payment to receive a fixed interest operations in different business areas.
rate in exchange for a floating rate interest rate, or payment to receive a floating rate interest rate in exchange for a fixed Total Shareholder Return TSR interest rate.
The growth in value of a shareholding over a specific period, assuming that dividends are reinvested to purchase LIBOR additional shares.
London Inter Bank Offered Rate.
The interest rate quoted between banks, which is a recognised basis for calculating UK GAAP a floating interest rate.
UK Generally Accepted Accounting Principles.
Monte Carlo valuation method Working capital A model for pricing share options that generates many random Short term disposable capital used to finance day-to-day possible price paths, calculates assumed exercise values, then operations.
It is calculated as current assets less current liabilities.
averages and discounts to give the value of the option.
Net debt Loans, convertible bonds, derivative financial instruments and finance leases net of other interest bearing deposits and cash and cash equivalents.
Nominal value of net debt The value of a security stated by the issuer: unrelated to market value.
For bonds, it is the amount paid to the holder at maturity.
Operating lease A method of renting assets over a period that is less than the expected life of the asset.
The lessee does not show an asset or liability on their balance sheet and periodic payments are accounted for by the lessee as operating expenses in the period.
Operating result Profit after deducting all operating expenses including depreciation and amortisation.
Over-hedge An over-hedge occurs when the notional principal amount of the hedging instrument is greater than that of the hedged item.
