NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS for the year ended 31 December 2010 prepared in accordance with International Financial 1.
Nature of operations Reporting Standards and Interpretations collectively The company and its subsidiaries the group together IFRS issued by the International Accounting with its joint ventures carry out exploration and gold Standards Board IASB as adopted by the European mining activities.
Currently there are two operating Union and in accordance with Article 105 of the mines in Mali, West Africa: The Morila gold mine, which Companies Jersey Law of 1991.
The consolidated commenced production in October 2000, and the financial statements also comply with IFRS as issued Loulo mine complex, which commenced production in by the IASB, as is required as a result of our listing November 2005.
The group also operates a third mine on Nasdaq in the US.
The differences between IFRS in Cte dIvoire, Tongon, which poured its first gold in as adopted by the European Union and IFRS as November 2010.
The group also has a portfolio of issued by the IASB have not had a material impact exploration projects in West and Central Africa.
on the consolidated financial statements for the years The interests of the group in its operating mines are presented.
The consolidated financial statements have held through Morila SA Morila which owns the Morila been prepared under the historical cost convention, mine, Somilo SA Somilo which owns the Loulo mine as modified by the revaluation of available-for-sale and Tongon SA Tongon which owns the Tongon mine.
Randgold holds an effective 40% interest in financial assets, and various financial assets and Morila, following the sale to AngloGold Ashanti Limited financial liabilities including derivative instruments on 3 July 2000 of one-half of Randgolds subsidiary, which are carried at fair value.
The preparation of Morila Limited.
Management of Morila Limited, the financial statements in conformity with IFRS requires 80% shareholder of Morila SA, is effected through a the use of certain critical accounting estimates.
It also joint venture committee, with Randgold and AngloGold requires management to exercise its judgement in the Ashanti each appointing one-half of the members of process of applying the companys accounting policies.
From the date of acquisition AngloGold The areas involving a high degree of judgement or Services Mali SA Anser, a subsidiary of AngloGold complexity, or areas where assumptions and estimates Ashanti, was the operator of Morila.
On 15 February are significant to the consolidated financial statements, 2008 Randgold assumed responsibility for the are disclosed in note 3. operatorship.
The going concern basis has been adopted in Randgold holds an effective 80% interest in Somilo.
The directors have The remaining 20% interest is held by the Malian no reason to believe that the group and company will government.
Randgold is the operator of the Loulo not be a going concern in the foreseeable future based mine.
on forecasts and available cash resources.
The viability Randgold holds an effective 89% interest in Tongon, of the company and the group is supported by the 10% is held by the government of Cte dIvoire while financial statements.
the remaining 1% is held by a local Ivorian company.
The group and company have adopted the The group also holds an effective interest of 45% in following standards, amendments to standards the Kibali gold project in the Democratic Republic of and interpretations which are effective for the first Congo following the acquisition by the company of time this year.
Their impact is discussed below.
a joint venture interest in Moto Goldmines Limited in Those standards, amendments to standards and 2009, in conjunction with AngloGold Ashanti.
interpretations that are effective for the first time this The group has various exploration programmes year but have no impact on the group or company, and ranging from substantial to early stage in Mali, are not expected to have an impact in the future, have Senegal, Burkina Faso, Cte dIvoire and the not been included below.
Amendments to IFRIC 9 and IAS 39: Embedded Derivatives effective for annual periods beginning on 2.
Significant accounting policies or after 30 June 2009.
This amendment clarifies the The principal accounting policies applied in the treatment of embedded derivatives in host contracts preparation of these consolidated and company that are reclassified out of fair value through profit financial statements are set out below.
These policies or loss following the changes introduced by the have been consistently applied to all the years Amendments to IAS 39 and IFRS 7: Reclassification of presented, unless otherwise stated.
This has not had an impact on BASIS OF PREPARATION The consolidated financial statements of Randgold the group or the company in the current year but may Resources Limited and its subsidiaries have been have an impact in future.
Randgold Resources Annual report 2010 103 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED Revised IFRS 3: Business Combinations effective for contained within IFRIC 8 into IFRS 2 itself.
This has not annual periods beginning on or after 1 July 2009.
The had an impact on the group or company in the current basic approach of the existing IFRS 3 to apply acquisition year but may have an impact in future.
accounting in all cases and identify an acquirer is retained The following standards, amendment to standards and in this revised version of the standard.
It also includes interpretations which have been recently issued or revised much of the current guidance for the identification and have not been adopted early by the group or company but may have an impact in the future: their expected impact is recognition of intangible assets separately from goodwill.
However, in some respects the revised standard discussed below.
may result in very significant changes, including: The Standards, amendments to standards and interpretations requirement to write off all acquisition costs to profit or that are not expected to impact the group or company, loss instead of including them in the cost of investment: are not included below.
the requirement to recognise an intangible asset even if it Classification of Rights Issues Amendment to cannot be reliably measured: and, an option to gross up IAS 32 effective for annual periods beginning on or the statement of financial position for goodwill attributable after 1 February 2010.
This Amendment addresses to minority interests which are renamed non-controlling the accounting for rights issues rights, options or interests.
The revised standard does not require the warrants that are denominated in a currency other than restatement of previous business combinations.
This has the functional currency of the issuer.
Previously such not had an impact on the group or company in the current rights issues were accounted for as derivative liabilities.
year but may have an impact in future.
However, the Amendment requires that, provided the Amendment to IAS 27: Consolidated and Separate entity offers the rights, options or warrants pro rata to Financial Statements effective for annual periods all of its existing owners of the same class of its own beginning on or after 1 July 2009.
This amendment non-derivative equity instruments, such rights issues are affects in particular the acquisition of subsidiaries achieved classified as equity regardless of the currency in which the in stages and disposals of interests, with significant exercise price is denominated.
This will be applied in the differences in the accounting depending on whether or not year ending 31 December 2011 but is not expected to control is obtained as a result of the transaction, or where have an immediate impact on the company or group.
a transaction results only in a change in the percentage of IFRIC 19 Extinguishing Financial Liabilities with Equity a controlling interest.
The amendment does not require Instruments effective for annual periods beginning the restatement of previous transactions.
This has not on or after 1 July 2010.
This Interpretation addresses had an impact on the group or company in the current transactions in which an entity issues equity instruments year but may have an impact in future.
to a creditor in return for the extinguishing of all or part Amendment to IAS 39: Financial Instruments of a financial liability.
Broadly, it applies to transactions Recognition and Measurement: Eligible Hedged where the two parties are acting only in their capacity as Items effective for annual periods beginning on or after lender and borrower.
It does not address the appropriate 1 July 2009.
This amendment clarifies how the principles treatment for the creditor and does not apply to that determine whether a hedged risk or portion of cash arrangements in which liabilities are extinguished in return flows is eligible for designation should be applied in the for equity instruments in accordance with the original designation of a one-sided risk in a hedged item, and terms of the financial liability.
inflation in a financial hedged item.
This has not had an For transactions within its scope, where the whole liability impact on the group or company in the current year but is extinguished, the Interpretation requires the equity may have an impact in future.
instruments issued to be measured at their fair value and Improvements to IFRSs: 2010 effective for annual the difference between that fair value and the carrying periods beginning on or after 1 January 2010.
The value of the financial liability extinguished to be recognised improvements in this amendment clarify the requirements in profit or loss.
Where only part of the financial liability of IFRSs and eliminate inconsistencies within and between is extinguished, some allocation of the consideration standards.
This has not had a significant impact on the between the extinguished portion of the liability and the part group or company.
of the liability that remains outstanding may be required.
Amendments to IFRS 2: Group Cash-settled ShareThis will be applied in the year ending 31 December 2011 based Payment Transactions effective for annual periods but is not expected to have an immediate impact on the beginning on or after 1 January 2010.
This amendment company or group.
clarifies that, where a parent or another group entity Revised IAS 24 Related Party Disclosures effective has an obligation to make a cash-settled share-based for annual periods beginning on or after 1 January 2011. payment to another group entitys employees or suppliers, The revision to IAS 24 is in response to concerns that the the entity receiving the goods or services should account previous disclosure requirements and the definition of a for the transaction as equity-settled.
The amendment related party were too complex and difficult to apply in also moves the IFRIC 11 requirements in respect of practice, especially in environments where government equity-settled share-based payment transactions among control is pervasive.
The revised standard addresses group entities and the clarification of the scope of IFRS 2 these concerns by: Randgold Resources 104 Annual report 2010 Providing a partial exemption for governmentIAS 28 Investments in associates in respect of the loss of related entities Until now, if a government control or significant influence which were introduced by controlled, or a significantly influenced, an entity, the IAS 27 as amended 2008 Consolidated and separate entity was required to disclose information about financial statements.
This will be applied in the year all transactions with other entities controlled, or ending 31 December 2011 but is not expected to have an significantly influenced by the same government.
immediate impact on the company or group.
The revised Standard requires such entities Disclosures Transfers of Financial Assets to disclose information about individually and Amendments to IFRS 7 effective for annual periods collectively significant related party transactions beginning on or after 1 July 2011.
requires the disclosure of information in respect of all Providing a revised definition of a related party transferred financial assets that are not derecognised The structure of definition of a related party has been and for any continuing involvement in a transferred asset, simplified and inconsistencies eliminated.
Illustrative existing at the reporting date, irrespective of when the examples have also been added.
The revised related transfer transaction occurred.
The disclosures are definition will mean that some entities will have more intended to enable users of financial statements: a to related parties for which disclosures will be required.
understand the relationship between transferred financial The entities that are most likely to be affected are assets that are not derecognised in their entirety and the those that are part of a group that includes both associated liabilities: and b to evaluate the nature of, and subsidiaries and associates, and entities with risks associated with, the entitys continuing involvement shareholders that are involved with other entities.
This will be applied in the year ending 31 December 2011 These enhanced disclosures are likely to affect, among but is not expected to have an immediate impact on the others, entities that have debt factoring arrangements.
These amendments are not yet endorsed by the EU.
This Impr ovements to IFRSs 2010 effective for annual will be applied in the year ending 2012 but is not expected periods beginning on or after 1 January 2011.
The to have an immediate impact on the company or group.
improvements in this Amendment clarify the requirements Deferred Tax: Recovery of Underlying Assets of IFRSs and eliminate inconsistencies within and between Amendments to IAS 12 effective for annual periods Standards.
The changes include amendments to: beginning on or after 1 January 2012.
IAS 12 requires IFRS 3 Revised 2008 Business combinations an entity to measure the deferred tax relating to an asset including: i Clarification that the treatment of depending on whether the entity expects to recover the contingent consideration arising in business carrying amount of the asset through use or sale.
It can combinations occurring before the effective date be difficult and subjective to assess whether recovery of IFRS 3 R continues to be treated under the old will be through use or through sale when the asset is requirements.
ii Limiting the choice to measure measured using the fair value model in IAS 40 Investment non-controlling interests at a proportionate share Property.
The amendment provides a practical solution to in recognised amounts of the acquirees identified the problem by introducing a presumption that recovery net assets to present ownership interests with other of the carrying amount will, normally, be through sale.
components of the non-controlling interest being As a result of the amendments, SIC-21 Income Taxes - measured at fair value.
iii The inclusion or otherwise Recovery of Revalued Non-Depreciable Assets would in the cost of investment of replacement shareno longer apply to investment properties carried at fair based payment awards provided to employees of value.
The amendments also incorporate into IAS 12 the the acquiree.
remaining guidance previously contained in SIC-21, which IFRS 7 Financial instruments: Disclosures including is accordingly withdrawn.
These amendments are not clarification that an entity should provide qualitative yet endorsed by the EU.
This will be applied in the year disclosures in the context of quantitative disclosures ending 2012 but is not expected to have an immediate to enable users to link related disclosures and hence impact on the company or group.
form an overall picture of the nature and extent of IFRS 9 Financial Instruments effective for annual risks arising from financial instruments.
periods beginning on or after 1 January 2013.
IAS 1 Revised 2007 Presentation of financial IFRS 9 will eventually replace IAS 39 in its entirety.
statements clarifying that the analysis of However, the process has been divided into three components of other comprehensive income in the main components: Classification and measurement: statement of changes in equity may be presented in impairment: and, hedge accounting.
completed, it will delete the relevant portions of IAS 39 IAS 34 Interim financial reporting clarifying the and create new chapters in IFRS 9. disclosures required in respect of significant events To date IFRS 9 addresses only the classification and and transactions during the period.
Improvements to IFRSs 2010 also made minor The requirements for financial assets are that they should amendments to the wording of IFRIC 13 Customer loyalty be: Classified on the basis of the entitys business model programmes regarding the valuation of award credits and the transitional arrangements for amendments to IAS 21 for managing the financial assets and the contractual The effects of changes in foreign exchange rates and cash flow characteristics of the financial asset: Randgold Resources Annual report 2010 105 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED measured at amortised cost if it meets two exchange.
Identifiable assets acquired including mineral property interests conditions: a The entitys business model is to hold the financial asset in order to collect the and liabilities and contingent liabilities assumed in a business combination are measured initially at their fair contractual cash flows: and, b the contractual terms of the asset give rise on specified dates to values at the acquisition date, irrespective of the extent cash flows that are solely payments of principal of any non-controlling interest.
The excess of the cost and interest on the principle outstanding: and, of acquisition over the fair value of the groups share subsequently measured at amortised cost or fair of the identifiable net assets acquired is recorded as value depending on the business model of the goodwill or other identifiable intangible assets.
If the entity and the terms of the instrument.
cost of acquisition is less than the fair value of the net Hybrid contracts with a host that is within the scope assets of the subsidiary acquired, the difference is of IFRS 9 ie a financial host must be classified in its recognised directly in the statement of comprehensive entirety in accordance with the classification approach income.
This eliminates the existing IAS 39 Inter-company transactions, balances and unrealised requirements to separately account for an embedded gains on transactions between group companies are derivative and a host contract.
Unrealised losses are also eliminated unless derivative requirements under IAS 39 continue to apply the transaction provides evidence of an impairment where the host contract is a non-financial asset and for of the asset transferred.
Accounting policies of subsidiaries have been changed where necessary to financial liabilities.
The requirements for classifying and measuring financial ensure consistency with the policies adopted by the group.
liabilities are mostly unchanged from from those set out in IAS 39.
JOINT VENTURE Joint ventures are those entities in which the group IFRS 9 includes an accounting policy choice allowing investments in equity instruments to be measured at holds a long term interest and which are jointly fair value through other comprehensive income.
This controlled by the group and one or more joint venture is an irreversible election made, on an instrument by partners under a contractual arrangement.
instrument basis, at the date of initial recognition.
The groups interest in such jointly controlled entities is Where this option is not taken, all equity instruments accounted for by proportionate consolidation.
Under with the scope of IFRS 9 will be classified as fair value this method the group includes its share of the joint through profit or loss.
Irrespective of the policy choice ventures individual income and expenses, assets and made, dividends received on equity instruments will liabilities and cash flows on a line by line basis with always be recognised in profit or loss.
similar items in the groups financial statements.
InterSubsequent reclassification of financial assets company accounts and transactions are eliminated on between the amortised cost and fair value categories consolidation.
is permitted only when an entity changes its business The group recognises the portion of gains or losses on model for managing its financial assets.
the sale of assets by the group to the joint venture that The held to maturity and available for sale classifications is attributable to the other joint venture partners.
The group does not recognise its share of profits or losses have been eliminated.
This standard has not yet been endorsed by the EU.
This will be applied in the year from the joint venture that result from the purchase of assets by the group from the joint venture until it ending 31 December 2013, once endorsed by the EU.
We will review the impact on the company and resells the assets to an independent party.
However, group closer to the date of implementation, but it is if a loss on the transaction provides evidence of a currently expected that it will result in a reclassification reduction in the net realisable value of current assets or of available for sale assets.
an impairment loss, the loss is recognised immediately.
CONSOLIDATION The results of joint ventures are included from the The consolidated financial information includes the effective dates of acquisition and up to the effective financial statements of the company, its subsidiaries dates of disposal.
and the companys proportionate share in joint ventures The cost of a joint venture acquisition is measured at using uniform accounting policies for like transactions the fair value of the assets given, equity instruments and other events in similar circumstances.
issued and liabilities incurred or assumed at the date SUBSIDIARIES of exchange.
Identifiable assets acquired including Subsidiaries are entities over which the group has the mineral property interests and liabilities and contingent power to govern the financial and operating policies, liabilities assumed in a joint venture acquisition are generally accompanying an interest of more than one half measured initially at their fair values at the acquisition date, irrespective of the extent of any non-controlling of the voting rights.
Subsidiaries are fully consolidated from the date on which control is transferred to the interest.
The excess of the cost of acquisition over the fair value of the groups share of the identifiable group.
They are fide-consolidated from the date that control ceases.
The purchase method of accounting net assets acquired is recorded as goodwill or is used to account for the acquisition of subsidiaries other identifiable intangible assets.
If the cost of by the group.
The cost of an acquisition is measured acquisition is less than the fair value of the net assets at the fair value of the assets given, equity instruments of the subsidiary acquired, the difference is recognised issued and liabilities incurred or assumed at the date of directly in the statement of comprehensive income.
