Financial statements: Notes to the financial statements NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS a Estimated impairment of intangible assets and property, 1 General information and plant and equipment The Group tests annually whether assets that have an indefinite accounting policies useful life, including goodwill and gaming licences, have suffered any impairment.
The Group also reviews assets that are subject General information to amortisation or depreciation for events or changes in The Rank Group Plc the Company and its subsidiaries together circumstances that indicate the carrying amount of the asset the Group operate gaming and betting services in Great Britain may not be recoverable.
Further details of the Groups accounting including the Channel Islands, Spain and Belgium and policy in relation to impairment are disclosed in note 1.14. provide business services to gaming operators in a number of additional markets.
The application of the policy requires the use of accounting estimates and judgements in determining the recoverable amount The Company is a public limited company which is listed on the of cash-generating units to which the intangible assets and London Stock Exchange and is incorporated and domiciled in property, plant and equipment are associated.
The recoverable England and Wales under registration number 03140769.
The amount is the higher of the fair value less costs to sell and value address of its registered office is Statesman House, Stafferton Way, in use.
Estimates of fair value less costs to sell are performed Maidenhead, Berkshire, SL6 1AY.
internally by experienced senior management supported by Summary of significant accounting policies knowledge of similar transactions and advice from external estate agents or, if applicable, offers received.
Value in use is calculated The principal accounting policies applied in the preparation of using estimated cash flow projections from financial budgets, these consolidated financial statements are set out below.
These discounted by selecting an appropriate rate for each cashpolicies have been consistently applied to all years presented, generating unit.
Further details of the assumptions and estimates unless otherwise stated.
1.1 Basis of preparation b Classification of casino and other gaming licences as The consolidated and Company financial statements have been intangible assets with an indefinite life prepared under the historical cost convention, as modified by the revaluation of financial assets and financial liabilities including As disclosed in note 1.12 certain casino and other gaming licences have been classified as intangible assets with an indefinite life.
derivative instruments at fair value through profit or loss.
This assumption is based on managements belief that there is 1.1.
1 Statement of compliance no foreseeable limit to the period over which the licences are The consolidated and Company financial statements have been expected to generate net cash inflows and that each licence holds prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting a value outside the property in which it resides.
As a consequence, Standards IFRS and IFRIC Interpretations as adopted by the each licence is reviewed annually for impairment.
European Union, and the Companies Act 2006 applicable to c Recoverability of deferred tax assets companies reporting under IFRS.
Deferred tax assets are recognised to the extent that it is probable 1.1.
2 Going concern future taxable profit will be available against which the temporary In adopting the going concern basis for preparing the differences can be utilised.
The key area of judgement is therefore consolidated financial statements, the directors have considered an assessment of whether it is probable that there will be suitable the issues impacting the Group during 2010 as detailed in the taxable profits against which any deferred tax assets can be directors report on pages 1 to 41 and have reviewed the Groups utilised.
Further details of deferred tax assets recognised are projected compliance with its banking covenants detailed in the disclosed in note 20. finance review on page 36.
Based on the Groups cash flow d Income taxes forecasts and operating budgets, and assuming that trading does The Group is subject to income taxes in numerous jurisdictions, not deteriorate considerably from current levels, the directors believe that the Group will generate sufficient cash to meet its including jurisdictions from now discontinued operations.
There are many transactions and calculations for which the ultimate borrowing requirements for at least the next 12 months and tax determination is uncertain.
The Group recognises liabilities comply with its banking covenants.
for anticipated tax audit issues based on estimates of whether 1.1.
3 Accounting estimates and judgements additional taxes will be due.
Where the final outcome of these The preparation of financial statements in conformity with IFRS matters is different from the amount recognised, such differences requires the use of certain critical accounting estimates.
It also will impact the financial statements in the period such requires management to exercise its judgement in the process determination is made.
of applying the Groups accounting policies.
The resulting e Provisions accounting estimates will, by definition, seldom equal the actual Provisions are recognised in accordance with the policy disclosed results.
The areas involving a higher degree of judgement or in note 1.10.
In calculating onerous property lease provisions, complexity, where assumptions and estimates are significant estimates are made of the discounted cash flows derived from the to the consolidated financial statements, are set out below.
property and its associated operations including sub-let income.
Estimates have also been made in determining the amount and timing of disposal provisions, including legacy industrial disease and personal injury claims.
Further details of provisions made are disclosed in note 21.
The Rank Group Plc: Annual report and financial statements 2010 72 IFRIC 17 Distribution of Non-cash Assets to Owners 1 General information and The interpretation provides guidance on accounting for arrangements whereby an entity distributes non-cash assets to accounting policies continued shareholders either as a distribution of reserves or as dividends.
The interpretation had no effect on the financial position or f Contingent assets and liabilities performance of the Group.
Management is required to apply judgement in assessing the probability of the occurrence or non-occurrence of one or more IFRIC 18 Transfers of Assets from Customers The interpretation uncertain future events not wholly within the control of the provides guidance on accounting for transfers of assets received Company.
This judgement is supported by external advice and from customers.
The interpretation had no effect on the precedent case law where appropriate and is continually assessed financial position or performance of the Group.
to ensure that developments are appropriately reflected in the Improvements to IFRSs issued April 2009 In April 2009 the financial statements.
Further details of contingent assets are second set of amendments to standards was issued, primarily disclosed in note 30 and contingent liabilities are disclosed with a view to removing inconsistencies and clarifying in note 31. wording.
The adoption of the amendments had no effect 1.1.
4 Changes in accounting policy and disclosures on the financial position or performance of the Group.
a Standards, amendments and interpretations to existing The Group has not early adopted any other standard, standards adopted by the Group interpretation or amendment that was issued but is not The following new standards and amendments to standards yet effective.
are mandatory for the first time for the financial year beginning 1 January 2010. b Standards, amendments and interpretations to existing standards that are not yet effective IFRS 2 Share-based Payment Amended The standard has The following standards, amendments and interpretations to been amended to clarify the accounting for group cash-settled existing standards have been published and are mandatory for share-based payment transactions.
This amendment also accounting periods beginning after 1 January 2010 or later supersedes IFRIC 8 and IFRIC 11.
Although the adoption of this periods, but they have not been early adopted by the Group: amendment did not have any impact on the financial position of the Group, it has resulted in an increase in the Companys IAS 24 Related Party Disclosures Amendment Effective investments in subsidiary undertakings with a corresponding 1 January 2011 increase in equity.
The impact of the adoption of the standard IAS 32 Financial Instruments: Presentation, Classification on prior years was not material.
of Rights Issues Effective 1 February 2010 IFRS 3 Business Combinations Revised and IAS 27 IFRIC 14 Prepayments of a Minimum Funding Requirement Consolidated and Separate Financial Statements Amended Effective 1 January 2011 The revisions to the standards apply from 1 January 2010.
IFRS 3 Revised introduces significant changes in the accounting for IFRIC 19 Extinguishing Financial Liabilities with Equity business combinations occurring after this date.
Changes affect Instruments Effective 1 July 2010 the valuation of non-controlling interests, the accounting for IFRS 9 Financial Instruments Effective 1 January 2013 transaction costs, the initial recognition and subsequent measurement of contingent consideration and business Improvements to IFRSs issued May 2010 Effective either combinations achieved in stages.
These changes will impact 1 July 2010 or 1 January 2011 the amount of goodwill recognised, the reported results in the It is not anticipated that the adoption of the above standards, period that an acquisition occurs and future reported results.
amendments and interpretations of existing standards will have IAS 27 Consolidated and Separate Financial Statements a material impact on the Group or Company financial statements Amended requires that a change in the ownership interest in the period of initial application.
of a subsidiary without loss of control is accounted for as a c Other future developments transaction with owners in their capacity as owners.
Therefore, On 17 August 2010, the IASB and FASB released a joint exposure such transactions will no longer give rise to goodwill, nor will draft that would significantly change lease accounting for both they give rise to gains or losses.
Furthermore, the amended lessees and lessors by requiring balance sheet recognition of standard changes the accounting for losses incurred by the all leases.
subsidiary as well as the loss of control of a subsidiary.
The majority of the Groups properties are currently classified as The revisions will affect future acquisitions or loss of control operating leases and consequently the proposed changes would of subsidiaries and transactions with non-controlling interests.
have a potential material impact on the balance sheet with a The revisions have been applied prospectively and had no grossing up of assets and liabilities upon recognition of the impact during the period.
intangible asset and lease liability and the income statement IAS 39 Financial Instruments: Recognition and Measurement with an increase in operating profit and finance costs.
The Eligible Hedged Items The amendment addresses the Group currently recognises rental expenses under operating designation of a one-sided risk in a hedged item, and the leases on a straight line basis within operating profit and provides designation of inflation as a hedged risk or portion in particular additional disclosure of future minimum commitments under situations.
The amendment had no effect on the financial non-cancellable operating leases.
position or performance of the Group.
The Rank Group Plc: Annual report and financial statements 2010 73 Financial statements: Notes to the financial statements continued b Food and beverage 1 General information and Revenue from food and beverage sales is recognised at the point of sale.
accounting policies continued c Finance income It is not possible, at this time, to quantify the impact of the Interest income is recognised on a time proportion basis using the proposals as they have not yet been formalised and therefore, effective interest method.
while the Group continues to monitor financial reporting 1.4 Segment reporting developments and start preparations, the internal process Operating segments are reported in a manner consistent with the for collating and calculating the impact has not commenced.
internal reporting provided to the chief operating decision maker.
1.2 Consolidation The chief operating decision maker, who is responsible for Subsidiaries are entities over which the Group has the allocating resources and assessing performance of the operating power to govern the financial and operating policies, generally segments, has been identified as the management team the accompanying a shareholding of more than one half of the composition of which is disclosed on page 43 that makes voting rights.
The existence and effect of potential voting strategic and operational decisions.
rights that are currently exercisable or convertible are considered 1.5 Foreign currency translation when assessing whether the Group controls another entity.
The consolidated financial statements are presented in UK All subsidiaries are fully consolidated from the date on which Sterling, which is also the Companys functional currency.
control is transferred to the Group.
They are fide-consolidated Items included in the financial statements of each of the from the date that control ceases.
Groups entities are measured using the currency of the The purchase method of accounting is used to account for primary economic environment in which the entity operates the acquisition of subsidiaries by the Group.
The cost of an the functional currency.
acquisition is measured as the fair value of the assets given, equity a Transactions and balances instruments issued and liabilities incurred or assumed at the date Foreign currency transactions are translated into the functional of exchange.
Prior to 1 January 2010, the cost of acquisition also currency using the exchange rates prevailing at the dates of the included costs directly attributable to the acquisition.
Foreign exchange gains and losses resulting from the assets acquired, liabilities and contingent liabilities assumed in a settlement of such transactions and from the translation at yearbusiness combination are measured initially at their fair values end exchange rates of monetary assets and liabilities denominated at the acquisition date, irrespective of the extent of any minority in foreign currencies are recognised in the income statement in interest.
The excess of the cost of acquisition over the fair value finance costs or income, except when deferred in equity where of the Groups share of the identifiable net assets acquired is hedging criteria are met.
If the cost of acquisition is less than the fair value of the net assets of the subsidiary acquired, the difference b Group companies is recognised directly in the income statement.
The results and financial position of all the Group companies none of which has the currency of a hyper-inflationary Inter-company transactions, balances and unrealised gains economy that have a functional currency different from the on transactions between Group companies are eliminated.
presentation currency are translated into the presentation Unrealised losses are also eliminated unless the transaction currency as follows: provides evidence of an impairment of the asset transferred.
Accounting policies as applied to subsidiaries have been changed i assets and liabilities for each balance sheet presented are where necessary to ensure consistency with the policies adopted translated at the closing rate on the balance sheet date.
closing euro rate against UK Sterling was 1.17 2009: 1.13 and the closing US Dollar rate against UK Sterling was 1.57 The Group has no material associates or joint ventures.
2009: 1.61 : 1.3 Revenue recognition ii income and expenses for each income statement are Revenue consists of the fair value of sales of goods and services translated at average exchange rates unless this average net of VAT, rebates and discounts.
is not a reasonable approximation of the cumulative effect a Gaming win of the rates prevailing on the transaction dates, in which Revenue for casinos includes the gaming win before deduction of case income and expenses are translated at the rates gaming duty.
Revenue for bingo is net of prizes before deduction prevailing on the dates of the transactions.
The average euro of gross profits tax.
Revenue for Rank Interactive, including sports rate against UK Sterling was 1.17 2009: 1.12 and the average betting and interactive games, represents gaming win.
All other US Dollar rate against UK Sterling in the year was 1.54 revenue streams are stated net of VAT where applicable.
The fair 2009: 1.57 : and value of free bets, promotions and customer bonuses are also iii all resulting exchange differences are recognised as a separate deducted from all revenue streams.
Although disclosed as revenue, gaming win is accounted for and meets the definition of a gain under IAS 39 Financial Instruments: Recognition and Measurement.
The Rank Group Plc: Annual report and financial statements 2010 74 b Cash and cash equivalents 1 General information and Cash and short-term deposits in the balance sheet include cash at banks and in hand and short-term deposits with an original accounting policies continued maturity of three months or less.
On consolidation, exchange differences arising from the For the purpose of the cash flow statement, cash and cash translation of the net investment in foreign entities, and of equivalents consist of cash and short-term deposits as defined borrowings and other currency instruments designated as hedges above, net of outstanding bank overdrafts.
Bank overdrafts are of such investments, are taken to shareholders equity.
When a shown within loans and borrowings in current liabilities on the foreign operation is sold, such exchange differences are recognised balance sheet.
in the income statement, net of hedging, as part of the gain or 1.7 Financial liabilities loss on sale.
Goodwill and fair value adjustments arising on the Financial liabilities within the scope of IAS 39 are classified as acquisition of a foreign entity are treated as assets and liabilities financial liabilities at fair value through profit or loss, loans and of the foreign entity and translated at the closing rate.
borrowings, or as derivatives designated as hedging instruments 1.6 Financial assets in an effective hedge, as appropriate.
The Group determines Financial assets within the scope of IAS 39 are classified the classification of its financial liabilities at initial recognition.
as financial assets at fair value through profit or loss, loans A financial liability is derecognised when the obligation under and receivables, held to maturity investments, available for the liability is discharged, cancelled or expires.
sale financial assets, or as derivatives designated as hedging instruments in an effective hedge, as appropriate.
The Groups financial liabilities include trade and other payables, The Group determines the classification of its financial loans and borrowings including bank overdrafts, financial assets at initial recognition.
guarantee contracts and onerous contracts.
A financial asset is derecognised when the rights to receive the a Trade and other payables cash flows from the asset have expired, been transferred or an Trade payables are recognised initially at fair value and obligation to pay the cash flows received to a third party without subsequently measured at amortised cost using the effective material delay has been assumed, and either: interest method.
Substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership have been b Loans and borrowings transferred: or After initial recognition at fair value, interest bearing loans and borrowings are subsequently measured at amortised cost using the Substantially all the risks and rewards have neither been effective interest rate method.
Gains and losses are recognised in retained nor transferred, but control has been transferred.
the income statement when the liabilities are derecognised as well The Groups financial assets include loans and receivables and as through the effective interest rate method amortisation process.
Amortised cost is calculated by taking into account any discount a Loans and receivables or premium on acquisition and fees or costs that are an integral Loans and receivables are non-derivative financial assets with part of the effective interest rate method.
The effective interest fixed or determinable payments that are not quoted in an active rate method amortisation is included in finance costs in the market.
They are included in current assets, except for maturities income statement.
greater than 12 months after the balance sheet date.
These are The fair value of the liability portion of the convertible bond, classified as non-current assets.
Loans and receivables are which matured in January 2009, was determined on the date classified as trade and other receivables in the balance sheet.
This amount was recorded as a liability and was held on Trade receivables are recognised initially at fair value and an amortised cost basis until the redemption or maturity of the subsequently measured at amortised cost using the effective bonds.
The remaining proceeds were allocated to the conversion interest method, less provision for impairment.
A provision for option and were recognised in shareholders funds.
This resulted impairment of trade receivables is established when there is in a higher interest cost over the life of the bond as an equal and objective evidence that the Group will not be able to collect all opposite amount to the equity component was amortised amounts due according to the original terms of the receivables.
through the income statement as a financing cost.
Significant financial difficulties of the debtor, probability that the c Financial guarantee contracts Company only debtor will enter bankruptcy or financial reorganisation, and Financial guarantee contracts issued by the Company are those default or delinquency in payments more than 30 days overdue contracts that require a payment to be made to reimburse the are considered indicators that the trade receivable is impaired.
holder for a loss it incurs because the specified debtor fails to The amount of the provision is the difference between the assets make a payment when due in accordance with the terms of a debt carrying amount and the present value of estimated future cash instrument.
Financial guarantee contracts are initially measured flows, discounted at the original effective interest rate.
The at fair value by applying the estimated probability of default carrying amount of the asset is reduced through the use of an to the cash outflow should default occur and subsequently allowance account, and the amount of the loss is recognised amortising over the expected length of the guarantee.
in the income statement within operating costs.
When a trade receivable is uncollectible, it is written off against the allowance account for trade receivables.
Subsequent recoveries of amounts previously written off are credited against operating costs in the income statement.
The Rank Group Plc: Annual report and financial statements 2010 75 Financial statements: Notes to the financial statements continued a Onerous contracts 1 General information and The Group is party to a number of leasehold property contracts.
Provision has been made against those leases where the property accounting policies continued is now vacant and the unavoidable costs under the lease exceed the economic benefit expected to be derived from potential subd Onerous contracts letting arrangements.
Provision has also been made against leases Details of the policy in respect of onerous contracts are disclosed where impairment testing has indicated that, after recognising an in note 1.10. impairment charge, the estimated discounted cash flows derived 1.8 Derivative financial instruments and hedging activities from the property and its associated operations are insufficient The Group held no derivative financial instruments at either to cover the unavoidable lease costs and the lease is therefore reporting date.
The Group uses a loan as a hedge of its exposure to foreign b Provision on disposal exchange risk on its investments in foreign subsidiaries.
The Following the disposal of an operation, provision is made for the gains or losses on the hedging instrument relating to the effective estimated future costs attributable to the disposal.
portion of the hedge are recognised as other comprehensive 1.11 Property, plant and equipment income while any gains or losses relating to the ineffective Property, plant and equipment is stated at cost, net of portion are recognised in the income statement.
On disposal of accumulated depreciation and impairment.
Such cost includes the foreign operation, the cumulative value of any such gains or expenditure that is directly attributable to the acquisition of the losses recorded in equity is transferred to the income statement.
Subsequent costs are included in the assets carrying Further details are disclosed in note 19. amount or recognised as a separate asset, as appropriate, only 1.9 Leases when it is probable that future economic benefits associated with Leases are tested at inception to determine whether the lease is the item will flow to the Group and the cost of the item can be a finance or operating lease and treated accordingly.
All other repairs and maintenance are charged entered into prior to 1 January 2005, inception is deemed to be to the income statement during the financial period in which 1 January 2005 in accordance with the transitional requirements they are incurred.
Property leases comprising a lease of land and a lease Depreciation is calculated on assets using the straight line method of buildings within a single contract are split into its two to allocate their cost less residual values over their estimated component parts before testing.
useful lives, as follows: a Finance leases freehold and leasehold property 50 years or lease term if less Leases of property, plant and equipment which transfer substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership to the Group refurbishment of property five to 20 years are classified as finance leases.
Finance leases are capitalised at the fixtures, fittings, plant and inception of the lease at the lower of the fair value of the leased machinery three to 20 years property, plant and equipment or the present value of minimum lease payments.
Each lease payment is allocated between the Land is not depreciated.
liability and finance charges so as to achieve a constant periodic Residual values and useful lives are reviewed at each balance sheet rate of interest on the remaining balance of the liability for each date, and adjusted prospectively, if appropriate.
The corresponding rental obligations, net of finance charges, are included in loans and borrowings.
Finance charges An item of property, plant and equipment is derecognised upon are recognised in the income statement.
The property, plant and disposal or when no future economic benefits are expected from equipment acquired under finance leases are depreciated over the its use or disposal.
Any gain or loss on arising on derecognition shorter of the useful life of the asset or the lease term.
of the asset calculated as the difference between the net disposal proceeds and the carrying amount of the asset is included in the b Operating leases income statement.
Leases of property, plant and equipment which do not transfer substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership to the Group Pre-opening costs are expensed to the income statement are classified as operating leases.
Operating lease payments as incurred.
including any lease incentives or premiums are recognised as 1.12 Intangible assets an expense in the income statement on a straight line basis over a Goodwill the lease term.
Goodwill represents the excess of the cost of an acquisition over 1.10 Provisions the fair value of the Groups share of the net identifiable assets Provisions are recognised when the Group has a present legal or of the acquired subsidiary at the date of acquisition.
Goodwill constructive obligation as a result of past events if it is more likely on acquisitions of subsidiaries is included in intangible assets.
than not that an outflow of resources will be required to settle the Goodwill is tested annually for impairment and carried at obligation and the amount can be reliably estimated.
Provisions amortised cost as at 1 January 2004 plus cost for any acquisition are measured at the best estimate of the expenditures required completed after 1 January 2004 less accumulated impairment to settle the obligation.
If the effect of the time value of money losses.
Gains and losses on the disposal of an entity include the is material, provisions are discounted using a pre-tax rate that carrying amount of goodwill relating to the entity sold, except reflects, where appropriate, the risks specific to the liability.
where goodwill has been previously written off directly to reserves Where discounting is used, the increase in the provision due under previous GAAP.
to passage of time is recognised as a finance cost.
The Rank Group Plc: Annual report and financial statements 2010 76 1.13 Borrowing costs 1 General information and Borrowing costs directly attributable to the acquisition, construction or production of an asset that necessarily takes a accounting policies continued substantial period of time to get ready for its intended use or sale are capitalised, where material, as part of the cost of the respective Goodwill is allocated to the relevant cash-generating unit or assets.
All other borrowing costs are expensed in the period they group of cash-generating units for the purpose of impairment occur.
Borrowing costs consist of interest and other costs that testing.
A cash-generating unit is the smallest identifiable group an entity incurs in connection with the borrowing of funds.
of assets that generates cash inflows that are largely independent of the cash inflows from other assets or groups of assets.
The Group capitalises borrowing costs for all qualifying assets where construction was commenced on or after 1 January 2009.
Goodwill arising on acquisitions made before 31 December 1997 The Group expensed borrowing costs relating to construction has been written off directly to reserves.
projects that commenced prior to 1 January 2009. b Casino and other gaming licences and concessions 1.14 Impairment of intangible assets and property, plant The Group capitalises acquired casino and other gaming and equipment licences and concessions.
The amount capitalised is the Assets that have an indefinite useful life are not subject to difference between the price paid for a property or business and amortisation and are tested annually for impairment.
Assets that the associated licence, and the fair value of a similar property or are subject to amortisation are reviewed for impairment whenever business without a licence.
Management believes that licences, events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying with the exception of the two casino concessions in Belgium, amount may not be recoverable.
have indefinite lives as there is no foreseeable limit to the period over which the licences are expected to generate net cash inflows An impairment loss is recognised as the amount by which an and each licence holds a value outside the property in which assets carrying amount exceeds its recoverable amount.
Each licence is reviewed annually for impairment.
recoverable amount is the higher of an assets fair value less costs to sell and value in use.
For the purposes of assessing impairment, In respect of the two casino concessions in Belgium, the Group assets are grouped at the lowest levels for which there are has previously treated the concessions as intangible assets with separately identifiable cash inflows cash-generating units.
However, following a change in the anticipated The expected cash flows generated by the assets are discounted process for concession renewal in Belgium the directors no longer using appropriate discount rates that reflect the time value of consider this appropriate.
This has resulted in an impairment money and risks associated with the groups of assets.
The residual carrying value will be amortised over the expected remaining useful life of nine years.
If an impairment loss is recognised, the carrying amount of the asset cash-generating unit is reduced to its recoverable amount.
Any costs in renewing licences or concessions are expensed An impairment loss is recognised as an exceptional expense in as incurred.
c Other Where an impairment loss subsequently reverses, the carrying Acquired computer software licences are capitalised on the basis amount of the asset cash-generating unit is increased to the of the costs incurred to acquire and bring to use the specific revised estimate of its recoverable amount, but only to the extent software.
These costs are amortised on a straight line basis over that the increased carrying amount does not exceed the carrying their estimated useful lives three to four years.
amount that would have been determined had no impairment Costs associated with maintaining computer software loss been recognised for the asset cash-generating unit in programmes are recognised as an expense as incurred.
are directly associated with the production and development A reversal of an impairment loss is recognised as exceptional of identifiable and unique software products controlled by the income in the income statement immediately.
Group, and that will probably generate economic benefits exceeding costs beyond one year, are recognised as intangible 1.15 Employee benefit costs assets for both externally purchased and internally developed a Pension obligations software.
Direct costs include specific employee costs for The Group operates a defined contribution plan under which the software development.
Group pays fixed contributions to a separate entity.
The Group has no further payment obligations once the contributions have Computer software development costs recognised as assets are been paid.
The contributions are recognised as employee benefit amortised over their estimated useful lives, estimated at between expense when they are due.
The Group also has an unfunded pension commitment relating If acquired, the Group capitalises the costs of other intangible to three former executives of the Group.
The amount recognised assets such as brands, trademarks and customer relationships.
in the balance sheet in respect of the commitment is the present Costs incurred internally to generate these intangible assets are value of the obligation at the balance sheet date, together with expensed as incurred.
For business combinations occurring after adjustment for unrecognised actuarial gains or losses.
The Group 1 January 2004, purchased intangible assets are capitalised on the recognises actuarial gains and losses immediately in the statement balance sheet at fair value on acquisition.
Purchased intangible of comprehensive income.
The net cost arising on the assets with finite lives are amortised over their useful economic commitment is recognised in net finance costs.
lives, estimated at three years.
The Rank Group Plc: Annual report and financial statements 2010 77 Financial statements: Notes to the financial statements continued investment in its subsidiaries equivalent to the equity-settled 1 General information and share-based payment charge recognised in its subsidiaries financial statements with the corresponding credit being accounting policies continued recognised directly in equity.
b Share-based compensation d Termination benefits The cost of equity-settled transactions with employees for awards Termination benefits are payable when employment is granted after 7 November 2002 is measured by reference to the terminated before the normal retirement date, or whenever an fair value at the date on which they are granted.
The fair value is employee accepts voluntary redundancy in exchange for these determined by using an appropriate pricing model, further details benefits.
The Group recognises termination benefits when it is of which are given in note 27. demonstrably committed to either terminating the employment of current employees according to a detailed formal plan: or The cost of equity-settled transactions is recognised, together providing termination benefits as a result of an offer made to with a corresponding increase in equity, over the period in which encourage voluntary redundancy.
If the effect of the time value the performance and or service conditions are fulfilled.
The of money is material, benefits falling due more than 12 months cumulative expense recognised for equity-settled transactions after the balance sheet date are discounted to present value.
at each reporting date until the vesting date reflects the extent to which the vesting period has expired and the Groups best e Bonus plans estimate of the number of equity instruments that will ultimately The Group recognises a liability and an expense for bonuses based vest.
The income statement expense or credit for a period on a formula that takes into consideration the profit attributable represents the movement in cumulative expense recognised to the Companys shareholders after certain adjustments.
The as at the beginning and end of that period.
Group recognises a provision where contractually obliged or where a past practice has created a constructive obligation.
No expense is recognised for awards that do not ultimately vest, except for equity-settled transactions where vesting is conditional 1.16 Inventories upon a market or non-vesting condition, which are treated as Inventories are valued at the lower of cost and net realisable value.
vesting irrespective of whether or not the market or non-vesting Cost of inventory is determined on a first-in first-out basis.
condition is satisfied, provided that all other performance and or The cost of finished goods comprises goods purchased for resale.
Net realisable value is the estimated selling price in the ordinary Where the terms of an equity-settled transaction award are course of business.
When necessary, provision is made for modified, the minimum expense recognised is the expense as obsolete and slow-moving inventories.
if the terms had not been modified, if the original terms of the award are met.
An additional expense is recognised for any 1.17 Taxation modification that increases the total fair value of the share-based a Current tax payment transaction, or is otherwise beneficial to the employee Current tax assets and liabilities for the current and prior as measured at the date of modification.
periods are measured as the amount expected to be paid or to be recovered from the taxation authorities.
The tax rates and tax Where an equity-settled award is cancelled, it is treated as if it laws used to compute the amount are those that are enacted or vested on the date of cancellation, and any expense not yet substantively enacted, by the reporting date, in the countries recognised for the award is recognised immediately.
This includes where the Group operates and generates taxable income.
any award where non-vesting conditions within the control of either the entity or the employee are not met.
However, if a new Current tax relating to items recognised directly in equity is award is substituted for the cancelled award, and designated as a recognised in equity and not the income statement.
replacement award on the date that it is granted, the cancelled and Management evaluates positions taken in the tax returns with new awards are treated as if they were a modification of the original respect to situations in which applicable tax regulations are award, as described in the previous paragraph.
All cancellations of subject to interpretation at each reporting date and establishes equity-settled transaction awards are treated equally.
The dilutive effect of outstanding options is reflected as additional b Deferred tax share dilution in the computation of diluted earnings per share.
Deferred tax is provided using the liability method on temporary The proceeds received net of any directly attributable transaction differences arising between the tax bases of assets and liabilities costs are credited to share capital nominal value and share and their carrying amounts in the financial statements.
However, premium when the options are exercised.
if deferred tax arises from the initial recognition of an asset or liability in a transaction, other than a business combination, c Share-based compensation Company that at the time of the transaction affects neither accounting The Company operates share-based payment schemes for nor taxable profit or loss, it is not accounted for.
Deferred tax is employees of the Company and its subsidiaries.
The fair value determined using tax rates and laws that have been enacted or of shares awarded to employees of the Company is recognised substantively enacted by the balance sheet date and are expected as an employee expense with a corresponding increase in equity.
to apply when the related deferred tax asset is realised or the The Company also makes awards of its own shares to employees deferred tax liability is settled.
of its subsidiaries and as such recognises an increase in the cost of The Rank Group Plc: Annual report and financial statements 2010 78 1.19 Discontinued operations and non-current assets held 1 General information and for sale Operations of the Group are recognised as discontinued accounting policies continued operations if the operations have been disposed of or meet the criteria to be classified as held for sale.
Operations held for sale Deferred tax assets are recognised to the extent that it is probable are held at the lower of their carrying amount on the dates they that future taxable profit will be available against which the are classified as held for sale and fair value less costs to sell.
temporary differences can be utilised.
Non-current assets and disposal groups are classified as held for Deferred tax assets and liabilities are offset when there is a legally sale if their carrying amount will be recovered through a sale enforceable right to set off current taxation assets against current transaction rather than through continuing use.
This condition taxation liabilities and it is the intention to settle these on a is regarded as met only when the sale is highly probable and net basis.
the asset or disposal group is available for immediate sale in Deferred tax is provided on temporary differences arising on its present condition.
Management must be committed to the investments in subsidiaries and associates, except where the sale which should be expected to qualify for recognition as a timing of the reversal of the temporary difference is controlled completed sale within one year from the date of classification.
by the Group and it is probable that the temporary difference 1.20 Dividends will not reverse in the foreseeable future.
Dividends proposed by the board of directors and unpaid at the c Sales tax period end are not recognised in the financial statements until Revenues, expenses and assets are recognised net of the amount they have been approved by shareholders at the annual general of sales tax except: meeting.
Interim dividends are recognised when paid.
Where the sales tax incurred on a purchase of assets or services 1.21 Exceptional items is not recoverable from the taxation authority, in which case The Group defines exceptional items as those items which, by the sales tax is recognised as part of the cost of acquisition their size or nature in relation to both the Group and individual of the asset or as part of the expense item as applicable: and segments, are separately disclosed in order to give a full understanding of the Groups financial performance and aid Receivables and payables that are stated with the amount comparability of the Groups result between periods.
This would of sales tax included.
include, to the extent they are material, gains or losses on the The net amount of sales tax recoverable from, or payable to, the disposal of assets, impairments or subsequent reversal of the taxation authority is included as part of receivables or payables carrying value of assets and associated onerous lease provisions, in the balance sheet.
costs of club closures and restructurings, onerous lease provisions on vacant properties, disposal of businesses, changes in disposal 1.18 Share capital provisions and VAT refunds net of gross profits tax and Ordinary shares are classified as equity.
associated costs relating to previous periods.
Where any Group company purchases the Companys equity share capital treasury shares as defined by IAS 32, the consideration paid, including any directly attributable incremental costs net of income taxes, is deducted from equity attributable to the Companys equity holders until the shares are cancelled or reissued.
Where such shares are subsequently sold or reissued, any consideration received, net of any directly attributable incremental transaction costs and the related income tax effects, is included in equity attributable to the Companys equity holders.
The Rank Group Plc: Annual report and financial statements 2010 79 Financial statements: Notes to the financial statements continued 2 Segmental reporting a Segment information business segments Grosvenor Casinos 2010 2009 m m Continuing operations Group revenue reported in internal information 238.6 220.0 Free bets, promotions and customer bonuses 1.0 1.2 Segment revenue 237.6 218.8 Operating profit loss before exceptional items 36.0 30.9 Exceptional operating loss profit 3.6 1.5 Segment result 32.4 29.4 Finance costs Finance income Other financial losses gains Profit before taxation Taxation Profit for the year from continuing operations Assets and liabilities Intangible assets: Intangible assets with indefinite useful lives 76.0 94.3 Intangible assets with nite useful lives 6.9 0.6 Property, plant and equipment 80.7 71.8 Other segment assets 9.8 9.4 Segment assets 173.4 176.1 Unallocated assets: Deferred tax assets Income tax receivable Cash and short-term deposits Total assets Segment liabilities 38.7 42.3 Unallocated liabilities: Income tax payable Loans and borrowings Deferred tax liabilities Total liabilities Net assets Other segment items continuing operations Capital expenditure 19.4 15.8 Depreciation and amortisation 10.0 8.3 Impairment charges see note 4 11.2 1.5 Impairment reversals see note 4 Net charge release from provision for onerous leases see note 4 0.3 Share-based payment charge 0.1 0.2 At 31 December 2010, the Groups continuing operations are organised into four main business segments: Grosvenor Casinos, Mecca Bingo, Top Rank Espaa and Rank Interactive.
The activities of the segments are described in the Group overview section of the directors report.
Costs that cannot be allocated on a reasonable basis are combined within Central costs.
There are immaterial sales between the business segments.
Segment liabilities comprise trade and other payables, deferred consideration, provisions and retirement benefits.
Intangible assets with indefinite useful lives include 53.4m 2009: 53.8m of goodwill relating to Rank Interactive.
Capital expenditure comprises expenditure on property, plant and equipment and other intangible assets, including those acquired under finance leases.
The Rank Group Plc: Annual report and financial statements 2010 81 Financial statements: Notes to the financial statements continued 2 Segmental reporting continued b Segment information geographical segments The Groups business segments operate in two main geographical areas UK and Continental Europe.
The home country of the Company is the UK.
The areas of operation are principally the operation of bingo clubs, casinos and online gaming and bookmaking services.
i Segment revenue from external customers by geographical area based on location of customer 2010 2009 m m UK 491.3 467.1 Continental Europe 53.2 53.4 Total revenue 544.5 520.5 ii Segment non-current assets by geographical area based on location of assets 2010 2009 m m UK 313.9 293.8 Continental Europe 58.6 73.8 Segment non-current assets 372.5 367.6 Unallocated assets: Deferred tax assets 22.1 23.5 Total non-current assets 394.6 391.1 With the exception of the UK and Spain, no individual country contributed more than 10% of consolidated sales or assets.
c Total revenue and profit from continuing and discontinued operations Revenue Profit for the year 2010 2009 2010 2009 Note m m m m From continuing operations 544.5 520.5 48.9 37.9 From discontinued operations 4 4.3 0.6 Total 544.5 520.5 53.2 38.5 The Rank Group Plc: Annual report and financial statements 2010 82 2 Segmental reporting continued d Total cost analysis by segment To increase transparency, the Group has decided to include additional disclosure analysing total costs by type and segment.
A reconciliation of total costs, before exceptional items, by type and segment is as follows: 2010 Grosvenor Mecca Top Rank Rank Central Casinos Bingo Espaa Interactive costs Total m m m m m m Employment and related costs 90.6 61.5 14.7 9.5 12.4 188.7 Taxes and duties 48.7 37.3 2.0 1.3 0.7 90.0 Direct costs 10.8 21.9 3.2 15.3 51.2 Property costs 17.3 26.2 2.0 0.7 0.9 47.1 Marketing 6.9 10.9 0.9 9.9 28.6 Depreciation and amortisation 10.0 13.3 2.7 3.5 0.8 30.3 Other 17.3 20.0 4.7 1.0 3.6 46.6 Total costs before exceptional items 201.6 191.1 30.2 41.2 18.4 482.5 Cost of sales 296.1 Operating costs 186.4 Total costs before exceptional items 482.5 2009 Grosvenor Mecca Top Rank Rank Central Casinos Bingo Espaa Interactive costs Total m m m m m m Employment and related costs 85.9 56.7 15.4 8.6 11.2 177.8 Taxes and duties 45.9 36.7 1.6 0.3 0.7 85.2 Direct costs 8.8 23.4 3.6 13.9 49.7 Property costs 16.9 26.4 2.0 0.7 0.9 46.9 Marketing 6.110.20.88.8 25.9 Depreciation and amortisation 8.3 10.1 2.8 3.9 0.8 25.9 Other 16.024.94.41.1 4.751.1 Total costs before exceptional items 187.9 188.4 30.6 37.3 18.3 462.5 Cost of sales 278.4 Operating costs 184.1 Total costs before exceptional items 462.5 The Rank Group Plc: Annual report and financial statements 2010 83 Financial statements: Notes to the financial statements continued 3 Profit for the year analysis by nature The following items have been charged credited in arriving at the profit for the year before financing and taxation from continuing operations: 2010 2009 Note m m Employee benefit expense 26 179.8 167.2 Cost of inventories recognised as expense 19.4 20.5 Amortisation of intangibles including 0.8m 2009: 0.6m within cost of sales 10 3.8 4.2 Depreciation of property, plant and equipment 11 owned assets including 21.1m 2009: 19.0m within cost of sales 25.6 21.0 under finance leases included within cost of sales 0.9 0.7 Operating lease rentals payable minimum lease payments 44.5 40.4 sub-lease income 4.7 6.0 Loss profit on sale of property, plant and equipment 0.1 0.1 Exceptional operating costs 4 25.1 0.5 Exceptional operating income 4 38.5 3.3 Auditors remuneration for audit services 0.3 0.4 In the year, the Groups auditors, Ernst & Young LLP 2009:  LLP, including its network firms, earned the following fees: 2010 2009 m m Audit services Fees payable to the Companys auditor for the parent company and consolidated financial statements 0.1 0.2 Other services Fees payable to the Companys auditor and its associates for other services: the audit of the Companys subsidiaries pursuant to legislation 0.2 0.2 tax services 0.1 0.7 other services 0.1 Total 0.5 1.1 20,000 2009: 35,000 of the audit fees related to the parent company.
It is the Groups policy to balance the need to maintain auditor independence with the desirability of taking advice from the leading firm in the area of advice being taken and the desirability of being efficient.
The Rank Group Plc: Annual report and financial statements 2010 84 4 Exceptional items 2010 2009 Note m m Exceptional items relating to continuing operations Impairment charges 10,11,12 12.7 1.5 Impairment reversals 11,12 3.2 Charge to provision for onerous leases 21 17.8 Release from provision for onerous leases 21 4.3 1.0 VAT agreement cost 31 4.6 VAT partial exemption accrual release 4.5 Restructuring costs 2.0 Exceptional operating costs 25.1 0.5 VAT refund net of gross profits tax and associated costs 38.5 1.9 Net profit on sale of property less associated closure costs 1.4 Exceptional operating income 38.5 3.3 Finance income 5 5.6 Taxation 6 8.3 0.2 Exceptional items relating to continuing operations 10.7 3.0 Exceptional items relating to discontinued operations Release from disposal provisions 5.0 Charge to disposal provisions 4.2 Additional profit arising on previously disposed subsidiary 0.6 Finance income 0.4 Taxation 6 3.3 0.2 Exceptional items relating to discontinued operations 4.3 0.6 Total exceptional items 15.0 3.6 The Groups denition of exceptional items is disclosed in note 1.21.
2010 exceptional items Continuing operations Impairment charges The Group recognised an impairment charge of 1.5m against one vacant freehold property following an external market valuation of the Groups freehold properties.
The Group also recognised an impairment charge of 11.2m against the carrying value of its two casino concessions in Belgium.
The impairment charge has been recognised due to a reduction in the expected useful life of the concessions following a change in the anticipated process for concession renewal in Belgium.
The residual carrying value will be amortised over the remaining expected useful life of nine years.
Impairment reversals The Group has reversed previous impairment charges of 3.2m in relation to seven Mecca Bingo clubs primarily where performance has seen a sustained improvement from the adverse impact of the smoking bans in the UK and the loss of section 21 gaming terminals in 2007.
The Rank Group Plc: Annual report and financial statements 2010 85 Financial statements: Notes to the financial statements continued 4 Exceptional items continued Onerous leases The Group recognised an additional charge of 17.8m in relation to the provision for onerous property leases.
This included a charge of 15.9m primarily in relation to vacant sites following a reduction in the expected sub-let income.
These sites have proved increasingly difficult to sub-let and a number of tenants have gone into liquidation or have difficulty in paying their rents.
Further details are provided in note 21.
The reduction in the discount rate used in the calculation of the onerous lease provisions also resulted in a 1.9m charge.
The Group also released 4.3m in relation to two Mecca Bingo leases where the discounted cash flows derived from the property are now expected to exceed the unavoidable lease costs.
VAT agreement cost Further details of the VAT agreement cost are disclosed in note 31.
VAT partial exemption accrual release The Group has been in negotiation with HMRC for several years on the means by which it calculates the amount of irrecoverable VAT in Grosvenor Casinos.
Since July 2007, the Group has accounted for irrecoverable VAT on the basis that HMRC were correct.
As a result, the amount of irrecoverable VAT suffered by Grosvenor Casinos exceeded the amount that the Group believed was due.
In 2010, the point of dispute between the Group and HMRC was the subject of litigation by another, similar, taxpayer.
In that case, the First-tier Tribunal and the Upper Tribunal have ruled that HMRCs position was incorrect.
While HMRC have appealed, precedent case law indicates that the Groups position is correct and on that basis the irrecoverable VAT accrual has been reduced by 4.5m accordingly.
However, it remains possible that this decision will be reversed on appeal.
In that event the Group would have to pay the VAT in dispute plus interest see note 31.
Restructuring costs The Group recognised an exceptional pre tax loss of 2.0m following the restructuring of the Top Rank Espaa business and closure of one Grosvenor Casino at Hove, East Sussex.
VAT refund net of gross profits tax and associated costs On 21 May 2010, the Group received 42.5m in overpaid VAT from HMRC.
The repayment covers VAT paid on games of main stage bingo between 2004 and 2009 and amusement machines between 2002 and 2005.
On 7 June 2010, the Group received 5.6m of interest in respect of the repayment.
The repayment follows successive rulings in the Groups favour in both the First-tier Tribunals tax chamber formerly the VAT and Duties Tribunal and the Upper Tribunal.
HMRC has appealed these rulings and the claims will now be considered by the European Court of Justice ECJ.
It is expected that this appeal will be heard in 2011.
If HMRC is successful in its appeal, the Group will be required to return the payment with interest see note 31.
The claims concern the inconsistent application of VAT to revenue from Mecca Bingo and Grosvenor Casinos.
It is the Groups contention that this practice contravened the European Union principle of fiscal neutrality.
Further details of the exceptional gain arising on the VAT refunded are disclosed in the table below: Main stage Amusement bingo machines Total m m m Cash repayment received 16.1 26.4 42.5 Increase in gross profits tax payable 2.5 2.5 Costs, including contingent fees 0.8 0.3 1.1 Irrecoverable input VAT 0.3 0.1 0.4 Exceptional gain before financing and taxation 12.5 26.0 38.5 Finance income 1.2 4.4 5.6 Taxation 3.8 8.6 12.4 Total exceptional gain on VAT refund 9.9 21.8 31.7 Discontinued operations Additional profit arising on previously disposed subsidiary The Group also recognised an exceptional profit of 0.6m, together with associated interest of 0.4m, following the successful outcome of certain VAT claims relating to a previously disposed subsidiary.
Taxation Details of exceptional taxation are disclosed in note 6.
The Rank Group Plc: Annual report and financial statements 2010 86 4 Exceptional items continued 2009 exceptional items Continuing operations During 2009, the Group disposed of one previously closed Mecca Bingo property at Welling.
The resulting profit on disposal of the property, net of costs, was 1.4m.
The Group also recognised an impairment charge of 1.5m against a non-operating casino licence at Liverpool.
During 2010, the Group opened an electronic casino in Liverpool using the licence and the directors consider the impaired carrying value of the licence remains appropriate.
The increase in the discount rate used in the calculation of the onerous property lease provision resulted in a 1.0m release to the income statement.
An exceptional profit of 1.9m also arose following the partial refund of bingo gross profits tax accrued in 2008 and previously paid during 2009 in relation to the 59.1m VAT refund in 2008.
Discontinued operations A provision of 5.0m for an environmental warranty given at the time of the sale of Deluxe Film was released as no subsequent claim was received and the warranty period had expired.
In addition, a charge of 4.2m was made in relation to the settlement, and associated costs, of legal proceedings in the US brought by Paramount Home Entertainment.
5 Financing 2010 2009 m m Continuing operations Finance costs: 1 Interest on debt and borrowings 4.3 7.2 Amortisation of issue costs on borrowings 0.9 1.0 Interest payable on finance leases 0.9 0.9 Unwinding of the discount in onerous lease provisions 1.2 1.3 Unwinding of the discount in disposal provisions 0.2 0.2 Amortisation of the equity component of the convertible bond 0.3 Total finance costs 7.5 10.9 Finance income: 1 Interest income on short term bank deposits 0.5 0.9 Finance income 0.5 0.9 Other financial losses gains 0.5 1.2 Total net financing cost for continuing operations before exceptional items 7.5 8.8 Exceptional finance income 5.6 Total net financing cost for continuing operations 1.9 8.8 1 calculated using the effective interest method.
Further details of the exceptional finance income are disclosed in note 4.
The Rank Group Plc: Annual report and financial statements 2010 87 Financial statements: Notes to the financial statements continued 5 Financing continued A reconciliation of total net financing costs to adjusted net interest included in adjusted profit is disclosed below: 2010 2009 m m Total net financing cost for continuing operations before exceptional items 7.5 8.8 Adjust for: Unwinding of the discount in disposal provisions 0.2 0.2 Amortisation of the equity component of the convertible bond 0.3 Other financial losses gains including foreign exchange 0.5 1.2 Adjusted net interest payable 6.8 9.5 6 Taxation 2010 2009 Continuing Discontinued Continuing Discontinued operations operations Total operations operations Total m m m m m m Current income tax Current income tax UK 13.1 13.1 3.1 3.1 Current income tax overseas 1.8 1.8 1.7 1.7 Current income tax charge credit 14.9 14.9 1.4 1.4 Current income tax on exceptional items 8.0 8.0 0.8 1.2 0.4 Amounts under over provided in previous year 0.3 0.3 1.3 1.3 Amounts over provided in previous year on exceptional items 2.8 2.8 0.6 0.6 Total current income tax charge credit 23.2 2.8 20.4 2.5 1.2 3.7 Deferred tax Deferred tax UK 1.6 1.6 18.7 18.7 Deferred tax overseas 0.2 0.2 0.3 0.3 Restatement of deferred tax from 28.0% to 27.0% 0.8 0.8 Deferred tax on exceptional items 0.3 0.3 0.4 1.4 1.0 Amounts over provided in previous year 1.5 1.5 2.0 2.0 Amounts over provided in previous year on exceptional items 0.5 0.5 Total deferred tax charge credit note 20 1.4 0.5 0.9 16.6 1.4 18.0 Tax charge credit in the income statement 24.6 3.3 21.3 14.1 0.2 14.3 The tax on the Groups profit before taxation on continuing operations differs from the standard rate of UK corporation tax of 28.0% 2009: 28.0%.
The differences are explained below: 2010 2009 m m Profit before taxation on continuing operations 73.5 52.0 Tax charge calculated at 28.0% on profit before taxation on continuing operations 2009: 28.0% 20.6 14.6 Effects of: Expenses not deductible for tax purposes 5.0 1.4 Difference in overseas tax rates 0.6 1.9 Restatement of deferred tax from 28.0% to 27.0% 0.8 Adjustments relating to prior years 1.2 3.9 Utilisation of previously unrecognised tax losses 0.3 Deferred tax movement on fair valued assets 0.2 Tax charge in the income statement on continuing operations 24.6 14.1 The Rank Group Plc: Annual report and financial statements 2010 88 6 Taxation continued Tax on exceptional items continuing operations The taxation impacts of exceptional items are disclosed below: 2010 2009 Current Current income tax Deferred tax Total income tax Deferred tax Total m m m m m m Impairment charges 0.4 0.4 Impairment reversals 0.3 0.3 Charge to provision for onerous leases 5.0 5.0 Release from provision for onerous leases 1.2 1.2 0.3 0.3 VAT agreement cost 1.3 1.3 VAT partial exemption accrual release 1.3 1.3 Restructuring costs 0.6 0.6 VAT refund net of gross profits tax and associated costs 12.4 12.4 0.5 0.5 Liquidation of overseas subsidiary 0.6 0.6 Tax charge credit on exceptional items continuing operations 8.0 0.3 8.3 0.2 0.4 0.2 Tax on exceptional items discontinued operations The current income tax credit on discontinued exceptional items in 2010 of 2.8m includes a 0.8m US tax refund and 2.0m arising from the reassessment of potential tax liabilities that are attributable to disposed entities.
The deferred tax credit on discontinued exceptional items in 2010 of 0.5m relates to the utilisation of losses attributable to disposed entities in prior years.
Tax effect of items within other comprehensive income 2010 2009 m m Current income tax charge on exchange movements offset in reserves 1.9 Deferred tax charge on exchange movements offset in reserves 0.5 1.9 Deferred tax credit on actuarial movement on retirement benefits 0.1 Total tax charge on items within other comprehensive income 0.5 3.7 Factors affecting future taxation It was announced in the Budget on 22 June 2010 that the UK corporation tax rate will be reduced from 28% to 27% from 1 April 2011, and by a further 1% per annum thereafter until 1 April 2014 when the corporate tax rate will be 24%.
The proposed rate reductions will reduce the amount of future cash tax payments to be made by the Group.
Overall the reduction in the corporation tax rate from 28% to 24% is expected to reduce the Groups net deferred tax asset in the future by approximately 1.0m.
The Budget also proposed that from 1 April 2012, the rate of capital allowances applicable to plant and machinery expenditure will be reduced from 20% to 18% on a reducing balancing basis.
The rate of capital allowances applicable to long-term assets will be reduced from 10% to 8% on a reducing balancing basis.
These changes to capital allowance rates will reduce the rate that tax relief is given to qualifying capital expenditure, which will advance cash tax payments.
This will be offset by the proposed reductions to the rate of corporation tax.
The Rank Group Plc: Annual report and financial statements 2010 89 Financial statements: Notes to the financial statements continued 7 Results attributable to the parent company The Company has elected to take the exemption under section 408 of the Companies Act 2006 not to present the parent company income statement.
The profit for the financial year for the Company was 54.2m 2009: loss of 28.0m and included a dividend received of 77.5m from a subsidiary undertaking.
8 Dividends 2010 2009 m m Dividends paid to equity holders Final for 2009 paid on 5 May 2010 1.35p per share 5.3 Interim for 2010 paid on 10 September 2010 0.74p per share 2.9 Refund of unclaimed dividends 0.1 Total 8.1 A final dividend in respect of the year ended 31 December 2010 of 1.66p per share, amounting to a dividend of 6.5m, is to be proposed at the annual general meeting on 14 April 2011.
These financial statements do not reflect this dividend.
9 Earnings per share a Basic earnings per share Basic earnings per share is calculated by dividing the profit attributable to equity shareholders by the weighted average number of ordinary shares in issue during the year, excluding ordinary shares purchased by the Group and held as treasury shares, as defined by IAS 32 see note 22.
2010 2009 Before Before exceptional Exceptional exceptional Exceptional items items Total items items Total Profit attributable to equity shareholders Continuing operations 38.2m 10.7m 48.9m 34.9m 3.0m 37.9m Discontinued operations 4.3m 4.3m 0.6m 0.6m Total 38.2m 15.0m 53.2m 34.9m 3.6m 38.5m Weighted average number of ordinary shares in issue 389.5m 389.5m 389.5m 389.5m 389.5m 389.5m Basic earnings per share Continuing operations 9.8p 2.8p 12.6p 9.0p 0.7p 9.7p Discontinued operations 1.1p 1.1p 0.2p 0.2p Total 9.8p 3.9p 13.7p 9.0p 0.9p 9.9p The Rank Group Plc: Annual report and financial statements 2010 90 9 Earnings per share continued b Diluted earnings per share Diluted earnings per share is calculated by adjusting the weighted average number of ordinary shares in issue to assume conversion of all dilutive potential ordinary shares.
The only category of dilutive potential ordinary shares are share options.
For share options, a calculation is made to determine the number of shares that could have been acquired at fair value determined as the average annual market share price of the Companys shares based on the monetary value of the subscription rights attached to outstanding share options.
The number of shares calculated is compared with the number of shares that would have been issued assuming exercise of the share options.
There is no difference in the profit used to determine diluted earnings per share from that used to determine basic earnings per share.
The potential dilutive impact of share options on the weighted average number of ordinary shares in issue and diluted earnings per share is shown below.
2010 2009 Before Before exceptional Exceptional exceptional Exceptional items items Total items items Total Weighted average number of ordinary shares in issue 389.5m 389.5m 389.5m 389.5m 389.5m 389.5m Dilutive potential ordinary shares 2.1m 2.1m 2.1m Total 391.6m 391.6m 391.6m 389.5m 389.5m 389.5m Diluted earnings per share Continuing operations 9.8p 2.7p 12.5p 9.0p 0.7p 9.7p Discontinued operations 1.1p 1.1p 0.2p 0.2p Total 9.8p 3.8p 13.6p 9.0p 0.9p 9.9p c Adjusted earnings per share Adjusted earnings is calculated by adjusting profit attributable to equity shareholders to exclude discontinued operations, exceptional items, other financial gains or losses, unwinding of the discount in disposal provisions, amortisation of the equity component of the convertible bond and the related tax effects.
Adjusted earnings is one of the business performance measures used internally by management to manage the operations of the business.
Management believes that the adjusted earnings measure assists in providing a view of the underlying performance of the business.
Adjusted net earnings attributable to equity shareholders is derived as follows: 2010 2009 m m Profit attributable to equity shareholders 53.2 38.5 Adjust for: Discontinued operations net of taxation 4.3 0.6 Exceptional items after tax on continuing operations 10.7 3.0 Other financial losses gains 0.5 1.2 Amortisation of the equity component of the convertible bond 0.3 Unwinding of the discount in disposal provisions 0.2 0.2 Taxation on adjusted items and impact of reduction in the tax rate to 27.0% 1.0 0.3 Adjusted net earnings attributable to equity shareholders 39.9 34.5 Adjusted earnings per share p basic 10.2p 8.9p Adjusted earnings per share p diluted 10.2p 8.9p The Rank Group Plc: Annual report and financial statements 2010 91 Financial statements: Notes to the financial statements continued 10 Intangible assets Casino and other Rank gaming Interactive licences and goodwill concessions Other Total Note m m m m Group Cost At 1 January 2009 53.8 127.9 32.8 214.5 Exchange adjustments 3.7 0.1 3.8 Acquisition of business 24 0.1 0.1 Additions 0.1 3.5 3.6 At 31 December 2009 53.8 124.4 36.2 214.4 Exchange adjustments 1.7 1.7 Disposal of business 24 0.4 1.0 1.4 Disposals 2.6 2.6 Additions 6.8 6.8 At 31 December 2010 53.4 122.7 39.4 215.5 Aggregate amortisation and impairment At 1 January 2009 7.9 23.4 31.3 Exchange adjustments 0.6 0.6 Charge for the year 4.2 4.2 Impairment charge 12 1.5 1.5 At 31 December 2009 8.8 27.6 36.4 Exchange adjustments 0.3 0.3 Disposal of business 24 0.4 0.4 Charge for the year 3.8 3.8 Disposals 2.6 2.6 Impairment charges 12 11.2 11.2 At 31 December 2010 19.7 28.4 48.1 Net book value at 31 December 2009 53.8 115.6 8.6 178.0 Net book value at 31 December 2010 53.4 103.0 11.0 167.4 Other intangible assets comprise other licences, computer software and development technology and customer lists.
These include internally generated computer software and development technology with a net book value of 2.2m 2009: 1.3m.
indefinite life intangible assets have been reviewed for impairment as set out in note 12.
The Rank Group Plc: Annual report and financial statements 2010 92 11 Property, plant and equipment Fixtures, ttings, Land and plant and buildings machinery Total Group Note m m m Cost At 1 January 2009 142.7 322.1 464.8 Exchange adjustments 1.0 4.1 5.1 Acquisition of business 24 0.7 0.7 1 Reclassification 9.7 9.7 Additions 2.3 29.8 32.1 Disposals 0.2 1.1 1.3 At 31 December 2009 134.1 357.1 491.2 Exchange adjustments 0.4 1.9 2.3 Additions 2.5 39.5 42.0 Disposals 0.4 2.0 2.4 At 31 December 2010 135.8 392.7 528.5 Accumulated depreciation At 1 January 2009 68.5 216.7 285.2 Exchange adjustments 0.1 2.2 2.3 Charge for the year 3.1 18.6 21.7 1 Reclassification 0.9 0.9 Disposals 0.9 0.9 At 31 December 2009 70.6 233.1 303.7 Exchange adjustments 1.1 1.1 Charge for the year 3.0 23.5 26.5 Impairment charge 1.5 1.5 Impairment reversals 2.0 1.2 3.2 Disposals 0.2 1.7 1.9 At 31 December 2010 72.9 252.6 325.5 Net book value at 31 December 2009 63.5 124.0 187.5 Net book value at 31 December 2010 62.9 140.1 203.0 1 A review of property, plant and equipment during 2009 resulted in a reallocation of 9.7m of assets at cost, together with associated accumulated depreciation of 0.9m, from land and buildings to fixtures, fittings, plant and machinery.
The Rank Group Plc: Annual report and financial statements 2010 93 Financial statements: Notes to the financial statements continued 11 Property, plant and equipment continued Finance leases The net book value of property, plant and equipment held under finance leases was: 2010 2009 m m Land and buildings 7.1 7.8 Fixtures, fittings, plant and machinery 1.2 Net book value at 31 December 8.3 7.8 There were 1.4m 2009: nil of additions under finance leases during the year.
Borrowing costs There were no qualifying assets in either period and therefore no borrowing costs have been capitalised in either year.
Assets under construction There were no material assets under construction at either reporting date.
12 Impairment review The pre-tax discount rate applied to all cash ow projections is 11.0% 2009: 12.2%.
The discount rate calculation is based on the specific circumstances of the Group and its operating segments and derived from its weighted average cost of capital.
Management believes that the discount rate is appropriate for each cash-generating unit CGU as they operate in gaming markets with similar risks as set out below.
a Impairment review of intangible assets with indefinite lives Assets that have an indefinite useful life are not subject to amortisation and are tested annually for impairment.
In accordance with IAS 36, goodwill is reviewed annually for impairment.
In addition, the Group classifies casino licences with the exception of its concessions in Belgium and Spanish bingo licences as intangible assets with an indefinite life.
i Goodwill At 31 December 2010, the Group has goodwill with a carrying value of 53.4m 2009: 53.8m arising from the acquisition of Rank Interactive.
For impairment testing, the whole of Rank Interactive is treated as a single CGU.
The recoverable amount has been determined based on a value in use calculation using cash ow projections from the Groups budget for 2011, the Groups strategic plan for the following two years and a growth rate of 2.0% 2009: 2.0% thereafter.
Both the Groups budget and strategic plan have been approved by the board of directors.
The key assumptions in the calculation of value in use are settled stakes, gaming win margins and the discount rate.
Settled stakes represent monies placed by customers for betting and interactive games and are estimated taking into account the product mix, major sporting events and industry developments.
Gaming win margins are based on values achieved in the past and amended for any anticipated changes in the budget period.
The calculation also assumes that revenue from UK domiciled customers is not subject to UK duty or VAT.
As a result of the impairment testing, the directors do not believe that the carrying value of the goodwill was impaired as the value in use significantly exceeded the carrying value of goodwill.
However, there are possible changes which could adversely impact the key assumptions and cause the carrying value of the goodwill to exceed its recoverable amount.
These include: Possible change Key assumption impacted Increased or improved competition Settled stakes, Gaming win margin Poor or decreased marketing Settled stakes Failure to respond to technological advances Settled stakes Deterioration in economic environment Settled stakes Changes in regulation Settled stakes, Gaming win margin Changes in taxation Gaming duty Prolonged period of adverse sporting results Gaming win margin Changes in settled stakes and gaming win margin impact gaming win and consequently the cash flow projections used to determine the recoverable amount.
Any change resulting in a decrease in excess of 56% 2009: 45% in projected gaming win would cause the recoverable amount to equal the carrying value of the CGU.
The Rank Group Plc: Annual report and financial statements 2010 94 12 Impairment review continued ii Casino licences and concessions The carrying value of indefinite life casino licences and concessions as at 31 December 2010 was 76.0m 2009: 94.3m.
The inherent value of casino licences and concessions is deemed to be an intrinsic part of the value of the operation of casinos as a whole and is therefore not split out from each Grosvenor casino in an impairment review.
Each Grosvenor casino has been treated as a separate CGU, and tested for impairment on that basis.
The recoverable amount of each Grosvenor casino, including the licence or concession, has been determined based on the higher of fair value less costs to sell and value in use.
The value in use has been determined using cash flow projections from the Groups budget for 2011, the Groups strategic plan for the following two years and a growth rate of 2.0% 2009: 2.0% thereafter.
Estimates of the fair value less costs to sell are performed internally by experienced senior management supported by knowledge of similar transactions or, where applicable, offers received.
Any impairment is allocated equally across all assets in a CGU unless a fair market value exists for one or more assets.
Once an asset has been written down to its fair value less costs to sell then any remaining impairment is allocated equally amongst all other assets.
Casino licences are generally not impaired as they have an indefinite life and a fair market value in excess of their carrying value.
The key assumptions in the calculation of value in use are customer visits, spend per visit, casino duty, competition and the discount rate.
Customer visits are the number of discrete visits by members to the casino and have been based on recent trends.
Spend per visit comprises the average amount of money net of winnings spent per visit on gaming tables, machines and food and beverages.
This has also been determined by recent trends.
Casino duty is levied in bands of between 15% and 50% depending upon the level of gaming win at each casino.
The bands and rates have been assumed to remain at current levels without indexation, details of which are provided on page 41.
As a result of the impairment review, the directors do not believe the carrying value of the UK casino licences to be impaired.
However, there are possible changes in key assumptions that could cause the carrying value of individual licences to exceed their recoverable amount.
These are: Possible change Key assumption impacted Increased or improved competition Customer visits Poor or decreased promotional activity Customer visits Failure to respond to technological advances Customer visits, Spend per visit Deterioration in economic conditions Customer visits, Spend per visit Changes in regulation Customer visits, Spend per visit Changes in taxation Casino duty With the exception of a prolonged non-operation of a UK casino licence arising from one or more of the possible changes outlined above, the directors do not believe that there are any reasonably possible changes to the key assumptions that would result in a material impairment of a UK casino licence.
In respect of the two casino concessions in Belgium, the Group has previously treated the concessions as intangible assets with indefinite lives.
However, following a re-evaluation of the anticipated process for concession renewal in Belgium, expected useful lives and the associated cash flows the directors no longer consider this appropriate.
This has resulted in an impairment charge of 11.2m.
iii Spanish bingo licences The carrying value of Spanish bingo licences as at 31 December 2010 was 20.5m 2009: 21.3m.
The inherent value of each Spanish bingo licence is deemed to be an intrinsic part of the value of a club as a whole and is not therefore split out from the assets of each individual bingo club in an impairment review.
Each individual bingo club has been treated as a separate CGU, and tested for impairment on that basis.
The recoverable amount of each Spanish bingo club, including the licence, has been determined based on the higher of fair value less costs to sell and value in use.
The value in use has been determined using cash flow projections from the Groups budget for 2011, the Groups strategic plan for the following two years and a growth rate of 3.0% 2009: 3.0% thereafter which reflects the long-term opportunity in Spain, local market conditions and the expected recovery from the short-term impacts of the full smoking ban implemented on 2 January 2011.
Both the Groups budget and strategic plan have been approved by the board of directors and take into account the implementation of a full smoking ban in Spain from 2 January 2011.
Bingo licences are generally not impaired as they have an indefinite life and a fair market value in excess of their carrying value.
The Rank Group Plc: Annual report and financial statements 2010 95 Financial statements: Notes to the financial statements continued 12 Impairment review continued The key assumptions in the calculation of value in use are customer visits, spend per visit, bingo duty, and the discount rate.
Customer visits are the number of discrete visits to the bingo club and have been based on recent trends.
Spend per visit comprises the average amount of money net of winnings spent by a member on bingo games, machines and food and beverages.
This has been determined by recent trends.
As a result of the impairment review, the directors do not believe the carrying value of the bingo licences to be impaired.
However, there are possible changes in the key assumptions that could cause further impairments.
These are: Possible change Key assumption impacted Increased or improved competition Customer visits Poor or decreased promotional activity Customer visits Failure to respond to technological advances Customer visits, Spend per visit Deterioration in economic conditions Customer visits, Spend per visit Changes in regulation Customer visits, Spend per visit Changes in taxation Bingo duty As outlined above, each Spanish bingo licence has been tested for impairment as part of the club as a whole.
Accordingly, the sensitivity of each licence to future impairments, arising from changes in the key assumptions, varies at each club.
The fall in gaming win required for the recoverable amount to equal the carrying value of the club, ranges between nil and in excess of 100%.
b Impairment review of property, plant and equipment Property, plant and equipment and intangible assets are grouped into CGUs which are defined as individual clubs for Mecca Bingo, Top Rank Espaa and Grosvenor Casinos and the whole operation for Rank Interactive.
The key assumptions and sensitivities in the impairment reviews for Rank Interactive, Casinos and Bingo are the same as outlined above for intangible assets.
The recoverable amount of each CGU, including the licence if applicable, has been determined based on the higher of fair value less costs to sell and value in use.
The value in use has been determined using cash ow projections from the Groups budget for 2011, the Groups strategic plan for the following two years and a growth rate of 2.0% 2009: 2.0% thereafter except for Top Rank Espaa where a growth rate of 3.0% 2009: 3.0% has been used.
Estimates of the fair value less costs to sell are performed internally by an experienced surveyor supported by external estate agent advice or, where applicable, offers received.
c Impairment recognised during the year Impairments of intangible assets and property, plant and equipment are recognised as an exceptional item in operating costs in the income statement.
The impairments recognised during the year were as follows: 2010 Mecca Bingo The Group recognised an impairment charge of 1.5m against one vacant Mecca Bingo freehold property following an external market valuation of the Groups freehold properties.
The Group also reversed previous impairment charges of 3.2m in relation to seven Mecca Bingo clubs primarily where performance has seen a sustained improvement from the adverse impact of the smoking bans in the UK and the loss of section 21 gaming terminals in 2007.
Grosvenor Casinos The Group recognised an impairment charge of 11.2m against the carrying value of its two casino concessions in Belgium.
2009 Grosvenor Casinos An impairment charge of 1.5m was recognised in 2009 in relation to a non-operating casino licence at Liverpool.
The licence had been subject to a prolonged period of inactivity, and although the Group continued to investigate uses for the licence, the directors believed it was appropriate to recognise an impairment of 1.5m against the carrying value of 2.0m.
During 2010, the Group opened an electronic casino in Liverpool using the licence and the directors consider the impaired carrying value of the licence of 0.5m remains appropriate.
The Rank Group Plc: Annual report and financial statements 2010 96 13 Investments in subsidiaries 2010 2009 m m Company Cost At 1 January 1,515.6 1,515.6 Additions 1.3 At 31 December 1,516.9 1,515.6 Provision for impairment At 1 January and 31 December 489.3 489.3 Net book amount at 31 December 1,027.6 1,026.3 The additions in the year relate to the fair value of services recognised by subsidiary undertakings arising from share options granted by the Company.
A list of the significant investments in subsidiaries, including the name, country of incorporation and proportion of ownership interest is given in note 33.
14 Inventories Group 2010 2009 m m Raw materials 0.3 0.3 Finished goods 3.1 3.4 Total 3.4 3.7 There were no write downs of inventory in either year.
15 Trade and other receivables Group Company 2010 2009 2010 2009 m m m m Current Trade receivables 2.5 2.1 Less: provisions for impairment of trade receivables 0.3 0.1 Trade receivables net 2.2 2.0 Prepayments 18.5 17.9 Other receivables 6.3 6.1 Amounts owed by subsidiary undertakings repayable on demand 43.6 43.6 Trade and other receivables current 27.0 26.0 43.6 43.6 Non-current Other receivables 2.1 2.1 Trade and other receivables non-current 2.1 2.1 The Rank Group Plc: Annual report and financial statements 2010 97 Financial statements: Notes to the financial statements continued 15 Trade and other receivables continued Group The carrying values of trade receivables are assumed to approximate to their fair values due to the short-term nature of trade receivables.
As at 31 December 2010, trade receivables of 0.3m 2009: 0.1m were impaired.
The amount of the provision was 0.3m 2009: 0.1m.
The ageing of these receivables is as follows: 2010 2009 m m Up to 3 months 3 to 6 months 0.3 Over 6 months 0.1 0.3 0.1 As at 31 December 2010, trade receivables of 0.7m 2009: 0.4m were past due but not impaired.
The ageing of these trade receivables is as follows: 2010 2009 m m Up to 3 months 0.3 0.2 3 to 6 months 0.3 0.2 Over 6 months 0.1 0.7 0.4 The carrying amounts of the Groups trade receivables are denominated in the following currencies: 2010 2009 m m UK Sterling 2.1 1.9 Euro 0.1 0.1 2.2 2.0 The movements on the Groups provision for impairment of trade receivables are as follows: 2010 2009 m m At 1 January 0.1 1.0 Amounts released 0.1 0.1 Provisions created 0.3 Receivables written off during the year as uncollectible 0.8 At 31 December 0.3 0.1 The creation and release of provisions for impaired receivables have been included in other operating costs in the income statement.
Amounts charged to the provision for impairment are generally written off when there is no expectation of recovering additional cash.
The other classes within trade and other receivables do not contain impaired assets.
The maximum exposure to credit risk at the reporting date is the fair value of each class of receivable mentioned above.
The Group does not hold any collateral as security.
Company The carrying value of amounts due from subsidiary undertakings are assumed to equate to their fair value as all amounts are repayable on demand.
The amounts are denominated in UK Sterling and relate to subsidiary undertakings for which there is no history of default.
The Rank Group Plc: Annual report and financial statements 2010 98 16 Trade and other payables Group Company 2010 2009 2010 2009 m m m m Current Trade payables 18.1 16.9 Social security and other taxation 23.0 26.9 Other payables 56.9 62.1 1.9 2.0 Amounts owed to subsidiary undertakings repayable on demand 705.2 750.7 Trade and other payables current 98.0 105.9 707.1 752.7 Non-current Other payables 0.2 0.3 Trade and other payables non-current 0.2 0.3 17 Income tax Group 2010 2009 m m Income tax receivable 0.2 0.4 Income tax payable Continuing operations 34.1 12.4 Income tax payable Discontinued operations 30.0 32.4 Income tax payable 64.1 44.8 Net income tax payable 63.9 44.4 Income tax payable has been analysed between current and non-current as follows: Current 28.5 26.3 Non-current 35.6 18.5 Total 64.1 44.8 Income tax payable on discontinued operations relates to potential tax liabilities that are attributable to disposed entities with historic tax audits.
The liability represents managements current estimate of the payments that will be required to settle the various issues.
Income tax payable included within non-current liabilities relates to ongoing tax issues in continuing operations that may be challenged by the relevant tax authority and ongoing tax exposure in discontinued operations in overseas jurisdictions.
The Rank Group Plc: Annual report and financial statements 2010 99 Financial statements: Notes to the financial statements continued 18 Financial assets and liabilities a Interest bearing loans and borrowings Group 2010 2009 Maturity m m Current interest-bearing loans and borrowings Bank overdraft On demand 6.5 7.3 Obligations under finance leases and hire purchase contracts Various 1.2 0.7 Other current loans Accrued interest January 2011 0.7 0.6 Unamortised facility fees March 2011 0.3 0.8 Total current interest-bearing loans and borrowings 8.1 7.8 Non-current interest-bearing loans and borrowings 7.125% Yankee bonds 2018 9.1 8.9 Syndicated loan facility 2012 168.6 222.0 Obligations under finance leases and hire purchase contracts Various 12.0 12.0 Other non-current loans Unamortised facility fees 2018 0.3 0.6 Total non-current interest-bearing loans and borrowings 189.4 242.3 Total interest-bearing loans and borrowings 197.5 250.1 Sterling 119.8 169.2 Euros 68.6 72.0 US Dollars 9.1 8.9 Total interest-bearing loans and borrowings 197.5 250.1 Bank overdrafts Bank overdrafts are for short-term funding and are repayable on demand.
Syndicated loan facility The five year facility was signed on 18 April 2007 and currently consists of a 100.0m term loan and a 200.0m multi-currency revolving credit facility.
Interest is payable on a monthly or quarterly basis depending on the loan drawn.
The facility carries a floating rate of interest which is LIBOR dependant.
On 3 May 2010, the Group voluntarily reduced its multi-currency revolving credit facility by 50.0m to 200.0m and on 20 October 2010 the Group voluntarily repaid 50.0m of its term loan, reducing it to 100.0m.
Yankee bonds Interest on the Yankee bonds is payable half yearly in January and July at a rate of 7.125%.
Covenant compliance The Group complied with all its covenants during the period.
Company The Company did not hold any interest bearing loans or borrowings at 31 December 2010 2009: nil.
The Rank Group Plc: Annual report and financial statements 2010 100 18 Financial assets and liabilities continued b Hedging activities The Group uses foreign currency denominated borrowings to manage some of its translation exposure in relation to net investments in foreign operations.
Included in loans at 31 December 2010, was a borrowing of 80.0m 2009: 81.0m, which has been designated as a hedge of the net investment in the subsidiaries in Europe and is being used to hedge the Groups exposure to foreign exchange risk on these investments.
Gains or losses on the retranslation of this borrowing are transferred to equity to offset any gains or losses on the translation of the net investments in the subsidiaries.
There was no ineffectiveness in either year.
c Fair values The table below is a comparison by class of the carrying amounts and fair value of the Group and Companys financial instruments at 31 December.
Carrying amount Fair value 2010 2009 2010 2009 m m m m Group Financial assets: Loans and receivables Trade and other receivables 2.5 2.1 2.5 2.1 Cash and short-term deposits 74.0 64.1 74.0 64.1 Total 76.5 66.2 76.5 66.2 Financial liabilities: Other financial liabilities Interest-bearing loans and borrowings Obligations under finance leases and hire purchase contracts 13.2 12.7 13.2 12.7 Floating rate borrowings 168.5 222.0 168.5 222.0 Fixed rate borrowings 9.1 8.9 10.3 8.7 Other 0.1 0.8 0.1 0.8 Trade and other payables 75.0 79.0 75.0 79.0 Bank overdrafts 6.5 7.3 6.5 7.3 Onerous property leases 41.9 31.2 41.9 31.2 Lease disposal settlements 2.2 3.0 2.2 3.0 Total 316.5 363.3 317.7 363.1 Carrying amount Fair value 2010 2009 2010 2009 Company m m m m Financial assets: Loans and receivables Trade and other receivables 43.6 43.6 43.6 43.6 Total 43.6 43.6 43.6 43.6 Financial liabilities: Other financial liabilities Trade and other payables 707.1 752.7 707.1 752.7 Financial guarantee contracts 0.1 1.4 0.1 1.4 Total 707.2 754.1 707.2 754.1 The Rank Group Plc: Annual report and financial statements 2010 101 Financial statements: Notes to the financial statements continued 18 Financial assets and liabilities continued c Fair values continued The fair value of the financial assets and liabilities are included at the amount at which the instrument could be exchanged in a current transaction between willing parties, other than in a forced or liquidation sale.
The following methods and assumptions were used to estimate the fair values: Cash and short-term deposits, trade receivables and other current liabilities approximate their carrying amounts largely due to the short-term maturities of these instruments.
The fair value of quoted bonds is based on price quotations at the reporting date.
The fair value of loans from banks and other financial liabilities, obligations under finance leases, as well as other non-current financial liabilities is estimated at amortised cost using the effective interest rate method.
Fair value hierarchy As at 31 December 2010, the fair value of the $14.3m 7.125% Yankee bonds 2009: $14.3m is a Level 1 financial instrument and has been throughout the whole of the financial year.
Level 1 financial instruments are those valued based on quoted unadjusted prices in active markets for identical assets or liabilities.
19 Financial risk management objectives and policies Financial risk factors The Groups principal financial liabilities comprise loans and borrowings, trade and other payables.
The main purpose of these financial liabilities is to finance the Groups operations.
The Group has trade and other receivables, and cash and short-term deposits that derive directly from its operations.
The Group is exposed to market risk, credit risk and liquidity risk.
The Groups overall financial risk management programme focuses on the unpredictability of financial markets and seeks to minimise potential adverse effects on the Groups financial performance.
The Group, where appropriate, uses financial instruments to hedge certain risk exposures.
The Groups senior management oversees the management of these risks.
The Groups senior management is supported by the finance committee that advises on financial risks and the appropriate financial risk governance framework for the Group.
The finance committee provides assurance to the Groups senior management that the Groups financial risk-taking activities are governed by appropriate policies and procedures and the financial risks are identified, measured and managed in accordance with Group policies and Group risk appetite.
The board of directors review and agree policies for managing each of these risks which are summarised below.
a Market risk Market risk is the risk that the fair value of future cash flows of a financial instrument will fluctuate because of changes in market prices.
Financial instruments affected by market risk include loans and borrowings and deposits.
The sensitivity analyses in the following sections relate to the position at 31 December.
The sensitivity analyses have been prepared on the basis that the amount of net debt, the ratio of fixed to floating rates of the debt and the proportion of financial instruments in foreign currencies are all constant and on the basis of the hedge designations in place at 31 December.
The Rank Group Plc: Annual report and financial statements 2010 102 19 Financial risk management objectives and policies continued a Market risk continued i Foreign currency risk Foreign currency risk is the risk that the fair value of future cash flows of a financial instrument will fluctuate because of changes in foreign exchange rates.
The Groups exposure to the risk of changes in foreign exchange rates relates primarily to the Groups operating activities when revenue or expense is denominated in a different currency from the Groups functional currency and the Groups net investments in foreign subsidiaries.
The Group hedges its exposure to fluctuations on the translation of its euro denominated foreign operations by holding euro borrowings.
Group policy is to hedge 90% of material, identified exposures.
Foreign currency sensitivity The following table demonstrates the sensitivity of a possible change in the US dollar, with all other variables held constant, to the Groups profit before tax and the Groups equity.
The Groups exposure to foreign currency changes for all other currencies is not material.
Effect on profit Effect on Change in before tax equity US$ rate m m 2010 3.0% 0.3 -3.0% 0.3 2009 3.0% 0.3 -3.0% 0.3 The Groups exposure to un-hedged euro foreign currency changes is not material.
ii Cash flow and fair value interest rate risk Interest rate risk is the risk that the fair value or future cash flows of a financial instrument will fluctuate because of changes in market interest rates.
The Groups exposure to the risk of changes in market interest rates relates primarily to the Groups long-term debt obligations with floating interest rates.
Historically the Group had managed its interest rate risk by having a balanced portfolio of fixed and variable rate loans and borrowings.
Due to the current economic climate the Group has exercised its right to operate outside the Group policy of maintaining between 40% and 60% of its borrowings at fixed rates of interest.
At 31 December 2010, 11% of the Groups borrowings were at a fixed rate of interest 2009: 9%.
Interest rate sensitivity The table below demonstrates the sensitivity to a possible change in interest rates on income and equity for the year when this movement is applied to the carrying value of loans, borrowings and short-term deposits.
Effect Increase on profit decrease in before tax basis points m 2010 Sterling 100 0.9 Euro 100 0.7 Sterling -100 0.9 Euro -100 0.7 2009 Sterling 100 1.5 Euro 100 0.7 Sterling -100 1.5 Euro -100 0.7 The assumed movement in basis points for interest rate sensitivity analysis is based on the current observable market environment.
The Rank Group Plc: Annual report and financial statements 2010 103 Financial statements: Notes to the financial statements continued 19 Financial risk management objectives and policies continued a Market risk continued Interest rate sensitivity continued As the Group has no significant interest-bearing assets excluding cash and short-term deposits, the Groups income and operating cash flows are substantially independent of changes in market interest rates.
The Groups only interest-bearing assets are cash and short-term deposits excluding cash floats, which earn floating rate interest.
The Group did not enter into any fixed-to-floating or floating-to-fixed interest rate swaps in either year.
b Credit risk Credit risk is the risk that a counterparty will not meet its obligations under a financial instrument or customer contract, leading to a financial loss.
The Group is exposed to credit risk from its operating activities primarily for trade receivables and from its financing activities, including deposits with banks and financial institutions, foreign exchange transactions and other financial instruments.
Financial instruments and cash deposits Credit risk from balances with banks and financial institutions is managed by the Groups treasury department in accordance with the Groups policy.
Investments of surplus funds are made only with approved counterparties and within credit limits assigned to each counterparty.
Counterparty credit limits are reviewed by the finance director, and may be updated throughout the year subject to the approval of the Groups finance committee.
The limits are set to minimise the concentration of risks and therefore mitigate financial loss through potential counterparty failure.
The creditworthiness of each counterparty is checked against independent credit ratings on at least a weekly basis, with a minimum rating of A required.
The Group predominately uses AAA rated Money Market funds when investing its surplus cash.
In addition to investing the Groups cash with Money Market funds, the Group invests with lending banks when appropriate.
Sales to retail customers are settled in cash or using major credit cards and therefore the exposure to credit risk is not considered significant.
No credit limits were exceeded during the reporting period and management does not expect any losses from non-performance of its counterparties.
Analysis of cash and short-term deposits by counterparty credit rating: 2010 2009 m m AAA 40.3 20.4 AA 14.0 A 1.2 BBB 5.1 Other 1.5 1.7 Cash floats 27.1 26.8 Cash and short-term deposits 74.0 64.1 c Liquidity risk Liquidity risk is the risk that the Group will not have sufficient funds to meet its liabilities.
Cash forecasts identifying the liquidity requirements of the Group are produced quarterly.
The cash forecasts are sensitivity tested for different scenarios and are reviewed regularly.
Forecast financial headroom and debt covenant compliance is reviewed monthly during the month-end process to ensure sufficient financial headroom exists for at least a 12 month period.
Due to the dynamic nature of the underlying businesses, Group treasury aims to maintain flexibility in funding by keeping committed credit lines available.
A four-year strategic forecast is prepared annually to facilitate planning for future financing needs.
Management actively manages the Groups financing requirements and the range of maturities on its debt.
The Groups core debt facility is a 300.0m 2009: 400.0m syndicated bank facility which expires in April 2012.
The Group considers the counterparties to this facility to be of high quality and proactively manages its relationships with its lending group.
The funding policy of the Group is to maintain, as far as practicable, a broad portfolio of debt diversified by source and maturity, and to maintain committed facilities sufficient to cover seasonal peak anticipated borrowing requirements.
The Rank Group Plc: Annual report and financial statements 2010 104 19 Financial risk management objectives and policies continued c Liquidity risk continued The table below summarises the maturity profile of the Groups financial liabilities based on contractual undiscounted payments.
Less than On demand 12 months 1 to 2 years 2 to 5 years 5 years Total m m m m m m At 31 December 2010 1 Interest bearing loans and borrowings 6.5 4.5 171.7 4.8 18.5 206.0 Trade and other payables 75.0 75.0 Onerous lease payments 3.6 3.8 9.5 49.9 66.8 Lease disposal settlements 0.7 0.7 1.0 2.4 Total 6.5 83.8 176.2 15.3 68.4 350.2 At 31 December 2009 Interest bearing loans and borrowings 7.3 1.6 1.7 227.4 24.0 262.0 Trade and other payables 79.0 79.0 Onerous lease payments 3.2 2.4 6.9 38.9 51.4 Lease disposal settlements 0.9 0.8 1.5 3.2 Total 7.3 84.7 4.9 235.8 62.9 395.6 1 Interest payments on the Yankee bonds and the syndicated facility have been projected until the instruments mature and are based on current LIBOR rates.
Capital management As a result of the difficult conditions that developed in the global capital markets in recent years, the Groups objectives when managing capital have been to ensure continuing access to existing debt facilities and to manage the borrowing cost of those facilities in order to minimise the Groups interest charge.
The Groups leverage in 2010 was lower than its revised medium-term strategy, which was to maintain a leverage ratio of approximately 2.5 times.
However, given the recent global financial crisis we have maintained sufficient liquidity that, should we have to repay the VAT claims received, we would operate at our leverage target.
Consistent with others in the gaming industry, the Group monitors capital on the basis of leverage ratio.
The ratio is calculated as net debt divided by EBITDA.
Net debt is calculated as total borrowings including loans and borrowings as shown in the consolidated balance sheet less cash and short-term deposits, accrued interest and unamortised facility fees.
EBITDA is calculated as operating profit before exceptional items plus depreciation and amortisation.
The leverage ratios at 31 December were as follows: 2010 2009 m m Total loans and borrowings note 18 197.5 250.1 Less: Cash and short-term deposits 74.0 64.1 Less: Accrued interest 0.7 0.6 Less: Unamortised facility fees 0.6 1.4 Net debt 123.4 186.8 Continuing operations Operating profit before exceptionals 62.0 58.0 Add: Depreciation and amortisation 30.3 25.9 EBITDA 92.3 83.9 Leverage ratio 1.3 2.2 Taking into consideration both the Groups capital investment requirements and the stability of the wider economic environment the Group considers its progressive dividend policy to be appropriate.
The board sets dividends such that the Group achieves a dividend cover of at least 3 times over the medium-term.
The Rank Group Plc: Annual report and financial statements 2010 105 Financial statements: Notes to the financial statements continued 19 Financial risk management objectives and policies continued c Liquidity risk continued Collateral The Group did not pledge or hold any collateral at 31 December 2010 2009: nil.
Company The Company is exposed to credit risk on amounts owed by related undertakings.
The performance of all subsidiary undertakings of the Group are monitored at Group level, including frequent projections of future performance to ensure funding to related undertakings provide a suitable return and remain recoverable.
Where losses are forecast actions are taken to mitigate the loss and maximise the recoverability of receivables.
The maximum exposure to credit risk at the reporting date is the fair value of its receivables of 43.6m 2009: 43.6m.
The Company does not have any other significant exposure to financial risks.
20 Deferred tax The analysis of deferred tax included in the financial statements at the end of the year is as follows: Group Company 2010 2009 2010 2009 m m m m Deferred tax assets: Accelerated capital allowances 31.0 34.6 Tax losses carried forward 10.9 10.1 Other UK temporary differences 0.4 Deferred tax assets 41.9 44.7 0.4 Deferred tax liabilities: Other overseas temporary differences 6.2 6.3 Business combinations non-qualifying properties 1.7 1.8 Other UK temporary differences 18.0 19.4 Deferred tax liabilities 25.9 27.5 Net deferred tax asset 16.0 17.2 0.4 Deferred tax assets and liabilities are offset when there is a legally enforceable right to offset current tax assets and current tax liabilities and it is the intention to settle the balances on a net basis.
Deferred tax assets and liabilities of 19.8m 2009: 21.2m have been offset and disclosed on the balance sheet as follows: Group 2010 2009 m m Deferred tax assets 22.1 23.5 Deferred tax liabilities 6.1 6.3 Net deferred tax asset 16.0 17.2 The deferred tax assets recognised are recoverable against future taxable profits that the directors consider more likely than not to occur on the basis of management forecasts.
The Rank Group Plc: Annual report and financial statements 2010 106 20 Deferred tax continued The Group has overseas tax losses of 32.1m 2009: 33.3m that are carried forward for offset against suitable future taxable profits.
No deferred tax asset has been recognised in respect of these losses as their utilisation is not currently anticipated.
The expiry of these losses are as follows: Group 2010 2009 m m Expiring in 2017 31.6 32.6 No expiry date 0.5 0.7 Total 32.1 33.3 The Group has UK capital losses carried forward of 800m.
These losses are available for offset against future UK chargeable gains.
No deferred tax asset has been recognised in respect of these capital losses as no further utilisation is currently anticipated.
Temporary differences associated with Group investments There was no deferred tax liability recognised 2009: nil for taxes that would be payable on the unremitted earnings of certain subsidiaries.
The Group has determined that any unremitted earnings that do not fall within the dividend exemption introduced in the Finance Act 2009 will not be distributed in the foreseeable future and the parent company does not foresee giving such consent at the balance sheet date.
The deferred tax included in the Group income statement is as follows: Group 2010 2009 m m Deferred tax in the income statement Accelerated capital allowances 3.7 6.8 Deferred tax movement on fair valued assets 0.1 0.2 Tax losses 1.3 3.6 Other temporary differences 1.4 7.8 Total deferred tax charge 0.9 18.0 Continuing operations 1.4 16.6 Discontinued operations 0.5 1.4 Total deferred tax charge 0.9 18.0 The deferred tax movement on the balance sheet is as follows: Group Company 2010 2009 2010 2009 m m m m Net deferred tax asset at 1 January 17.2 36.4 Exchange adjustments 0.2 0.6 Deferred tax charge credit 0.9 18.0 0.4 Deferred tax charge on items included in equity 0.5 1.8 Net deferred tax asset at 31 December 16.0 17.2 0.4 The Rank Group Plc: Annual report and financial statements 2010 107 Financial statements: Notes to the financial statements continued 21 Provisions Onerous Disposal leases provisions Total Group m m m At 1 January 2010 31.2 12.4 43.6 Exchange adjustments 0.2 0.2 Unwinding of discount 1.2 0.2 1.4 Impact of change in discount rate charged to the income statement exceptional 1.9 1.9 Charged to the income statement exceptional 15.9 15.9 Released to the income statement exceptional 4.3 4.3 Released to the income statement operating 0.4 0.4 Utilised in year 3.6 2.1 5.7 At 31 December 2010 41.9 10.7 52.6 Current 3.4 3.4 6.8 Non-current 38.5 7.3 45.8 Total 41.9 10.7 52.6 Provisions have been based on managements best estimate of the future cash flows, taking into account the risks associated with each obligation, and have been discounted at a risk free interest rate of between 3.5% and 4.3% 2009: 4.1% where the effects of inflation will have a material impact.
Onerous leases The Group is party to a number of leasehold property contracts.
Provision has been made against those leases where the property is now vacant and the unavoidable costs under the lease exceed the economic benefit expected to be derived from potential sub-letting arrangements.
Provision has also been made against leases where impairment testing has indicated that, after recognising an impairment charge, the estimated discounted cash flows derived from the property and its associated operations are insufficient to cover the unavoidable lease costs and the lease is therefore deemed onerous.
These leases have a weighted average unexpired life of 26 years.
During 2010, the Group reassessed its estimate of the liability arising under certain onerous lease contracts taking account of changes in the expected benefits to be derived and costs incurred in relation to the contracts.
The changes in estimates affected expected sub-let income, dilapidation estimates and lease surrender opportunities.
The impact of these changes has been to increase the provision for onerous leases by 11.9m.
Disposal provisions Provision has been made for legacy industrial disease and personal injury claims, deferred payments arising from the settlement of property lease obligations and other directly attributable costs arising as a consequence of the sale or closure of the businesses.
The timing of any legacy industrial disease and personal injury claims are uncertain and therefore these claims have been included in the maturity analysis based on managements best estimates.
The disposal provisions held at 31 December comprise the following: 2010 2009 m m Deferred payments arising on lease settlement and related costs 2.2 3.0 Legacy industrial disease and personal injury claims 5.7 5.1 Other 2.8 4.3 Total disposal provisions 10.7 12.4 The Rank Group Plc: Annual report and financial statements 2010 108 22 Share capital 2010 2009 Authorised Authorised Nominal Nominal Number value Number value m m m m 8 Ordinary shares of 13 p each 1,296.0 180.0 1,296.0 180.0 9 2010 2009 Issued and fully paid Issued and fully paid Nominal Nominal Number value Number value m m m m 8 At 1 January and 31 December Ordinary shares of 13 p each 390.5 54.2 390.5 54.2 9 There were no movements in authorised or issued ordinary shares in either year.
1,059,826 2009: 1,059,826 ordinary shares in the Company are held by the Rank Group Employee benefit Trust the Trust.
The amount paid to acquire the shares has been deducted from retained earnings within shareholders equity.
Dividends on the shares held by the Trust have been waived by the trustees with the exception of one penny in respect of each dividend that is paid by the Company.
The Trust may make such investments in the shares of the Company or otherwise as the trustees may determine to provide benefits to any eligible employee.
The benets may be provided in the form of shares, cash or otherwise, although any share-related benefit will be provided in accordance with an appropriate employee share scheme or bonus scheme of the Company.
The shares held by the Trust represent less than 0.3% 2009: 0.3% of the Companys called-up share capital.
The costs of funding and administering the scheme are charged to the income statement of the Company in the period to which they relate.
The market value of the shares at 31 December 2010 was 1.3m 2009: 0.9m.
23 Cash generated from operations Reconciliation of operating profit loss to cash generated from operations: Group Company 2010 2009 2010 2009 m m m m Continuing operations Operating profit loss 75.4 60.8 0.3 0.2 Exceptional items 13.4 2.8 Operating profit loss before exceptional items 62.0 58.0 0.3 0.2 Depreciation and amortisation 30.3 25.9 Decrease in inventories 0.2 Increase in trade and other receivables 1.1 Increase in trade and other payables 0.3 2.5 0.1 Share-based payments and other 1.4 0.9 0.3 0.2 93.1 87.3 0.1 Cash utilisation of provisions 5.7 11.7 Cash payments in respect of exceptional items 6.3 5.9 Cash receipts in respect of exceptional items 38.4 Cash generated from operations 119.5 69.7 0.1 The Rank Group Plc: Annual report and financial statements 2010 109 Financial statements: Notes to the financial statements continued 24 Acquisition and disposal of businesses Acquisition On 23 April 2009, the Group acquired the casino at the Ricoh Arena in Coventry from Isle of Capri Limited for a total purchase consideration of 0.7m.
No goodwill arose on the acquisition.
The fair value of the identifiable assets and liabilities at the date of acquisition and a reconciliation to the cash outflow on acquisition of businesses, were as follows: 2010 2009 m m Assets Intangible assets 0.1 Property, plant and equipment 0.7 Cash and short-term deposits 0.1 0.9 Liabilities Trade and other payables 0.2 Net assets acquired 0.7 Goodwill arising on acquisition Purchase consideration 0.7 Less: deferred consideration 0.4 Less: cash and short-term deposits acquired 0.1 Cash outflow in relation to current year acquisition 0.2 Add: deferred consideration paid in respect of prior year acquisitions 0.1 0.1 Cash outflow on acquisition of businesses 0.1 0.3 Disposals On 16 August 2010, the Group disposed of its rails racecourse pitches business in Rank Interactive for a total sales consideration, net of costs, of 0.9m.
The carrying value of the business comprised intangible assets of 1.0m and therefore resulted in a loss on disposal of 0.1m.
25 Cash and short-term deposits Group 2010 2009 m m Cash at bank and on hand 42.3 42.1 Short-term deposits 31.7 22.0 Total cash and short-term deposits 74.0 64.1 The analysis of cash and short-term deposits by currency is as follows: Group 2010 2009 m m Sterling 64.1 55.9 Euro 8.9 7.5 Other currencies 1.0 0.7 Total cash and short-term deposits 74.0 64.1 Cash at bank earns interest at floating rates based on daily bank deposit rates.
Short-term deposits are made for varying periods depending on the immediate cash requirements of the Group, and earn interest at the respective short-term deposit rates.
At 31 December 2010, the Group has available 131.5m 2009: 178.0m of undrawn committed borrowing facilities in respect of which all conditions precedent had been met.
The Rank Group Plc: Annual report and financial statements 2010 110 25 Cash and short-term deposits continued For the purpose of the statements of cash flow, cash and cash equivalents comprise the following at 31 December: Group 2010 2009 m m Cash and short-term deposits 74.0 64.1 Bank overdrafts 6.5 7.3 Cash and cash equivalents 67.5 56.8 Company The Company did not hold any cash or short-term deposits at 31 December 2010 2009: nil.
26 Employees and directors a Employee benefit expense for the Group during the year 2010 2009 m m Wages and salaries 158.7 147.9 Social security costs 16.7 15.9 Pension costs 2.6 2.5 Share-based payments 1.8 0.9 Total 179.8 167.2 The Company has no employees.
The directors of the Group are paid by a subsidiary undertaking.
b Average monthly number of employees by segment 2010 2009 Grosvenor Casinos 3,752 3,430 Mecca Bingo 4,145 3,737 Top Rank Espaa 590 581 Rank Interactive 197 192 Central 253 245 Total 8,937 8,185 c Key management compensation 2010 2009 m m Salaries and short-term employee benets including social security costs 4.8 4.5 Termination benefits 0.7 0.5 Post-employment benefits 0.4 0.4 Share-based payments 1.6 0.9 Total 7.5 6.3 Included in key management compensation are bonuses of 0.9m in the respect of the current year that will be paid in 2011 2009: 1.3m.
Key management is defined as the directors of the Group and the management team, details of which are set out on page 43.
Further details of emoluments received by directors are included in the remuneration report.
The Rank Group Plc: Annual report and financial statements 2010 111 Financial statements: Notes to the financial statements continued 26 Employees and directors d Directors interests The directors interests in shares of the Company, including options to purchase ordinary shares under the terms of the Groups Executive Share Option Scheme, and conditional awards under the Long Term Incentive Plans, are detailed in the remuneration report.
Details of options to subscribe for ordinary shares of the Company granted to or exercised by directors in the year ended 31 December 2010 are also detailed in the remuneration report.
e Total emoluments of the directors of The Rank Group Plc 2010 2009 m m Aggregate emoluments 2.0 2.1 No director accrued benefits under defined benefit pension schemes or made gains on the exercise of share options during either year.
27 Share-based payments During the year ended 31 December 2010, the Company operated the Save-As-You-Earn SAYE share option scheme, the Executive Share Option Scheme ESOS and the Long Term Incentive Plans LTIP.
All of these schemes are equity settled.
Further details of the LTIP are included in the remuneration report on pages 60 to 62.
The SAYE scheme previously offered to all UK employees has now lapsed and all grants under the ESOS have been suspended.
The number and weighted average exercise prices WAEP of, and movements in, each of the share option arrangements during the year are shown below: Outstanding Granted Exercised Expired Forfeited Outstanding Exercisable 1 January during during during during 31 December 31 December 2010 2010 2010 2010 2010 2010 2010 ESOS Number of shares 280,219 6,651 273,568 273,568 WAEP 263.01p 271.00p 262.82p 262.82p SAYE Number of shares 1,250,730 311,427 19,691 919,612 625,858 WAEP 157.18p 180.46p 184.91p 148.70p 146.21p LTIP Number of shares 4,733,532 1,609,969 465,036 389,762 5,488,703 WAEP Nil Nil Nil Nil Nil Outstanding Granted Exercised Expired Forfeited Outstanding Exercisable 1 January during during during during 31 December 31 December 2009 2009 2009 2009 2009 2009 2009 ESOS Number of shares 1,641,490 1,361,271 280,219 280,219 WAEP 243.99p 240.07p 263.01p 263.01p SAYE Number of shares 2,151,602 833,564 67,308 1,250,730 WAEP  157.18p LTIP Number of shares 4,000,846 1,574,465 587,811 253,968 4,733,532 WAEP NilNilNilNil Nil There were no options exercised during either year.
The Rank Group Plc: Annual report and financial statements 2010 112 27 Share-based payments continued The following table lists the maximum term of options granted under each scheme: Maximum term years ESOS 10.0 SAYE 5.5 LTIP 4.0 The share options outstanding at the year end have the following range of exercise prices and expiry dates as follows: Outstanding at 31 December 2010 Outstanding at 31 December 2009 Weighted Weighted average Number average Number remaining of shares remaining of shares Exercise prices contractual under Exercise prices contractual under range life option range life option ESOS 187.50p271.00p 1.3 years 273,568 187.50p271.00p 2.3 years 280,219 SAYE 139.00p225.00p 1.4 years 919,612 139.00p268.00p 1.6 years 1,250,730 LTIP Nil 1.0 years 5,488,703 Nil 1.4 years 4,733,532 The fair values for each of the ESOS and SAYE awards granted were calculated using a Black-Scholes pricing model.
The fair value of LTIP awards is calculated using a Monte Carlo simulation which allows for the incorporation of market performance conditions.
For grants made subject to an EPS performance condition, the expense recognised is based on expectations of these conditions being met, which are reassessed at each balance sheet date.
There have been no ESOS or SAYE awards granted during either year.
The following table lists the inputs used for the LTIP grants during the year ended 31 December: 2010 2009 Risk free interest rate % 1.111.75 1.50 Dividend yield % 2.502.90 3.00 Expected volatilty % 49.00 48.00 Years 3.00 2.33 Weighted average share price p 115.20118.90 76.50 The expected life of the awards is based on current expectations and is not necessarily indicative.
The expected volatility reflects the assumption that the historical volatility over a period similar to the life of the award is indicative of future trends, which may not necessarily be the actual outcome.
The number of LTIP awards and the fair value per share of the LTIP awards during the year were as follows: 2010 2009 Number 1,609,969 1,574,465 Weighted average fair value per share 85.6p 44.4p The Group recognised a 1.8m 2009: 0.9m charge in operating profit from accounting for share-based payments and related national insurance contributions in accordance with IFRS 2.
National Insurance contributions are payable in respect of some share-based payments.
These contributions are payable on the date of exercise based on the intrinsic value of the share-based payments, and as such are treated as cash-settled awards.
The Group has recorded liabilities at the end of 2010 of 0.5m 2009: 0.1m of which nil 2009: nil was in respect of vested grants.
The Rank Group Plc: Annual report and financial statements 2010 113 Financial statements: Notes to the financial statements continued 28 Retirement benefits Defined contribution scheme The Group operates the Rank Group Stakeholder Pension Plan the Plan which is externally funded and the Plans assets are held separately from Group assets.
During the year to 31 December 2010, the Group contributed a total of 2.6m 2009: 2.5m to the Plan.
There were no significant contributions outstanding at the balance sheet date in either year.
Other pension commitment The Group has an unfunded pension commitment relating to three former executives of the Group.
At 31 December 2010, the Groups commitment was 3.0m 2009: 2.9m.
The Group paid 0.1m 2009: 0.1m in pension payments during the year.
The net cost arising on the commitment of 0.2m 2009: nil has been recognised in other financial losses in the income statement.
The actuarial loss arising on the commitment, resulting from the changes in assumptions outlined below in 2010, was nil 2009: 0.5m loss before taxation and nil after taxation 2009: 0.4m loss.
The cumulative amount of actuarial losses on the commitment recognised in the statement of comprehensive income before taxation was 0.5m 2009: 0.5m.
Assumptions used to determine the obligations at 31 December: 2010 2009 % p. a.
Discount rate 5.4 5.7 Pension increases 3.4 3.8 The mortality table used to determine the obligation in both years was the PA92 YOB mc with a 1.5% p. a. minimum improvement.
29 Commitments Group Operating lease commitments Group as lessee The Group has entered into commercial leases on certain properties, plant and items of machinery.
These leases have durations of from under one year to 54 years.
Future minimum rentals payable under non-cancellable operating leases are as follows: 2010 2009 m m Not later than one year 39.4 40.0 After one year but not more than five years 137.6 140.0 After five years 269.3 292.5 Total 446.3 472.5 2010 2009 m m Total future minimum sub-lease payments expected to be received under non-cancellable sub-leases 37.8 53.2 Finance lease commitments Group as lessee The minimum lease payments under finance leases, together with the present value of the net minimum lease payments, are as follows: Present value of minimum Minimum lease payments lease payments 2010 2009 2010 2009 m m m m Not later than one year 2.1 1.6 1.2 0.7 After one year but not more than five years 7.2 6.5 4.2 3.5 More than five years 10.3 11.9 7.8 8.5 19.6 20.0 13.2 12.7 Less: future finance charges 6.4 7.3 Present value of minimum lease payments 13.2 12.7 The Rank Group Plc: Annual report and financial statements 2010 114 29 Commitments continued 2010 2009 m m Total future minimum sub-lease payments expected to be received under non-cancellable sub-leases 0.8 0.8 Capital commitments At 31 December 2010, the Group has contracts placed for future capital expenditure, primarily relating to property, plant and equipment, of 5.9m 2009: 1.5m.
Company Financial guarantees The amortised value of financial guarantees issued by the Company is 0.1m 2009: 1.4m.
30 Contingent assets Group The Group has lodged a number of claims following the House of Lords decision in the Cond Nast Fleming cases on the applicability of the three year cap that HMRC introduced to limit VAT reclaims.
These claims, which had to be submitted by March 2009, are based on managements best estimates from the information available and the Group expects HMRC to closely review both the Groups right to the amounts claimed and the value of each claim before settlement.
In a number of cases, the Cond Nast claims are subject to successful outcomes of other claims for the repayment of VAT including the claims for interval bingo, main stage bingo and amusement machines already received by the Group the outcome of which is not certain.
One of the claims identified above is for the repayment of VAT on some games of bingo covering the period from 1996 back to 1973, when VAT was introduced.
This claim has been made under the Cond Nast Fleming ruling detailed above and HMRC issued guidance in January 2010 that this type of claim could be paid once the amount has been verified.
This claim is currently estimated to be worth approximately 65m plus interest covering the period of the claim to the present date but continues to be reviewed by HMRC.
Consequently the Group is uncertain as to when or if it will be received.
The Group also submitted a claim in 2010 which extends its existing claims for overpaid VAT on bingo back to 2002.
This claim could be worth approximately 11m plus interest covering the period of the claim to the present date.
HMRC paid 7.1m in February 2011, with interest of 1.4m expected to be received in March 2011.
The balance of the claim is subject to HMRC validation.
The Group has not recognised any gain in its financial statements at 31 December 2010 in respect of the above items.
Company The Company had no contingent assets at either reporting date.
The Rank Group Plc: Annual report and financial statements 2010 115 Financial statements: Notes to the financial statements continued 31 Contingent liabilities Group On 10 November 2008, the Group received 59.1m in overpaid VAT from HMRC, following the VAT and Duties Tribunals ruling in May 2008 that the application of VAT to some games of interval bingo contravened the European Unions principle of fiscal neutrality.
HMRC has appealed rulings from the VAT and Duties Tribunal and Upper Tribunal and the case has now been referred to the European Court of Justice ECJ.
The Group expects the case will be heard in 2011.
In the event of an adverse ruling, Rank would be required to repay the 59.1m and amounts not paid over for the period from July 2008 to 26 April 2009 plus interest.
In September 2010, the Group entered into an agreement with a third party that would result in the receipt of 40.5m in the event that the Court finds in favour of HMRC.
This agreement was funded by a payment of 4.6m which has been recognised as an exceptional cost.
On 21 May 2010, the Group received 42.5m in overpaid VAT from HMRC relating to main stage bingo and amusement machines.
This payment was made in response to HMRCs stated guidance on settling main stage bingo claims and following the Tribunals ruling in 2009 that the application of VAT to certain types of amusement machine contravened the European Unions principle of fiscal neutrality.
HMRC continues to appeal the claim, with the case also referred to the ECJ and again expected to be heard in 2011.
In the event of an adverse ruling, Rank would be required to repay the 42.5m plus interest.
The Group has been in negotiation with HMRC for several years on the means by which it calculates the amount of irrecoverable VAT in Grosvenor Casinos.
Since July 2007 the Group has accounted for irrecoverable VAT on the basis that HMRC was correct.
The difference in the Groups position as against HMRCs position for the period under negotiation July 2007 to December 2010 amounts to 6.3m.
While HMRC has appealed, precedent case law indicates that the Groups position is correct and on that basis the irrecoverable VAT charge has been adjusted accordingly.
However, it remains possible that this decision will be reversed on appeal, in that event the Group would have to pay the VAT in dispute see above plus interest.
The directors consider that, in respect of all contingent liabilities disclosed above, it is more likely than not that no outflow will arise.
A summary of the various VAT claims is provided in the tax fact file on page 39.
Company At 31 December 2010, the Company has made guarantees of advances to subsidiary undertakings of 181.6m 2009: 236.8m.
32 Related party transactions Group Details of compensation of key management are disclosed in note 26.
Entities with significant influence over the Group At 31 December 2010, Guoco Group Limited Guoco, a parent company of Ranks largest shareholder, owned 29.25% 2009: 29.25% of the ordinary shares in The Rank Group Plc.
Tim Scoble and Mike Smith were appointed as non-executive directors by shareholders at the Companys annual general meeting on 22 April 2010 as appointees of Guoco.
Details of payments made during 2010 in relation to their fees are disclosed in the remuneration report on page 64.
Company The following transactions with subsidiaries occurred in the year: 2010 2009 m m Dividend received from subsidiary undertaking 77.5 Interest payable to subsidiary undertaking 23.9 37.2 During the year, Rank Group Finance Plc, a subsidiary of the Company, provided additional cash to the Company of 8.1m for the purpose of funding dividend payments.
The Company used the cash received from the 77.5m dividend from another subsidiary undertaking to repay amounts due to Rank Group Finance Plc.
Full details of how the cash funding was utilised are disclosed in the Company cash flow statement.
The Rank Group Plc: Annual report and financial statements 2010 116 33 Principal subsidiaries 1 The Company owns directly or indirectly 100% of the ordinary share capital and voting rights of the following companies : Name Country of incorporation Principal activities Mecca Bingo Limited England and Wales Social and bingo clubs Rank Leisure Limited England and Wales Adult gaming centres in Mecca Bingo and Grosvenor Casinos Rank Holding Espaa SA Spain Owns the Groups investments in Top Rank Espaa Grosvenor Casinos Limited England and Wales London and provincial casinos Blue Square Gaming Alderney Limited Alderney Interactive gaming and sports betting Rank Interactive Development Limited England and Wales Support services to interactive gaming 2 Blue Square Limited England and Wales Support services to interactive gaming Rank Group Gaming Division Limited England and Wales Intermediary holding company and provision of shared services Rank Leisure Holdings Limited England and Wales Intermediary holding company and corporate activities 2 Rank Nemo Twenty-Five Limited England and Wales Intermediary holding company Rank Overseas Holdings Limited England and Wales Intermediary holding company Rank Holdings Netherlands BV Holland Intermediary holding company 2 Rank Group Finance Plc England and Wales Funding operations for the Group 1 The Group comprises a large number of companies and it is not practical to list all companies.
The table above therefore includes those companies which the directors consider principally affect the consolidated results or financial position of the Group.
2 Directly held by the Company.
The principal activities are carried out in the country of incorporation as indicated above.
All subsidiary undertakings are included in the consolidation and have a 31 December year-end.
34 Post balance sheet event The Group submitted a claim in 2010 which extends its existing claims for overpaid VAT on bingo back to 2002.
On 16 February 2011, HMRC paid 7.1m, with interest of 1.4m expected to be received in March 2011.
As outlined in note 31, HMRC continues to appeal and in the event of an adverse ruling, Rank would be required to repay the 7.1m plus interest.
The Rank Group Plc: Annual report and financial statements 2010 117
