Other information SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION 2011 financial calendar Frequently asked questions 1 April Record date for 2010 final dividend We have a shareholder frequently asked questions section 14 April Annual general meeting and interim on our website which provides answers to many questions that management statement shareholders have: www.
4 May Payment date for 2010 final dividend Share price information 28 July Interim results announcement The latest information on the Rank ordinary share price is October Interim management statement available in the Investors area of the www.
Registrar Closing share prices for the previous business day are quoted All administrative enquiries relating to shares should, in the first in most daily newspapers and, throughout the working day, instance, be directed to the Companys registrar quoting reference time-delayed share prices are broadcast on the text pages of number 1235 and clearly state the registered shareholders the principal UK television channels.
Please write to The Rank Group Plc Registrar, Capital gains tax Equiniti Limited, Aspect House, Spencer Road, Lancing, West For the purpose of calculating UK capital gains tax on a disposal Sussex BN99 6DA Tel: from the UK 0871 384 2098 and from of ordinary shares in the Company held since 31 March 1982 outside the UK 44 121 415 7047. including shares held in the predecessor company, The Rank There is a text phone available on 0871 384 2255 for shareholders Organisation Plc, the price of the Companys ordinary shares with hearing difficulties.
atthat date was 190p per share.
This price should be adjusted forthe effects of the rights issue in January 1990, the enhanced Calls to both of the UK numbers are charged at 8p per minute share alternative in July 1993, the sub-division and consolidation from a BT landline.
Other telephony provider costs may vary.
of shares in March 1994, the enhanced scrip dividend in March Shareview 1998, and the 18 for 25 sub-division and share consolidation The Shareview portfolio service from the Companys registrar aligned with the 65p special dividend payment which took gives shareholders more control of their Rank shares and other place in March 2007.
More information regarding these investments including: adjustments is available on the www.
direct access to data held for them on the share register Shareholder security including recent share movements and dividend details: Shareholders are advised to be wary of any unsolicited advice, offers to buy shares at a discount, or offers of free reports about a recent valuation of their portfolio: and the Company.
Details of any share dealing facilities that the a range of information and practical help for Company endorses will be included in Company mailings shareholders including how you can elect to receive or on our website.
More detailed information can be found communications electronically.
It is easy and free to set up a portfolio shareholders will just ShareGift need the shareholder reference printed on their proxy form Shareholders with a very small number of shares, the value of ordividend stationery.
Please visit the following website for which may make it uneconomical to sell, may wish to consider moredetails: www.
donating them to charity through ShareGift, a registered charity administered by The Orr Mackintosh Foundation.
Payment of dividends The Company is no longer operating a dividend re-investment Further information about ShareGift is available at plan.
Shareholders may find it more convenient to make www.
org or by writing to: arrangements to have dividends paid directly to their bank ShareGift account.
The advantages of this are that the dividend is credited 17 Carlton House Terrace to a shareholders bank account on the payment date, there is London SW1Y 5AH noneed to present cheques for payment and there is no risk of Tel: 020 7930 3737 cheques being lost in the post.
To set up a dividend mandate or to change an existing For any other information please contact the following mandate please contact Equiniti Limited, our registrar, whose at our registered office: contact details are adjacent.
Alternatively, shareholders who use Frances Bingham, company secretary Equinitis Shareview can log on to www.
co. uk and Dan Waugh, director of strategy follow the online instructions.
Philip Munn, investor relations officer Shareholder information Registered office A wide range of information for shareholders and investors The Rank Group Plc, Statesman House, is available in the Investors area of the Rank Group website: Stafferton Way, Maidenhead SL6 1AY www.
Tel: 01628 504 000 The Rank Group Plc Registered in England and Wales No.
03140769 The Rank Group Plc: Annual report and financial statements 2010 119
