Directors report: Operating responsibly OPERATING RESPONSIBLY At Rank we aim to operate in a fashion that is considerate towards our people, our customers, our communities and the natural environment.
Our performance in these areas is critical to customer trust in our brands and broader societys faith in our integrity and legitimacy.
This section of our report sets out our priorities in each of these To be recognised and rewarded for their talents: areas, the progress we have made against them and the To feel safe at work.
Our people are individuals we believe that encouraging workforce diversity is not simply fair but that it also has major benefits for the Group, particularly in helping our brands to Our people understand the needs of a diverse base of customers.
We apply equal opportunities policies to recruitment, Our most important strength is the ability of our people promotion and the provision of supportive working environments, regardless of gender, family status, creed, colour, ethnic origin, age, to bring enjoyment to others.
At Rank, we have been disability or sexual orientation.
doing this for nearly three-quarters of a century.
During 2010, our diversity steering group contributed to the success of our brands by conducting focus groups with existing employees in order to develop a series of toolkits to increase awareness and support action to foster an increasingly more inclusive workplace.
Our people with disabilities are afforded equal rights across the Group specifically through the equal opportunities and employment of disabled persons policies.
Guidance and support are given to ensure that we create and promote an inclusive environment for current and future employees with disabilities.
Our recruitment, development and assessment processes enable job candidates with disabilities to advise us of their requirements Our pledge in advance so that we are able to ensure that, where possible, We will provide fair, equal, safe, respectful and rewarding weare able to make reasonable adjustments for their individual employment for people who share our commitment to making needs which allows them to perform to the best of their ability.
Should an employee become disabled during their employment with us, we actively engage with the individual to make any Why this is important reasonable adjustments required in order to continue their 1.
Our brands are only as strong as the team members who employment with us.
Our ability to entertain and delight our customers depends upon the quality of our people and their Our people are engaged the ability of our people to contribute motivation to achieve.
to the evolution of our products and services, their affinity with our brands and their involvement in strategic discussions can be 2.
Our recruitment and remuneration of employees and our a source of competitive advantage.
investment in their development are the largest areas of We have developed our employee engagement programmes expenditure within the Group, representing 39.1% of our total in order to engage with our people in all parts of the business to cost base in 2010.
By raising engagement levels across our teams improve performance.
These range from major culture change we aim to get best value through reduction in employee turnover programmes such as Hearts and Minds for managers at and increased productivity.
Grosvenor Casinos to the Mecca Bingo WOW recognition Our priorities and progress scheme for all team members.
Our engagement with employees is based upon our insight Our people are aware, consulted and informed about the intowhat is important to them: Groups performance via our regular briefings, communication meetings and podcasts providing access to the Groups results.
To be valued as individuals: Each part of the Group has an established mechanism via To be engaged within the business: employee councils and business forums which allows employee representatives to engage with senior management on matters which may directly impact them and their roles within the Group.
The Rank Group Plc: Annual report and financial statements 2010 30 Our people are talented our employees see their own development as a critical aspect of what makes work fun and Our customers engaging.
Our ability to help people achieve their potential through training, development and access to new opportunities For most people, gambling is a fun and enjoyable social is a major source of competitive advantage.
We are in the process of building an integrated talent activity.
For a few, gambling can become a preoccupation management programme, which goes beyond the standard that starts to affect the rest of their lives.
The Rank Group technical skills training required by our operations.
The following are key features of this programme: recognises how important it is that such individuals identify and acknowledge the problem, and know The Mecca Management Academy offers a 16-month development programme for trainee managers in Mecca Bingo, thatthere is professional help and support available.
focusing on leadership and tailored to meet the brands strategic Iappreciate the steps that the Rank Group have taken goals.
Upon successful completion of the course, candidates areawarded the Institute of Leadership and Managements toput in place appropriate procedures to protect their certificate in management.
In 2010 there were 16 participants players and to inform them about gambling responsibly onthe programme.
and about GamCares help services.
That is why Ranks The Rank Leadership Programme which has been created casinos, bingo clubs and online gambling sites have anddelivered in conjunction with Cranfield Universitys highly respected school of management provides development for some beenawarded GamCare Certification.
During 2010 its first year, 17 of our people completed the course: and a number of these have been Andy McLellan, chief executive, GamCare able to move into new areas of operation or have achieved promotions as a consequence.
Leaders in Leisure Programme we have reached agreement with Birmingham City Business School to launch our Leaders in Leisure programme which develops operational and functional leaders for the future.
Upon successful completion of the course, participants will achieve a Post-Graduate Diploma in Leisure Leadership and Strategy and thereafter have the opportunity topursue a further top-up course of study to obtain an MSc.
Group Mentoring Programme as part of the Groups culture change and development programme, we launched a progressive mentoring programme for which we expect to gain accreditation Our pledge by the Internal Standards for Mentoring Programmes in We will bring enjoyment to our customers through leisure Employment in 2011. experiences that are fun, sociable and safe.
Henley Business School, University of Reading our membership of The Henley Partnership provides continuous professional Why this is important development and education for executives at all levels.
Our ability to entertain our customers in a safe and responsible fashion is the cornerstone of our business model, affecting both Institute for Work-Based Learning, Middlesex University the popularity of our brands and in extreme circumstances our during the year the Group piloted a Masters degree programme licence to operate.
through the Institute for Work-Based Learning.
Participants onthis programme will graduate with an MA in their area ofprofessional practice in 2011.
Our responsible gaming policy Our people are protected we believe that our employees have Clear customer communication to promote responsible the right to feel safe and protected at work.
play and to provide advice for those concerned about Our commitment to this aim is demonstrated by the level problem gaming.
ofscrutiny applied to this area.
Ranks chief executive takes responsibility for the Groups health and safety policies and Employee training to support our teams in identifying performance: and each of our managing directors accepts the at risk customers and intervening to provide support.
same responsibility for their businesses.
The board is informed More than 5,800 of Ranks 6,621 customer-facing ofhealth and safety issues on a regular basis and we engage with employees in Great Britain have qualified from this the broader workforce on these matters.
Our performance Requirement for customer-facing employees to undergo We have maintained our positive employee engagement results a responsible gaming assessment two years after which are measured through rolling quarterly surveys: qualifying from training.
Employee turnover within our businesses has continued to trend at historically low levels: Proof of age requirements in our club venues and age verification procedures online to prevent 15 graduates from the Mecca Academy achieved general under-age gambling.
manager roles: Award of British Safety Councils prestigious Sword of Honour in recognition of achievements in workplace safety.
The Rank Group Plc: Annual report and financial statements 2010 31 Directors report: Operating responsibly continued Promotion of GamCares helpline and netline in our venues Our priorities and our progress and interactive channels: Customer enjoyment During 2010, we invested considerable resource in projects specifically designed to enhance our Promotion of the Gambling Commissions gambleaware.
co. uk customers experience of our brands.
website on all Rank Interactive channels and within venues: We continued to develop our customer engagement and Launch of the www.
com website to promote insight programme: reaching out to 49,000 customers via our net responsible gaming.
promoter score survey: receiving more than 15,000 individual pieces of customer feedback: and undertaking more than 1,300 Performance hours of focus group and immersion research.
GamCare accreditation achieved for Blue Square from 2006, Guided by this programme, we stepped up our investment in Grosvenor Casinos from 2007 and Mecca Bingo from 2008 : our venues and websites to deliver service improvements in the areas of greatest value to our customers.
This included a major Just 78 of the customers who decided to exclude themselves project to improve the quality of our food service in Mecca from our venues breached this exclusion in 2010 0.9% of the Bingoclubs.
total number of self-exclusion breaches across the betting and gaming industry in Great Britain: Performance 12 reported incidents of underage gambling within Ranks club During 2010, our brand teams served more than 2.5 million venues in Great Britain just 0.02% of the national total.
customers across our club venues and via our internet and mobile channels: According to the British Gambling Prevalence Survey 2010, problem gambling in Great Britain our principal market occurs within 0.9% of the total adult population.
Customer visits to our venues increased by 1.7% to more than 22 million: Our communities Customer satisfaction as measured by net promoter score increased to 38%: Our brands received a numbers of accolades in the year, Rank Group team members and customers have done reflecting efforts made to improve service to customers.
We are thrilled to have their continued included the E-gaming review Mobile Gaming Operator of the Year for BlueSq.
com: and the Loo of the Year Award bingo support in 2011 and look forward to working together.
sector for Mecca Bingo: Rank was short-listed for the social responsibility and Fabian French, director of fundraising, European casino operator of the year prizes at the Marie Curie Cancer Care International Gaming Awards 2011.
Customer protection Our brands bring enjoyment to our customers through entertainment, based around games of chance.
However, we recognise that for a small minority of people, involvement in such games may exacerbate personal problems.
As a consequence, we balance our desire to provide entertainment for the majority of our customers with a responsibility to protect and assist those who may be vulnerable Our pledge to gambling-related difficulties.
We will attempt to make a positive difference to the lives of people Our commitment to this aim is demonstrated by the high in the locations where we operate through local engagement, level of scrutiny that we apply to responsible gaming, with community involvement and economic contribution.
bi-annual reviews by the Group main board and audit committee and quarterly reviews by our responsible gambling committee.
Why this is important Whilst we continue to strive for improvement, we are proud Earning the trust of our customers, team members, suppliers, of our record in this area, which is built on a commitment to councillors and neighbours is critical to our success.
the welfare of our customers and a clear cross-Group policy for responsible gaming see Our responsible gaming policy.
Our priorities and our progress Our venues are considered to be amongst the safest Community engagement In many communities, our venues act environments for gaming to take place, featuring supervised as important social hubs where people can come together to share entry we require customers to be 18 years or older to enter our each others company.
In particular, our Mecca Bingo clubs act as bingo clubs and casinos in Great Britain and Spain: in Belgium safe, warm and friendly places to meet, especially for women.
the minimum age is 21 years, specialised training for our We are embracing the development of social media as teammembers: and acommunity ethos that encourages another means of engaging with our communities.
By the end of controlled play.
2010, our brands had established a network of more than 31,000 During 2010, we continued to invest significant resources fans on Facebook: and 3,400 followers on Twitter.
Mecca Bingo inthis area: was particularly successful, with more than 25,000 Facebook fans.
Sustained investment in responsible gambling training Community involvement in order to gain acceptance and feel foremployees: valued in our local markets, we go beyond business as usual in 306,000 contribution to The GREaT Foundation to fund an effort to make a broad contribution to life within the counselling for problem gamblers and research into treatment communities where we operate.
2009: 267,000 : This takes the form of charitable fund-raising for local and national causes, the use of our venues for community events and Senior management engagement with problem gambling participation in local business and community organisations, charities, including an annual programme of visits to amongst other activities.
GamCares national helpline centre: The Rank Group Plc: Annual report and financial statements 2010 32 isimportant to them, it has to be important to us.
By involving Our performance our customers and our people in our environmental programme, Raising more than 288,000 to fund respite care for cancer we build their pride in our brands and forge stronger relationships.
patients in our communities through Marie Curie Cancer Care: It is important for our investors we believe that good Employment for more than 8,900 people across Great Britain, environmental practice makes good business sense.
By cutting out Spain and Belgium: waste and reducing energy consumption we are improving both 9% increase in average employee numbers: our environmental performance and our profit performance.
Investment of more than 51m in capital projects, leading Our priorities and our progress tosignificant indirect job creation: The prime objective of our environmental programme is to 156m directly generated in taxes in 2010. reduce energy consumption, which currently accounts for roughly 90% of the Groups carbon footprint.
Our secondary target is to reduce the amount of waste sent to landfill by improving our ability to recycle.
Our world Our approach has been to identify the areas of greatest opportunity, to challenge our team members and our suppliers todeliver solutions and to monitor our performance closely.
It is now over three years since we set up the Highlights from 2010 included: Group Environmental Committee that I chair, The extension of automated meter reading to 90% of which is responsible for our Group Environmental our properties in order to provide more detailed data on energy consumption and to encourage more efficient Policy.
This helps us focus on reducing consumption, energy management: minimising waste, maximising recycling opportunities The replacement of 18,000 50-watt LED lights with 7-watt and promoting the efficient use of resources.
LEDlights: The installation of photo-electric sensors to ensure that Ian Burke, chief executive, The Rank Group Plc external signs are not illuminated under daylight conditions: The extension of power converters to 80% of our properties tooptimise energy efficiency.
Performance Supporting grass-roots football in Great Britain through BlueSquares sponsorship of the Football Conference: 40% of the waste generated in the course of the Groups operations was collected for recycling: Our pledge We will minimise the impact of our operations on the Earths Mecca Bingo and Grosvenor Casinos served more than natural environment: and where possible promote Green 3.3 million cups of Kenco coffee and 0.8 million cups of behaviours to our customers, suppliers and our employees.
Suchard hot chocolate, made from coffee and cocoa beans entirely sourced from Rainforest Alliance Certified farms.
Why this is important It is important for our customers and our people many of For further information download Ranks environment report thepeople who enjoy our brands or work within the brand teams from www.
com care passionately about the environment.
Because green living Our contribution to society The Rank Group Plc Customers Social Employees Suppliers Shareholders Government Investment investments activities served 594,000 in 188.7m 173.5 8.1m 156.2m 51.6m 2.5 million charitable in wages and in supplier in dividend in taxes and capital customers contributions salaries payments payments duties expenditure Society 306,000 contributed to GREaT and 288,000 raised for Marie Currie Cancer care.
Includes a small amount of other costs.
The Rank Group Plc: Annual report and financial statements 2010 33
