Statement of Directors responsibilities The Directors are responsible for preparing accuracy at any time the financial position of The Group has considerable financial resources the Annual Report, the Directors the Company and the Group and enable them together with a diverse customer and supplier Remuneration Report and the financial to ensure that the financial statements and the base across different geographical areas and statements in accordance with applicable Directors Remuneration Report comply with categories.
As a consequence, the Directors law and regulations.
the Companies Act 2006 and, as regards the believe that the Group and Company are Group financial statements, Article 4 of the well placed to manage their business risks Company law requires the Directors to prepare IAS Regulation.
They are also responsible for successfully despite the current uncertain financial statements for each financial year.
safeguarding the assets of the Company and economic outlook.
Under that law the Directors have elected the Group and hence for taking reasonable to prepare the Group financial statements The Directors have a reasonable expectation steps for the prevention and detection of fraud in accordance with International Financial that the Group and Company have adequate and other irregularities.
Reporting Standards IFRSs as adopted by the resources to continue in operational existence European Union, and the parent company The Directors are responsible for the for the foreseeable future.
Thus they continue financial statements in accordance with United maintenance and integrity of the Companys to adopt the going concern basis of accounting Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting website.
Legislation in the United Kingdom in preparing the annual financial statements Practice United Kingdom Accounting governing the preparation and dissemination of in accordance with the FRCs Going Concern Standards and applicable law.
In preparing the financial statements may differ from legislation and Liquidity Risk: Guidance For Directors of Group financial statements, the directors have in other jurisdictions.
This statement is also also elected to comply with IFRSs, issued by made to fulfil the requirements of Listing Rules Each of the Directors, whose names and the International Accounting Standards Board 9.8.
10R 1 and C. 1.2 of the functions are listed on page 12 confirms that, IASB.
Under company law the Directors must Combined Code.
to the best of their knowledge: not approve the financial statements unless Disclosure of information to auditors they are satisfied that they give a true and The Group financial statements, which have The Directors, having made appropriate fair view of the state of affairs of the Group been prepared in accordance with IFRSs as enquiries, state that: and the Company and of the profit or loss of adopted by the EU, give a true and fair view the Group for that period.
In preparing these of the assets, liabilities, financial position and a so far as each Director is aware, there is financial statements, the Directors are profit of the Group: and no relevant audit information of which the required to: Companys auditors are unaware: and The Report of the Directors includes a fair Select suitable accounting policies and then review of the development and performance b each Director has taken all the steps that apply them consistently.
of the business and the position of the he she ought to have taken as a Director Group, together with a description of the to make him herself aware of any relevant Make judgements and accounting estimates principal risks and uncertainties that it faces.
audit information and to establish that that are reasonable and prudent.
the Companys auditors are aware of that Going concern State whether IFRSs as adopted by the information.
The Groups business activities, together European Union and IFRSs issued by IASB with the factors likely to affect its future and applicable UK Accounting Standards development, performance and position are set have been followed, subject to any material By order of the Board out in the Business Review on pages 4 to 6.
The departures disclosed and explained in financial position of the Group and Company, Elizabeth Richardson the Group and parent company financial its cash flows, liquidity position and borrowing Company Secretary statements respectively.
facilities, as well as the Groups objectives, Reckitt Benckiser Group plc Prepare the financial statements on the policies and processes for managing its capital: 103-105 Bath Road going concern basis unless it is inappropriate its financial risk management objectives: Slough, Berks SL1 3UH to presume that the Company will continue details of its financial instruments and hedging Company registration number: 6270876 in business.
activities: and its exposure to credit risk and liquidity risk are described in the Business 11 March 2011 The Directors are responsible for keeping Review on pages 6 to 11 and in note 24. adequate accounting records that are sufficient to show and explain the Companys transactions and disclose with reasonable Reckitt Benckiser 2010 21
