About Redrow Business review Directors & Board reports Financial information Notice of AGM Miscellaneous information Approval of Rule 9 Waiver Corporate & shareholder information Dividend Reinvestment Plan the Plan Group contacts relevant securities - means Ordinary Shares or derivatives referenced thereto and securities convertible into, rights to The Company offers a dividend reinvestment plan that gives Officers and Advisers subscribe for and options including traded options in respect shareholders the opportunity to use their cash dividend to buy thereof: ordinary Redrow shares through a special low-cost dealing Company Secretary arrangement.
Graham A Cope SAYE - means the Companys save as you earn share scheme: Shareholders - means the holders of Ordinary Shares from time The Plan is run by Computershare Investor Services PLC Registered Office to time: Computershare and for further information on the Plan and Redrow House how to join, please contact Computershare at PO Box 1064, The St. Davids Park short position - means any short position whether conditional Pavilions, Bridgwater Road, Bristol BS99 3EB Flintshire or absolute and whether in the money or otherwise including Telephone Number: 0870 702 0000 or the Company Secretary.
CH5 3RX any short position under a derivative, any agreement to sell or Registered No.
2877315 any delivery obligation or right to require another person to Shareholder Discounts purchase or take delivery: The Company offers a discount of 1% to shareholders off the Registrars Steve Morgan or Mr Morgan - shall be taken to mean both purchase price of a new Redrow home.
In order to qualify for the Computershare Investor Services PLC Steve Morgan and where the context requires, members of his discount a purchaser must hold a minimum of 2,500 ordinary The Pavilions immediate family holding Ordinary Shares and each of shares in Redrow plc for a minimum of 12 months prior to the Bridgwater Road Bridgemere Securities Limited and Durcan Investments Limited, date of reservation.
Bristol being companies holding Ordinary Shares and which are BS99 6ZZ ultimately controlled by Steve Morgan: Details of our current developments are available on our website: www.
co. uk Stockbrokers Waiver - means the waiver by the Panel of the obligation which J. P. Morgan Cazenove would otherwise arise under Rule 9 of the Code requiring Steve 10 Aldermanbury Morgan or an entity through which Mr Morgan may hold shares London in the Company to make an offer for the issued share capital of EC2V 7RF the Company following re-purchases of Ordinary Shares by the Company pursuant to Resolution 13 that could potentially BofA Merrill Lynch increase Mr Morgans shareholding from approximately 29.95 per 2 King Edward Street cent.
of issued share capital to a maximum of approximately 33.3 London per cent.
of issued share capital: and EC1A 1HQ Waiver Resolution - means Resolution 11 set out at page 82 of this document.
Auditors  LLP 101 Barbirolli Square Lower Mosley Street Manchester M2 3PW Solicitors Linklaters LLP One Silk Street London EC2Y 8HQ Page 96 Redrow plc Annual Report & Accounts 2010 Redrow plc Annual Report & Accounts 2010 Page 97
