About Redrow Business review Directors & Board reports Financial information Notice of AGM Miscellaneous information Notice of annual general meeting Notice is hereby given that the Annual General Meeting of shares or grant rights to subscribe for or convert securities into a the maximum number of ordinary shares authorised to be time fixed for the meeting and only those shareholders Redrow plc will be held at St. Davids Park Hotel, St. Davids Park, shares in pursuance of such offer or agreement as if the authority purchased is 30,860,747: are entitled to attend and vote at the Annual General Flintshire on Thursday 4 November 2010 at 12 noon for the had not expired.
Meeting in respect of the number of shares registered in following purposes.
All resolutions will be proposed as ordinary b the minimum price which may be paid for an ordinary their respective names at that time.
Changes to entries on Resolution 11 - Approval of Rule 9 waiver resolutions except numbers 12, 13 and 14 which will be proposed share is 10p exclusive of expenses payable by the the Register after that time will be disregarded in To resolve that the waiver granted by the Panel of the obligation as special resolutions.
Company: determining the rights of any person to attend or vote at which may otherwise arise, pursuant to Rule 9 of the Code, for the meeting.
Resolution 1 - Annual Report & Accounts Steve Morgan or any person with whom Mr Morgan is acting in c the maximum price which may be paid for an ordinary To receive and adopt the Directors report and the financial concert to make a general offer to the other Shareholders for all share is an amount equal to the higher of i 105% of the iv The right to appoint a proxy does not apply to persons statements for the year ended 30 June 2010, together with the of their Ordinary Shares as a result of market purchases of average of the middle market quotations for an ordinary whose shares are held on their behalf by another person Auditors report.
Ordinary Shares by the Company pursuant to the authority share derived from the London Stock Exchange Daily and who have been nominated to receive communications granted under Resolution 13 below, that could potentially Official List for the five business days immediately from the Company in accordance with Section 146 of the Resolution 2 - Re-appointment of Director increase Mr Morgans shareholding from approximately 29.95 per preceding the day on which the ordinary share is Companies Act 2006 nominated persons.
Nominated To re-appoint Steve Morgan as a Director.
of issued share capital to a maximum of approximately purchased exclusive of expenses payable by the persons may have a right under an agreement with the 33.3 per cent.
of issued share capital, be and is hereby approved Resolution 3 - Re-appointment of Director Company : and ii that stipulated by Article 5 1 of the member who holds the shares on their behalf to be To re-appoint John Tutte as a Director.
Buy-back and Stabilisation Regulation EC 2273 2003 : and appointed or to have someone else appointed as a proxy.
Resolution 12 - Authority to disapply pre-emption rights Alternatively, if nominated persons do not have such a Resolution 4 - Re-appointment of Director That, subject to the passing of Resolution 10 as set out above, the d the authority conferred shall expire at the conclusion of right, or do not wish to exercise it, they may have a right To re-appoint Barbara Richmond as a Director.
Directors be given power pursuant to Resolution 10 to make the next Annual General Meeting of the Company or 31 under such an agreement to give instructions to the person allotments of equity securities as defined in section 560 1 of Resolution 5 - Re-appointment of Director December 2011 whichever may be the earlier except that holding the shares as to the exercise of voting rights.
the Companies Act 2006 pursuant to the authority contained in To re-appoint Alan Jackson as a Director.
the Company may before such expiry make a contract to the said Resolution 10 and to sell shares which are held in purchase it own shares which will or may be completed or v Holders of ordinary shares are entitled to attend and vote treasury wholly for cash as if section 561 1 of the said Act did Resolution 6 - Re-appointment of Director executed wholly or partly after such expiry.
at general meetings of the Company.
The total number of not apply to such allotments or sale provided that this power To re-appoint Debbie Hewitt as a Director.
issued ordinary shares in the Company on 14 September shall be limited to: Resolution 14 Calling of a general meeting other than an 2010 is 308,607,479, carrying one vote each on a poll.
Resolution 7 - Re-appointment of Director AGM Therefore, the total number of votes exercisable as at i allotments of equity securities in connection with a rights To re-appoint Paul Hampden Smith as a Director.
That a general meeting other than the Annual General Meeting 14 September 2010 are 308,607,479. issue, being an offer of equity securities by way of rights to Resolution 8 - Re-appointment of Auditors may be called on not less than 14 clear days notice.
ordinary shareholders of the Company in proportion as To re-appoint  LLP as external Auditors to vi Shareholders should note that, under Section 527 of the nearly as may be to their holdings subject to such the Company, to hold office until the end of the next general Companies Act 2006, members meeting the threshold exclusions or other arrangements as the Directors may meeting at which financial statements are laid before the requirements set out in that section have the right to deem necessary or expedient in relation to fractional Company and to authorise the Directors to fix their 14 September 2010 By order of the Board require the Company to publish on a website a statement entitlements or legal or practical problems under the laws remuneration.
Graham Cope setting out any matter relating to: i the audit of the of or the requirements of any recognised regulatory body Registered office: Company Secretary Companys accounts including the auditors report and or stock exchange in any territory: and Resolution 9 - Directors Remuneration report Redrow House the conduct of the audit that are to be laid before the To approve the Directors Remuneration report for the year ended ii any other allotments for cash or equity securities or sale of St. Davids Park Annual General Meeting for the financial year beginning 30 June 2010. shares held in treasury up to a maximum nominal amount Flintshire 1 July 2009: or ii any circumstance connected with an of 1,543,037: CH5 3RX auditor of the Company appointed for the financial year Resolution 10 - Authority to allot shares Registered in England No.
2877315 beginning 1 July 2009 ceasing to hold office since the That the directors, in place of any existing authority conferred and shall unless previously revoked or renewed expire on the previous meeting at which annual accounts and reports upon them for the purpose of section 549 551 of the Companies date which is the earlier of the next Annual General Meeting of were laid.
The Company may not require the shareholders Act 2006, be generally and unconditionally authorised pursuant the Company or 31 December 2011 save that the said power Notes: requesting any such website publication to pay its to and in accordance with section 551 of the Companies Act shall permit the Company to make an offer or enter into an i A shareholder entitled to attend and vote may appoint a expenses in complying with Sections 527 or 528 2006 to exercise all powers of the Company to allot and to make agreement before the expiry of such power which would or might proxy or proxies to attend, speak and vote instead of him.
requirements as to website availability of the Companies offers or agreements to allot shares or convert any securities into require equity securities to be allotted after such expiry and the A proxy need not be a member of the Company.
Where the Company is required to place a shares: Directors may allot equity securities in pursuance of such offer or may appoint more than one proxy, provided that each statement on a website under Section 527 of the agreement as if such power conferred had not expired.
For the proxy is appointed to exercise the rights attached to a Companies Act 2006, it must forward the statement to the i up to an aggregate nominal amount of 10,286,915: purposes of this Resolution, the nominal amount of any securities different share or shares held by him.
Companys auditor not later than the time when it makes shall be taken to be, in the case of rights to subscribe for or the statement available on the website.
The business which ii up to a further aggregate nominal amount of 10,286,915 convert any securities into shares of the Company, the nominal ii A form of proxy is enclosed which, if required, should be may be dealt with at the Annual General Meeting for the in connection with an offer by way of a rights issue.
amount of such shares which may be allotted pursuant to such completed in accordance with the instructions set out relevant financial year includes any statement that the rights.
therein and returned so as to reach the Companys Company has been required under Section 527 of the Provided that this authority shall unless previously revoked or Registrars not later than 48 hours before the time of the Companies Act 2006 to publish on a website.
renewed expire on the date of the next Annual General Meeting Resolution 13 Authority to purchase own shares meeting or any adjourned meeting.
Completion of a form of the Company or 31 December 2011 whichever may be the That the Company be and is hereby generally and unconditionally of proxy will not preclude a shareholder from attending vii Any member attending the meeting has the right to earlier but so that the Company may, before such expiry, make authorised, in accordance with section 701 of the Companies Act and voting at the meeting in person if they so wish.
The Company must cause to be an offer or agreement which would or might require shares to be 2006, to make market purchases within the meaning of section iii All shareholders on the Register at 6pm on 2 November answered any such question relating to the business allotted or rights to subscribe for or to convert any security into 693 of the said Act of ordinary shares of 10p each in the capital 2010 or if the meeting is adjourned 48 hours before the being dealt with at the meeting but no such answer shares to be granted after such expiry and the Directors may allot of the Company ordinary shares provided that: Page 82 Redrow plc Annual Report & Accounts 2010 Redrow plc Annual Report & Accounts 2010 Page 83 About Redrow Business review Directors & Board reports Financial information Notice of AGM Miscellaneous information Notice of annual general meeting need be given if a to do so would interfere unduly xiii In order for a proxy appointment or instruction made by to agree the Auditors fees.
"If this resolution is passed, the Audit The authority will expire on whichever is the earlier of the with the preparation for the meeting or involve the means of CREST to be valid, the appropriate CREST Committee will approve the fees for recommendation to the conclusion of the next Annual General Meeting or disclosure of confidential information, b the answer message a ""CREST Proxy Instruction"" must be properly Board."
31 December 2011. has already been given on a website in the form of an authenticated in accordance with Euroclears specifications answer to a question, or c it is undesirable in the and must contain the information required for such Resolution 9 - Directors Remuneration report Resolution 13 Authority to purchase own shares interests of the Company or the good order of the instructions, as described in the CREST Manual available Under the Companies Act 2006 companies are required to ask The Directors are seeking authority, as in previous years, to make meeting that the question be answered.
The message regardless of shareholders to vote on the Directors Remuneration report.
The market purchases of the Companys shares.
The proposed whether it constitutes the appointment of a proxy or an authority would be limited by the terms of the special resolution report is contained on pages 36 to 43 of the Annual Report & viii A copy of this notice and other information required by amendment to the instruction given to a previously Accounts.
to the purchases of 30,860,747 shares, an aggregate nominal Section 311A of the Companies Act 2006 can be found at appointed proxy must, in order to be valid, be transmitted value of 3,086,075 which is equivalent to 10% of the www.
so as to be received by the issuers agent ID 3RA50 by Resolution 10 - Authority to allot shares Companys issued share capital at 14 September 2010. the latest time s for receipt of proxy appointments Shareholders are being invited to renew the authority given to ix Under Section 338 and Section 338A of the Companies Act specified in Note ii above.
For this purpose, the time of Directors in previous years to allot new shares.
If passed, Shares purchased by the Company could be held as treasury 2006, members meeting the threshold requirements in receipt will be taken to be the time as determined by the Resolution 10 would renew this authority by authorising the shares, which could then be subsequently cancelled, sold for cash those sections have the right to require the Company i to timestamp applied to the message by the CREST Directors to allot shares up to an aggregate nominal amount of or used pursuant to the Companys employee share schemes.
give, to members of the Company entitled to receive Applications Host from which the issuers agent is able to 10,286,915 or an additional 10,286,915 in respect of a Rights The ability to hold in treasury shares that the Company notice of the meeting, notice of a resolution which may retrieve the message by enquiry to CREST in the manner Issue or 66% in the context of a rights issue.
purchases pursuant to the authority conferred by this resolution properly be moved and is intended to be moved at the prescribed by CREST.
After this time any change of would give the Company the ability to re-issue treasury shares meeting and or ii to include in the business to be dealt instructions to a proxy appointed through CREST should be This represents 102,869,150 ordinary shares of 10p each and is quickly and cost-effectively, and would provide the Company with at the meeting any matter other than a proposed communicated to him by other means.
equivalent to approximately 33% of the Companys current with additional flexibility in the management of its capital base.
resolution which may be properly included in the issued ordinary share capital excluding shares held in treasury.
If any shares were used in this way, the Company would take business.
A resolution may properly be moved or a matter xiv CREST members and, where applicable, their CREST The authority will expire on the date of the next Annual General them into account when calculating the share issuing limits in may properly be included in the business unless a in the sponsors or voting service providers should note that Meeting of the Company or, if earlier, 31 December 2011. the schemes, as long as required under the Guidelines of the case of a resolution only it would, if passed, be ineffective Euroclear does not make available special procedures in Association of British Insurers.
whether by reason of inconsistency with any enactment CREST for any particular messages.
Normal system timings The Company does not, as of 14 September 2010 hold any shares or the Companys constitution or otherwise, b it is and limitations will therefore apply in relation to the input in treasury.
Details of any shares purchased pursuant to the proposed defamatory of any person, or c it is frivolous or vexatious.
It is the responsibility of the authority would be notified to the London Stock Exchange by Such a request may be in hard copy form or in electronic CREST member concerned to take or, if the CREST The Directors will exercise the authority to allot only when 7.30am on the business day following the purchase and to the form, must identify the resolution of which notice is to be member is a CREST personal member or sponsored satisfied that it is in the interests of the Company to do so.
They Registrar of Companies within 28 days.
Details would also be given or the matter to be included in the business, must be member or has appointed a voting service provider, to have no present intention of exercising the authority, except in included in the Companys Annual Report & Accounts in respect authorised by the person or persons making it, must be procure that his CREST sponsor or voting service provider connection with the issue of shares under the Companys share of the financial period in which any such purchases take place.
received by the Company not later than 23 September takes such action as shall be necessary to ensure that a option schemes.
The authority set out in the special resolution will expire on 2010, being the date six clear weeks before the meeting, message is transmitted by means of the CREST system by whichever is the earlier of the end of the next Annual General and in the case of a matter to be included in the business any particular time.
In this connection, CREST members Resolution 11 - Approval of Rule 9 Waiver Meeting or 31 December 2011 and the resolution specifies the only must be accompanied by a statement setting out the and, where applicable, their CREST sponsors or voting Pursuant to Rule 9 of the code and the Waiver granted by the maximum and minimum prices at which the shares may be grounds for the request.
service providers are referred, in particular, to those panel, which is conditional upon Independent Shareholder bought.
Other investment opportunities, appropriate gearing sections of the CREST Manual concerning practical approval, we are asking the Independent Shareholders to approve levels and the overall financial position of the Company will be x Copies of the Directors service contracts will be available limitations of the CREST system and timings.
the terms of the Waiver in favour of Steve Morgan for the reasons taken into account before deciding upon the course of action.
for inspection at the registered office during normal set out on pages 87 to 96 of the document.
The Companys current intention is to hold any shares purchased business hours on any business day and at the place of the xv The Company may treat as invalid a CREST Proxy as treasury shares but it retains the flexibility to cancel them or Annual General Meeting for at least 15 minutes before the Instruction in the circumstances set out in Regulation Resolution 12 - Authority to disapply pre-emption rights sell them for cash if it considers this to be in the best interests of meeting is held until its conclusion.
35 5 a of the Uncertificated Securities Regulations 2001.
The Directors may only allot shares for cash to persons who are the Company.
not already shareholders in the Company if authorised to do so xi The register of Directors interests in the share capital of xvi If you have any questions about the meeting or need any by the shareholders in a general meeting.
This resolution renews The Directors would exercise this authority only if they felt it the Company will be available for inspection at the place special assistance at the meeting, please contact the authority for the Directors to allot shares for cash without first would be in the best economic interests of the Company to do of the meeting from 12 noon on 4 November 2010 until Company Secretary at the registered office or telephone offering them to existing members up to an aggregate nominal so.
At 14 September 2010 there were options outstanding over the conclusion of the meeting.
None of the Directors has a 01244 520044 during normal business hours.
This sum represents 15,430,374 ordinary 4,033,555 shares, representing 1.3% of the Companys current service contract which cannot be terminated within one shares of 10p each, being equivalent to approximately 5% of the issued ordinary share capital excluding shares held in treasury.
year without payment of compensation.
Explanatory Notes To Annual General Meeting Resolutions: Companys current issued share capital.
The resolution also If the authority given by this resolution were to be fully used, Resolutions 2-7 - Re-appointment of directors xii CREST members who wish to appoint a proxy or proxies enables the Directors to modify the strict requirements for a these would represent 1.5% of the Company issued ordinary through the CREST electronic proxy appointment service rights issue in circumstances where they consider it necessary or share capital excluding shares held in treasury.
There are no As required by The new UK Corporate Governance Code, annual may do so for the meeting and any adjournment of the expedient.
re-election of all directors is now required.
meeting by following the procedures described in the CREST Manual.
CREST Personal Members or other CREST Resolution 8 - Re-appointment of Auditors In addition, if the Company has purchased its own shares and In addition, if Resolution 11 is approved and the authority sponsored members and those CREST members who have The Company is required to appoint Auditors at every general holds them in treasury, this resolution would give the Directors granted by this resolution were to be fully used, Steve Morgans appointed a voting service provider should refer to their meeting at which the accounts are presented to shareholders.
power to sell these shares for cash to persons other than existing shareholding would increase from 29.95% to approximately CREST sponsor or voting service provider, who will be able  LLP were appointed at last years Annual shareholders, subject to the same limit that would apply to issues 33.3% of the Companys issued ordinary share capital.
to take the appropriate action on their behalf.
General Meeting and are willing to seek re-appointment this year.
of shares for cash to these persons.
It is normal practice for a Companys Directors to be authorised Page 84 Redrow plc Annual Report & Accounts 2010 Redrow plc Annual Report & Accounts 2010 Page 85
