About Redrow Business review Directors & Board reports Financial information Notice of AGM Miscellaneous information Accounting policies Both the consolidated and Company financial statements have b Interests in Joint Ventures liabilities are recognised for all temporary differences.
Deferred The corresponding liability to the lessor is included in the balance been prepared in accordance with International Financial A joint venture is a contractual arrangement whereby the Group tax is calculated at the rates enacted at the balance sheet date.
sheet as a finance lease obligation.
Reporting Standards IFRS as adopted by the European Union and other parties undertake an economic activity which is Deferred tax is credited or charged in the income statement, Inventories EU and effective at 30 June 2010, and in accordance with IFRIC subject to joint control.
Joint venture arrangements which involve statement of recognised income and expense, or retained Inventories are stated at the lower of cost and net realisable interpretations and the Companies Act 2006 as it applies to the establishment of a separate entity in which each venturer has earnings as appropriate.
value less cash on account.
companies reporting under IFRS and Article 4 of the IAS an interest are referred to as jointly controlled entities.
Intangible Assets Computer Software Cost comprises land and associated acquisition costs, direct Regulation and in accordance with the historical cost convention The Group reports its interests in jointly controlled entities using Acquired computer software licences are capitalised on the basis materials and subcontract work, other direct costs and those the equity method of accounting - the Groups share of profit as modified by the revaluation of derivative financial instruments of costs incurred to bring to use the specific software and are overheads based on normal operating capacity that have been and retirement benefit obligations.
after tax is shown separately on the face of the income amortised over their estimated useful lives of three years.
incurred in bringing the inventories to their present location and statement and its share of net assets is included within The preparation of financial statements in conformity with IFRS These are reviewed for impairment whenever events or changes condition, excluding borrowing costs.
non-current assets in the balance sheet as an investment.
requires the use of estimates and assumptions that affect the in circumstances indicate that the carrying values may not be In order to better assess net realisable value as at 30 June 2010, When the Group transacts with its jointly controlled entities, reported amounts of assets and liabilities at the balance sheet recoverable.
the Group has differentiated its inventories into two categories: date and the reported amounts of revenue and expenses during unrealised profits and losses are eliminated to the extent of the Plant, Property and Equipment the reporting period.
Whilst these estimates are based on Groups interest in the joint venture, except where unrealised a Type 1: land where generally the construction of homes had Freehold property comprises offices or other buildings held for managements best knowledge of the amount, event or actions, losses provide evidence of impairment of the asset transferred.
commenced at the year end and which was generally short to administrative purposes.
Freehold property is shown at cost or actual results ultimately may differ from those estimates refer Where joint venture arrangements are undertaken directly, the medium term in its development horizon.
This category deemed cost at opening balance sheet date under the IFRS 1 to note 1.
Groups share of jointly controlled assets and liabilities are also includes undeveloped land on which housebuild had transitional rules less the subsequent depreciation of buildings.
recognised in the relevant subsidiary company and classified not commenced at 30 June 2010 but which the Group The principal accounting policies have been applied consistently according to their nature.
All other plant, property and equipment is stated at historic cost believes it is more likely to develop than to sell undeveloped.
in the periods presented apart from the policy in respect of less depreciation.
Historic cost includes any costs directly b Type 2: land where housebuild had not commenced and land forward land which has been amended such that the expenditure Revenue and Profit Recognition attributable to bringing the assets to the location and condition could be identified as a distinct parcel.
This land is more incurred on owned sites without residential planning consent is Revenue represents the fair value received and receivable in necessary for them to be capable of operating in the manner generally medium to long term in time horizon and the no longer provided for when incurred but is included in respect of the sale of residential housing and land and of intended by management.
Group believes it is more likely to be sold undeveloped.
inventories and is subject to a regular impairment review.
The commercial land and developments net of value added tax and impact of this change has been the release of a 0.4m provision discounts.
This is recognised on legal completion.
Depreciation on other assets, excluding Net realisable value for land where construction of homes had in the year ended 30 June 2010.
The impact is not considered assets in the course of construction, is charged so as to write off commenced at the year end Type 1 was assessed by estimating Profit is recognised on legal completion.
material and hence the prior year figures have not been restated.
the cost of assets to their residual values over their estimated selling prices and cost including sales and marketing expenses, Segmental reporting useful lives, on a straight line basis as follows: taking into account current market conditions.
The principal accounting policies are outlined below: The main operation of the Group is focused on housebuilding.
Buildings 50 years The net realisable value of land where housebuild had not Basis of Consolidation As it operates entirely within the United Kingdom, the Group has Plant & machinery 5 10 years commenced Type 2 and is more likely to be sold undeveloped The consolidated financial statements incorporate the financial only one business and geographic segment.
This is consistent with Fixtures & fittings 3 5 years was assessed by re-appraising the land using current selling prices statements of Redrow plc and all its subsidiaries, together with the internal reporting of the Group.
and costs for the proposed development and assuming an the Groups share of the results and share of net assets of The assets useful lives are reviewed and adjusted if appropriate at Exceptional Items appropriate financial return to reflect the current housing market jointly controlled entities made up to 30 June each year i. e. the each balance sheet date.
Exceptional items are those which in the opinion of the Board, are conditions and the prevailing financing environment.
This net financial statements of Redrow plc and entities controlled by material by size or nature, non-recurring and of such significance These are reviewed for impairment whenever events or changes realisable value represents valuing the land at the amount the Redrow plc and its subsidiaries.
Control is achieved where that they require separate disclosure.
in circumstances indicate that the carrying values may not be Group estimates it could be sold for at the balance sheet date Redrow plc has the power to govern the financial and operating recoverable.
Net Finance Costs less estimated costs necessary to make the sale.
Interest income is recognised on a time apportioned basis by The gain or loss arising on the disposal of an asset represents the This provision will be closely monitored for adequacy and a Subsidiaries reference to the principal outstanding and the effective interest difference between the sales proceeds and the carrying amount appropriateness as regards under and over provision to reflect The results of subsidiaries acquired or disposed of during the year rate.
Borrowing costs are recognised in the income statement on of the asset and is recognised in the income statement.
circumstances at future balance sheet dates.
This will include are included in the consolidated income statement from the an accruals basis in the period in which they are incurred.
consideration of the continued appropriateness of the allocation effective date of acquisition or up to the effective date of Non-current assets available for sale Income Tax of sites between Type 1 and Type 2.
Any material change to the disposal.
The purchase method of accounting is used to account Non-current assets are classified as assets available for sale when Income tax comprises current tax and deferred tax.
underlying provision will be reflected through cost of sales as an for the acquisition of subsidiaries by the Group.
Identifiable their carrying amount is to be recovered principally through a exceptional item.
assets acquired and liabilities and contingent liabilities assumed sale transaction and a sale is considered highly probable.
They are Current tax is based on taxable profits for the year and any in a business combination are measured at their fair value at the stated at managements best estimate of realisable value less appropriate adjustment to tax payable in respect of prior years.
Cash And Cash Equivalents date of acquisition.
Any excess of the cost of acquisition over the estimated costs necessary to make the sale.
Taxable profit differs from profit before tax as shown in the Cash and cash equivalents comprise cash balances and call fair value of the Groups share of the identifiable net assets income statement as it excludes income or expenditure items deposits.
Bank overdrafts that are repayable on demand, forming Investment in Subsidiary Companies represents goodwill.
Goodwill is subject to an annual impairment which are never chargeable or allowable for tax or which are an integral part of the Groups cash management are included as In the parent company books, the investment in its subsidiaries is review, with any reduction in value being taken straight to the chargeable or deductible in other accounting periods.
a component of cash and cash equivalents for the purpose of the held at cost less any impairment.
Deferred tax is provided in full, using the balance sheet liability statement of cash flows.
Leases method, on temporary differences arising between the carrying Adjustments are made as necessary to the financial Borrowings and Trade Payables Leases in which substantially all of the risks and rewards of amounts of assets and liabilities in the consolidated financial statements of subsidiaries to ensure consistency with the policies Interest bearing borrowings and trade payables are recorded at ownership are retained by the lessor are classified as operating statements and the corresponding tax bases used in the adopted by the Group.
the proceeds received, net of transaction costs incurred and leases.
Rentals payable under operating leases are charged to calculation of taxable profit.
Any difference between the All inter-company transactions and balances between Group work in progress or income on a straight line basis over the term Deferred tax assets are recognised to the extent that it is proceeds, net of transaction costs and the redemption value is companies are eliminated on consolidation.
Leases classified as finance leases are those probable that taxable profits will be available against which recognised in the income statement over the period of the where substantially all of the risks and rewards of ownership pass deductible temporary differences can be utilised.
Page 54 Redrow plc Annual Report & Accounts 2010 Redrow plc Annual Report & Accounts 2010 Page 55 About Redrow Business review Directors & Board reports Financial information Notice of AGM Miscellaneous information Accounting policies Forward Land Dividend Distribution d Termination benefits committed future contributions.
Expenditure relating to forward land excluding owned sites Termination benefits are payable when employment is Dividend distribution to the Companys shareholders is - Annual improvements to IFRSs, effective for annual periods without residential planning consent but including options, fees terminated by the Group before normal retirement date by recognised as a liability in the Groups financial statements in the beginning on or after 1 January 2009.
This standard improves etc is provided for when incurred.
After exercise of an option and redundancy.
These benefits are recognised by the Group in the period in which the dividends are declared and paid.
existing standards and amends 20 standards, basis of acquisition of land following the securing of planning permission, period in which it becomes demonstrably committed to Impact Of New Standards And Interpretation conclusions and guidance.
The improvements include changes the provisions relating to that land are released.
Expenditure terminating the employment of current employees according to a a.
New Standards in presentation, recognition and measurement plus incurred on owned sites without residential planning consent is detailed formal plan without possibility of withdrawal.
The following new standards and amendments to standards are terminology and editorial changes.
These improvements have included in inventories and is subject to a regular impairment mandatory for the first time for the financial year beginning an insignificant impact on the financial statements.
Financial Instruments 1 July 2009: a Land creditors Employee Benefits - IAS 39 amendment, Eligible hedged items.
The impact is Deferred payments arising from land creditors are held at a Pension obligation - IFRS 2 amendment, Share-based payment transactions, insignificant.
discounted present value using the effective interest method, in The Group operates a contributory pension scheme for all effective for annual periods beginning on or after 1 January - IFRS 7 amendment, Financial instruments: disclosures.
The difference between the fair value and its staff.
The scheme is externally invested and comprises two 2009.
the nominal value is amortised over the deferment period via sections: a defined benefit section and a defined contribution - IFRS 3 revised, Business combinations and consequential section.
A defined benefit plan is a pension plan which defines financing costs.
The following new standards, amendments to standards and amendments to IAS 27, Consolidated and separate financial an amount of pension benefit that an employee will receive on interpretations are mandatory for the first time for the financial statements, IAS 28, Investments in associates and IAS 31, The interest rate applied is an equivalent loan rate available on retirement.
It is funded through payments to trustee year beginning 1 July 2009, but are not currently relevant for the Interests in joint ventures is effective prospectively to the date of the land purchase.
administered funds, determined by actuarial valuations carried Group: business combinations for which the acquisition date is on or out on at least a triennial basis.
A defined contribution plan is a after the beginning of the first annual reporting period b Derivative financial instruments and hedge accounting pension plan under which the Group pays agreed contributions - IFRS 1 revised First time adoption of IFRS beginning on or after 1 July 2009.
This has been applied to Derivative financial instruments are initially recorded at fair value into a separate fund for each employee and any subsequent - IFRIC 12 - Service concession arrangements.
the acquisition made during the period see note 22. and the fair value is remeasured to fair value at each reporting pension payable to a specific employee is determined by the - IFRIC 15 - Agreements for construction of real estates date.
amount accumulated in their individual fund.
- IFRIC 16 - Hedges of a net investment in a foreign operation - IFRS 8, Operating segments, effective for annual periods - IFRIC 17 - Distributions of non-cash assets to owners beginning on or after 1 January 2009.
The new standard The liability asset recognised in the balance sheet in respect of The Groups use of financial derivatives is governed by an interest - IFRIC 18 - Transfer of assets from customers requires a management approach, under which segment the defined benefit section of the scheme is the present value of rate risk management framework adopted by the Board which - IFRIC 19 - Extinguishing financial liabilities with equity information is presented on the same basis as that used for the defined benefit obligation at the balance sheet date, less the sets parameters to ensure an appropriate level of hedging is fair value of plan assets.
The defined benefit obligation is internal reporting purposes.
The Group has only one business instruments maintained to manage interest rate risk in respect of borrowings.
determined using the projected unit credit method on an annual and geographic segment.
No new standards or amendments have been early adopted by basis by an independent scheme actuary.
The policy prohibits any trading in derivative financial - IAS 1 revised, Presentation of financial statements, the Group.
instruments or their use for speculative purposes.
Under IAS 19, revised December 2004, the Group has taken the effective for annual periods beginning on or after 1 January Standards and interpretations in issue, but not yet effective or option to allow actuarial gains and losses arising from experience 2009.
The Group has elected to present two performance The effective portion of changes in the fair value of derivative early adopted adjustments and changes in actuarial assumptions to be charged statements the Consolidated income statement and the financial instruments which are designated and which qualify as or credited to equity as they arise in full via the statement of Consolidated statement of comprehensive income.
This is a collection of cash flow hedges are recognised directly in equity in a hedge comprehensive income.
addition IAS 1 revised requires the statement of changes in amendments to 12 standards as part of the IASB program of reserve.
The gains or losses relating to the ineffective portion are equity to be presented as a primary statement.
The latest amendments were included Scheme service costs are charged to gross contribution and recognised in the income statement immediately they arise.
revisions to IAS 1 have not had significant impact on the in exposure drafts published in October 2007, August 2008 administrative expenses as appropriate and scheme finance costs presentation of the Groups financial position.
Most of the amendments are effective for are included in net financing costs.
Past service costs are c Loans and receivables annual periods beginning on or after 1 January 2010 recognised immediately to the extent that the benefits are - IAS 23 revised : Borrowing costs effective 1 January 2009.
Loans and receivables are non-derivative financial assets with although, subject to EU endorsement, entities are permitted already vested, or otherwise amortised on a straight line basis This amendment requires an entity to capitalise borrowing fixed or determinable payments that are not quoted in an active over the vesting period, if they are conditional on the employees to adopt them earlier.
costs directly attributable to the acquisition, construction or market.
They are included in current assets, except for maturities remaining in service for a further period.
production of a qualifying asset as part of the costs of the greater than 12 months after the balance sheet date which are - Amendment to IFRS 2 Share based payments Group cashasset.
A qualifying asset is one that takes a substantial period In respect of the defined contribution section of the scheme, classified as non-current assets.
Loans and receivables are settled share-based payment transactions.
These contributions are recognised as an employee benefit expense of time to get ready for use or sale.
Inventories which are amendments provide a clear basis to determine the classified as trade receivables and other receivables in the when they are due.
The Group has no further payment produced in large quantities on a repetitive basis over a short classification of share based payment awards in both balance sheet note 12. obligations in respect of the defined contribution section of the period of time are not qualifying assets.
This amendment is consolidated and separate financial statements.
The Scheme once the contributions have been paid.
Long term trade receivables are held at discounted present value not expected to have any material impact on the Groups amendments incorporate IFRIC 8 and IFRIC 11 into the financial statements as the activities performed by the Group less any impairment.
The amount is then increased to settlement standard, expands on the guidance given in IFRIC 11 to b Bonus plans do not generally produce qualifying assets.
value over the settlement period via financing income.
address plans that were not considered in the interpretation The Group recognises a liability and an expense for bonuses and provides amendments to the definitions section of IFRS 2. where contractually obliged.
- IAS 32 amendment, Financial instruments: presentation, Onerous contracts and consequential amendments to IAS 1, Presentation of Standards and interpretations that are not yet effective and not c Share-based payments Onerous contracts are contracts in which the unavoidable costs financial statements, effective for annual periods beginning relevant for the Groups operations: The Group has applied the requirements of IFRS 2 Share-based in meeting the obligations under the contract exceed the on or after 1 January 2009.
In accordance with the transitional provisions, IFRS 2 economic benefits expected to be received under it.
Provision is - IAS 24 revised Related party disclosures - IFRIC 14, IAS 19 The limit on a defined benefit asset, has been applied to all grants of equity instruments after made to reflect managements best current estimate of the least - Amendments to IFRS 1 for additional exemptions minimum funding requirements and their interaction, 7 November 2002, which had not vested as of 1 July 2004. net cost of either fulfilling or exiting the contract.
- Amendments to IAS 32 Financial instruments: Presentation effective for annual periods beginning on or after 1 January Equity settled share-based payments are measured at fair value on classification of rights issues on the date of grant and expensed on a straight line basis over 2009.
The interpretation clarifies the limitations on Share Capital - Amendment to IFRS 1, First time adoption of IFRS the vesting period, based on the Groups estimate of shares that recognising defined benefit pension surpluses and the Ordinary shares are classed as equity.
- Amendment to IFRIC 14 Prepayments of a minimum funding will eventually vest.
related deferred tax liabilities in the balance sheet and may requirement also require recognition of an additional liability for any Page 56 Redrow plc Annual Report & Accounts 2010 Redrow plc Annual Report & Accounts 2010 Page 57
