About Redrow Business review Directors & Board reports Financial information Notice of AGM Miscellaneous information Notice of annual general meeting Notice is hereby given that the Annual General Meeting of shares or grant rights to subscribe for or convert securities into a the maximum number of ordinary shares authorised to be time fixed for the meeting and only those shareholders Redrow plc will be held at St. Davids Park Hotel, St. Davids Park, shares in pursuance of such offer or agreement as if the authority purchased is 30,860,747: are entitled to attend and vote at the Annual General Flintshire on Thursday 4 November 2010 at 12 noon for the had not expired.
Meeting in respect of the number of shares registered in following purposes.
All resolutions will be proposed as ordinary b the minimum price which may be paid for an ordinary their respective names at that time.
Changes to entries on Resolution 11 - Approval of Rule 9 waiver resolutions except numbers 12, 13 and 14 which will be proposed share is 10p exclusive of expenses payable by the the Register after that time will be disregarded in To resolve that the waiver granted by the Panel of the obligation as special resolutions.
Company: determining the rights of any person to attend or vote at which may otherwise arise, pursuant to Rule 9 of the Code, for the meeting.
Resolution 1 - Annual Report & Accounts Steve Morgan or any person with whom Mr Morgan is acting in c the maximum price which may be paid for an ordinary To receive and adopt the Directors report and the financial concert to make a general offer to the other Shareholders for all share is an amount equal to the higher of i 105% of the iv The right to appoint a proxy does not apply to persons statements for the year ended 30 June 2010, together with the of their Ordinary Shares as a result of market purchases of average of the middle market quotations for an ordinary whose shares are held on their behalf by another person Auditors report.
Ordinary Shares by the Company pursuant to the authority share derived from the London Stock Exchange Daily and who have been nominated to receive communications granted under Resolution 13 below, that could potentially Official List for the five business days immediately from the Company in accordance with Section 146 of the Resolution 2 - Re-appointment of Director increase Mr Morgans shareholding from approximately 29.95 per preceding the day on which the ordinary share is Companies Act 2006 nominated persons.
Nominated To re-appoint Steve Morgan as a Director.
of issued share capital to a maximum of approximately purchased exclusive of expenses payable by the persons may have a right under an agreement with the 33.3 per cent.
of issued share capital, be and is hereby approved Resolution 3 - Re-appointment of Director Company : and ii that stipulated by Article 5 1 of the member who holds the shares on their behalf to be To re-appoint John Tutte as a Director.
Buy-back and Stabilisation Regulation EC 2273 2003 : and appointed or to have someone else appointed as a proxy.
Resolution 12 - Authority to disapply pre-emption rights Alternatively, if nominated persons do not have such a Resolution 4 - Re-appointment of Director That, subject to the passing of Resolution 10 as set out above, the d the authority conferred shall expire at the conclusion of right, or do not wish to exercise it, they may have a right To re-appoint Barbara Richmond as a Director.
Directors be given power pursuant to Resolution 10 to make the next Annual General Meeting of the Company or 31 under such an agreement to give instructions to the person allotments of equity securities as defined in section 560 1 of Resolution 5 - Re-appointment of Director December 2011 whichever may be the earlier except that holding the shares as to the exercise of voting rights.
the Companies Act 2006 pursuant to the authority contained in To re-appoint Alan Jackson as a Director.
the Company may before such expiry make a contract to the said Resolution 10 and to sell shares which are held in purchase it own shares which will or may be completed or v Holders of ordinary shares are entitled to attend and vote treasury wholly for cash as if section 561 1 of the said Act did Resolution 6 - Re-appointment of Director executed wholly or partly after such expiry.
at general meetings of the Company.
The total number of not apply to such allotments or sale provided that this power To re-appoint Debbie Hewitt as a Director.
issued ordinary shares in the Company on 14 September shall be limited to: Resolution 14 Calling of a general meeting other than an 2010 is 308,607,479, carrying one vote each on a poll.
Resolution 7 - Re-appointment of Director AGM Therefore, the total number of votes exercisable as at i allotments of equity securities in connection with a rights To re-appoint Paul Hampden Smith as a Director.
That a general meeting other than the Annual General Meeting 14 September 2010 are 308,607,479. issue, being an offer of equity securities by way of rights to Resolution 8 - Re-appointment of Auditors may be called on not less than 14 clear days notice.
ordinary shareholders of the Company in proportion as To re-appoint  LLP as external Auditors to vi Shareholders should note that, under Section 527 of the nearly as may be to their holdings subject to such the Company, to hold office until the end of the next general Companies Act 2006, members meeting the threshold exclusions or other arrangements as the Directors may meeting at which financial statements are laid before the requirements set out in that section have the right to deem necessary or expedient in relation to fractional Company and to authorise the Directors to fix their 14 September 2010 By order of the Board require the Company to publish on a website a statement entitlements or legal or practical problems under the laws remuneration.
Graham Cope setting out any matter relating to: i the audit of the of or the requirements of any recognised regulatory body Registered office: Company Secretary Companys accounts including the auditors report and or stock exchange in any territory: and Resolution 9 - Directors Remuneration report Redrow House the conduct of the audit that are to be laid before the To approve the Directors Remuneration report for the year ended ii any other allotments for cash or equity securities or sale of St. Davids Park Annual General Meeting for the financial year beginning 30 June 2010. shares held in treasury up to a maximum nominal amount Flintshire 1 July 2009: or ii any circumstance connected with an of 1,543,037: CH5 3RX auditor of the Company appointed for the financial year Resolution 10 - Authority to allot shares Registered in England No.
2877315 beginning 1 July 2009 ceasing to hold office since the That the directors, in place of any existing authority conferred and shall unless previously revoked or renewed expire on the previous meeting at which annual accounts and reports upon them for the purpose of section 549 551 of the Companies date which is the earlier of the next Annual General Meeting of were laid.
The Company may not require the shareholders Act 2006, be generally and unconditionally authorised pursuant the Company or 31 December 2011 save that the said power Notes: requesting any such website publication to pay its to and in accordance with section 551 of the Companies Act shall permit the Company to make an offer or enter into an i A shareholder entitled to attend and vote may appoint a expenses in complying with Sections 527 or 528 2006 to exercise all powers of the Company to allot and to make agreement before the expiry of such power which would or might proxy or proxies to attend, speak and vote instead of him.
requirements as to website availability of the Companies offers or agreements to allot shares or convert any securities into require equity securities to be allotted after such expiry and the A proxy need not be a member of the Company.
Where the Company is required to place a shares: Directors may allot equity securities in pursuance of such offer or may appoint more than one proxy, provided that each statement on a website under Section 527 of the agreement as if such power conferred had not expired.
For the proxy is appointed to exercise the rights attached to a Companies Act 2006, it must forward the statement to the i up to an aggregate nominal amount of 10,286,915: purposes of this Resolution, the nominal amount of any securities different share or shares held by him.
Companys auditor not later than the time when it makes shall be taken to be, in the case of rights to subscribe for or the statement available on the website.
The business which ii up to a further aggregate nominal amount of 10,286,915 convert any securities into shares of the Company, the nominal ii A form of proxy is enclosed which, if required, should be may be dealt with at the Annual General Meeting for the in connection with an offer by way of a rights issue.
amount of such shares which may be allotted pursuant to such completed in accordance with the instructions set out relevant financial year includes any statement that the rights.
therein and returned so as to reach the Companys Company has been required under Section 527 of the Provided that this authority shall unless previously revoked or Registrars not later than 48 hours before the time of the Companies Act 2006 to publish on a website.
renewed expire on the date of the next Annual General Meeting Resolution 13 Authority to purchase own shares meeting or any adjourned meeting.
Completion of a form of the Company or 31 December 2011 whichever may be the That the Company be and is hereby generally and unconditionally of proxy will not preclude a shareholder from attending vii Any member attending the meeting has the right to earlier but so that the Company may, before such expiry, make authorised, in accordance with section 701 of the Companies Act and voting at the meeting in person if they so wish.
The Company must cause to be an offer or agreement which would or might require shares to be 2006, to make market purchases within the meaning of section iii All shareholders on the Register at 6pm on 2 November answered any such question relating to the business allotted or rights to subscribe for or to convert any security into 693 of the said Act of ordinary shares of 10p each in the capital 2010 or if the meeting is adjourned 48 hours before the being dealt with at the meeting but no such answer shares to be granted after such expiry and the Directors may allot of the Company ordinary shares provided that: Page 82 Redrow plc Annual Report & Accounts 2010 Redrow plc Annual Report & Accounts 2010 Page 83
