About Redrow Business review Directors & Board reports Financial information Notice of AGM Miscellaneous information Notice of annual general meeting Approval of Rule 9 Waiver Resolution 14 Calling of a general meeting other than an THIS SECTION OF THE DOCUMENT IS IMPORTANT AND and size parameters agreed by the Independent Directors but in AGM REQUIRES YOUR IMMEDIATE ATTENTION.
If you are in any compliance with the limits set out in Resolution 13.
Changes made to the Companies Act 2006 by the Shareholders doubt about the proposal set out in this section of the The Waiver, if granted, would only apply for as long as Resolution Rights Regulations increase the notice period required for general document you should consult an independent financial 13 remains in force.
Accordingly, whether or not the authority meetings of the Company to 21 days unless shareholders approve adviser authorised under the FSMA.
given under Resolution 13 is used in the coming year, the a shorter notice period, which cannot, however, be less than 14 Letter from the Senior Independent Director Independent Directors will again, in consultation with major clear days.
AGMs of the Company will continue to be held on at Redrow plc shareholders consider whether to seek a renewal of the Waiver least 21 clear days notice.
incorporated and registered in England and Wales under number by the Panel at the time of the 2011 annual general meeting.
Any 2877315 such renewal of the Waiver would again be subject to Documents available for your inspection Registered Office: Independent Shareholder approval at next years AGM.
Copies of the following documents will be available for inspection Redrow House during normal business hours on Monday to Friday each week As mentioned above, the Company has consulted privately with a St. Davids Park public holiday excepted at the companys registered office and number of its major institutional shareholders and with their Flintshire at the office of Linklaters LLP at One Silk Street, London EC2Y representative bodies on the proposed Waiver.
It has gained CH5 3RX 8HQ from the date of this document up to and including the sufficient comfort from these discussions both on the economic 14 September 2010 date of the Annual General Meeting and at the place of the rationale for the buy-back and on the grant of a Waiver to Annual General Meeting from 11.45am until the close of the To Independent Shareholders proceed with the proposed Waiver Resolution at the AGM.
The Independent Directors having been so advised by BofA Merrill Dear Shareholder Lynch and J. P. Morgan Cazenove, consider the Waiver to be fair a copy of the Annual Report and Accounts of the Company and reasonable as far as the Independent Shareholders and the Rule 9 Waiver granted by the Panel in favour of for each of the years ended 30 June 2008, 2009 and 2010: Company as a whole are concerned.
In providing advice to the Steve Morgan Independent Directors, BofA Merrill Lynch and J. P. Morgan the letters of consent from BofA Merrill Lynch and As at the Latest Practicable Date, Steve Morgan the Chairman of Cazenove have taken into account the Independent Directors J. P. Morgan Cazenove to the Company referred to in the Company held 92,436,874 Ordinary Shares representing paragraph 10 on page 94 of this document: commercial assessments.
Accordingly, the Independent Directors, approximately 29.95 per cent of the issued share capital of the who consider the Waiver Resolution to be in the best interests of Company.
the Articles of Association and Memorandum of the the Independent Shareholders and the Company as a whole, Company: Following consultation with major shareholders and given the unanimously recommend that the Independent Shareholders vote in favour of the Waiver Resolution at the AGM, as they a copy of the material contracts i. e. the Underwriting recent weakness of share prices in the sector, including Redrows intend to do in respect of their own beneficial shareholdings Agreement, the Relationship Agreement, the Syndicated own, where companies are trading at prices below net asset representing approximately 0.09 per cent.
of issued share Facility Agreement, the Harrow Estates agreements: value, your Board considers that it is appropriate for the Company capital.
to be in a position to buy back shares at such low levels if it the service agreements of the Directors: and would be in the best economic interests of the Company to do In accordance with the requirements of the Code, Mr Morgan will the register of the Directors interests.
not be voting his interest in 92,436,874 Ordinary Shares in the Company, representing approximately 29.95 per cent of issued The authority to repurchase shares proposed by Resolution 13 at the AGM provides the Company with the flexibility to manage its share capital on the Waiver Resolution.
The vote in respect of the capital base in line with other listed companies that include this Waiver Resolution will be held by means of a poll vote.
standard resolution at their AGM each year.
However, if the Yours faithfully, Company undertakes a share repurchase in accordance with the authority granted by Resolution 13 at the AGM, Mr Morgans Alan Jackson interest in Ordinary Shares could increase beyond 30 per cent.
of Senior Independent Director the issued share capital of the Company, in which case he could be required under Rule 9 of the Code to make a mandatory offer Section I Background for the remainder of the share capital of the Company.
The maximum interest in Ordinary Shares which Mr Morgan could 1 Background hold as a result of a share repurchase in accordance with 1.1 Steve Morgan the Chairman of the Company held Resolution 13 is approximately 33.3 per cent.
92,436,874 Ordinary Shares representing approximately 29.95 per cent.
of the issued share capital at the Latest We are therefore asking the Independent Shareholders to approve Practicable Date.
Should his interest in Ordinary Shares the terms of a waiver of this requirement granted by the Panel to increase beyond its current level such that he holds 30 per Mr Morgan.
An explanation of the reasons for this request, and cent or more of the issued share capital, he may be the background to the obligation arising from Rule 9 of the Code, required under Rule 9 of the Code to make a mandatory follow this letter.
offer for the remainder of the share capital of the In any event, and as stated above, the Directors would only Company.
exercise the authority to buy back under Resolution 13 if it would be in the best economic interests of the Company to do so.
The 1.2 If Resolution 13 authority to purchase own shares is final decision relating to any buy-back would be taken by the approved, Mr Morgan would be in a position where, were Independent Directors and would be conducted within the pricing he not to participate pro rata to his interests in any further Page 86 Redrow plc Annual Report & Accounts 2010 Redrow plc Annual Report & Accounts 2010 Page 87 About Redrow Business review Directors & Board reports Financial information Notice of AGM Miscellaneous information Approval of Rule 9 Waiver re-purchase by the Company of its own shares, his would take Mr Morgans interest in Ordinary Shares to a re-purchases of Ordinary Shares by the Company pursuant 6 Steve Morgans intentions percentage interest in the Ordinary Shares would increase level above his current interest being 29.95 per cent.
of to Resolution13 in which Mr Morgan does not participate 6.1 Mr Morgan has confirmed to the Company that he is not beyond its current level, thereby potentially triggering a issued share capital as at the date of this document up to pro rata to his interests in Ordinary Shares, Mr Morgan proposing, as a result of any increase in his percentage mandatory offer under Rule 9 of the Code.
The approval of a potential maximum of approximately 33.3 per cent of may become interested in Ordinary Shares carrying 30 per interest in Ordinary Shares following any re-purchases by the Independent Shareholders is therefore being sought, by issued share capital.
or more of the Companys voting share capital but the Company of its own shares, to seek any change in the means of the Waiver Resolution to be taken on a poll at will not hold Ordinary Shares carrying more than 33.3 per composition of the Board or to the general nature or any the AGM, for the Waiver which the Panel has granted 3 Independent advice cent.
of such voting rights and any further increase in that other aspect of the Companys business.
3.1 BofA Merrill Lynch and J. P. Morgan Cazenove have provided subject to such approval.
The Waiver will not permit interest in Ordinary Shares other than pursuant to the Mr Morgans interest to reach or exceed 33.3 per cent.
advice to the Independent Directors, in accordance with proposals set out in this section of the document and as 6.2 As required by the Code, Mr Morgan has also confirmed see further paragraph 4 below.
the requirements of paragraph 4 a of Appendix 1 to the approved by the Waiver Resolution will be subject to the that his intentions regarding the future of the Companys Code, in relation to the granting of the Waiver.
provisions of Rule 9 of the Code.
and its subsidiaries businesses, his intentions regarding 1.3 In seeking authority to buy back shares, the Company the locations of the Companys and its subsidiaries wishes to give itself flexibility in the management of its 3.2 This advice was provided by BofA Merrill Lynch and J. P. 5.2 The authority under Resolution 13 and the Waiver places of business and his intentions regarding the capital structure.
In so doing, the Company brings itself Morgan Cazenove to the Independent Directors of the Resolution will unless varied, revoked or renewed both continued employment of their employees and into line with the majority of listed companies who seek a Company only and in providing such advice BofA Merrill expire at the conclusion of the next Annual General management, including any material change in conditions re-purchase authority on an annual basis and, more Lynch and J. P. Morgan Cazenove have taken into account Meeting of the Company.
It has been the Companys of employment, will not be altered as a result of the narrowly, into line with its house-building peers: the Independent Directors commercial assessments as regular practice to seek Shareholders approval at each proposals set out in this section of the document, nor will well as the confirmations of Mr Morgans future intentions Annual General Meeting for the Company to be authorised there be any redeployment of the fixed assets of the 1.4 Whilst the Company will continue to devote the bulk of its that he has provided to the Company as set out in to purchase its own shares.
No re-purchases of Ordinary Company or any of its subsidiaries as a result of such cash flow to the purchase of land or to the development of paragraph 6 of this Section I.
Shares were made under the authority granted by proposals.
plots to create value, it is also clear that the economic Shareholders at the Annual General Meeting in 2009 and benefit to the Company from buying back shares at a 4 Maximum potential holding the Directors have no present intention of exercising the 6.3 Mr Morgan has not taken part in any decision of the discount to net asset value may be value-enhancing: 4.1 Pursuant to the Code, it is necessary to provide an authority sought at the AGM this year to make market Independent Directors relating to the Waiver, since it is his illustration of Mr Morgans maximum potential interest in purchases.
However, the renewal of the authority provides interest in Ordinary Shares which is the subject of the 2 Reasons for the Waiver Ordinary Shares based on certain assumptions.
the flexibility to allow the Directors to do so in the future.
Mr Morgan has confirmed he will not vote on the Rule 9 Mandatory Offer Obligation Waiver Resolution.
2.1 Under Rule 9 of the Code, when any person, together with 4.2 Assuming i full use by the Company of the authority 5.3 The Directors envisage that Shareholder approval for a persons acting in concert with him, is interested in shares granted under Resolution 13: ii no pro rata participation further re-purchase authority may be sought at the annual Section II Additional Information which in aggregate carry not less than 30 per cent.
of the or other sales of interests in Ordinary Shares by Mr Morgan general meeting of the Company in 2011.
At that time, the voting rights but does not hold shares carrying more than in connection with any share re-purchases or otherwise: Independent Directors will in consultation with major 1 Responsibility 50 per cent.
of the voting rights of such a company, a and iii no other person exercising any options or any shareholders consider whether to seek a further waiver by 1.1 The Directors accept responsibility for the information general offer will normally be required if any further other rights to subscribe for Ordinary Shares, Mr Morgans the Panel of any obligation of Mr Morgan under Rule 9 of contained in this section of the document, save that: interests in shares are acquired by any such person.
Such maximum potential interest in the Ordinary Shares if the the Code to make a general offer to the Shareholders of a Steve Morgan, who has not participated in the Boards an offer would have to be made in cash at a price not less Waiver is approved would be as set out in the following the Company to purchase their shares as a result of an consideration of the Waiver, takes no responsibility for than the highest price paid by him, or by any member of table: increase in his percentage interest in Ordinary Shares the recommendation by the Independent Directors on the group of persons acting in concert with him, for any arising from the purchase by the Company of its own page 87: and interest in shares in the company during the 12 months Steve Morgans Number of Steve Morgans shares pursuant to such further authority.
Any further b the only responsibility accepted by the Independent prior to the announcement of the offer.
current interest Ordinary Shares maximum waiver granted by the Panel would again be conditional Directors in respect of the information in this section in Ordinary in issue as potential upon Independent Shareholder approval at that time.
of the document relating to Steve Morgan has been to Share Purchases shares at the Latest interest in Practicable Ordinary ensure that such information has been correctly and 2.2 Under Rule 37 of the Code, any increase in the percentage Date Shares 5.4 If the Independent Shareholders do not approve the Waiver fairly reproduced or presented and no steps have been holding of a shareholder which results from a company 92,436,874 308,607,479 92,436,874 Resolution but Resolution 13 is passed, the Board will not taken by the Independent Directors to verify this purchasing its own shares will also be treated as an 29.95% 33.28% make use of the authority to be granted under Resolution information.
To the best of the knowledge and belief acquisition for the purposes of Rule 9 of the Code.
13 unless arrangements can be put in place to ensure that of the Directors who have taken all reasonable care to 5 Further explanation of the Waiver and the Resolution 2.3 If Mr Morgan does not participate pro rata to his interest in Mr Morgans percentage interest in the Ordinary Shares ensure that such is the case, the information Share Purchases under Resolution 13 or any other buyback the Ordinary Shares in any future repurchases by the will not increase as a result of any future purchases by the contained in this section of the document for which resolution Company of its own shares pursuant to the authority to be Company of its own shares or a further waiver is sought they accept responsibility is in accordance with the 5.1 The Waiver will apply, provided the Waiver Resolution is granted under Resolution 13, he will become interested in from the Panel in respect of such increases and facts and does not omit anything likely to affect the approved by the Independent Shareholders, only in respect a greater percentage of Ordinary Shares representing Independent Shareholder approval is granted, since, based import of such information.
of increases in Mr Morgans percentage interest in between 30 and 33.3 per cent of the Companys voting on the issued share capital of the Company and Mr Ordinary Shares resulting from re-purchases of Ordinary share capital and will therefore be subject to the provisions Morgans percentage interest in the Ordinary Shares as at 1.2 Steve Morgan accepts responsibility for the information Shares under Resolution 13.
It will not apply in respect of of Rule 9 of the Code.
As a result, the Independent the Latest Practicable Date, any purchases by the Company contained in this section of the document which relates to other increases in Mr Morgans percentage interest in Directors consulted with the Panel which agreed, subject of its own shares from Shareholders other than Mr Morgan him.
To the best of his knowledge and belief having taken Ordinary Shares arising, for example, from market to a poll vote of the Independent Shareholders on the could result in Mr Morgan having to make a mandatory all reasonable care to ensure that such is the case, the purchases of Ordinary Shares by or on behalf of Mr Morgan Waiver Resolution, that it would waive any obligation that offer to all Shareholders under Rule 9 of the Code.
information contained in this section of the document for or from other re-purchases of Ordinary Shares by the would otherwise arise under Rule 9 as a result of market which he is responsible is in accordance with the facts and Company that are not pursuant to the authority granted purchases of Ordinary Shares by the Company, pursuant to Poll vote of Independent Shareholders does not omit anything likely to affect the import of such by Resolution 13.
As explained above, if there are any the authority to be granted under Resolution 13, that 5.5 As required by the Code, voting on the Waiver Resolution information.
at the AGM will be by means of a poll of Independent Shareholders.
Page 88 Redrow plc Annual Report & Accounts 2010 Redrow plc Annual Report & Accounts 2010 Page 89 About Redrow Business review Directors & Board reports Financial information Notice of AGM Miscellaneous information Approval of Rule 9 Waiver 2 Directors 3 Interests and dealings 3.5 As at the close of business on the Latest Practicable Date, b save as set out in paragraph 3.10 a above, no pension The Directors of the Company and their functions are as 3.1 As at the close of business on the Latest Practicable Date, none of Mr Morgan, his immediate family, persons fund or employee benefit trust of the Company nor follows: the interests, rights to subscribe and short positions of the connected to him within the meaning of Part 22 of the any person acting in concert with Mr Morgan had any Directors, their immediate families and persons connected Act and related regulations or any person acting on interests, rights to subscribe or short positions Name Function with them within the meaning of Part 22 of the Act in concert with him had any interests, rights to subscribe or whether conditional or absolute and whether in the Steve Morgan Chairman Ordinary Shares all of which are beneficial unless stated short positions whether conditional or absolute and money or otherwise, including any short position required to be notified pursuant to Part 22 of the Act and whether in the money or otherwise, including any short under a derivative, any agreement to sell or any John Tutte Group Managing Director delivery obligation or right to require another person related regulations, or which are required to be entered in position under a derivative, any agreement to sell or any Barbara Richmond Group Finance Director the register maintained under Part 22 of the Act, were as delivery obligation or right to require another person to to purchase or take delivery in relevant Redrow Alan Jackson Non Executive Deputy Chairman set out below: purchase or take delivery in any relevant Redrow securities, securities: and Senior Independent Director save as disclosed in paragraphs 3.1 above and 3.6 below.
c no pension fund or employee benefit trust of the Paul Hampden Smith Non-Executive Director Director Number of Percentage of Ordinary Shares current issued Company nor any person acting in concert with Mr 3.6 As at the close of business on the Latest Practicable Date, Debbie Hewitt Non-Executive Director Ordinary Shares Morgan had any dealings including borrowing or none of Mr Morgan, his immediate family, persons lending in relevant Redrow securities which took place connected with him within the meaning of Part 22 of the Steve Morgan 92,436,874 29.95% during the period beginning 12 months preceding the Act or any person acting in concert with him had any John Tutte 127,398 0.04% date of this document and ending on the Latest dealings including borrowing or lending in relevant Barbara Richmond 70,512 0.02% Practicable Date, save that the Redrow Staff Pension Redrow securities which took place during the period Alan Jackson 19,285 0.01% Scheme transferred 284,329.72 shares to Legal and beginning 12 months preceding the date of this document Paul Hampden Smith 46,000 0.01% General Investment Management Limited on 10 and ending on the Latest Practicable Date, save that Mrs F. Debbie Hewitt 18,787 0.01% February 2010 in exchange for 321,118.90 units in E. Morgan, wife of Steve Morgan, acquired 100,000 Legal and Generals Global Equity 70:30 Index: and Ordinary Shares at a price of 131.4 pence per Ordinary Share on 1 March 2010.
3.2 As at the close of business on the Latest Practicable Date, details of options over Ordinary Shares granted to the Directors under the d neither BofA Merrill Lynch, J. P. Morgan Cazenove nor SAYE were as set out below: any other connected adviser of the Company 3.7 As at the close of business on the Latest Practicable Date, including any person controlling, controlled by or Options Options no relevant Redrow securities had been borrowed or lent under the same control as it had any interests, rights held at Options Options held at by Mr Morgan or any person acting in concert with him or to subscribe or short positions in relevant Redrow 1 July granted exercised Options 30 June Exercise by the Directors or any persons acting in concert with Director 2009 in year in year lapsed 2010 price From To securities, save that: them.
i Bank of America Corporation the ultimate parent John Tutte 3.8 As at the close of business on the Latest Practicable Date, company of BofA Merrill Lynch and its SAYE 2008 6,859 2,166 - - 9,025 1.06 01 01 12 01 07 12 none of the Directors, their immediate families, persons subsidiaries have an aggregate holding of 0.66 per connected with them within the meaning of Part 22 of cent.
of the Ordinary Shares: and 3.3 As at the close of business on the Latest Practicable Date, the beneficial interests of the Directors in options over Ordinary Shares the Act or any person acting in concert with him had any ii BofA Merrill Lynch has a short equity position in granted under the LTSIP, were as set out below: interests, rights to subscribe or short positions whether respect of 0.23 per cent.
conditional or absolute and whether in the money or Options Options 3.11 In this paragraph 3, references to relevant Redrow held at Options Options held at otherwise, including any short position under a derivative, 1 July granted exercised Options 30 June Exercise securities are to Ordinary Shares and securities any agreement to sell or any delivery obligation or right to Director 2009 in year in year lapsed 2010 price From To convertible into, rights to subscribe for, derivatives require another person to purchase or take delivery in any referable to and agreements to sell or any delivery relevant Redrow securities, save as disclosed in paragraphs John Tutte obligations in respect of, or rights to require another 3.1 to 3.4 and 3.6 above.
LTSIP 2008 359,648 - - - 359,648 - 21 11 13 20 11 18 3.9 As at the close of business on the Latest Practicable Date, 4 Arrangements in connection with the proposal LTSIP 2009 - 229,007 - - 229,007 - 22 12 12 21 12 19 none of the Directors, their immediate family or persons Mr Morgan has not entered into any agreement, connected with him within the meaning of Part 22 of the arrangement or understanding i with any of the Barbara Richmond Act had any dealings including borrowing or lending in Independent Directors or their close relatives and related LTSIP 2010 - 358,423 - - 358,423 - 25 02 13 24 02 20 relevant Redrow securities which took place during the trusts which has any connection with or dependence upon period beginning 12 months preceding the date of this These share options will lapse on 19 September 2010. the proposals set out in this Part III: or ii for the transfer document and ending on the Latest Practicable Date, save of any Ordinary Shares acquired by Mr Morgan.
as disclosed in paragraph 3.6 above.
3.4 As at the close of business on the Latest Practicable Date, details of options over Ordinary Shares granted to the Directors under the In addition, the Independent Directors are not aware of any CSOP were as set out below: 3.10 As at the close of business on the Latest Practicable Date: agreement, arrangement or understanding having any connection with or dependence upon the proposals set out Options Options a the Redrow Employee Benefit Trust held 4,240,526 held at Options Options held at in this section of the document between Mr Morgan and Ordinary Shares, having acquired 4,220,000 shares in 1 July granted exercised Options 30 June Exercise any person interested or recently interested in Ordinary May 2010 and having subsequently divested 4,813 Director 2009 in year in year lapsed 2010 price From To Shares, any other recent director of the Company or BofA shares on 11 August 2010 to satisfy an exercise of an Merrill Lynch or J. P. Morgan Cazenove or any person who John Tutte SAYE option by an employee: is, or is presumed to be, acting in concert with BofA Merrill CSOP 2008 18,292 5,689 - - 23,981 1.25 21 11 13 20 11 18 Lynch or J. P. Morgan Cazenove.
Page 90 Redrow plc Annual Report & Accounts 2010 Redrow plc Annual Report & Accounts 2010 Page 91 About Redrow Business review Directors & Board reports Financial information Notice of AGM Miscellaneous information Approval of Rule 9 Waiver 7.3 For the three years ended 30 June 2008, 30 June 2009 and 30 June 2010, the Company reported the following dividend per share information: 5 Directors service contracts 5.1 Details of the service agreements currently in place between the Company and the Executive Directors are set out below: Dividend Basic earnings per share per share Executive director Effective date of contract Notice period Dividend pence pence Steve Morgan 23 March 2009 6 months m John Tutte 14 September 2009 12 months Barbara Richmond 18 January 2010 12 months 2008 14.8 9.3 66.7p 2009 - - 47.9p No service contracts have been entered into or amended by the Company in the last six months.
2010 - - 0.2p 5.2 Details of the appointment agreements currently in place between the Company and the Non-Executive Directors are set out below: restated in 2010 to reflect the Rights Issue Non-executive director Effective date of contract Notice period Alan Jackson 19 August 2009 3 months Paul Hampden Smith 19 August 2009 3 months 7.4 Save as described in the Annual Report and Accounts 8.1.
5 the Company is entitled to appoint an observer to the Debbie Hewitt 19 August 2009 3 months accompanying this Notice of AGM, there have been no board of the relevant associated entity if any such material changes in the financial or trading position of the entity acquires Qualifying Land.
The observer may only Company since 30 June 2010 the date of its most recent attend meetings at which there are discussions 5.3 The aggregate emoluments, excluding pensions, of the Directors for the year ended 30 June 2010 are set out below: published accounts.
relating to acquiring the Qualifying Land: Base salary and 2010 Total 8 Material contracts 8.1.
6 there are reciprocal confidentiality provisions requiring Executive Non-executive Directors fees Benefits in kind Bonus Remuneration 000 000 000 000 During the period beginning two years preceding the date of the Company and an associated entity to keep the this document and ending on the Latest Practicable Date, the other partys information confidential: and Steve Morgan i 15 1 - 16 Company and its subsidiaries have not entered into any John Tutte 360 17 140 517 material contracts otherwise than in the ordinary course of 8.1.
7 the agreement terminates if Mr Morgan ceases to be a Barbara Richmond 114 75 44 233 business except as set out below: director of the Company.
Non-Executive 8.1 The Relationship Agreement 8.2 The Underwriting Agreement Alan Jackson 81 - - 81 The Relationship Agreement governs Mr Morgans The Company entered into an Underwriting Agreement dated Paul Hampden Smith 40 - - 40 relationship with the Company in the event of potential 23 September 2009 in relation to a rights issue it carried out Debbie Hewitt 39 - - 39 conflicts of interest and the key terms of the Relationship in October 2009, under which it appointed each of Agreement include the following: J. P. Morgan Cazenove, BofA Merrill Lynch, HSBC, Lloyds TSB i Steve Morgan draws a nominal salary of 15,000 per annum which he donates via Payroll Giving to the Morgan Foundation.
The Corporate Markets and RBS Hoare Govett as underwriters to Company also made a donation to the Morgan Foundation 576,000 in the year ended 30 June 2010, a UK registered charity of 8.1.
1 Mr Morgan acknowledges that in the event of a the rights issue.
which Steve Morgan is a trustee.
potential conflict of interest between the Company and an associated entity of Mr Morgans the interests 8.3 Syndicated Facility Agreement of the Company will be given priority: The Company entered into the Syndicated Facility Agreement dated 4 September 2008 as amended on 18 September 2009 8.1.
2 if an associated entity wishes to acquire land which between the Company as the original borrower and original 6 Information on Steve Morgan 7.2 As set out in Section III below, this document incorporates meets certain thresholds Qualifying Land, this guarantor, certain subsidiaries of the Company as original Steve Morgan founded the Redrow group in 1974 and led by reference the audited consolidated financial statements must be brought to the attention of the Company and guarantors, the lenders named therein and Barclays Bank PLC the business from a small civil engineering contractor to of the Group, and the related auditors report of both parties must then follow a prescribed procedure as Agent.
The Syndicated Facility Agreement was originally a become one of the UKs leading home builders.
He floated  LLP thereon, for the years ended in order to determine next steps of both parties with 450,000,000 term and revolving credit facility.
As a result of the Company in 1994 and eventually stepped down as 30 June 2008, 2009 and 2010.
Please refer to Section III respect to any attempt to acquire the relevant land: the Rights Issue completed in October 2009 the Company Chairman in November 2000.
He returned to the helm in below for a list of cross references to the relevant sections amended its facilities so that the facility is now March 2009 and was re-appointed Chairman, on 30 June of these reports and accounts, and for how to access this 8.1.
3 if Mr Morgan or an associated entity wishes to dispose 250,000,000 and expires on 30 September 2011.
Mr Morgan is also Chairman of the Bridgemere information.
of Qualifying Land, this must be brought to the Group of Companies, which includes Wolverhampton attention of the Company: 8.4 Agreements relating to the Harrow Estates Business Wanderers, Carden Leisure and Trinity Aviation.
He was Acquisition awarded an OBE in 1992.
4 transactions between the Company and Mr Morgan or In September 2009 the Company entered into a series of an associated entity shall be on an arms length basis, agreements in connection with the Groups purchase of the 7 Financial and other information on the Company and properly disclosed to the relevant Company Harrow Estates business.
7.1 Redrow is one of the UKs leading residential and mixed directors: use property developers.
For the year to 30 June 2010, the Group delivered revenues of 396.9m, operating profit of 12.7m, basic earnings per share of 0.2 pence and ended the year with a net debt position of 47.1m.
Page 92 Redrow plc Annual Report & Accounts 2010 Redrow plc Annual Report & Accounts 2010 Page 93 About Redrow Business review Directors & Board reports Financial information Notice of AGM Miscellaneous information Approval of Rule 9 Waiver Section IV - Definitions 9 Middle market quotations Directors or Board - means the Executive Directors and the Set out below are the middle market quotations for an Ordinary Share, as derived from the Daily Official List of the London Stock Non-Executive Directors: Exchange plc, for the first business day of each of the six months set out below and for the Latest Practicable Date: Act - means the Companies Act 2006: derivative - includes any financial product whose value in whole acting in concert - has the meaning attributed to it in the Code: or in part is determined directly or indirectly by reference to the Date Price per Ordinary Share pence price of an underlying security but which does not include the AGM - means the Annual General Meeting of the Company to possibility of delivery of such an underlying security: be held on 4 November 2010 at St. Davids Park Hotel, St. Davids 1 April 2010 142.3 Park, Flintshire at 12 noon: Executive Directors - means Steve Morgan, John Tutte and 4 May 2010 145.0 Barbara Richmond: 1 June 2010 127.0 arrangement - includes any indemnity or option arrangements, 1 July 2010 107.3 and any agreement or understanding, formal or informal, of Form of Proxy - means the enclosed proxy form for completion 2 August 2010 113.7 whatever nature, relating to relevant securities which may be an by those Shareholders who wish to vote in the resolutions set out 1 September 2010 118.1 inducement to deal or refrain from dealing: in this document but are unable to attend the AGM: 10 September 2010 134.1 BofA Merrill Lynch - means Merrill Lynch International, a Group or Redrow Group - means the Company together with company registered in England, with its registered address at its subsidiaries and subsidiary undertakings: 10 Consent 2 King Edward Street, London EC1A 1HQ: BofA Merrill Lynch and J. P. Morgan Cazenove have given and have not withdrawn their written consent to the issue of this document J. P. Morgan Cazenove - means J. P. Morgan plc, a company with the references to it in the form and context in which they appear.
Code - means the UK City Code on Takeovers and Mergers: registered in England with its registered address at 125 London Wall, London EC2Y 5AJ: 11 Documents on display Company - means Redrow plc, a company incorporated under The documents required by the Code to be put on display are described on page 86 of this document.
the laws of England and Wales registered number 2877315, Independent Directors - means the Directors other than Section III Information Incorporated by Reference with its registered office at Redrow House, St Davids Park, Steve Morgan: The table below sets out the various sections of those documents which are incorporated by reference into this document, so as to provide Flintshire, CH5 3RX: Independent Shareholders - means the Shareholders other than the information required pursuant to the Code.
These documents will also be available at the Companys website, www.
co. uk, from Computershare - means Computershare Investor Services PLC, Steve Morgan or any other persons presumed to be acting in the date of this document and available for inspection as set out on page 86 of this document.
The Pavilions, Bridgwater Road, Bristol BS99 6ZZ: concert with Steve Morgan : Document Section Page number s control - means an interest or interests, in shares carrying an issued share capital - means, except where stated to the in such document aggregate 30 per cent.
or more of the voting rights as defined in contrary, the issued share capital of the Company excluding the Code irrespective of whether the holding or aggregate treasury shares: 2010 Group Financial Statements Consolidated income statement 50 holding gives fide facto control: Consolidated balance sheet 51 being interested in relevant securities - includes where a Reconciliation of movements in equity 52 CSOP - means the Companys company share option plan: person: Consolidated cash flow statement 53 Accounting policies 54 to 57 dealing or dealt - includes the following: i owns relevant securities: Notes to the consolidated financial statements 58 to 81 i the acquisition or disposal of relevant securities, or the ii has the right whether conditional or absolute to Independent auditors report 49 right whether conditional or absolute to exercise or exercise or direct the exercise of the voting rights direct the exercise of voting rights attached to relevant attaching to relevant securities or has general control 2009 Group Financial Statements Consolidated income statement 58 securities, or of general control of relevant securities: of them: Consolidated balance sheet 59 Consolidated cash flow statement 60 ii the taking, granting, acquisition, disposal, entering into, iii by virtue of any agreement to purchase, option or Accounting policies 62 to 65 closing out, termination, exercise by either party or derivative, has the right or option to acquire relevant Notes to the consolidated financial statements 66 to 89 variation of an option including a traded option securities or call for their delivery or is under an Independent auditors report 57 contract in respect of any relevant securities: obligation to take delivery of them, whether the right, option or obligation is conditional or absolute and 2008 Group Financial Statements Consolidated income statement 54 iii subscribing or agreeing to subscribe for relevant whether it is in the money or otherwise: or Consolidated balance sheet 55 securities: Consolidated cash flow statement 56 iv is party to any derivative whose value is determined by iv the exercise or conversion of any relevant securities Accounting policies 58 to 61 reference to its price and which results, or may result, carrying conversion or subscription rights: Notes to the consolidated financial statements 62 to 85 in his having a long position in it: v the acquisition of, disposal of, entering into, closing out, Independent auditors report 53 exercise by either party of any rights under, or Latest Practicable Date - means 10 September 2010, being the variation of, a derivative referenced, directly or latest practicable date prior to the publication of this document: which are available at www.
co. uk indirectly, to relevant securities: LTSIP - means the Companys long term share incentive Any Shareholder, person with information rights or other person to whom this document is sent may request a copy of each of the vi entering into, terminating or varying the terms of any scheme: documents set out above in hard copy form.
Hard copies will only be sent where valid requests are received from such persons.
Requests for agreement to purchase or sell relevant securities: and hard copies are to be submitted to our Registrar, Computershare, either by calling 0870 707 1257 calls to this number are charged at Non-Executive Directors - means Alan Jackson, Paul Hampden vii any other action resulting, or which may result, in an national rate from a BT landline.
Other telephony provider costs may vary.
From overseas, please call 44 870 707 1257 or write to Smith and Debbie Hewitt: increase or decrease in the number of relevant Computershare Investor Services plc, PO Box 82, The Pavilions, Bridgwater Road, Bristol BS99 7NH.
All valid requests will be dealt with as Ordinary Shares - means the ordinary shares of 10p each in the securities in which a person is interested or in respect soon as possible and hard copies mailed by no later than two business days following such request.
capital of the Company: of which he has a short position: The documents incorporated by reference into this document have been incorporated in compliance with Rule 24.14 of the Code.
Panel - means The Panel on Takeovers and Mergers: Except as set forth above, no other portion of these documents is incorporated by reference into this document.
Page 94 Redrow plc Annual Report & Accounts 2010 Redrow plc Annual Report & Accounts 2010 Page 95
