Reed Elsevier PLC Summary financial information in US dollars Basis of preparation The summary financial information is a simple translation of Reed Elsevier PLCs consolidated financial statements into US dollars at the stated rates of exchange.
The financial information provided below is prepared under IFRS as used in the preparation of the Reed Elsevier PLC consolidated financial statements.
It does not represent a restatement under US GAAP which would be different in some significant respects.
2010 2009 Exchange rates for translation of sterling $:1 US$: US$: Income statement 1.55 1.57 Statement of financial position 1.56 1.62 Consolidated income statement 2010 2009 For the year ended 31 December US$m US$m profit attributable to ordinary shareholders 507 306 Adjusted profit attributable to 52.9% interest in Reed Elsevier combined businesses 806 815 Share of joint ventures: Amortisation of acquired intangible assets 276 341 Impairment of acquired intangible assets and goodwill 113 Exceptional restructuring costs 31 110 Acquisition related costs 23 28 Disposals and other non operating items 31 19 Deferred tax adjustments 82 83 profit attributable to 52.9% interest in Reed Elsevier combined businesses 527 325 2010 2009 Data per American Depositary Share ADS US$ US$ Earnings per ADS based on 52.9% interest in Reed Elsevier combined businesses Adjusted $2.69 $2.88 Basic $1.69 $1.08 Net dividend per ADS declared in the year $1.26 $1.28 Net dividend per ADS paid and proposed in relation to the financial year $1.26 $1.28 Consolidated statement of financial position 2010 2009 As at 31 December US$m US$m Shareholders equity 1,604 1,484 Adjusted earnings per American Depositary Share is based on Reed Elsevier PLC shareholders 52.9% share of the adjusted profit attributable of the Reed Elsevier combined businesses, which excludes amortisation and impairment of acquired intangible assets and goodwill, exceptional restructuring and acquisition related costs, disposal gains and losses and other non operating items, related tax effects and movements in deferred tax assets and liabilities that are not expected to crystallise in the near term and includes the benefit of tax amortisation where available on acquired goodwill and intangible assets.
Adjusted gures are additional performance measures used by management and are described in note 9 to the Reed Elsevier PLC consolidated financial statements.
Reed Elsevier PLC shares are quoted on the New York Stock Exchange and trading is in the form of American Depositary Shares ADSs, evidenced by American Depositary Receipts ADRs, representing four Reed Elsevier PLC ordinary shares.
758205207: trading symbol, RUK: Bank of New York is the ADR Depositary.
192 Reed Elsevier Annual Reports and Financial Statements 2010 Overview Our business Financial review Governance Financial statements and other information Additional information for US Investors Reed Elsevier NV Summary financial information in US dollars Basis of preparation The summary financial information is a simple translation of the Reed Elsevier NV consolidated financial statements into US dollars at the stated rates of exchange.
The financial information provided below is prepared under IFRS as used in the preparation of the Reed Elsevier NV consolidated financial statements.
2010 2009 Exchange rates for translation of euros $: 1 US$: US$:8 Income statement 1.32 1.40 Statement of financial position 1.33 1.44 Consolidated income statement 2010 2009 For the year ended 31 December US$m US$m Adjusted profit attributable to ordinary shareholders 762 770 Share of joint ventures: Amortisation of acquired intangible assets 261 322 Impairment of acquired intangible assets and goodwill 106 Exceptional restructuring costs 29 105 Acquisition related costs 24 27 Disposals and other non operating items 28 18 Deferred tax adjustments 78 79 profit attributable to ordinary shareholders 498 307 2010 2009 Data per American Depositary Share ADS US$ US$ Earnings per ADS based on 50% interest in Reed Elsevier combined businesses Adjusted $2.07 $2.21 Basic $1.35 $0.90 Net dividend per ADS declared in the year $1.07 $1.11 Net dividend per ADS paid and proposed in relation to the financial year $1.09 $1.12 Consolidated statement of financial position 2010 2009 As at 31 December US$m US$m Shareholders equity 1,516 1,403 Adjusted earnings per American Depositary Share is based on Reed Elsevier NV shareholders 50% share of the adjusted profit attributable of the Reed Elsevier combined businesses, which excludes amortisation and impairment of acquired intangible assets and goodwill, exceptional restructuring and acquisition related costs, disposal gains and losses and other non operating items, related tax effects and movements in deferred tax assets and liabilities that are not expected to crystallise in the near term and includes the benefit of tax amortisation where available on acquired goodwill and intangible assets.
Adjusted gures are additional performance measures used by management and are described in note 9 to the Reed Elsevier NV consolidated financial statements.
Reed Elsevier NV shares are quoted on the New York Stock Exchange and trading is in the form of American Depositary Shares ADSs, evidenced by American Depositary Receipts ADRs, representing two Reed Elsevier NV ordinary shares.
758204200: trading symbol, ENL: Bank of New York is the ADR Depositary.
Annual Reports and Financial Statements 2010 Reed Elsevier 193 Shareholder information Annual Reports and Financial Statements 2010 Information for Reed Elsevier PLC ordinary shareholders The Annual Reports and Financial Statements for the Reed Elsevier combined businesses, Reed Elsevier PLC and Reed Elsevier NV for Shareholder services the year ended 31 December 2010, and the Corporate Governance The Reed Elsevier PLC ordinary share register is administered by Statement of Reed Elsevier NV are available on the Reed Elsevier Equiniti Limited.
Equiniti provides a free online portal for shareholders website, and from the registered ofces of the respective parent at www.
Shareview provides shareholders with instant companies shown on page 196.
Additional financial information, access to details of their shareholding and dividend payments, with including the Interim and Full Year Results announcements, Interim the ability to update personal details and to register a bank mandate.
Management Statements and presentations is also available on the Equinitis contact details appear on page 196.
Electronic communications The Reed Elsevier combined financial statements set out in the While hard copy shareholder communications continue to Annual Reports and Financial Statements are expressed in sterling, be available to those shareholders actively requesting them, with summary combined financial information expressed in euros.
in accordance with the Companies Act 2006 and its Articles of The financial statements of Reed Elsevier PLC and Reed Elsevier NV Association, Reed Elsevier PLC uses the Reed Elsevier website as are expressed in sterling and euros respectively.
Reed Elsevier NV the main method of communicating with shareholders.
By registering no longer publishes on the website a full convenience translation in their details online at Shareview, shareholders can be notied by email euros of the Reed Elsevier Annual Reports and Financial Statements.
when shareholder communications are published on the website.
Shareholders can also use the Shareview website to appoint a proxy Interim results to vote on their behalf at shareholder meetings.
Reed Elsevier PLC and Reed Elsevier NV no longer publish interim results in hard copy.
The interim results are available Shareholders who hold their Reed Elsevier PLC shares through on the Reed Elsevier website.
CREST may appoint proxies for shareholder meetings through the CREST electronic proxy appointment service by using the Share price information procedures described in the CREST manual.
Reed Elsevier PLCs ordinary shares are quoted on the London Stock Exchange.
Dividend mandates Shareholders are encouraged to have their dividends paid directly Reed Elsevier NVs ordinary shares are quoted on the Euronext into a UK bank or building society account.
This method of payment Amsterdam Stock Exchange.
reduces the risk of delay or loss of dividend cheques in the post and ensures the account is credited on the dividend payment date.
A The Reed Elsevier PLC and Reed Elsevier NV ordinary shares are dividend mandate form can be obtained online at www.
co. quoted on the New York Stock Exchange in the form of American uk, or by contacting Equiniti at the address shown on page 196.
Depositary Shares ADSs, evidenced by American Depositary Receipts ADRs.
Each Reed Elsevier PLC ADR represents four Equiniti has established a service for overseas shareholders in over Reed Elsevier PLC ordinary shares.
Each Reed Elsevier NV ADR 30 countries, which enables shareholders to have their dividends represents two Reed Elsevier NV ordinary shares.
automatically converted from sterling and paid directly into their nominated bank account.
Further details of this service, and the fees The Reed Elsevier PLC and Reed Elsevier NV ordinary share prices applicable, are available at www.
co. uk or by contacting and the ADR prices may be obtained from the Reed Elsevier website, Equiniti at the address shown on page 196. other online sources and the financial pages of some newspapers.
Dividend Reinvestment Plan Shareholders can choose to reinvest their Reed Elsevier PLC dividends by purchasing further shares through the Dividend For further information visit Reinvestment Plan DRIP provided by Equiniti.
com concerning the DRIP facility, together with the terms and conditions and an application form can be obtained online at www.
co. uk dividends or by contacting Equiniti at the address shown on page 196.
Share dealing service A telephone and internet dealing service is available through Reed Elsevier PLCs Registrar, which provides a simple way for UK-resident shareholders to buy or sell Reed Elsevier PLC shares.
For telephone dealing call 08456 037 037 between 8.00am and 4.30pm, Monday to Friday, and for internet dealing log on to www.
You will need your shareholder account number shown on your dividend tax voucher.
194 Reed Elsevier Annual Reports and Financial Statements 2010 Overview Our business Financial review Governance Financial statements and other information Shareholder information Shareholder information continued Individual savings accounts ISA Shareholder Communications Channel for A single company ISA for Reed Elsevier PLC shares is available through Reed Elsevier NV shareholders Equiniti.
Details may be obtained from www.
co. uk ISA, Reed Elsevier NV has entered into arrangements with Stichting by writing to Equiniti at the address shown on page 196, or by calling Communicatiekanaal Aandeelhouders Shareholder Communication their ISA helpline on 0845 300 0430.
Channel Trustee in the Netherlands, facilitating the communication with and between shareholders, particularly in connection with ShareGift general shareholders meetings.
Under these arrangements, holders The Orr Mackintosh Foundation operates a charity share donation of Reed Elsevier NV bearer shares whose shares are held in the scheme for shareholders with small parcels of shares whose value custody of a Dutch bank, and who have notied the intermediary makes it uneconomic to sell them.
Details of the scheme can be authority appointed for these purposes of their interest, will receive obtained from the ShareGift website at www.
org, or by written information from the company with a proxy form for their telephoning ShareGift on 020 7930 3737. representation at general shareholder meetings.
Reed Elsevier NV also uses the e-voting system of RBS, that allows its shareholders Sub-division of ordinary shares and share consolidation to vote electronically at general meetings of shareholders and On 28 July 1986 each Reed Elsevier PLC ordinary share of 1 provides the shareholder that uses the system conrmation that nominal value was sub-divided into four ordinary shares of 25p each.
On 2 May 1997 each 25p ordinary share was sub-divided into two ordinary shares of 12.5p each.
On 7 January 2008 the ordinary Information for Reed Elsevier PLC and shares of 12.5p each were consolidated on the basis of 58 new Reed Elsevier NV ADR holders 51 ordinary shares of 14 116p nominal value for every 67 ordinary shares of 12.5p each held.
The Reed Elsevier PLC and Reed Elsevier NV ADR Depositary is BNY Mellon.
Reed Elsevier PLCs CUSIP number is 758205207 and Capital gains tax its trading symbol is RUK.
Each Reed Elsevier PLC ADR represents The mid-market price of Reed Elsevier PLCs 1 ordinary shares four Reed Elsevier PLC ordinary shares.
Reed Elsevier NVs CUSIP on 31 March 1982 was 282p.
Adjusting for the sub-divisions and number is 758204200 and its trading symbol is ENL.
Each Reed share consolidation referred to above, results in an equivalent Elsevier NV ADR represents two Reed Elsevier NV ordinary shares.
mid-market price of 40.72p for each existing ordinary share of 51 14 116p nominal value.
ADR shareholder services Enquiries concerning Reed Elsevier PLC or Reed Elsevier NV ADRs Information for Reed Elsevier NV ordinary shareholders should be addressed to the ADR Depositary at the address shown on page 196.
Shareholder enquiries Enquiries from holders of Reed Elsevier NV registered ordinary shares Dividends in relation to share transfers, dividends, change of address and Dividend payments on Reed Elsevier PLC and Reed Elsevier NV bank accounts should be directed to the Company Secretary of ADRs are converted into US dollars by the ADR Depositary.
Reed Elsevier NV, at the registered ofce address shown on page 196.
Annual Report on Form 20-F Dividends The Annual Report on Form 20-F for the Reed Elsevier combined Dividends on Reed Elsevier NV ordinary shares are declared and businesses, Reed Elsevier PLC and Reed Elsevier NV will paid in euros.
Registered shareholders in Reed Elsevier NV will be led electronically with the United States Securities and receive dividends from the company by transmission to the bank Exchange Commission.
A copy of Form 20-F for the year ended account which they have notied to the company.
Dividends on 31 December 2010 will be available on the Reed Elsevier website, shares in bearer form are paid through the intermediary of a bank or from the ADR Depositary at the address shown on page 196. or broker.
Dividend Reinvestment Plan By instructing their bank or intermediary, shareholders can choose to reinvest their Reed Elsevier NV dividends by purchasing further shares through the Dividend Reinvestment Plan DRIP provided by Royal Bank of Scotland N. V. Further information concerning the DRIP facility can be obtained online at www.
Consolidation of ordinary shares On 7 January 2008 each Reed Elsevier NV ordinary share of 80.06 each were consolidated on the basis of 58 new ordinary shares of 80.07 each for every 67 ordinary shares of 80.06 held.
Annual Reports and Financial Statements 2010 Reed Elsevier 195
