30 Notes forming part of the financial statements required to assess whether the new product development has reached the appropriate point for capitalisation of costs to begin.
ACCOUNTING POLICIES Should a product be subsequently obsoleted, the accumulated capitalised development costs would need to be immediately written Basis of preparation off in the Consolidated income statement.
Renishaw plc the Company is a company incorporated in the UK.
New, revised or changes to existing accounting standards IAS1 revised Presentation of financial statements became effective The group financial statements consolidate those of the Company 1st January 2009.
The revision has resulted in minor changes to the and its subsidiaries together referred to as the Group and equity account the Groups interest in associates.
presentation of the primary statements.
The group financial statements have been prepared and approved by IFRS 8 Operating segments became effective on 1st January 2009.
This new standard has resulted in changes to segmental reporting the directors in accordance with International Financial Reporting from that reported in the 2009 Annual report.
Reportable segments Standards as adopted by the EU adopted IFRS and those parts have been determined on the basis of the information supplied to the of the Companies Act 2006 applicable to companies reporting under Board for the purposes of assessing performance and the allocation IFRS.
The Company has elected to prepare its parent company of resources.
financial statements in accordance with UK GAAP: these are presented on pages 48 to 54.
Amendments to IAS 32 Presentation, IAS 39 Financial instruments, IFRS 7 Financial instruments: Disclosures and IAS 27 The accounting policies set out below have, unless otherwise stated, Consolidated and separate financial statements became effective been applied consistently to all periods presented in these group before the year end and have not had a material impact on financial statements.
Judgements made by the directors, in the application of these IFRS 3 Business combinations revised became effective on 1st accounting policies that have a significant effect on the financial July 2009 and results in acquisition costs being expensed, rather statements and estimates with a significant risk of material than included within the cost of the investment.
This change has not adjustment in the next year are noted below.
had a material impact on the financial statements.
Basis of accounting IAS 23 Borrowing costs amendment became effective on 1st The financial statements have been prepared under the historical January 2009 and requires borrowing costs which meet certain cost convention, subject to items referred to in the derivative financial criteria to be capitalised.
The Group does not currently have any instruments note below.
The accounting policies set out below have material borrowing or interest costs.
been consistently applied in preparing both the 2009 and 2010 financial statements.
IFRIC 14, IAS 19, The Limit on a Defined Benefit Asset Minimum Funding Requirements and their interaction provides guidance on Critical accounting judgements assessing the limit in IAS 19 on the amount of surplus that can be The preparation of financial statements in conformity with adopted recognised as an asset.
It also explains how the pension asset or IFRS requires management to make judgements, estimates and liability may be affected by a statutory minimum funding requirement.
assumptions that affect the application of policies and reported This interpretation became effective for this year, and it has not had a amounts of assets and liabilities, income and expenses.
The material impact on the financial statements.
estimates and associated assumptions are based on historical experience and various other factors that are believed to be IFRIC 16 Hedges of a Net Investment in a Foreign Operation reasonable under the circumstances, the results of which form the provides guidance on identifying the foreign currency risks that basis of making the judgements about carrying values of assets and qualify as a hedged risk in the hedge of a net investment in a foreign liabilities that are not readily apparent from other sources.
Actual operation: where, within a group, hedging instruments that are results may differ from these estimates.
The estimates and underlying hedges of a net investment in a foreign operation can be held to assumptions are reviewed on an ongoing basis.
qualify for hedge accounting: and how an entity should determine the amounts to be reclassified from equity to profit or loss for both The estimates and assumptions that have a significant risk of the hedging instrument and the hedged item.
This interpretation causing a material adjustment to the carrying amount of assets and became effective for this year, and it has not had a material impact liabilities in the next financial year are listed below: on the financial statements.
i Impairment of goodwill IAS 24 'Related party disclosures' clarifies the definition of related Determining whether goodwill is impaired requires an estimation of parties and becomes effective from 1st January 2011.
This is the value in use of cash generating units CGUs to which goodwill not expected to have a material effect on the financial has been allocated.
The value in use calculation involves an statement disclosures.
estimation of the future cash flows of CGUs and also the selection of appropriate discount rates, which involves judgement, to calculate present values see note 10. ii Defined benefit pension scheme liabilities Determining the value of the future defined benefit obligation requires judgement in respect of the assumptions used to calculate present values.
These include future mortality, discount rate, inflation and salary increases.
Management makes these judgements in consultation with an independent actuary.
Details of the estimates and judgements in respect of the current year are given in note 15. iii Amortisation of intangibles and impairment The periods of amortisation of intangible assets require judgements to be made on the estimated useful lives of the intangible assets to determine an appropriate rate of amortisation.
Future assessments of impairment may lead to the writing off of certain amounts of intangible assets and the consequent charge in the Consolidated income statement for the accelerated amortisation.
iv Capitalisation of development costs Product development costs are capitalised once a project has reached a certain stage of development and these costs are subsequently amortised over a five-year period.
ACCOUNTING POLICIES: CONTINUED Goodwill and other intangible assets Business combinations are accounted for by applying the purchase Consolidation method.
In respect of business acquisitions, goodwill arising on Subsidiaries are entities controlled by the Group.
Control exists when acquisition represents the difference between the cost of the the Group has the power, directly or indirectly, to govern the financial acquisition and the fair value of the net identifiable assets acquired, and operating policies of an entity so as to obtain benefits from its net of deferred tax.
Identifiable intangibles are those which can be activities.
The financial statements of subsidiaries are included in the sold separately or which arise from legal rights regardless of whether consolidated financial statements from the date that control those rights are separable.
commences until the date that control ceases.
Goodwill is stated at cost less any accumulated impairment losses.
It Associates are those entities in which the Group has significant is not amortised but is tested annually for impairment or earlier if influence, but not control, over the financial and operating policies.
there are any indications of impairment.
The consolidated financial statements include the Groups share of the total recognised income and expense of associates on an equity The annual impairment review involves comparing the carrying accounted basis, from the date that significant influence commences amount to the estimated recoverable amount and recognising an until the date that significant influence ceases.
impairment loss if the recoverable amount is lower.
Impairment losses are recognised through the Consolidated income statement.
Revenue Revenue from the sale of goods is recognised in the Consolidated Intangible assets such as customer lists, patents, trade marks, know income statement when the significant risks and rewards of how and intellectual property that are acquired by the Group are ownership have been transferred to the buyer, which is the time of stated at cost less amortisation and impairment losses.
Where certain products require installation, part of the is charged to the Consolidated income statement on a straight-line revenue may be deferred until the installation is complete.
basis over the estimated useful lives of the intangible assets.
The estimated useful lives of the intangible assets included in the No revenue is recognised if there are significant uncertainties Consolidated balance sheet reflect the benefit derived by the Group regarding recovery of the consideration due, or the possible return and vary from 5 to 10 years.
Intangible assets research and development costs Foreign currencies Expenditure on research activities is recognised in the Consolidated Foreign subsidiaries' results are translated into Sterling at weighted income statement as an expense as incurred.
Expenditure on average exchange rates for the year, which is effected by translating development activities is capitalised if the product or process is each foreign subsidiarys monthly results at exchange rates technically and commercially feasible and the Company intends and applicable to each of the respective months.
Assets and liabilities has the technical ability and sufficient resources to complete denominated in foreign currencies at the balance sheet date are development, future economic benefits are probable and the translated into Sterling at the foreign exchange rate ruling at that Company can measure reliably the expenditure attributable to the date.
Differences on exchange resulting from the translation of intangible asset during its development.
Development activities overseas assets and liabilities are recognised directly in equity.
involve a plan or design for the production of new or substantially Gains and losses arising on currency borrowings used to hedge the improved products or processes.
The expenditure capitalised foreign currency exposure on the net assets of the foreign includes the cost of materials, direct labour and an appropriate operations, are accounted for directly in equity, to the extent that proportion of overheads.
Other development expenditure is hedge accounting criteria are met and are included in the recognised in the Consolidated income statement as an expense as Consolidated statement of comprehensive income and expense.
Capitalised development expenditure is stated at cost less accumulated amortisation and less accumulated impairment losses.
See the note on derivative financial instruments below, for the accounting policies for forward exchange contracts and Intangible assets software licences currency borrowings.
Intangible assets comprising software licences, that are acquired by the Group, are stated at cost less accumulated amortisation and Derivative financial instruments impairment losses.
Amortisation is charged on a straight-line basis The Group uses forward exchange contracts to hedge its exposure over the estimated useful life of the assets.
The useful life of each of to foreign exchange risk arising from operational and financing these assets is assessed on an individual basis and they range from activities.
In accordance with its treasury policy, the Group does not 2 to 10 years.
hold or issue derivative financial instruments for trading purposes.
However, forward contracts that do not qualify for hedge accounting would be accounted for as trading instruments.
Cash flow hedges Forward exchange contracts are recognised initially at cost and then subsequently remeasured at fair value.
Where a forward contract is designated as a hedge of the variability in future cash inflows, the effective part of any gain or loss on the forward contract is recognised directly in equity.
Any effective cumulative gain or loss is removed from equity and recognised in the Consolidated income statement at the same time as the hedged transaction.
The ineffective part of any gain or loss is recognised in the Consolidated income statement immediately.
If the hedged transaction is no longer expected to take place, the cumulative unrealised gain or loss held in equity is recognised in the Consolidated income statement immediately.
The effectiveness of cash flow hedges is tested on a monthly basis by comparing the cash inflows with the hedging amounts.
Hedge of net investment in foreign operation The portion of the gain or loss on an instrument used to hedge a net investment in a foreign operation that is determined to be an effective hedge is recognised directly in equity.
Any ineffective portion is recognised immediately in the Consolidated income statement.
The effectiveness of the hedging is tested monthly.
Annual report and accounts 2010 32 Notes continued 1.
ACCOUNTING POLICIES: CONTINUED Taxation Tax on the profit for the year comprises current and deferred tax.
Tax Property, plant and equipment is recognised in the Consolidated income statement except to the Freehold land is not depreciated.
Other assets are stated at cost less extent that it relates to items recognised directly in equity, in which accumulated depreciation.
Depreciation is provided to write off the case it is recognised in the Consolidated statement of cost of assets less their estimated residual value on a straight-line comprehensive income and expense.
basis over their estimated useful economic lives as follows: Current tax is the expected tax payable on the taxable income for Freehold buildings 50 years the year, using tax rates enacted or substantively enacted at the Plant and equipment 3 to 10 years balance sheet date, and any adjustment to tax payable in Vehicles 3 to 4 years previous years.
Warranty provisions Deferred tax is provided on temporary differences between the The Group provides a warranty from the date of purchase on all its carrying amounts of assets and liabilities for financial reporting products.
This is typically for a twelve-month period, although up to purposes and the amounts used for taxation purposes.
The following three years is given for a small number of products.
A warranty temporary differences are not provided for: the initial recognition of provision is included in the financial statements, which is calculated goodwill, the initial recognition of assets or liabilities that affect neither on the basis of historical returns and internal quality reports.
accounting nor taxable profit other than in a business combination Employee benefits and differences relating to investments in subsidiaries to the extent The Group operates contributory pension schemes, which, for UK that they will probably not reverse in the foreseeable future.
The and Irish employees, were of the defined benefit type up to 5th April amount of deferred tax provided is based on the expected manner of 2007 and 31st December 2007 respectively, at which time they realisation or settlement of the carrying amount of assets and ceased any future accrual for existing members and were closed to liabilities, using tax rates enacted or substantively enacted at the new members.
The schemes are administered by trustees who are independent of A deferred tax asset is recognised only to the extent that it is the group finances.
probable that future taxable profits will be available against which the asset can be utilised.
Pension scheme assets of the defined benefit schemes are measured using market value.
Pension scheme liabilities are Exceptional items measured using a projected unit method and discounted at the Exceptional items are items which due to their size, incidence and current rate of return on a high-quality corporate bond of equivalent non-recurring nature have been classified separately in order to draw term and currency to the liability.
The expected return on the them to the attention of the reader of the accounts and, in schemes assets and the interest on the schemes liabilities arising managements judgement, to show more accurately the underlying from the passage of time are included in financial income and results of the Group.
Such items are included within the Consolidated financial expenses respectively.
The Group recognises actuarial gains income statement caption to which they relate and are disclosed and losses in full in the Consolidated statement of comprehensive separately on the face of the Consolidated income statement.
The pension schemes surpluses, to the extent Going concern that they are considered recoverable, or deficits are recognised in full The Groups business activities, together with the factors likely to and presented on the face of the Consolidated balance sheet under affect its future development, performance and position are set out in Employee benefits.
the Financial review on pages 10 to 14, where also given are details Foreign-based employees are covered by state, defined benefit and of the financial and liquidity positions.
In addition, note 22 in the private pension schemes in their countries of residence.
Actuarial financial statements includes the Groups objectives and policies for valuations of foreign pension schemes were not obtained, apart from managing its capital, details of its financial instruments and hedging Ireland, because of the smaller number of foreign employees.
activities and its exposures to credit risk and liquidity risk.
For defined contribution schemes, the amount charged to the The Group has considerable financial resources at its disposal and Consolidated income statement represents the contributions payable the directors have considered the current financial projections.
As a to the schemes in respect of the accounting period.
consequence, the directors believe that the Group is well placed to manage its business risks successfully.
Accruals are made for holiday pay, based on a calculation of the number of days holiday earned during the year, but not yet taken.
After making enquiries, the directors have a reasonable expectation that the Company and the Group have adequate resources to Inventory and work in progress continue in operational existence for the foreseeable future.
Inventory and work in progress is valued at the lower of cost and net Accordingly, they continue to adopt the going concern basis in realisable value.
In respect of work in progress and finished goods, preparing the Annual report and accounts.
cost includes all production overheads and the attributable proportion of indirect overhead expenses which are required to bring inventories to their present location and condition.
Overheads are absorbed into inventories on the basis of normal capacity.
Cash and cash equivalents Cash and cash equivalents comprise cash balances and short-term with an original maturity of less than three months deposits.
Bank overdrafts that are repayable on demand form part of cash and cash equivalents for the purpose of the Consolidated statement of cash flow.
Dividends Dividends unpaid at the balance sheet date are only recognised as a liability at that date to the extent that they are appropriately declared and authorised and no longer at the discretion of the Company.
Unpaid dividends that do not meet this criteria are disclosed in the Directors report.
