Notes to the Company financial statements 49 The scheme is administered by trustees who are independent of the 29.
The following accounting policies have been applied consistently in dealing with items which are considered material in relation to the Pension scheme assets in the defined benefit scheme are measured financial statements of the Company.
Pension scheme liabilities are measured using a projected unit method and discounted at the current rate of return on Basis of preparation a high-quality corporate bond of equivalent term and currency to the The financial statements have been prepared in accordance with liability.
The expected return on the schemes assets and the interest applicable UK GAAP.
on the schemes liabilities arising from the passage of time are included in other finance income.
Under section 408 of the Companies Act 2006 the Company is exempt from the requirement to present its own profit and The pension schemes surplus, to the extent that it is considered loss account.
recoverable, or deficit is recognised in full and presented on the face of the balance sheet net of the related deferred tax.
Under FRS 1 the Company is exempt from the requirement to prepare a cash flow statement on the grounds that a parent Accruals are made for holiday pay, based on a calculation of the undertaking includes the Company in its own published consolidated number of days holiday earned during the year, but not yet taken financial statements.
and also for the annual performance bonus.
Advantage has been taken of FRS 8 Related party disclosures Warranty on the sale of products not to disclose transactions with subsidiaries on the basis that all The Company provides a warranty from the date of purchase on all transactions were with members of the Group, 100% of whose its products.
This is typically for a twelve-month period, although up voting rights were controlled.
to three years is given for a small number of products.
A warranty The Company has adopted FRS 29 Financial Instruments provision is included in the accounts, which is calculated on the Disclosures, which came into effect from 1st January 2007. basis of historical returns and internal quality reports.
However, the Company has taken the exemption available to parent Derivative financial instruments companies not to present financial instrument disclosures as the Group financial statements contain disclosures that comply with In accordance with its treasury policy, the Company does not hold or the standard.
issue derivative financial instruments for trading purposes.
However, derivatives that do not qualify for hedge accounting are accounted Investments for as trading instruments.
Investments in subsidiary and associated undertakings are stated Derivative financial instruments are recognised initially at fair value.
at cost less any provision for permanent impairment losses.
The gain or loss on remeasurement to fair value is recognised immediately in the profit and loss account.
The fair value of forward Tangible assets and depreciation exchange contracts is their quoted market price at the balance Tangible assets are stated at cost less accumulated depreciation.
Depreciation is provided to write off the cost of assets less their estimated residual value on a straight-line basis over their estimated Stocks useful economic lives as follows:- Stocks are valued at the lower of cost and net realisable value.
Cost Freehold buildings 50 years comprises direct materials and labour plus overheads applicable to the stage of manufacture reached.
Plant and equipment 3 to 10 years Foreign currencies Motor vehicles 3 to 4 years Transactions in foreign currencies are translated at the rate of No depreciation is provided on freehold land.
exchange ruling at the date of the transaction.
Monetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies at the balance sheet date Dividends are translated into Sterling at the foreign exchange rate ruling at that Dividends unpaid at the balance sheet date are only recognised as a date.
Foreign exchange differences arising on such translation are liability at that date to the extent that they are appropriately declared recognised in the profit and loss account.
and authorised and no longer at the discretion of the Company.
Unpaid dividends that do not meet this criteria are disclosed in the Going concern Directors report.
The Groups business activities, together with the factors likely to affect its future development, performance and position are set out in Research and development the Financial review on pages 10 to 14, where also given are details Research and development expenditure is charged to profit and loss of the financial and liquidity positions.
In addition, note 22 in the account in the year in which it is incurred.
financial statements includes the Groups objectives and policies for Taxation managing its capital, details of its financial instruments and hedging activities and its exposures to credit risk and liquidity risk.
The charge for taxation is based on the Company profit for the year.
Deferred tax is recognised, without discounting, in respect of all The Group has considerable financial resources at its disposal and timing differences between the treatment of certain items for taxation the directors have considered the current financial projections.
As a and accounting purposes, which have arisen but not reversed by the consequence, the directors believe that the Group is well placed to balance sheet date, except as otherwise required by FRS 19. manage its business risks successfully.
Deferred tax assets are recognised to the extent that it is regarded After making enquiries, the directors have a reasonable expectation as more likely than not that they will be recovered.
that the Company and the Group have adequate resources to continue in operational existence for the foreseeable future.
Long-term amount owed by a group undertaking Accordingly, they continue to adopt the going concern basis in A balance owing to the Company by a subsidiary undertaking, which preparing the Annual report and accounts.
is expected to be repaid over a number of years, has been initially valued at fair value and is valued at amortised cost thereafter.
Employee benefits The Company operated a contributory pension scheme, of the defined benefit type up to 5th April 2007, after which this scheme was closed for future accruals to existing members and was closed to new members.
Since 5th April 2007, the Company has operated a defined contribution scheme, which is part of the same scheme.
