30 Notes forming part of the financial statements required to assess whether the new product development has reached the appropriate point for capitalisation of costs to begin.
ACCOUNTING POLICIES Should a product be subsequently obsoleted, the accumulated capitalised development costs would need to be immediately written Basis of preparation off in the Consolidated income statement.
Renishaw plc the Company is a company incorporated in the UK.
New, revised or changes to existing accounting standards IAS1 revised Presentation of financial statements became effective The group financial statements consolidate those of the Company 1st January 2009.
The revision has resulted in minor changes to the and its subsidiaries together referred to as the Group and equity account the Groups interest in associates.
presentation of the primary statements.
The group financial statements have been prepared and approved by IFRS 8 Operating segments became effective on 1st January 2009.
This new standard has resulted in changes to segmental reporting the directors in accordance with International Financial Reporting from that reported in the 2009 Annual report.
Reportable segments Standards as adopted by the EU adopted IFRS and those parts have been determined on the basis of the information supplied to the of the Companies Act 2006 applicable to companies reporting under Board for the purposes of assessing performance and the allocation IFRS.
The Company has elected to prepare its parent company of resources.
financial statements in accordance with UK GAAP: these are presented on pages 48 to 54.
Amendments to IAS 32 Presentation, IAS 39 Financial instruments, IFRS 7 Financial instruments: Disclosures and IAS 27 The accounting policies set out below have, unless otherwise stated, Consolidated and separate financial statements became effective been applied consistently to all periods presented in these group before the year end and have not had a material impact on financial statements.
Judgements made by the directors, in the application of these IFRS 3 Business combinations revised became effective on 1st accounting policies that have a significant effect on the financial July 2009 and results in acquisition costs being expensed, rather statements and estimates with a significant risk of material than included within the cost of the investment.
This change has not adjustment in the next year are noted below.
had a material impact on the financial statements.
Basis of accounting IAS 23 Borrowing costs amendment became effective on 1st The financial statements have been prepared under the historical January 2009 and requires borrowing costs which meet certain cost convention, subject to items referred to in the derivative financial criteria to be capitalised.
The Group does not currently have any instruments note below.
The accounting policies set out below have material borrowing or interest costs.
been consistently applied in preparing both the 2009 and 2010 financial statements.
IFRIC 14, IAS 19, The Limit on a Defined Benefit Asset Minimum Funding Requirements and their interaction provides guidance on Critical accounting judgements assessing the limit in IAS 19 on the amount of surplus that can be The preparation of financial statements in conformity with adopted recognised as an asset.
It also explains how the pension asset or IFRS requires management to make judgements, estimates and liability may be affected by a statutory minimum funding requirement.
assumptions that affect the application of policies and reported This interpretation became effective for this year, and it has not had a amounts of assets and liabilities, income and expenses.
The material impact on the financial statements.
estimates and associated assumptions are based on historical experience and various other factors that are believed to be IFRIC 16 Hedges of a Net Investment in a Foreign Operation reasonable under the circumstances, the results of which form the provides guidance on identifying the foreign currency risks that basis of making the judgements about carrying values of assets and qualify as a hedged risk in the hedge of a net investment in a foreign liabilities that are not readily apparent from other sources.
Actual operation: where, within a group, hedging instruments that are results may differ from these estimates.
The estimates and underlying hedges of a net investment in a foreign operation can be held to assumptions are reviewed on an ongoing basis.
qualify for hedge accounting: and how an entity should determine the amounts to be reclassified from equity to profit or loss for both The estimates and assumptions that have a significant risk of the hedging instrument and the hedged item.
This interpretation causing a material adjustment to the carrying amount of assets and became effective for this year, and it has not had a material impact liabilities in the next financial year are listed below: on the financial statements.
i Impairment of goodwill IAS 24 'Related party disclosures' clarifies the definition of related Determining whether goodwill is impaired requires an estimation of parties and becomes effective from 1st January 2011.
This is the value in use of cash generating units CGUs to which goodwill not expected to have a material effect on the financial has been allocated.
The value in use calculation involves an statement disclosures.
estimation of the future cash flows of CGUs and also the selection of appropriate discount rates, which involves judgement, to calculate present values see note 10. ii Defined benefit pension scheme liabilities Determining the value of the future defined benefit obligation requires judgement in respect of the assumptions used to calculate present values.
These include future mortality, discount rate, inflation and salary increases.
Management makes these judgements in consultation with an independent actuary.
Details of the estimates and judgements in respect of the current year are given in note 15. iii Amortisation of intangibles and impairment The periods of amortisation of intangible assets require judgements to be made on the estimated useful lives of the intangible assets to determine an appropriate rate of amortisation.
Future assessments of impairment may lead to the writing off of certain amounts of intangible assets and the consequent charge in the Consolidated income statement for the accelerated amortisation.
iv Capitalisation of development costs Product development costs are capitalised once a project has reached a certain stage of development and these costs are subsequently amortised over a five-year period.
