CONTINGENCIES The UK banking arrangements are subject to cross-guarantees between the Company and its UK subsidiaries.
These accounts are subject to a right of set-off.
SUBSIDIARY UNDERTAKINGS The following are the subsidiary undertakings of Renishaw plc, all of which are wholly-owned, unless otherwise stated, and all of which are consolidated into the results of the Group.
The country of incorporation and registration is England and Wales unless otherwise stated.
The country of incorporation is also the country of operation.
The accounting year end for each subsidiary undertaking is 30th June unless otherwise stated.
Company Principal activities Renishaw International Limited Overseas holding and investment company.
Renishaw Ireland Limited Republic of Ireland Manufacture and sale of advanced precision metrology and inspection equipment.
Renishaw Holdings Limited Holding and investment company.
Renishaw Finance Limited Group finance company.
Renishaw S. A. S. France Service, distribution, research and development and manufacture of group products.
itp GmbH Germany Manufacture and sale of advanced precision metrology and inspection equipment.
Wotton Travel Limited Travel agency.
Renishaw Diagnostics Limited formerly D3 Technologies Design and sale of molecular diagnostics and surface-enhanced Raman spectroscopy Limited 84.8% Scotland products.
Renishaw Mayfield S. A. Switzerland Manufacture and sale of surgical robots for neurosurgical applications.
PulseTeq Limited 75% Manufacture and sale of coils for the enhancement of images from MRI scanners.
Renishaw Metrology Systems Private Limited India Manufacture and sale of advanced precision metrology and inspection equipment.
31st March Company principal activity is the service and distribution of group products Renishaw Sp.
z o. o. Poland Renishaw Inc USA OOO Renishaw Russia 31st December Renishaw KK Japan Renishaw AB Sweden Renishaw GmbH Germany Renishaw Austria GmbH Austria Renishaw S. p. A. Italy Renishaw Ibrica S. A. U. Spain Renishaw Korea Limited South Korea Renishaw Canada Limited Canada Renishaw AG Switzerland Renishaw Israel Limited Israel Renishaw Hong Kong Limited Hong Kong Renishaw Shanghai Trading Company Limited The Peoples Republic of China Renishaw Latino Americana Ltda.
Brazil 31st December 31st December Renishaw Benelux BV The Netherlands Renishaw Singapore Pte Limited Singapore Renishaw Oceania Pty Limited Australia Renishaw Taiwan Inc Taiwan Renishaw s. r. o. Czech Republic equity held by a subsidiary undertaking During the year, Renishaw Finance and Insurance Limited ceased operation and was put into liquidation.
The Group also increased its investment in Renishaw Diagnostics Limited from 75% to 84.8%.
RELATED PARTIES During the year, associates RLS merilna tehnika d. o. o. Metrology Software Products Limited and Delcam plc purchased goods and services from the Group to the value of 199,000 2009 168,000 and sold goods and services to the Group to the value of 2,329,000 2009 1,990,000.
Associates were owed 144,000 by the Group 2009 77,000.
Dividends of 80,000 were received from associates during the year 2009 80,000.
No bad debts were incurred during the year.
All transactions were on an arms length basis.
POST-BALANCE SHEET EVENT In July 2010, the Group acquired a shareholding of 29% in Measurement Devices Limited, a company incorporated in Scotland and operating in the metrology business.
An agreement provides for the further purchase of the balance of majority shareholder shares over a period of four years with the price payable based on the earnings of MDL during the relevant period.
It is also intended that the shares held by minority shareholders 14% will be acquired by a court-approved scheme of arrangement.
