Notice of meeting 55 THIS DOCUMENT IS IMPORTANT AND REQUIRES YOUR 31st December 2011 unless such authority is renewed prior to such IMMEDIATE ATTENTION.
If you are in any doubt as to the action time: and you should take, you are recommended immediately to seek v the Company may make a contract to purchase ordinary shares your own personal financial advice from your stockbroker, bank under the authority hereby conferred prior to the expiry of such manager, solicitor, accountant or other independent financial authority which contract will or may be executed wholly or partly adviser authorised under the Financial Services and Markets after the expiration of such authority and may make a purchase of Act 2000. ordinary shares pursuant to such contract.
If you have sold or otherwise transferred all of your shares 14.
To consider and, if thought fit, to pass the following resolution: in Renishaw plc, you should pass this document and the That the Articles of Association produced to the meeting and initialled accompanying form of proxy without delay to the stockbroker, by the Chairman of the meeting for the purpose of identification be bank or other person who arranged the sale or transfer so adopted as the Articles of Association of the Company in substitution they can pass these documents to the person who now holds for, and to the exclusion of, the existing Articles of Association the shares.
including those provisions of the Companys Memorandum of Association which, by virtue of section 28 Companies Act 2006, are Notice is hereby given that the 37th annual general meeting of the treated as provisions of the Companys Articles of Association.
Company will be held at New Mills, Wotton-under-Edge, Gloucestershire GL12 8JR on Thursday 14th October 2010 at noon.
You will be asked to consider and, if thought fit, pass the resolutions below.
Resolutions 13 By order of the Board and 14 will be proposed as special resolutions.
This means that for each of these resolutions to be passed, at least three-quarters of the votes cast must be in favour of the resolution.
All other resolutions will be proposed N Tang New Mills Secretary Wotton-under-Edge as ordinary resolutions.
This means that for each of these resolutions to be passed, more than half of the votes cast must be in favour of Gloucestershire 20th August 2010 GL12 8JR the resolution.
A form of proxy is provided with this Notice for members.
To receive and adopt the reports of the directors and auditors and the is entitled to appoint one or more proxies to exercise all or any of the financial statements for the year ended 30th June 2010: members rights to attend and to speak and vote at the meeting.
To declare a final dividend for the year ended 30th June 2010: member may appoint more than one proxy in relation to the meeting provided that each proxy is appointed to exercise the rights attached 3.
To re-elect as a director, Sir David McMurtry, a director retiring to a different share or shares held by that member.
If a member wishes voluntarily and who, being eligible, offers himself for re-election: to appoint more than one proxy and so requires additional proxy forms, the member should contact Equiniti Limited on 0871 384 2169.
To re-elect as director John Deer, a director retiring voluntarily and to this number cost 8p per minute from a BT landline, other providers who, being eligible, offers himself for re-election: costs may vary.
Lines are open from 8.30am to 5.30pm, Monday to 5.
To re-elect as director Ben Taylor, a director retiring voluntarily and Friday.
Overseas shareholders should call 44 121 415 7047. who, being eligible, offers himself for re-election: 2.
A proxy need not be a member of the Company but must attend the 6.
To re-elect as director Allen Roberts, a director retiring voluntarily and meeting for the members vote to be counted.
A proxy form which who, being eligible, offers himself for re-election: may be used to make such appointment and give proxy instructions accompanies this notice.
To re-elect as a director Geoff McFarland, a director retiring voluntarily and who, being eligible, offers himself for re-election: 3.
To be valid any proxy form or other instrument appointing a proxy must be received by post or during normal business hours only by hand at 8.
To re-elect as a director Terry Garthwaite, a director retiring voluntarily Equiniti Limited, Aspect House, Spencer Road, Lancing, West Sussex, and who, being eligible, offers himself for re-election: BN99 6ZL or the Proxy appointment must be lodged using the CREST 9.
To re-elect as a director David Snowden, a director retiring voluntarily Proxy Voting Service, in accordance with Note 7 below, no later than and who, being eligible, offers himself for re-election: 48 hours excluding non-working days before the time appointed for holding the meeting.
Amended instructions must also be received by 10.
To re-elect as a director Bill Whiteley, a director retiring voluntarily and the Companys registrars by the deadline for receipt of proxy forms.
who, being eligible, offers himself for re-election: 4.
The return of a completed proxy form or other such instrument will not 11.
To approve the Directors Remuneration Report for the year ended prevent a member from attending the meeting and voting in person if 30th June 2010 contained in the Annual Report 2010: he she wishes to do so.
To re-appoint KPMG Audit Plc as auditor of the Company, to hold 5.
Pursuant to Regulation 41 1 of the Uncertificated Securities office from the conclusion of the meeting to the conclusion of the Regulations 2001 as amended and for the purposes of section 360B next meeting at which accounts are laid before the meeting, and to Companies Act 2006, the Company has specified that to be entitled authorise the directors to determine the remuneration of the auditor: to attend and vote at the meeting or any adjournment and for the purpose of the determination by the Company of the votes they may Special resolutions cast, members must be registered in the Register of Members of 13.
To consider and, if thought fit, to pass the following resolution: the Company as at 6pm on 12th October 2010 or for any adjourned meeting, 48 hours before the time appointed for holding the adjourned That the Company be and is hereby unconditionally authorised for the meeting.
Changes to the Register of Members after the relevant purposes of section 701 of the Companies Act 2006 the 2006 Act deadline shall be disregarded in determining the rights of any person to to make one or more market purchases within the meaning of section attend and vote at the meeting.
693 4 of the 2006 Act of ordinary shares of 20p each in the capital of the Company ordinary shares provided that: 6.
CREST members who wish to appoint a proxy or proxies through i the maximum number of ordinary shares hereby authorised to be the CREST electronic proxy appointment service may do so by using purchased is 7,278,854: the procedures described in the CREST Manual.
CREST Personal Members or other CREST sponsored members, and those CREST ii the maximum price that may be paid for an ordinary share is members who have appointed a voting service provider s, should refer an amount equal to the higher of i 105% of the average of the to their CREST sponsor or voting service provider s, who will be able to middle market quotations for an ordinary share as derived from take the appropriate action on their behalf.
the London Stock Exchange Daily Official List for the 5 business days immediately preceding the day on which the ordinary share is purchased and ii the amount stipulated by Article 5 1 of the BuyBack and Stabilisation Regulation 2003: iii the minimum price which may be paid for an ordinary share shall be 20p: iv the authority hereby conferred shall expire at the earlier of the conclusion of the annual general meeting to be held in 2011 and Annual report and accounts 2010 56 Notice of meeting continued 7.
In order for a proxy appointment or instruction made using the CREST be given if a to do so would interfere unduly with the preparation for service to be valid, the appropriate CREST message a CREST the meeting or involve the disclosure of confidential information, b the Proxy Instruction must be properly authenticated in accordance with answer has already been given on a website in the form of an answer Euroclear specifications and must contain the information required for to a question, or c it is undesirable in the interests of the Company or such instructions, as described in the CREST Manual.
The message, the good order of the meeting that the question be answered.
regardless of whether it constitutes the appointment of a proxy or an 15.
A copy of this notice, and other information required by s311A of the amendment to the instruction given to a previously appointed proxy Companies Act 2006, can be found in the copy of the Annual report must, in order to be valid, be transmitted so as to be received by and accounts 2010 at www.
the issuers agent ID RA19 by the latest time s for receipt of proxy appointments specified in the notice of meeting.
Under section 338 and section 338A of the Companies Act 2006, the time of receipt will be taken to be the time as determined by members meeting the threshold requirements in those sections have the timestamp applied to the message by the CREST Applications the right to require the Company i to give, to members of the Company Host from which the issuers agent is able to retrieve the message entitled to receive notice of the meeting, notice of a resolution which by enquiry to CREST in the manner prescribed by CREST.
After this may properly be moved and is intended to be moved at the meeting time any change of instructions to proxies appointed through CREST and or ii to include in the business to be dealt with at the meeting should be communicated to the appointee through other means.
any matter other than a proposed resolution which may be properly included in the business.
A resolution may properly be moved or a 8.
CREST members and, where applicable, their CREST sponsors or matter may properly be included in the business unless a in the case voting service providers should note that Euroclear does not make of a resolution only it would, if passed, be ineffective whether by reason available special procedures in CREST for any particular messages.
of inconsistency with any enactment or the Companys constitution Normal system timings and limitations will therefore apply in relation or otherwise, b it is defamatory of any person, or c it is frivolous or to the input of CREST Proxy Instructions.
It is the responsibility of vexatious.
Such a request may be in hard copy form or in electronic the CREST member concerned to take or, if the CREST member is form, must identify the resolution of which notice is to be given or the a CREST personal member or sponsored member or has appointed matter to be included in the business, must be authorised by the person a voting service provider s, to procure that his CREST sponsor or or persons making it, must be received by the Company not later than voting service provider s take s such action as shall be necessary to Wednesday 1st September 2010, being the date 6 clear weeks before ensure that a message is transmitted by means of the CREST system the meeting, and in the case of a matter to be included in the business by any particular time.
In this connection, CREST members and, only must be accompanied by a statement setting out the grounds for where applicable, their CREST sponsors or voting service providers the request.
are referred, in particular, to those sections of the CREST Manual concerning practical limitations of the CREST system and timings.
As at 19th August 2010 being the last business day prior to the CREST Manual can be reviewed at www.
publication of this Notice the Companys issued share capital consists of 72,788,543 ordinary shares, carrying one vote each.
The Company may treat as invalid a CREST Proxy Instruction in the the total voting rights in the Company as at 19th August 2010 are circumstances set out in Regulation 35 5 a of the Uncertificated 72,788,543.
There are no other classes of shares or any shares held in Securities Regulations 2001. treasury.
You may not use any electronic address provided either in this Notice 18.
Copies of the following documents are available for inspection at the of Meeting or any related documents including the Form of Proxy to registered office of the Company during normal business hours 8.00am communicate with the Company for any purposes other than those - 4.15pm, excluding weekends and public holidays : expressly stated.
a service contracts of the executive directors: 11.
Any corporation which is a member can appoint one or more corporate representatives who may exercise on its behalf all of its b letters of appointment of the non-executive directors: and powers as a member provided that, if it is appointing more than c a copy of the proposed new articles of association of the Company.
one corporate representative, it does not do so in relation to the same shares.
The new articles of association will also be available for inspection at the offices of Norton Rose LLP, 3 More London Riverside, London SE1 2AQ 12.
Any person receiving a copy of this notice as a person nominated by during normal business hours 9.00am until 5.30pm, excluding weekends a member under section 146 of the Companies Act 2006 to enjoy and public holidays.
information rights a Nominated Person should note the provisions in this notice concerning the appointment of a proxy or proxies to All documents will be available for inspection at the above locations from the attend the meeting in place of a member, do not apply to a Nominated date of this notice until the conclusion of the AGM, and will also be available Person as only shareholders have the right to appoint a proxy.
for inspection at the place of the AGM from 15 minutes before it is held until However, a Nominated Person may, under an agreement between its conclusion.
him her and the member by whom he she was nominated, have a right to be appointed or to have someone else appointed as a proxy APPENDIX 1 for the Annual General Meeting.
If a Nominated Person has no such EXPLANATORY NOTES TO THE NOTICE OF ANNUAL GENERAL proxy appointment right or does not wish to exercise it, he she may, MEETING under any such agreement, have a right to give instructions to the member as to the exercise of voting rights.
Resolution 1 Reports of Directors and Financial statements 13.
Under section 527 of the Companies Act 2006 members meeting the The Directors must present the report of the Directors and the auditors and threshold requirements set out in that section have the right to require the accounts of the Company for the year ended 30th June 2010 to the the Company to publish on a website a statement setting out any shareholders at the AGM.
matter relating to: i the audit of the Companys accounts including the auditors report and the conduct of the audit that are to be laid Resolution 2 Final dividend before the meeting: or ii any circumstance connected with an auditor The Directors recommend that a final dividend of 13.6p per share be paid to of the Company ceasing to hold office since the previous meeting each shareholder on the register of members as at the close of business on at which annual accounts and reports were laid in accordance with the day 48 hours prior to the payment of such dividend.
section 437 of the Companies Act 2006.
The Company may not require the members requesting any such website publication to pay Resolutions 3 to 10 inclusive Re-election of directors its expenses in complying with sections 527 or 528 of the Companies In the spirit of best practice, and in accordance with the provisions of Act 2006.
Where the Company is required to place a statement on a website under section 527 of the Companies Act 2006, it must the UK Corporate Governance Code formerly the Combined Code, all Directors apart from Joe McGeehan will retire and, being eligible, offer forward the statement to the Companys auditor not later than the time when it makes the statement available on the website.
The business themselves for re-election at the AGM.
Joe McGeehan will retire from the board with effect from the AGM.
Biographical details of the directors are which may be dealt with at the Annual General Meeting includes any statement that the Company has been required under section 527 of shown on pages 4 and 5. the Companies Act 2006 to publish on a website.
Any member attending the meeting has the right to ask questions.
The Listed companies are required to prepare a Directors remuneration report Company must cause to be answered any such question relating to and put a resolution to approve the report to the shareholders at the AGM.
the business being dealt with at the meeting but no such answer need The Directors remuneration report is set out on page 23.
Renishaw plc 57 Resolution 12 Re-appointment and remuneration of auditors 3 - Change of name Article 3 The Company is required to appoint auditors at each general meeting at Under the Companies Act 1985 CA 1985, a company could only change which accounts are laid before shareholders, to hold office until the end of its name by special resolution.
Under the CA 2006 a company will be able the next such meeting.
KPMG Audit Plc has expressed its willingness to to change its name by other means provided for by its articles.
To take continue as auditors and resolution 12 proposes its re-appointment as the advantage of this provision, the New Articles enable the directors to pass Companys auditors and also seeks authority for the Directors to decide a resolution to change the Companys name.
4 - Authorised share capital and unissued shares former Article 5 Resolution 13 Market purchase of own shares by the Company The CA 2006 removes the concept of authorised share capital.
As with This resolution renews the previous authority granted on 15th October the objects clause see paragraph 1, the statement of authorised share 2009 which expires on the date of the forthcoming Annual General capital previously contained in a companys memorandum of association Meeting.
The resolution authorises the Company to make market is deemed with effect from 1st October 2009 to be a provision of the purchases of its own ordinary shares.
The authority limits the number of companys articles of association and takes effect as setting out the shares that could be purchased to a maximum of 7,278,854 representing maximum number of shares that may be allotted by the company.
The 10% of the issued share capital of the Company and sets minimum adoption of the New Articles will have the effect of removing this provision.
This authority will expire at the conclusion of the Directors will still be limited as to the number of shares they can at any time Companys next AGM.
allot because an allotment authority continues to be required under the CA The Directors have no present intention of exercising the authority to 2006, save in respect of employee share schemes.
purchase the Companys ordinary shares but will keep the matter under 5 - Redeemable shares Article 7 review, taking into account market conditions, the cash reserves of the Company, the Companys share price, appropriate gearing levels, other Under the CA 1985, if a company wished to issue redeemable shares, investment opportunities and the overall financial position of the Company.
it had to include in its articles the terms and manner of redemption.
The The authority will be exercised only if to do so would be likely to promote CA 2006 enables directors to determine such matters instead provided the success of the Company for the benefit of its shareholders as a whole.
they are so authorised by the articles.
The New Articles contain such an authorisation.
The Company has no plans to issue redeemable shares, but Any purchases of ordinary shares would most likely be by means of if it did so the directors would need shareholders authority to issue new market purchases through the London Stock Exchange.
The authority will shares in the usual way.
only be valid until the conclusion of the Companys next AGM or, if earlier, 18 months from the date of this resolution.
6 - Share warrants Article 8 Resolution 14 Adoption of new articles of association The New Articles permit the directors to issue share warrants in respect of any fully paid shares.
The directors have no current intention of exercising It is proposed in resolution 14 to adopt new articles of association in order this authority.
to update the Companys current articles of association, primarily to take account of the provisions of the Companies Act 2006 and the Companies 7 - Shares in uncertificated form Article 11 Shareholders Rights Regulations 2009.
The Uncertificated Securities Regulations 2001 the Regulations replaced The principal changes are summarised in Appendix 2 of this notice.
A the Uncertificated Securities Regulations 1995, which established the legal copy of the proposed new Articles of Association will be available for framework for the CREST settlement system.
The Regulations allow shares inspection at the Companys registered office and at the offices of Norton in companies to be issued, held, registered, converted to, transferred Rose LLP, 3 More London Riverside, London SE1 2AQ during normal or otherwise dealt with in uncertificated form and allow shares to be business hours 9.00am until 5.30pm, excluding weekends and public converted from uncertificated form to certificated form in accordance with holidays until the conclusion of the AGM.
the Regulations and practices instituted by the operator of the relevant system.
The fact that the Current Articles do not contain provisions in APPENDIX 2 relation to uncertificated shares does not prevent the Companys shares EXPLANATORY NOTES OF PRINCIPAL CHANGES TO THE being dealt with through CREST pursuant to the Regulations.
However COMPANYS ARTICLES OF ASSOCIATION the New Articles contain specific provisions in this regard intended to reflect the legislation described above and to clarify how certificated and Set out below is a summary of the principal changes in the New Articles.
uncertificated shares may be dealt with in certain circumstances.
References to article numbers are those used in the New Articles except where reference is made to a provision which has been deleted.
8 - Suspension of registration of share transfers former Article 35 1 - The Companys objects The Current Articles permit the directors to suspend the registration of transfers for up to 30 days in any year, reflecting a provision of the CA The provisions regulating the operations of the Company were until 1st 1985.
Under the CA 2006 share transfers must be registered as soon as October 2009 set out in the Companys memorandum and articles of practicable.
Accordingly, the provision which allowed the Company to association.
suspend the registration of transfers has been removed in the New Articles.
The Companies Act 2006 CA 2006 significantly reduces the 9 - Authority to purchase own shares, consolidate and sub-divide shares, constitutional significance of a companys memorandum.
The CA 2006 and reduce share capital former Articles 42, 44 and 45 provides that the memorandum will record only the names of subscribers and the number of shares each subscriber has agreed to take in the Under the CA 1985, a company required specific enabling provisions in its company.
Under the CA 2006 the majority of the previous provisions of articles to purchase its own shares, to consolidate or sub-divide its shares the memorandum, most notably the objects clause, are deemed to be and to reduce its share capital or other undistributable reserves as well as part of the Companys articles of association with effect from shareholder authority to undertake the relevant action.
The Current Articles 1st October 2009. include these enabling provisions.
Under the CA 2006 a company will only require shareholder authority to do any of these things and it will no longer Further, the CA 2006 states that, unless a companys articles provide be necessary for articles to contain enabling provisions.
Accordingly, the otherwise, a companys objects are unrestricted.
This abolishes the need relevant enabling provisions have been removed in the New Articles.
for companies to have objects clauses.
For this reason the Company is proposing to remove its objects clause together with all other provisions 10 - Notice of general meetings former Article 52 of its memorandum which, by virtue of the CA 2006, are treated as Under the CA 2006 as amended by the Shareholders Rights Regulations, forming part of the Companys articles of association as of 1st October general meetings cannot be held on shorter notice than the statutory 2009.
This will be achieved by the adoption of New Articles which contain minimum 21 days or 14 days period.
The New Articles therefore remove no such provisions other than a statement regarding the limited liability this provision.
11 - Postponement of meetings Article 52 2 - Articles which duplicate statutory provisions The New Articles include provisions to allow the directors to Provisions in the Current Articles which replicate provisions contained postpone a general meeting if they consider that it would be impractical in the CA 2006 are in the main to be removed in the New Articles or or unreasonable to hold such meeting on the intended date, time amended to bring them into line with the CA 2006. and or place.
Annual report and accounts 2010 58 Notice of meeting continued 12 - Special Business former Article 54 21 - No shareholding qualification for Directors former Article 87 As the Listing Rules of the UK Listing Authority no longer refer to a There is no longer any requirement for a companys articles to contain distinction between ordinary business and special business, we do not a negative statement if the directors do not need to own shares in the consider it to be appropriate that the Current Articles continue to make company.
This negative statement contained in the Current Articles has such a distinction in addition to the distinction between ordinary and therefore been removed from the New Articles.
Article 54 in the Current Articles regarding special 22 - Directors interests Articles 120-127 business has therefore been removed in the New Articles.
The articles dealing with directors conflicts of interest have been 13 - Adjournments for lack of quorum Article 54 amended in line with market practice.
Under the New Articles certain Under the CA 2006 as amended by the Shareholders Rights Regulations, conflicts of interest do not need to be authorised, for example an interest general meetings adjourned for lack of quorum must be held at least 10 as a director of a group company.
clear days after the original meeting.
The New Articles reflect Generally the nature and extent of any conflict of interest must be this requirement.
disclosed before it can be authorised or before it is permitted without 14 - Electronic conduct of meetings Article 60 being authorised but the New Articles provide for some situations in which disclosure is not required where knowledge can be presumed and Amendments made to the CA 2006 by the Shareholders Rights disclosure is unlikely to be necessary.
The New Articles also allow the Regulations specifically provide for the holding and conducting of board to exercise voting rights in group companies without restriction, electronic meetings.
The Current Articles have been amended to reflect e. g. so as to appoint a director to the board of a group company without more closely the relevant provisions.
this counting as a conflict requiring authorisation.
15 - Chairmans casting vote Former Article 68 23 - Execution of documents Article 131 The New Articles remove the provision giving the chairman a casting vote The New Articles contain provisions in relation to the Companys ability in the event of an equality of votes as this is no longer permitted under the to execute documents and, in particular, reflect the ability of companies CA 2006. under the CA 2006 to execute deeds by the signature of a single Director, provided that signature is appropriately witnessed.
16 - Voting by proxies on a show of hands Article 70 24 - Use of seals former Article 136 Under the CA 2006 as amended by the Shareholders Rights Regulations, each proxy appointed by a member has one vote on a show of hands Under the CA 1985, a company required authority in its articles to have unless the proxy is appointed by more than one member in which case an official seal for use abroad.
Under the CA 2006, such authority is no the proxy has one vote for and one vote against if the proxy has been longer required.
Accordingly, the relevant authorisation has been removed instructed by one or more members to vote for the resolution and by one in the New Articles.
or more members to vote against the resolution.
The New Articles reflect these changes and contain a provision clarifying how the provision of the 25 - Scrip dividends Article 142 CA 2006 giving a proxy a second vote on a show of hands should apply The New Articles permit the directors, with the prior authority of an to discretionary authorities.
ordinary resolution, to offer shareholders the right to elect to receive 17 - Timing for submission of proxy appointments Article 72 shares instead of any dividend.
The directors have no current intention of exercising this authority.
Article 72 has been amended to permit the directors to specify, in a notice of meeting, that in determining the time for delivery of proxy appointments, 26 - Record date for right to attend and vote at meetings Article 145 no account shall be taken of non-working days.
This brings the provisions The New Articles include a new provision, not in the Current Articles, relating to timing for proxy appointments into line with the provisions of dealing with the method for determining which persons are allowed to Article 145 see paragraph 26 regarding determining which persons may attend or vote at a general meeting of the Company and how many votes attend and vote at a general meeting.
Under this new provision, when convening a 18 - Validity of votes by proxies and corporate representatives Article 75 meeting the Company must specify a time, not more than 48 hours before the time of the meeting excluding any part of a day that is not a working Under the CA 2006 as amended by the Shareholders Rights Regulations, day, by which a person must be entered on the register of members in proxies have an obligation to vote in accordance with the instructions order to have the right to attend or vote at the meeting.
This reflects a new given to them by the member appointing them.
The New Articles contain provision introduced by the Shareholders Rights Regulations.
a provision stating that the Company is not required to enquire whether a proxy or corporate representative has voted in accordance with 27 - Indemnity Article 156.2 instructions given to him and that votes cast by a proxy or corporate The New Articles include a provision allowing the Company to indemnify representative will be valid even if he has not voted in accordance with a director to meet expenditure incurred in defending himself in relation to these instructions.
criminal and civil proceedings or against actions by regulatory authorities.
The New Articles also provide that any objection to the qualification of a 28 - Distribution of assets otherwise than in cash former Article 161 person voting must be made at the meeting at which the vote objected to is tendered or at the time any poll is taken and that the chairmans The Current Articles contain provisions dealing with the distribution of decision is final and binding.
The New Articles require a member to assets in kind in the event of the Company going into liquidation.
These provide reasonable evidence of his and his proxys identity and also provisions have been removed in the New Articles on the grounds that in specify what a member must provide by way of evidence if a proxy is the situation in which a distribution in kind is being contemplated it is likely appointed by a person acting in behalf of a member.
to be done only with unanimity or as part of a scheme and can therefore be better dealt with at the time than legislated for in advance.
19 - Number of Directors Article 76 Institutional investor guidelines recommend that companies include a limit on the number of directors that may be on the Board at a particular time.
The New Articles include a limit of fifteen directors as the maximum number of directors that may be on the Companys Board.
20 - Vacation of Office by Directors Article 86 The Current Articles specify the circumstances in which a director must vacate office.
The New Articles update these provisions to reflect the approach taken on mental and physical incapacity in the model articles for public companies produced by the Department for Business, Innovation and Skills.
