Financial statements 59 Accounting policies are accounted for by the equity method of accounting and are Basis of preparation initially recognised at cost.
The groups investment in associates These consolidated financial statements have been prepared in includes goodwill net of any accumulated impairment loss identified compliance with International Financial Reporting Standards on acquisition.
IFRSs and International Financial Reporting Interpretations The groups share of its associates post-acquisition profits or losses is Committee IFRIC interpretations as adopted by the European recognised in the income statement and its share of post-acquisition Union as at 31 December 2010. movements in other comprehensive income is recognised in other The consolidated financial statements have been prepared under comprehensive income and in reserves is recognised in reserves.
the historical cost convention, as modified by the revaluation of The cumulative post-acquisition movements are adjusted against available-for-sale investments and certain financial assets and the carrying amount of the investment.
Unrealised gains and losses on transactions between the group After reviewing group and company cash balances, borrowing and its associates are eliminated to the extent of the groups interest facilities and projected cash flows, the directors believe that the in the associates.
group and company have adequate resources to continue operations for the foreseeable future.
For this reason they continue to adopt the Segment reporting going concern basis in preparing the consolidated financial statements.
Reporting segments reflect the internal management organisation and reporting structures.
Each segment is headed by a divisional Consolidation managing director who reports directly to the chief executive officer a Subsidiaries and is a member of the company executive board responsible for the Subsidiaries are all entities including special purpose entities over review of group performance.
Operating businesses within each which the group has the power to govern the financial and operating segment report to segment divisional managing directors.
policies generally accompanying a shareholding of more than one Segmental revenue represents the total revenue of each individual half of the voting rights.
The existence and effect of potential voting business unit within a reporting segment and includes inter segment rights that are currently exercisable or convertible are considered revenues.
Segmental profit is the profit measure used to measure when assessing whether the group controls another entity.
performance internally and is calculated as profit before tax, interest, Subsidiaries are fully consolidated from the date on which control is amortisation and impairment of intangibles excluding computer transferred to the group.
They are fide-consolidated from the date that software and items of a one-off nature adjusted operating profit.
Segmental revenues and profits are shown at constant exchange The group uses the purchase method of accounting to account for rates consistent with our internal reporting and review process.
The cost of an acquisition is measured Other segmental information is stated at actual exchange rates.
as the fair value of the assets given, equity instruments issued and Constant exchange rate refers to the translation of two different liabilities incurred or assumed at the date of exchange.
Identifiable periods using the same exchange rate for a particular currency the assets acquired and liabilities and contingent liabilities assumed in prior years average rate of exchange.
Both the current and prior a business combination are measured initially at their fair values at years currencies are translated at the prior years rate of exchange the acquisition date, irrespective of the extent of any non controlling $: 1.5620, e: 1.1196.
This gives a clearer indication of the actual interest.
The excess of the cost of acquisition over the fair value of performance of the business when measured against the previous the groups share of the identifiable net assets acquired is recorded year by separately identifying the impact of foreign exchange by as goodwill.
If the cost of the acquisition is less than the fair value of providing information on both an actual and constant exchange rate the net assets of the subsidiary acquired, the difference is recognised basis.
When using actual exchange rates, currencies are translated directly in the income statement.
using the rate of exchange for that year.
Inter-company transactions, balances and unrealised gains and losses on transactions between group companies are eliminated.
One-off items including reorganisation costs Any change in the parents controlling interest in a subsidiary that One-off items have been separately identified as they are not does not result in a loss of control in buying or selling shares to the considered to be business as usual expenses and have a varying non controlling interest is treated as a transaction with equity impact on different businesses and reporting periods.
These are shareholders and is shown as a movement in the consolidated separately identified and presented to give a clearer understanding statement of changes in equity.
of the performance of the business.
It also shows the information in the same way as it is presented and reviewed by management.
b Associates Associates are all entities over which the group has significant One-off items relate directly to the groups major reorganisation influence but not control, generally accompanying a shareholding of programme and consists mainly of redundancy costs, consultancy between 20% and 50% of the voting rights.
Investments in associates and plant and office closure costs net of the profit on sale of certain Rentokil Initial plc Annual report 2010 60 Accounting policies properties.
One-off items also include the profit or loss on the All other property, plant and equipment is stated at historical cost disposal of businesses, a credit in respect of a change in pension less depreciation.
Historical cost includes expenditure that is directly liabilities as a result of using CPI rather than RPI for calculating attributable to the acquisition of the items.
Depreciation on other certain future pensions increases and a charge in respect of a claim assets is calculated using the straight-line method to allocate the under a lease guarantee given by a subsidiary following the disposal difference between their cost and their residual values over their of a business some 20 years ago.
estimated useful lives, as follows: 4 to 5 years Vehicles Foreign currency translation 3 to 10 years Plant, equipment including equipment for rental, tropical plants and their containers on rental a Functional and presentation currency Items included in the financial statements of each of the groups 3 to 10 years Office equipment, furniture and fittings entities are measured using the currency of the primary economic Assets residual values and useful lives are reviewed annually and environment in which the entity operates the functional currency.
Fixed assets are reviewed for impairment The consolidated financial statements are presented in sterling, which whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the is the companys functional and presentation currency.
carrying amount of the fixed asset may not be recoverable.
b Transactions and balances An assets carrying amount is written down immediately to its Foreign currency transactions are translated into the functional currency recoverable amount if the assets carrying amount exceeds the using the exchange rates prevailing at the dates of the transactions.
higher of the assets fair value less cost to sell or value-in-use.
Foreign exchange gains and losses resulting from the settlement of such For the purposes of assessing value-in-use, assets are grouped at the transactions and from the translation at reporting period end exchange lowest levels for which there are separately identifiable cash flows rates of monetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign cash-generating units and cash flow forecasts are made using currencies are recognised in the income statement except when assumptions consistent with the most up-to-date budgets and plans deferred in equity as qualifying net investment hedges.
Other foreign that have been formally approved by management.
These cash flows exchange differences are taken to the income statement.
are discounted using a pre-tax discount rate based on the weighted average cost of capital for the group, adjusted for the particular risks c Group companies of the cash-generating unit being reviewed for impairment.
The results and financial position of all the group entities that have a functional currency different from the presentation currency are Business combinations translated into the presentation currency as follows: Under the requirements of IFRS 3, all business combinations are i assets and liabilities for each balance sheet presented are accounted for using the purchase method acquisition accounting.
translated at the closing rate at the date of the balance sheet: The cost of a business combination is the aggregate of the fair values, ii income and expenses for each income statement are translated at the date of exchange, of assets given, liabilities incurred or at average exchange rates: and assumed and equity instruments issued by the acquirer.
The cost iii all resulting exchange differences are recognised as a separate of a business combination is allocated at the acquisition date by component of equity.
recognising the acquirees identifiable assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities that satisfy the recognition criteria, at their fair On consolidation, exchange differences arising from the translation values at that date.
The acquisition date is the date on which the of the net investment in foreign entities, and of borrowings and other acquirer effectively obtains control of the acquiree.
An intangible currency instruments designated as hedges of such investments, are asset, such as customer relationships, brands, patents and royalties, taken to shareholders equity.
When a foreign operation is sold, such is recognised if it meets the definition of an intangible asset in IAS 38, exchange differences are recognised in the income statement as part Intangible Assets.
The intangible assets identified in all acquisitions of the gain or loss on sale.
made since 1 January 1998 are goodwill, customer lists and Goodwill and fair value adjustments arising on the acquisition of a relationships, reacquired franchise rights and contract portfolios.
foreign entity are treated as assets and liabilities of the foreign entity Consideration in excess of net identifiable assets acquired in respect and translated at period end exchange rates.
of non controlling interests in existing subsidiary undertakings is taken directly to reserves.
Costs directly attributable to business combinations made after 1 January 2010 are charged to the income Property, plant and equipment statement as incurred.
Costs directly attributable to business Land and buildings comprise mainly factories and offices.
Provision combinations prior to this date were included as part of the purchase for depreciation of freehold buildings is made in equal annual price of the business combination.
Contingent consideration is instalments of 1% to 2% of cost.
Leasehold buildings classified as accounted for at fair value at the acquisition date with subsequent finance leases are depreciated in equal annual instalments over the changes to the fair value being recognised in the consolidated shorter of the lease term or estimated useful life of the leased asset.
No depreciation is charged on freehold land or fixed assets under construction.
When properties are sold, the difference between sale proceeds and net book value is dealt with in the income statement.
Rentokil Initial plc Annual report 2010 Financial statements 61 Accounting policies Intangible assets operate in certain geographical regions.
These are initially measured at fair value and amortised on a straight-line basis over the remaining Intangible assets are stated at cost less accumulated amortisation contractual period of the franchise agreements which terminated and accumulated impairment losses, where applicable.
The main on 25 October 2010. categories of intangible assets are as follows: Intangible assets indefinite useful lives d Computer software Goodwill Acquired computer software licences are capitalised on the basis of Goodwill represents the excess of the cost of an acquisition over the the costs incurred to acquire and bring into use the specific software fair value of the groups share of the net identifiable assets of the and are amortised over their estimated useful lives.
acquired subsidiary associate at the date of acquisition.
Goodwill Costs associated with maintaining computer software programs are in respect of business combinations made since 1 January 1998 is recognised as an expense as incurred.
Costs that are directly included in intangible assets.
Goodwill on the acquisition of associated with the production of identifiable and unique software associates is included in investments in associates.
Goodwill in products controlled by the group, and that will probably generate respect of the acquisition of subsidiaries made prior to 1 January 1998 economic benefits exceeding costs beyond one year, are recognised remains eliminated against reserves.
Direct costs include the software development, Goodwill is tested annually for impairment and carried at cost less employee costs and an appropriate portion of relevant overheads.
Impairment losses previously Computer software development costs recognised as assets are recognised are not reversed.
Goodwill is allocated to cashamortised over their estimated useful lives.
generating units for the purpose of impairment testing.
Gains and losses on the disposal of an entity include the carrying amount of e Research and development goodwill relating to the entity sold.
Research expenditure is recognised as an expense as incurred.
Costs incurred on development projects relating to the design and testing Intangible assets finite useful lives of new or improved products are recognised as intangible assets Intangible assets with finite useful lives are initially measured at when it is probable that the project will be a success considering its either cost or fair value and amortised on a straight-line basis over commercial and technological feasibility and only if the cost can be their useful economic lives, which are reviewed on an annual basis.
The fair value attributable to intangible assets acquired through a business combination is determined by discounting the expected Other development expenditure is recognised as an expense future cash flows to be generated from that asset at the risk adjusted as incurred.
weighted average cost of capital for the group.
The residual values of Development costs previously recognised as an expense are not intangible assets are assumed to be nil.
recognised as an asset in a subsequent period.
Development costs The estimated useful economic lives of intangible assets are as follows: that have been capitalised are amortised from the date the product is available for use on a straight-line basis over the period of its Customer lists and relationships: 5 to 16 years expected benefit.
Brands and patents: 2 to 15 years Reacquired franchise rights: 3 to 5 years Computer software: 3 to 5 years Inventories The following are the main categories of intangible assets: Inventories are stated at the lower of cost and net realisable value.
Cost is determined using the first-in, first-out FIFO method.
a Customer lists and relationships The cost of finished goods and work in progress comprises design Customer lists and portfolios acquired as part of a business costs, raw materials, direct labour, other direct costs and related combination are initially measured at fair value and amortised on a production overheads based on normal operating capacity.
straight-line basis over their useful economic lives.
Separate values are It excludes borrowing costs.
Net realisable value is the estimated not attributed to internally generated customer lists or relationships.
selling price in the ordinary course of business, less applicable variable selling expenses.
b Brands and patents Brands and patents acquired as part of a business combination are Trade receivables initially measured at fair value and amortised on a straight-line basis Trade receivables are recognised initially at fair value and over their useful economic lives.
Expenditure incurred to develop, subsequently measured at amortised cost using the effective interest maintain and renew brands and patents internally is recognised as method, less provision for impairment.
A provision for impairment of an expense in the period incurred.
Separate values are not attributed trade receivables is established when there is objective evidence that to internally generated brands and patents.
the group will not be able to collect all amounts due according to the original terms of the receivables.
The amount of the provision is c Reacquired franchise rights recognised in the income statement.
Reacquired franchise rights acquired as part of a business combination in City Link represents the benefit to the group from the right to Rentokil Initial plc Annual report 2010 62 Accounting policies Cash and cash equivalents Deferred income tax is provided on temporary differences arising on investments in subsidiaries and associates, except where the timing Cash and cash equivalents include cash in hand, deposits held at call of the reversal of the temporary difference is controlled by the group with banks and other short-term highly liquid investments with and it is probable that the temporary difference will not reverse in original maturities of three months or less and subject to insignificant the foreseeable future.
In the cash flow statement, cash and cash equivalents are shown net of bank overdrafts.
Bank overdrafts are Tax is recognised in the income statement except to the extent shown within borrowings in current liabilities on the balance sheet.
that it relates to items recognised directly in equity, in which case it is recognised in equity.
Share capital Employee benefits Ordinary shares are classified as equity.
Incremental costs directly attributable to the issue of new shares or options are shown in equity a Defined benefit pension plans as a deduction, net of tax, from the proceeds.
The group operates a number of pension schemes throughout the world.
The principal scheme is the UK scheme, which has a number Where any group company purchases the companys equity share of defined benefit sections, which are now closed to new entrants capital Treasury shares, the consideration paid, including any other than the Initial No 2 section, accounting for 0.5% of the total directly attributable incremental costs net of income taxes, is schemes liabilities, which remains open and a defined contribution deducted from equity attributable to the companys equity holders section.
The defined benefit scheme is funded through payments until the shares are cancelled, reissued or disposed of.
Where such to a trustee-administered fund, determined by periodic actuarial shares are subsequently sold or reissued, any consideration received, calculations.
A number of much smaller defined benefit and defined net of any directly attributable incremental transaction costs and the contribution schemes operate elsewhere which are also funded related income tax effects, is included in equity attributable to the through payments to trustee-administered funds or insurance companys equity holders.
A defined benefit plan is a pension plan that defines an amount of pension benefit that an employee will receive on Borrowings retirement, usually dependent on one or more factors such as age, years of service and compensation.
A defined contribution plan Borrowings are recognised initially at fair value, net of transaction is a pension plan under which the group pays fixed contributions costs incurred.
Borrowings are subsequently stated at amortised into a separate entity.
cost: any difference between the fair value net of transaction costs and the redemption value is recognised in the income statement over The asset or liability recognised in the balance sheet in respect of the period of the borrowings using the effective interest method.
defined benefit pension plans is the present value of the defined benefit obligation at the balance sheet date less the fair value of Where fair value hedge accounting is applied, the carrying value plan assets.
The defined benefit obligation is calculated annually is adjusted for any changes in the fair value of the hedged asset or by independent actuaries using the projected unit credit method.
liability that are attributable to the hedged risk.
The present value of the defined benefit obligation is determined by Borrowings are classified as current liabilities unless the group has discounting the estimated future cash outflows using interest rates a continuing right to defer settlement of the liability for at least 12 of high quality corporate bonds that are denominated in the currency months after the balance sheet date under both its committed bank in which the benefits will be paid, and that have terms to maturity credit facility and Euro Medium Term Note programme.
approximating to the terms of the related pension liability.
The group will recognise a pension surplus as an asset where there is an Deferred income tax unconditional right to a refund or where the group has a right to reduce future pension contributions.
Deferred income tax is provided in full, using the liability method, on temporary differences arising between the tax bases of assets Current and past service costs, to the extent they have vested, and and liabilities and their carrying amounts in the consolidated financial curtailments are recognised as charges or credits against operating statements.
However, if the deferred income tax arises from initial profit in the income statement.
Interest costs on plan liabilities and recognition of an asset or liability in a transaction other than a the expected return on plan assets are recognised in finance costs.
business combination that at the time of the transaction affects Actuarial gains and losses arising from experience adjustments and neither the accounting nor the taxable profit or loss, it is not changes in actuarial assumptions are charged or credited to the accounted for.
Deferred income tax is determined using tax rates consolidated statement of comprehensive income.
and laws that have been enacted or substantively enacted by the balance sheet date and are expected to apply when the related b Defined contribution pension plans deferred income tax asset is realised or the deferred income tax The group pays contributions to publicly or privately administered liability is settled.
pension insurance plans on a mandatory, contractual or voluntary basis.
The group has no further payment obligations once the Deferred income tax assets are recognised to the extent that it is contributions have been paid.
The contributions are recognised as probable that future taxable profit will be available against which employee benefit expense when they are due.
Prepaid contributions the temporary differences can be utilised.
Rentokil Initial plc Annual report 2010 Financial statements 63 Accounting policies are recognised as an asset to the extent that a cash refund Provisions or a reduction in the future payments is available.
Vacant property, environmental, self-insurance and other provisions are recognised when the group has a present legal or constructive c Other post-employment obligations obligation as a result of past events and it is probable that an outflow Some group companies provide post-employment healthcare of resources will be required to settle the obligation: and if this benefits to their retirees.
The entitlement to these benefits is usually amount is capable of being reliably estimated.
If such an obligation conditional on the employee remaining in service up to retirement age is not capable of being reliably estimated it is classified as a and the completion of a minimum service period.
The expected costs contingent liability.
of these benefits are accrued over the period of employment using an Vacant property provision is made in respect of vacant and partly accounting methodology similar to that used for defined benefit sub-let leasehold properties to the extent that future rental pension plans.
Actuarial gains and losses arising from experience payments are expected to exceed future rental income.
adjustments, and changes in actuarial assumptions, are charged or Environmental provision is made for all known liabilities to credited to the consolidated statement of comprehensive income.
remediate contaminated land on the basis of managements best estimate of the costs of these liabilities.
Self-insurance provision d Share-based compensation is made for all claims incurred as at the balance sheet date whether The group operates a number of equity-settled, share-based notified or not based on actuarial assessments of the likely amounts compensation plans.
The economic cost of awarding shares and of these liabilities.
Other provisions are made for all other known share options to employees is recognised as an expense in the liabilities that exist at the year end based on managements best income statement equivalent to the fair value of the benefit awarded.
estimate as to the cost of settling these liabilities.
Provisions are The fair value is determined by reference to option pricing models, not recognised for future operating losses.
principally Monte Carlo and adjusted Black-Scholes models.
The charge is recognised in the income statement over the vesting period Where there are a number of similar obligations, the likelihood of the award.
At each balance sheet date, the group revises its that an outflow will be required in settlement is determined by estimate of the number of options that are expected to become considering the class of obligations as a whole.
Any revision to the original estimates is reflected in When the effect of the time value of money is material, provision the income statement with a corresponding adjustment to equity amounts are calculated on the present value of the expenditures immediately to the extent it relates to past service and the remainder expected to be required to settle the obligation.
The present value over the rest of the vesting period.
is calculated using forward market interest rates, as measured at the The proceeds received net of any directly attributable transaction balance sheet reporting date, which have been adjusted for risks costs are credited to share capital nominal value and share premium already reflected in future cash flow estimates.
when the options are exercised.
Revenue recognition e Termination benefits Revenue comprises the fair value of consideration received from the Termination benefits are payable when an employment is terminated customer for the rendering of services, net of value-added tax and before the normal retirement date, or whenever an employee accepts other similar sales-based taxes, rebates and discounts and after voluntary redundancy in exchange for these benefits.
The group eliminating sales within the group.
Revenue is recognised as follows: recognises termination benefits when it is demonstrably committed to either: terminating the employment of current employees a Service revenue according to a detailed formal plan without possibility of withdrawal: Revenue excludes VAT and other similar sales-based taxes, rebates or providing termination benefits as a result of an offer made to and discounts and represents the fair value of consideration encourage voluntary redundancy.
Benefits falling due more than 12 receivable from the customer for services rendered outside the group.
months after the balance sheet date are discounted to present value.
For non-contract-based business, revenue represents the value of f Profit-sharing and bonus plans goods delivered or services performed.
For contract-based business, The group recognises a liability and an expense for bonuses and revenue represents the sales value of work carried out for customers profit-sharing, based on a formula that takes into consideration during the period.
Contract income is recognised in accounting the probability of certain performance criteria being achieved.
periods on a straight-line basis over the life of the contract.
For A provision is recognised where a contractual obligation exists or long-term contracts involving the installation of equipment, revenue where past practice indicates that there is a constructive obligation is recognised using the percentage completion method and to make such payments in the future.
represents the sales value of work executed during the period.
g Holiday pay b Rental income Paid holidays are regarded as an employee benefit and as such Rental assets such as tropical plants, washroom equipment, garments, are charged to the income statement as the benefits are earned.
linen, security equipment, etc which are owned by group entities or An accrual is made at the balance sheet date to reflect the fair where at least substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership of value of holidays earned but not yet taken.
Rentokil Initial plc Annual report 2010 64 Accounting policies such equipment are retained by group entities are capitalised as fixed Dividend distribution assets and depreciated over their estimated useful lives.
Dividend distribution to the companys shareholders is recognised All rental income received or receivable in respect of rental assets is as a liability in the groups financial statements in the period in which accounted for on an operating lease basis.
Income from the rental of the dividends are approved by the companys shareholders.
Interim these assets is credited to revenue on a strict time-apportioned basis.
dividends are recognised when paid.
c Interest income Financial instruments Interest income is recognised on a time-apportioned basis using Financial assets and financial liabilities are recognised when the the effective interest method.
When a receivable is impaired, group becomes a party to the contractual provisions of the relevant the group reduces the carrying amount to its recoverable amount, instrument and derecognised when it ceases to be a party to being the estimated future cash flow discounted at the original such provisions.
effective interest rate of the instrument, and continues unwinding the discount as interest income.
Interest income on impaired loans is recognised either as cash is collected or on a cost-recovery basis Financial assets as conditions warrant.
The group classifies its financial assets in the following categories: financial assets at fair value through the income statement, loans and Taxation receivables and available-for-sale financial assets.
The classification depends on the purpose for which the financial assets were acquired.
The tax expense for the period comprises current and deferred tax.
Management determines the classification of its investments at Tax is recognised in the income statement, except to the extent that initial recognition and re-evaluates this designation at every it relates to items recognised directly in equity.
In this case the tax reporting date.
The group assesses at each balance sheet date is also recognised in equity.
whether there is objective evidence that financial assets are impaired.
The current income tax charge is calculated on the basis of the tax All financial assets are held at amortised cost except for derivatives, laws enacted or substantively enacted at the balance sheet date which are classified as held for trading unless in a hedging relationin the countries where the companys subsidiaries and associates ship and certain assets classified as available-for-sale, which are held operate and generate taxable income.
Management periodically at fair value.
evaluates positions taken in tax returns with respect to situations in which applicable tax regulation is subject to interpretation.
a Financial assets at fair value through the income statement It establishes provisions where appropriate on the basis of amounts Assets are classified as current if they are expected to be realised expected to be paid to the tax authorities.
within 12 months of the balance sheet date.
Leases b Loans and receivables Leases of property, plant and equipment where the group has Loans and receivables are non-derivative financial assets with fixed substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership are classified as or determinable payments that are not quoted in an active market.
Finance leases are capitalised at the leases inception They arise when the group provides money, goods or services at the lower of the fair value of the leased property and the present directly to a debtor with no intention of trading the receivable.
value of the minimum lease payments.
Each lease payment is They are included in current assets, except for maturities greater allocated between the liability and finance charges so as to achieve than 12 months from the balance sheet date.
These are classified a constant rate on the finance balance outstanding.
Loans and receivables include trade and other receivables and cash and other equivalents.
The corresponding rental obligations, net of finance charges, are included in other payables.
The interest element of the finance cost c Available-for-sale financial assets is charged to the income statement over the lease period so as to Available-for-sale financial assets are non-derivatives that are either produce a constant periodic rate of interest on the remaining designated in this category or not classified in any of the other balance of the liability for each period.
The property, plant and categories.
They are included in non-current assets unless equipment acquired under finance leases are depreciated over the management intends to dispose of the investment within 12 months shorter of the useful life of the asset or the lease term.
of the balance sheet date.
Leases in which a significant portion of the risks and rewards of Available-for-sale investments are fair valued and changes to market ownership are retained by the lessor are classified as operating values are recognised in equity.
On subsequent disposal or leases.
Payments made under operating leases net of any incentives impairment, the accumulated gains and losses, previously recognised received from the lessor are charged to the income statement on in equity, are recognised in the income statement as gains and a straight-line basis over the period of the lease.
Loans and receivables are measured at amortised cost using the effective interest rate method, subject to impairment.
Rentokil Initial plc Annual report 2010 Financial statements 65 Accounting policies The group assesses at each balance sheet date whether there is c Derivatives that do not qualify for hedge accounting objective evidence that a financial asset or a group of financial assets Certain derivative instruments do not qualify for hedge accounting.
In the case of equity securities classified as available-forChanges in the fair value of any derivative instruments that do not sale, a significant or prolonged decline in the fair value of the security qualify for hedge accounting are recognised immediately in the below its cost is considered as an indicator that the securities are income statement.
If any such evidence exists for available for-sale financial assets, the cumulative loss measured as the difference between the d Cash flow hedge acquisition cost and the current fair value, less any impairment loss The portion of the gain or loss on the hedging instrument relating on that financial asset previously recognised in the income statement to the effective portion of the hedge is recognised in equity.
Any is removed from equity and recognised in the income statement.
ineffective portion is recognised in the income statement.
The Impairment losses recognised in the income statement on equity gains or losses that are recognised in equity are transferred to the instruments are not reversed through the income statement.
consolidated income statement in the same period in which the hedged cash flows affect the consolidated income statement.
Financial liabilities Discontinued operations All financial liabilities are stated at amortised cost using the effective interest rate method except for derivatives, which are classified A discontinued operation is a component of an entity that has as held for trading except where they qualify for hedge accounting either been disposed of, or that is classified as held for sale, which and are held at fair value.
represents a separate major line of business or geographical area of operations and is part of a single coordinated plan to dispose Financial liabilities held at amortised cost include trade payables, of a separate line of business or geographical area of operations.
vacant property provisions, deferred consideration and borrowings.
Fair value estimation Accounting for derivative financial The fair value of any financial instruments traded in active markets is instruments and hedging activities based on quoted market prices at the balance sheet date.
The quoted Derivatives are initially recognised at fair value on the date a market price used for financial assets held by the group is the current derivative contract is entered into and are subsequently re-measured bid price: the appropriate quoted market price for financial liabilities at their fair value at the balance sheet date.
The method of recognising is the current ask price.
the resulting gain or loss depends on whether the derivative is Quoted market prices or dealer quotes for similar instruments designated as a hedging instrument and, if so, the nature of the item are used for long-term debt.
Other techniques, such as estimated being hedged.
The group designates certain derivatives as either 1 discounted cash flows, are used to determine fair value for the hedges of the fair value of recognised assets or liabilities, 2 hedges remaining financial instruments.
The fair value of interest rate and of net investments in foreign operations or 3 cash flow hedges.
currency swaps is calculated as the present value of the estimated The group documents at the inception of the transaction the future cash flows.
The fair value of forward foreign exchange relationship between hedging instruments and hedged items, as contracts is determined using forward exchange market rates at well as its risk management objective and strategy for undertaking the balance sheet date.
The fair value of financial instruments that various hedge transactions.
The group also documents its are not traded in an active market is determined by using valuation assessment, both at hedge inception and on an on-going basis, of techniques.
The group uses a variety of methods and makes whether the derivatives that are used in hedging transactions are assumptions that are based on market conditions existing at each highly effective in offsetting changes in fair values of hedged items.
The nominal value less estimated credit adjustments of trade a Fair value hedge receivables and payables are assumed to approximate to their fair Changes in the fair value of derivatives that are designated and values.
The fair value of financial liabilities for disclosure purposes qualify as fair value hedges are recorded in the income statement, is estimated by discounting the future contractual cash flows at the together with any changes in the fair value of the hedged asset current market interest rate that is available to the group for similar or liability that are attributable to the hedged risk.
b Net investment hedge Any gain or loss on the hedging instrument relating to the effective Critical accounting estimates and portion of the hedge is recognised in equity: the gain or loss relating assumptions to the ineffective portion is recognised immediately in the income Estimates and judgements are continually evaluated and are statement.
Gains and losses accumulated in equity are included in based on historical experience and other factors, including the income statement when the foreign operation is disposed of.
expectations of future events that are believed to be reasonable under the circumstances.
Rentokil Initial plc Annual report 2010 66 Accounting policies The group makes estimates and assumptions concerning the future.
f Retirement benefits The resulting accounting estimates will, by definition, seldom equal Defined benefit schemes are reappraised annually by independent the related actual results.
The estimates and assumptions that have actuaries based upon actuarial assumptions.
Significant judgement a significant risk of causing a material adjustment to the carrying is required in determining these actuarial assumptions.
Refer to note amounts of assets and liabilities within the next financial year are 24 for the principal assumptions used for the Rentokil Initial Pension discussed below.
Sensitivities to the estimates and assumptions are Scheme in the United Kingdom.
provided, where relevant, in the relevant notes to the accounts.
Standards, amendments and a Estimated impairment of goodwill interpretations to published standards The group tests annually whether goodwill has suffered any impairment in accordance with the accounting policy stated earlier that are not yet effective under intangible assets goodwill.
The recoverable amounts of With effect from 1 January 2010, the group adopted Improvements cash-generating units have been determined based on value-in-use to IFRSs 2010 which makes minor amendments to seven existing calculations.
These calculations require the use of estimates and standards.
These amendments impact disclosures and, therefore, assumptions consistent with the most up-to-date budgets and plans have had no impact on the reported results or financial position that have been formally approved by management.
b Valuation of acquired intangible assets The following new standards and amendments to standards as Acquisitions may result in customer relationships, brands, patents adopted by the European Union at 31 December 2010 have been and reacquired franchise rights being recognised.
These are valued adopted by the group from 1 January 2010: using the excess earnings and relief from royalty methods.
IFRS 3 revised, Business combinations, introduces changes to In applying these methodologies certain key judgements and the accounting treatment of acquisitions, such as accounting for estimates are required to be made in respect of future cash flows.
acquisition related costs, the initial recognition and subsequent measurement of contingent consideration, and business c Provision for impairment of trade receivables combinations achieved in stages.
The change in accounting policy Provision is made against accounts that in the estimation of has been applied prospectively and has not had a material impact management may be impaired.
Within each of the businesses, on the reported results.
Amendments to IAS 27, Consolidated and assessment is made locally of the recoverability of accounts separate financial statements, requires that acquisitions of non receivable and the creditworthiness of the customer.
Determining controlling interests that do not result in a change of control are the recoverability of an account involves estimation as to the likely accounted for as transactions with equity holders and, therefore, financial condition of the customer and their ability to subsequently no goodwill is recognised as a result.
The change in accounting policy make payment.
has been applied prospectively and has not had a material impact on the reported results.
d Income taxes Other new standards and amendments to standards effective The group is subject to income taxes in numerous jurisdictions.
in the year did not have an impact on the group.
Significant judgement is required in determining the worldwide provision for income taxes.
There are many transactions and The following new standards and amendments to standards which calculations for which the ultimate tax determination is uncertain are applicable to the group and have been issued, are not effective during the ordinary course of business.
The group recognises for the financial year beginning 1 January 2010.
The group does not liabilities for anticipated tax audit issues based on estimates of believe the adoption of the below standards and amendments to whether additional taxes will be due.
Where the final tax outcome standards will have a material impact on the consolidated results of these matters is different from the amounts that were initially or the financial position of the group.
recorded, such differences will impact the income tax and deferred IAS 24 Related party disclosures revised 2009 tax provisions in the period in which such determination is made.
IAS 32 Amendments to financial instruments classification of rights issues e Provision for vacant property and environmental restoration Significant judgement is required in determining the worldwide IFRIC 19 Extinguishing financial liabilities with equity instruments provision for vacant property and environmental restoration.
Vacant IFRIC 14 Prepayments of a Minimum Funding Requirement property and environmental restoration tend to be long-term in nature and the required use of an appropriate market discount rate and forecast future utilisation based upon managements best estimate determines the level of provision required at the balance sheet date.
The phasing and actual cash spend may be different from the original forecast utilisation spend.
Rentokil Initial plc Annual report 2010
