Introduction Business review Governance Financial statements Accounting policies for the consolidated accounts Significant accounting policies Change in accounting policies The Restaurant Group plc the Company is a company In the current financial year, the Group has adopted incorporated and registered in Scotland.
The consolidated International Financial Reporting Standard 3 Business financial statements of the Company for the year ended Combinations revised 2008 and International Accounting 2 January 2011 comprise the Company and its subsidiaries Standard 27 Consolidated and Separate Financial together referred to as the Group and the Groups interest Statements revised 2008.
There has been no impact in its associate.
on the consolidated financial statements on adoption of these standards.
a Statement of compliance The consolidated financial statements have been prepared in Future accounting policies accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards At the date of authorisation of these financial statements, IFRSs and its interpretations adopted by the International the following Standards and Interpretations which have not Accounting Standards Board IASB and as adopted by the been applied in these financial statements were in issue European Union.
but not yet effective and in some cases had not yet been adopted by the EU : b Going concern basis IFRS 9 Financial Instruments The consolidated financial statements have been prepared on IAS 24 amended Related Party Disclosures a going concern basis as, after making appropriate enquires, IAS 32 amended Classification of Rights Issues the Directors have a reasonable expectation that the Group IFRIC 19 Extinguishing Financial Liabilities has adequate resources to continue in operational existence with Equity Instruments for the foreseeable future at the time of approving the financial IFRIC 14 amended Prepayments of a Minimum statements.
The principal risks and uncertainties facing the Funding Requirement Group and further comments on going concern are set out Improvements to IFRSs May 2010 in the report of the Directors on pages 21 to 25.
The Directors do not expect that the adoption of the c Basis of preparation standards listed above will have a material impact on the The accounting year runs to a Sunday within seven financial statements of the Group in future periods.
days of 31 December each year which will be a 52 or 53 week period.
d Basis of consolidation i Subsidiaries The financial statements are presented in sterling, rounded Subsidiaries are entities controlled by the Company.
Control to the nearest thousand.
They have been prepared on the exists when the Company has the power, directly or indirectly, historical cost basis except derivative financial instruments to govern the financial and operating policies of an entity which are held at their fair value.
Non-current assets and so as to obtain benefits from its activities.
In assessing assets held for sale are stated at the lower of carrying control, potential voting rights that presently are exercisable amount and fair value less costs to sell.
or convertible are taken into account, regardless of managements intention to exercise that option or warrant.
The preparation of financial statements in conformity with The financial statements of subsidiaries are included in the IFRS requires management to make judgements, estimates consolidated financial statements from the date that control and assumptions that affect the application of policies and commences until the date that control ceases.
reported amounts of assets and liabilities, income and expenses.
The estimates and associated assumptions are ii Associates based on historical experience and various other factors that Associates are those entities in which the Group has are believed to be reasonable under the circumstances, the significant influence, but not control, over the financial and results of which form the basis of making the judgments operating policies.
The consolidated financial statements about carrying values of assets and liabilities that are not include the Groups share of the total recognised gains and readily apparent from other sources.
Actual results may losses of associates on an equity accounted basis, from the differ from these estimates.
date that significant influence commences until the date that significant influence ceases.
When the Groups share of The estimates and underlying assumptions are reviewed losses exceeds its interest in an associate, the Groups on an ongoing basis.
Revisions to accounting estimates carrying amount would be reduced to nil and recognition are recognised in the period in which the estimate is revised of further losses is discontinued except to the extent that if the revision affects only that period, or in the period of the the Group has incurred legal or constructive obligations revision and future periods if the revision affects both current or made payments on behalf of an associate.
The Restaurant Group plc Annual Report 2010 39 Accounting policies for the consolidated accounts co ntinued iii Transactions eliminated on consolidation Leases in terms of which the Group assumes substantially Intragroup balances and any gains and losses or income and all the risks and rewards of ownership are classified as expenses arising from intragroup transactions are eliminated finance leases.
The owner-occupied property excluding land in preparing the consolidated financial statements.
Unrealised element acquired by way of finance lease is stated at an gains arising from transactions with associates are eliminated amount equal to the lower of its fair value and the present to the extent of the Groups interest in the entity.
Unrealised value of the minimum lease payments at inception of the losses are eliminated in the same way as unrealised gains, lease, less accumulated depreciation see below and but only to the extent that there is no evidence of impairment.
impairment losses see accounting policy l. Lease payments are accounted for as described in accounting policy s. e Foreign currency Assets and liabilities in foreign currencies are translated Subsequent costs into sterling at the rates of exchange ruling at the date of The Group recognises in the carrying amount of an item the balance sheet.
Transactions in foreign currencies are of property, plant and equipment the cost of replacing part translated into sterling at the rate of exchange at the date of such an item when that cost is incurred if it is probable of the transaction.
The profit and loss accounts for overseas that the future economic benefits embodied with the item will operations are translated at the average rate of exchange for flow to the Group and the cost of the item can be measured the periods covered by the accounts.
All other costs are recognised in the income that relate to the net equity investment in overseas activities statement as an expense as incurred.
are taken directly to reserves.
Depreciation f Derivative financial instruments Depreciation is charged to the income statement on a The Group uses derivative financial instruments, where straight-line basis over the estimated useful lives of each part appropriate, to hedge its exposure to interest rate risks arising of an item of property, plant and equipment.
The estimated from operational, financing and investment activities.
In useful lives are as follows: accordance with its treasury policy, the Group does not hold or issue derivative financial instruments for trading purposes.
Freehold land Indefinite However, derivatives that do not qualify for hedge accounting Freehold buildings 50 years are accounted for as trading instruments.
Long and short leasehold property Term of lease or 50 years, whichever is lower Derivative financial instruments are recognised initially at Fixtures and equipment 3-10 years cost.
Subsequent to initial recognition, derivative financial Motor vehicles 4 years instruments are stated at fair value.
The gain or loss on Computer equipment 3-5 years remeasurement to fair value is recognised immediately in the income statement.
However, where derivatives qualify for h Intangible assets Goodwill hedge accounting, recognition of any resultant gain or loss All business combinations are accounted for by applying the depends on the nature of the item being hedged.
Goodwill represents amounts arising the Groups derivatives currently qualify for hedge accounting.
on acquisition of subsidiaries, associates and joint ventures.
In respect of business acquisitions that have occurred since The fair value of interest rate swaps is the estimated amount 1 January 2004, goodwill represents the difference between that the Group would receive or pay to terminate the swap the cost of the acquisition and the fair value of the net at the balance sheet date, taking into account current identifiable assets acquired.
interest rates and the current creditworthiness of the swap counterparties.
The classification and accounting treatment of business combinations that occurred prior to 1 January 2004 has not g Property, plant and equipment been reconsidered in preparing the Groups opening IFRS Items of property, plant and equipment are stated at cost less balance sheet at 1 January 2004. accumulated depreciation see below and impairment losses see accounting policy l. Goodwill is stated at cost less any accumulated impairment losses.
Goodwill is allocated to cash generating units and Where parts of an item of property, plant and equipment have is formally tested bi-annually for impairment see accounting different useful lives, they are accounted for as separate items policy l. In respect of associates, the carrying amount of of property, plant and equipment.
goodwill is included in the carrying amount of the investment in the associate.
Any excess of fair value of net assets over consideration on acquisition is recognised directly in the income statement.
40 The Restaurant Group plc Annual Report 2010 Introduction Business review Governance Financial statements n Provisions i Trade and other receivables A provision is recognised in the balance sheet when the Trade and other receivables are stated at their cost less Group has a present legal or constructive obligation as impairment losses see accounting policy l. a result of a past event, and it is probable that an outflow of economic benefits will be required to settle the obligation.
j Stock If the effect is material, provisions are determined by Stock is stated at the lower of cost and net realisable value.
discounting the expected future cash flows at a pre-tax rate Net realisable value is the estimated selling price in the that reflects current market assessments of the time value ordinary course of business, less the estimated costs of of money and, where appropriate, the risks specific to completion and selling expenses.
k Cash and cash equivalents o Deferred and current tax Cash and cash equivalents comprise cash balances and Corporation tax payable is provided on the taxable profit call deposits.
Bank overdrafts that are repayable on demand at the current rate.
Deferred tax is recognised in respect and form an integral part of the Groups cash management of all temporary differences that have originated but not are included as a component of cash and cash equivalents reversed at the balance sheet date, except to the extent for the purpose of the statement of cash flows.
that the deferred tax arises from the initial recognition of goodwill.
Temporary differences are differences between l Impairment the carrying amount of the Groups assets and liabilities The carrying amounts of the Groups assets are reviewed and their tax base.
at each balance sheet date to determine whether there is any indication of impairment.
Deferred tax is measured at the tax rates that are expected to apply in the periods in which the temporary differences For property, plant and equipment, the carrying value are expected to reverse based on tax rates and laws that are of each cash generating unit CGU is compared to its enacted, or substantively enacted, by the balance sheet date.
Value in use calculations are based Deferred tax is measured on a non-discounted basis.
on discounted cash flows over the remaining useful life of the CGU between 2 and 50 years.
The discount rate used p Pensions is the rate believed by the Board to reflect the risks associated The Group makes contributions for selected employees into with each CGU.
Impairment losses are recognised in the defined contribution pension plans and these contributions income statement.
are charged to the income statement as they become payable.
The Group does not operate any defined For goodwill and assets that have an indefinite useful life, benefit plans.
the recoverable amount is estimated at each balance sheet date.
An impairment loss is recognised whenever the carrying q Onerous contracts amount of an asset or its cash generating unit exceeds its A provision for onerous contracts is recognised when the recoverable amount.
Impairment losses are recognised in expected benefits to be derived by the Group from a contract the income statement and are not subsequently reversed.
are lower than the unavoidable cost of meeting its obligations under the contract.
m Share-based payment transactions The share option programme allows Group employees to r Revenue acquire shares of the Company and all options are equityRevenue represents amounts received and receivable for settled.
The fair value of options granted is recognised as an services and goods provided excluding value added tax employee expense with a corresponding increase in equity.
and voluntary gratuities left by customers for the benefit The fair value is measured at grant date and spread over the of employees and is recognised at the point of sale.
period during which the employees become unconditionally entitled to the options.
The fair value of the options granted is measured using a Stochastic model, taking into account the terms and conditions upon which the options were granted.
The amount recognised as an expense is adjusted to reflect the actual number of share options that vest except where forfeiture is only due to market based conditions not achieving the threshold for vesting.
The Restaurant Group plc Annual Report 2010 41 Accounting policies for the consolidated accounts co ntinued s Expenses b Impairment of goodwill and property, plant i Operating lease payments and equipment Payments made under operating leases are recognised in The Group formally determines whether property, plant and the income statement on a straight-line basis over the term equipment and goodwill are impaired on a bi-annual basis.
Incentives to enter into an operating lease are This requires the Group to determine the lowest level of also spread on a straight-line basis over the lease term as assets which generate largely independent cash flows a reduction in rental expense.
cash generating units or CGU and to estimate the value in use of these assets or CGUs: and compare these to their ii Finance lease payments carrying value.
Cash generating units are deemed to be Minimum lease payments are apportioned between the individual units, a collection of units or a brand depending on finance charge and the reduction of the outstanding liability.
the nature of the trading environment in which they operate.
The finance charge is allocated to each period during the Calculating the value in use requires the Group to make an lease term so as to produce a constant periodic rate of estimate of the future cash flows of each CGU and to choose interest on the remaining balance of the liability.
a suitable discount rate in order to calculate the present value of those cash flows.
The discount rate used in the iii Pre-opening expenses year ended 2 January 2011 for all CGUs was based on the Property rentals and related costs incurred up to the Groups weighted average cost of capital of 9.5% year ended date of opening of a new restaurant are written off to the 27 December 2009: 10.96% as the Directors believe there income statement in the period in which they are incurred.
are broadly equal risks associated with each CGU.
No Promotional and training costs are written off to the income impairment is required in the year ended 2 January 2011. statement in the period in which they are incurred.
iv Borrowing costs Debt is stated net of borrowing costs which are spread over the term of the loan.
All other borrowings costs are recognised in the income statement in the period in which they are incurred.
t Dividend policy In accordance with IAS 10, Events after the Balance Sheet Date, dividends declared after the balance sheet date are not recognised as a liability at that balance sheet date, and are recognised in the financial statements when they have received approval by shareholders.
Critical accounting judgements and key sources of estimation and uncertainty In the process of applying the Groups accounting policies as described above, management has made a number of judgements and estimations of which the following are the most significant.
a Impairment of carrying value of associate The investment in Living Ventures Restaurants Group Limited and the loan note of 10.4m receivable from a subsidiary of that company were fully provided against in the years ended 30 December 2007 and 31 December 2006.
Following a review of the trading performance of the company, the Directors have concluded that this treatment is appropriate and no adjustment has been made in either the current or the previous year.
Further details are provided in note 13.
42 The Restaurant Group plc Annual Report 2010
