45 The majority of our customers have well articulated responsibility operations: efficient use of resources and sustainability strategies.
Packaging optimisation, reduction or conservation of energy and water, use of recycled material and reduction in waste to landfill are the main issues in their Improving resource efficiency in our operations is at the core of sustainability strategies for packaging.
During 2010, we became our manufacturing processes, not least because of the cost benefit more proactive in discussing with customers where we could work it brings to us and the packaging supply chain.
We use established collaboratively to deliver environmental improvements that assisted continuous improvement tools such as six sigma to drive a culture of them to meet their objectives, including developing plastic products efficiency and economy in all that we do, and this lean enterprise specifically using recycled raw material.
approach is well suited to support our sustainability objectives.
It enables us to reduce the use of raw materials and to reduce We pursue lightweighting projects in partnership with our our consumption of energy and water thus reducing our carbon customers, all the while ensuring that we can deliver more efficient and environmental footprint.
packaging that still protects the contents.
We have a long established internal process measuring lean The requirement for continuous improvement forms part of our enterprise progress, with an award system of Bronze, Silver, supplier excellence programme and responsible sourcing of Gold and Beyond Gold.
In 2010, 50% of our plants 2009: 43% goods and services is embedded in all our procurement activities.
achieved Gold or Beyond Gold.
In 2011, we will improve our REACH Registration, Evaluation and Authorisation of Chemicals operational excellence even further by establishing exemplar compliance is understood and we have appropriate structures in plants externally verified against the Shingo assessment, an place to deliver and maintain compliance.
Rexam commissioned a internationally recognised evaluation of world class operational third party review in 2010 that concluded that purchasing controls excellence.
These plants will become the internal benchmark for are compliant.
The businesses change management programme all Rexam operations to aspire to.
currently is being extended to include REACH, and a related third All our operating sites have robust environmental management party review and follow up audit will take place in 2011. systems EMS in place.
We encourage them to achieve we will innovate to meet long term consumer, independent external certification.
Where this is not appropriate, environmental and regulatory trends we still adopt EMS that stand up to internal verification against key Innovation is critical to our long term success.
We have an elements of ISO 14001.
In 2010, 48 of our plants 2009: 46 plants established track record of developing new products, services and were verified against ISO 14001. processes which not only help our customers meet, or anticipate, changing consumer trends but which also meet, or anticipate, environmental and regulatory trends.
In recent years, not only have we launched the innovative products detailed in the chief executives and operating reviews, we have introduced many other products which met, or anticipated, new trends.
2009, for example, saw the launch of wine in cans to take advantage of beverage cans lightweight benefits, reduced content waste and better portion control.
We regularly introduce innovative operational excellence plastic packaging products to the market, such as our 2010 launch of the Nea Airless lotion dispenser which combines design responsible procurement flexibility and production efficiency while also addressing the We review all outbound and inbound shipments to determine increasing popularity of preservative free formulations.
the most effective mode of transport.
In 2010, our US based We continue to collaborate with a wide range of interested plastic packaging operations moved 620 shipments via train parties customers, suppliers, universities and R&D organisations rather than road transport, saving 450 tonnes of CO2 emissions.
Also, our logistics provider in the US is part of the SmartWay to research and evaluate the viability of non fossil fuel based resins.
This programme comprises logistics companies Effective substitution of fossil fuel derived polymers is not, however, who are committed to using only carriers that have equipment automatically an eco friendly solution to environmental concerns.
that reduces CO2 emissions by utilising efficient trucks and The quantity of water and land necessary to grow the base crops operating procedures.
from which these polymers are derived is a challenge, as is the performance of the product which can restrict substitution.
450 tonnes financial statements governance sustainability business review overview 46 Rexam annual report 2010 directors report sustainability In 2010, we reduced our total CO2 footprint to 1.17m equivalent tonnes 2009: 1.23m equivalent tonnes, in spite of increasing production volumes, and we reduced our carbon intensity per winning organisation kilogram of raw material converted by 7.4% to 0.88 CO2 equivalent 2009: 0.95 CO2 equivalent.
This strong result, pulling together which will be reported in the 2011 CDP survey, was underpinned by further reductions in our electricity and gas consumption.
Rexam supported the emergency and rebuilding efforts after the devastating earthquake in Haiti in 2010.
Employees from In 2010, we reduced our energy consumption per tonne of around the world donated money, which was matched by the production by 14.6% to 2.68 MWh 2009: 3.14 MWh by Group, and we partnered with our customers in the provision of aid.
Our Healthcare division donated prescription vial applying best practices on air compressor management and packaging to assist in the set up of a working pharmacy to help maintenance, lighting systems and motion sensors, efficient earthquake victims, and our Closures plant in Erie, US, worked electrical motors with variable frequency drive controls and with a nutritional beverages company and provided a million injection moulding technology.
extra custom closures within a week for products that were being sent to Haiti.
In the UK, we are registered with two energy CO2 schemes: the Climate Change Agreement CCA to ensure our compliance with the Climate Change Levy: and the CRC Energy Efficiency Scheme CRC which will seek to capture energy usage from non CCA sites.
In the summer of 2010, the UK government announced that the we will improve our material efficiency CRC will not be implemented until 2012.
We are confident that Material reduction is not only an efficiency gain, but it also reduces our positive track record in managing our carbon impact and transport demands and brings fuel and logistics cost savings across improving energy efficiency will ensure that we manage effectively the supply chain.
In 2010, we continued to make progress the impact of the CRC.
improving raw material efficiency, cutting the tonnes of raw material per tonne of production by 7.
We do not use large quantities of water in our manufacturing This result was driven by continued sharing of operational best processes, but we recognise the value of this increasingly scarce practice and the ongoing application of six sigma and lean resource and that it is central to the sustainability strategies of many enterprise.
For example, in our beverage can making process we of our beverage customers.
have increased the number of discs we can cut per square metre of aluminium, thereby getting more out of each roll of aluminium and reducing the amount of scrap needing to be recycled.
As beverage cans are made from metal that is both fully recoverable and recyclable, our raw material includes metal that has been reprocessed many times over.
We continue to drive further reductions in the amount of metal used to make each can.
resource consumption Across our can making business we used c. 6,500 tonnes less of processed raw material tonnes tonnes of production aluminium in 2010 compared with 2009.
We continued to make progress improving raw material We continue to reduce the amount of raw material used to make efficiency, cutting the tonnes of raw material per tonne of our plastic packaging products, and we promote actively the production by 7.3%.
we will improve our carbon efficiency and reduce the Group energy and water we use 2010 1.15 Across the business, we consume electricity, natural gas and water.
2009 1.24 We also transport our products by sea, road and rail to customers sites.
We are continually improving our usage of these resources.
Beverage Cans In 2009, we registered our global carbon performance with the 2010 1.17 Carbon Disclosure Project CDP, an international reference 2009 1.30 organisation dedicated to reducing industrys carbon impact on the environment, and we provided energy consumption and management data for the 2010 CDP survey which is the full year Plastic Packaging information for 2009.
The CDP allows us to demonstrate publicly to 2010 1.07 our customers and other stakeholders our commitment and progress 2009 1.08 towards lowering our carbon footprint, critically by measuring our carbon intensity per kilogram of raw material converted.
