Production, reserves Overview Performance and operations Governance Financial statements Additional information Rio Tinto Limited Registered offices Rio Tinto plc Computershare Investor Services Pty Limited GPO Box 2975 2 Eastbourne Terrace Melbourne London Victoria 3001 W2 6LG Registered in England No.
com New Zealand residents only, toll free: Rio Tinto Limited 0800 450 740 Level 33 Website: www.
com 120 Collins Street Investor Centre Melbourne To find out more about Investor Centre go Victoria 3000 to www.
com ACN 96 004 458 404 Former Alcan Inc. Shareholders Telephone: 61 0 3 9283 3333 Facsimile: 61 0 3 9283 3707 Computershare Investor Services Inc. Website: www.
com 9th Floor 100 University Avenue Rio Tintos agent in the US is Shannon Crompton, Toronto who may be contacted at Ontario Rio Tinto Services Inc. M5J 2Y1 80 State Street Canada Albany New York, 12207-2543 Telephone: 1 514 982 7555 North American residents only, toll free Shareholders 1 866 624 1341 Please contact the respective registrar if you have any Website: www.
com queries about your shareholding.
Rio Tinto plc Computershare Investor Services PLC The Pavilions Bridgwater Road Bristol BS99 6ZY Telephone: 44 0 870 703 6364 Facsimile: 44 0 870 703 6119 UK residents only, Freephone: 0800 435021 Website: www.
com Investor Centre To find out more about Investor Centre, go to www.
co. uk riotinto Holders of Rio Tinto American Depositary Receipts ADRs Please contact the ADR administrator if you have any queries about your ADRs.
ADR administrator JPMorgan Chase & Co PO Box 64504 St. Paul, MN 55164-0504 Telephone: 1 651 453 2128 US residents only, toll free general: 800 990 1135 US residents only, toll free Global invest direct: 800 428 4237 Website: www.
com 279 280 Rio Tinto 2010 Annual report This document is printed on Amadeus Offset 50, a paper containing 50% post consumer recycled fibre and 50% virgin fibre sourced from well managed, sustainable, FSC certified forests.
The pulp used in this product is bleached using an elemental chlorine free ECF process.
100% of the inks used are vegetable oil based, 95% of press chemicals are recycled for further use and on average 99% of any waste associated with this production will be recycled.
Park is an EMAS certified CarbonNeutral Company and its Environmental Management System is certified to ISO14001.
Design and production by Black Sun Plc www.
com Go online for more information www.
com annualreport2010 What you can find online Find out more about our business and performance online t 2010 Annual report t Webcast of our 2010 results t Full sustainable development reporting t Register for e-communications 2010 Annual review The full Annual report is available online Visit www.
com annualreport2010 Striving for global sector leadership Striving for global sector Rio Tinto is a leading global business delivering value at each stage of mineral and metal production.
Contents Our strategy Performance highlights 1 Group overview 2 Maximising shareholder return Opportunities for Chairmans message 4 by sustainably finding, mining, Chief executives message 6 long term growth developing and processing Chief financial officers message 8 naturalresources.
Our assets are ideally positioned The way we work 9 Read about our to serve our customers worldwide.
Group strategy 10 Group strategy While our operating heartland is in Delivering our strategy 12 OECD countries, much of our sales Sustainable development 14 10 are to emerging economies.
Aluminium 18 Copper 19 Read our Group overview Diamonds & Minerals 20 2 Adding value across Energy 21 the cycle Iron Ore 22 Exploration 23 We create and preserve value through Our global code Technology & Innovation 23 investing in and operating large scale, long of conduct Board of directors and Executive committee 24 term, cost competitive mines and businesses.
Summary corporate governance 26 Underpinned by our Read about how we deliver Summary remuneration report 28 values, our approach to our strategy Summary financial statements 31 sustainable development, Financial information by business unit 34 and by effective 12 Auditors report 35 corporategovernance.
Financial calendar 36 Read about Useful information and contacts 37 The way we work 9 www.
com The Shareholders section at www.
com provides the following information on Rio Tinto: financial information: corporate information: Rio Tinto share price charts and data: the Rio Tinto event calendar and dividend information: and the latest presentations by management for investors and financial analysts.
leadership Our commitment to the health, safety and prosperity of our people is at the heart of our operations.
So is our determination to maintain the environmental integrity of what we do.
Our well established strategy, our single set of standards and values and our diverse portfolio of quality assets position us for growth on a global scale.
2010 performance highlights Underlying earnings US$ Strong financial performance bn t Record underlying earnings of US$14.0 billion, 14.0 122 per cent above 2009 t Record cash flows from operations of Cash flows US$23.5 billion, up 70 per cent on 2009 t Record underlying EBITDA of US$26.0 billion, US$ bn up 82 per cent on 2009 23.5 Exceptional operational delivery Net debt reduced to t 18 per cent decrease in all injury frequency rate from 2009 US$ t Production at, or above, capacity at bn many operations 4.3 t Record annual production of iron ore GHG emissions intensity reduced Growth potential across the business from 2008 t US$11 billion of major capital approvals in 2010, with US$13 billion of capital % expenditure expected in 2011 3.7 Continuing progress on sustainable development t Reduced greenhouse gas GHG emissions intensity by 3.7 per cent from 2008 t Community contributions of US$166 million, up 40 per cent on 2009 www.
com 1 Group overview Opportunities for long term growth Our assets are ideally positioned to serve our customers worldwide.
The majority of our operations are in Australia and North America, but we also have businesses in South America, Europe, southern Africa and Asia.
While our operating heartland is in OECD Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development countries, much of our sales are to emerging economies which are driving the anticipated growth in metals and minerals demand.
To meet rising demand, we will continue to pursue value-adding organic growth, plus targeted small to medium sized acquisitions.
Aluminium Copper Diamonds & Minerals We are a global leader in the aluminium With diverse assets and leading technology, our The Diamonds & Minerals group comprises industry.
Our closely integrated facilities Copper group is uniquely positioned to supply mining, refining and marketing operations include high quality bauxite mines and growing global demand.
In 2010, we produced across three sectors.
Rio Tinto Diamonds is one alumina refineries, as well as some of the 678 thousand tonnes of copper, making us the of the worlds leading diamond producers, active worlds lowest cost primary aluminium worlds fifth largest supplier.
We also produced in mining and sales and marketing.
772 thousand ounces of gold and 13 thousand Minerals is a world leader in borates and talc, tonnes of molybdenum as by-products of our with mines, processing plants, commercial and copper operations.
Rio Tinto Iron & Titanium is an industry leader in high grade titanium dioxide.
Products Products Products Bauxite, alumina, aluminium Diamonds, borates, titanium dioxide feedstocks, Copper, gold, molybdenum, silver, nickel talc, high purity iron, metal powders, zircon, rutile Read more on page 18 Read more on page 19 Read more on page 20 a a a Underlying earnings Underlying earnings Underlying earnings % of Group total % of Group total % of Group total % % % 6 18 2 a Aggregate product group underlying earnings contribution of 107 per cent is reduced to 100 per cent by negative amounts for Other items and Net interest.
2 Rio Tinto 2010 Annual review Group overview % 19 of sales by destination % to Europe, Middle East and Africa 28 of sales by destination to China % % 32 21 of sales by destination of sales by destination to North and to elsewhere in Asia South America and Australia 18 18 Countries with operations and or projects Energy Iron Ore Exploration We are a leading supplier of thermal and coking We are the second largest producer supplying the Exploration is one of the Groups core activities coal to the Asian seaborne market and are one global seaborne iron ore trade.
After a decade largely paying for itself through the sale of of the worlds largest uranium producers, serving of dramatic expansion in Australia, and more non core discoveries.
Our Energy recent growth in both Australia and Canada, we Potential Tier 1 discoveries are retained for portfolio includes: Rio Tinto Coal Australia: a believe we are well positioned to benefit from development and operation.
These have coal mine at Colowyo in Colorado, US: Energy the continuing demand surge in China and included two of the largest copper opportunities Resources of Australia, which produces uranium other Asian markets.
We are driving performance in the world at Resolution in Arizona, US and oxide from its Ranger operation: and Rssing, a through effective project management and La Granja in Peru.
Exploration has also Namibian uranium oxide producer.
delivered one of the worlds largest known undeveloped high grade iron ore deposits, at Simandou in Guinea, as well as the Caliwingina channel iron deposits in the Products Products Pilbara, Australia.
Thermal coal, coking coal, uranium Iron ore, salt Read more on page 23 Technology & Innovation Our centralised team of specialists focuses on improving current technologies and operations, with emphasis on project development, execution and evaluation.
The Groups Innovation Centre concentrates on step changes that will give us competitive advantages in developing the orebodies of the future.
A special Energy & Climate Strategy Centre is dedicated to improving the Groups use of energy, reducing greenhouse gas emissions and understanding the effects of climate change on our operations Read more on page 21 Read more on page 22 and prospects.
a a Read more on page 23 Underlying earnings Underlying earnings % of Group total % of Group total % % 8 73 www.
com 3 Chairmans message A year of record results Our commitment to operational excellence has seen us capitalise on improved conditions in the external environment.
2010 was an outstanding year for Rio Tinto.
We also need to address the growing Efficient capital management Having stabilised and strengthened the technical demands imposed on us in finding We believe that long term creation of Group in the wake of the global financial and developing increasingly remote and shareholder value requires a balanced crisis, we can now concentrate on delivering complexorebodies.
approach to investing in growth and operational excellence.
returning excess capital to shareholders, Sustainable development while maintaining a strong balance sheet.
This is central to Rio Tinto accomplishing Our access to the right people, as well as its vision of global sector leadership.
By to capital and resources, is determined by Our confidence, both in our own portfolio continuing to aspire to this vision, we are our values and our reputation.
Maintaining and in future demand for our products, has now well placed to take advantage of the our leadership in sustainable development allowed us to increase our annual dividend opportunities created by the improved and building our reputation allows us to by 20 per cent compared with our previous business environment.
constantly renew our licence to operate.
We are also proceeding with a a responsible employer, neighbour, partner US$5 billion share buy-back, which we intend Rio Tintos people have been key to our and citizen is integral to what we do today, to complete by the end of 2012, subject to success in 2010.
For example, by working our contributes to our legacy and helps build all of market conditions.
assets at, or above, normal capacity, they set our futures.
a new record in the annual production of Improved global economy iron ore. At the same time they improved For more than a decade we have been at the Fiscal and monetary stimulus by governments our safety performance.
forefront of promoting and participating in has gradually stabilised major economies and sustainable development.
This is recognised revived trade from the low point of the global by our continued listing on FTSE4Good, the Dividends crisis.
In particular, Chinas annual growth Dow Jones Sustainability Indexes and the US cents rebounded from an annual rate of nearly six Carbon Disclosure Leadership Index.
per cent in 2009 to over ten per cent in 2010.
108.00 Our record and reputation allow us to While we anticipate continuing volatility 2009: 45.00 align with organisations that lead the way in our markets, we have the strength and 111.23 111.22 108.00 in sustainable development.
In 2010, we ability to grow through changeable times.
formed a three year partnership with the Our stronger balance sheet has positioned us International Union for Conservation of 85.07 to take advantage of this recovery.
We will share knowledge and best sharpened our focus on organic growth, and practice with our partners to develop and for 2011, capital expenditure is set to increase deliver sustainable benefits to the people to US$13 billion.
45.00 Improving markets create new challenges: we face increased competition for skilled and talented people, not only from new players attracted to our sector, but also from other expanding sectors such as oil and gas.
2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 4 Rio Tinto 2010 Annual review Jan du Plessis The long term creation of shareholder value requires a balanced approach to investing and returning excess capital.
Share buy-back by the end of 2012 US$ bn 5 by shareholders annually with effect from the We will continue to factor the potential for Governance and risk these conditions into the Groups plans and 2011 annual general meetings.
As previously Rio Tintos board oversees the Groups to enhance our capabilities to predict demand indicated, Yves Fortier, formerly chairman management in maintaining the highest and understand our markets.
of the board of Alcan Inc. and also Sir Rod standards of corporate governance.
Eddington will not be standing for re-election Our peoples commitment These standards are underpinned by the by shareholders in 2011.
Each have made It is inspiring to see the way our global team ethical guidance in Rio Tintos global code significant contributions to the board during of people works together and strives for of conduct, The way we work, through the their tenure with Rio Tinto and I would like ways to improve our collective performance.
application of best practice and by continually to express my personal appreciation of the Throughout the year, their commitment, striving for excellence so as to create value for tremendous support they have given to me talent and integrity have led to the delivery our shareholders.
Management also has the boards support in Meanwhile, Andrew Gould, Senior Independent On behalf of the board, I would like to thank delivering sustained operational excellence.
Director and chairman of the Remuneration all of our people for their hard work during The Group actively encourages the pursuit committee, has announced that he will be the past year.
Our thanks also go to our of opportunities whether they are likely to leaving the board at the conclusion of the 2012 shareholders, whose continued support of arise through organic growth or prudent annual general meetings.
Rio Tinto has helped us achieve record levels corporate activity.
On behalf of the board, I continue to lead The board recognises that risk is an integral the succession and routine refreshment of and unavoidable part of doing business.
directors to ensure the most appropriate While risk carries threats, it also offers balance of skills and experience, and to drive opportunities.
Our risk management effective decision making.
processes are embedded in our Group, as they are vital for maintaining our Outlook competitive advantage.
Urbanisation and industrialisation in Board succession planning is an essential populous parts of the world will continue component of effective corporate governance.
to drive increasing demand for metals and Jan du Plessis, chairman In 2010, we strengthened our board through minerals.
Although long term fundamentals the appointment of two new non executive for growth are strong, there are downside risks directors, Ann Godbehere and Robert Brown.
in the short term, and potential for medium term volatility due to persistent economic We also saw two retirements from the board.
Financial systems remain fragile, Sir David Clementi, who was chairman of the particularly in OECD countries.
The increase Audit committee, stepped down in May, as did in sovereign debt and government action to David Mayhew.
In accordance with a provision tackle fiscal imbalances are likely to temper of the new UK Corporate Governance Code, all of the directors will stand for re-election short term growth.
com 5 Chief executives message Strong momentum and value adding growth From a position of increased strength and with growth firmly on our agenda, we are making significant progress towards our vision of global sector leadership.
Credit for significant progress being made in In 2010, we made significant progress in All injury frequency rate almost all of these areas is due to the 77,000 developing stronger ties with China.
We signed Per 200,000 hours worked employees who work for Rio Tinto across the a joint venture agreement with Chalco, for Including former Alcan world.
I would like to thank them for their development and operation of the Simandou ongoing commitment.
iron ore project in Guinea and continue to have 0.66 discussions with the Government of Guinea.
At Over the course of the year our financial the end of the year, we signed a memorandum 2009: 0.81 strength has improved, our flexibility has 1.21 of understanding with Chinalco to establish a increased and our options have expanded.
1.09 landmark exploration joint venture in China.
This has been achieved through the 0.95 We also agreed to extend our Channar Mining combination of progress of our divestment 0.81 joint venture in the Pilbara with our partner programme, the efficiencies arising from Sinosteel Corporation.
0.66 business transformation and record annual production of iron ore at a time of improved In the course of the year we terminated market conditions.
During 2010, these the employment of four Shanghai based conditions enabled us to approve US$11 billion employees who were convicted of receiving of investment in major capital projects.
Growth bribes and obtaining commercial secrets, in is firmly on our agenda.
violation of the Groups strong ethical culture 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 and Chinese law.
An independent review In 2010, our focus on operational efficiency Our achievements in 2010 owe much to concluded their activities were conducted and risk management increased.
We the consistency with which we pursue our entirely outside the Groups systems.
placed particular emphasis on continuous strategy investing in and operating large, improvement and compliance.
In this regard We were disappointed that we were unable long term, cost competitive mines and assets achieving safe, reliable and injury and illness to reach mutually acceptable terms with the driven not by choice of commodity, but by free operations is our number one priority.
regulators to form the proposed Western the quality of each opportunity.
We are proud to have improved our safety Australian iron ore production joint The Groups performance is a testament to record with an 18 per cent decrease in the venture with BHP Billiton, but we respect our focus on creating shareholder value in all injury frequency rate.
We remain focused on the the long term.
expansion of our iron ore business in the However, I must record with sorrow the Pilbara by over 50 per cent.
2010 objectives deaths of three people in our managed facilities in the course of the year.
As a result Strong sustainable development To support this strategy, in 2010 we focused of these tragedies we have increased our focus framework the business on five short term priorities: on process and contractor safety.
We remain operational delivery, prudent balance sheet Whatever we do, wherever we operate, wholly committed to safety in the workplace.
management, growth, strengthening of our sustainable development underpins our vision.
Our goal is zero harm in all our operations.
relationship with China and completing Our sector has become an increasing focus the proposed Western Australian iron ore for governments and other stakeholders.
6 Rio Tinto 2010 Annual review Tom Albanese Confidence in the Groups existing business and the outlook for our markets allowed us to grow organically.
Major capital approvals in 2010 US$ bn 11 But the Groups commitment to sustainable Governments fiscal and monetary stimulus We face competitive labour markets, but development means proactive leadership initiatives helped the recovery of prices and our aim to make Rio Tinto the employer and effective management can create new a resumption of normal trade.
However, fading of choice is underwritten by offering opportunities and strong relationships with benefits of the stimuli can be expected to employees opportunities for personal and all our stakeholders.
We can turn this area of challenge and In the longer term we believe fundamentals I wish to thank our shareholders, my complexity into a source of competitive are strong.
Globally, we expect GDP growth leadership team and our employees.
Our approach to sustainable in 2011 to continue at broadly healthy levels been a year of exceptional performance and development gives governments confidence of around 4.5 per cent.
Our strategy means momentum, which was truly a team effort.
that we will develop resources in ways that we are well placed to meet the rising demand I am looking forward to building on this will benefit their economies and communities from China and other emerging economies.
success in 2011. and will protect their environments, so Achieving our vision In a world of growing commodity demand preserving options for future generations.
and increasing sustainable development Confidence in the Groups existing business Sustainable development means engaging challenges I believe Rio Tinto will set itself and the outlook for our markets allowed us to with communities around our activities and apart through its leadership in operational grow organically.
Success is borne out by the providing clear economic benefits to them.
delivery, exploration, technology and announcement of new investments of US$11 This is crucial in maintaining and extending innovation and sustainable development billion in 2010.
This significantly enhances our ability to do business securing our to become the preferred industry partner our global presence in key operational areas.
It allows us to plan, and developer.
Several projects stand out: our iron ore implement and deliver contributions to social expansion plans in the Pilbara: our increased wellbeing, environmental stewardship and stake in the Oyu Tolgoi copper-gold project: economic prosperity all within our strong and progress towards modernising and governance systems.
expanding our Canadian aluminium portfolio.
We continue to care for the safety and At the end of the year we announced a Tom Albanese, chief executive health of our people as well as engage recommended offer for Riversdale Mining with surrounding communities and show Limited, which, if successful, would provide leadership in global issues vital to the future us with a substantial Tier 1 coking coal of the worlds environment such as carbon, development pipeline in Mozambique.
It is water use and biodiversity.
an example of the small to medium sized acquisitions that we are also focused on.
Well placed to meet rising demand Our short term outlook for global growth The people who make it all happen justifies caution.
Whilst we are positive about Rio Tinto wishes to add to the diversity of its the long term prospects, we cannot rule out workforce, which increasingly mirrors our periods of volatility as the world addresses customer base and our geographic footprint.
com 7 Chief financial officers message Creating shareholder value A strong balance sheet will allow us to take advantage of Guy Elliott value-creating opportunities.
Record underlying earnings in 2010 US$ bn 14 In 2010, our record earnings and cash flows ensure that tax policy does not create Investing in organic growth allowed us to further strengthen our balance a hostile environment for investment.
A strong balance sheet will allow Rio Tinto sheet.
This has paved the way for investment to invest in our first class growth projects The return of capital to shareholders in high quality growth and an increased and to take advantage of value-creating We were pleased to announce a final dividend dividend at the same time as returning opportunities.
In 2010, we began to of 63 US cents per share.
The total dividend US$5 billion to shareholders.
reinvigorate our exploration and evaluation in respect of 2010 was 108 US cents per programmes to develop the next generation Record financial performance share, 20 per cent higher than the dividend of Tier 1 assets supporting Rio Tintos Robust commodity prices and strong commitment we made to shareholders at the pipeline of high quality organic projects.
operational performance allowed us to time of the rights issues in June 2009. deliver record underlying earnings in 2010.
While these will allow for sustainable, long This will form the basis of a progressive At US$14.0 billion underlying earnings term growth, we will continue to look for dividend policy, so that the US dollar value were 122 per cent higher than 2009.
Record innovative joint ventures and investments of ordinary dividends will increase over time.
cash flows from operations of US$23.5 to gain entry to Tier 1 assets.
We recognise that during times of high billion demonstrated the exceptional cash Capital expenditure in 2010 was US$4.6 cash generation a progressive dividend generation capabilities of our high quality, cost billion.
We approved US$11 billion of new policy alone will not return excess cash to competitive, long term, large scale Tier 1 assets.
major projects during 2010, including the shareholders.
Therefore, we are undertaking Global economic recovery meant that we expansion of our iron ore operations in a US$5 billion share buy-back programme began to face cost pressures.
However, we Australia and Canada, and the modernisation over 2011 and 2012, subject to market are addressing these with productivity and expansion of our aluminium smelting conditions.
This commitment will still leave improvements, effective procurement and capacity.
We expect capital expenditure to us with the flexibility to make significant operating efficiencies.
reach approximately US$13 billion in 2011. investments in our business and remain Balance sheet strength committed to a single A credit rating.
The business environment Since the beginning of 2008 we have realised Our outlook is for strong underlying Rio Tintos established strategy, financial over US$11 billion from the sale of non core growth for our products in urbanising and discipline and leadership in project execution assets.
Coupled with strong cash flows from industrialising markets like India and China.
all mean that we are well positioned to operations we have reduced our net debt to Our strong balance sheet positions us to continue creating sustainable growth in US$4.3 billion at the end of 2010. withstand volatility that may arise from shareholder value over the coming decades.
imbalances in the global economy.
This prudent approach to managing the balance sheet is in line with our strategy to achieve a Australias proposed Mineral Resource Rent single A credit rating.
Tax highlighted that resource nationalism is now on the political agenda in many countries.
Rio Tinto is committed to working constructively with host governments to Guy Elliott, chief financial officer 8 Rio Tinto 2010 Annual review S u s t a i n a b l e d e v e l o p m e n e t c n a n The way we work Our global code The way we work our global code of conduct defines how we manage the economic, of conduct social and environmental challenges of our operations.
It is underpinned by our values, our approach to sustainable development, and by effective corporate governance.
Jan du Plessis Rio Tinto recognises that risk is an integral component of Governance its business, and that it is characterised by both threat and Innovative thinking combined with business experience opportunity.
Through skilled application of high quality, integrated Rio Tintos board of directors is responsible for the Groups success risk analysis and management, we enhance opportunities and and is accountable to shareholders for our performance.
Its reduce threats, and so achieve and maintain competitive advantage.
members contribute a balance of innovative thinking with business Our Risk standard guides the process by providing an overall methodology knowledge and experience.
and structure for the handling of risk within the organisation.
The Group The board operates four principal committees, each playing a vital seeks to provide the board and senior management with a consistent, role in underpinning how we e w work.
To o ens ensur ure their r e their refile elev vanc ance and e and Gr Grou oup wide p p wide pe ersp rspective of the k ective of the ke ey risks.
y r continuing adherence to best practic t practice, the c e, the committ ommittees ees annually review their terms of r of re ef fe er renc ence.
e. Sustainable development nt V Values a Key to our licence The es Th sence of who we are to operate O Ou ur reputation stems from our f fo our c u ore values, which define Sustainable development th the es e sence of who we are and is good business as well w who w ho e will be: accountability, as good sense.
re resp spect, teamwork and integrity.
Our continuing financial success depends on our abilit ty y A Ac cco countabilit u y is about taking to gain access to the land, people ople o ow wnership of our p nersh erformance and capital we need.
To do that, w hat, we e a and decisions, and the imp nd decisio act they put our economic, social, env vir ironmenta onmental l ha have five on the bu on the b siness.
We demonstrate and technical expertise to work t ork to o harnes harness s re resp spect thr ect through ough our appr o oach to sustainable these resources.
Our strong g go overnanc vernance e sy syst stems ems d fide eve velopment, and b lopment, and by y r ecognising our peoples ensure that we manage our bu busines siness with op s with opennes enness s c co ontribu ntribution t tion to o the bu the busines siness.
s. By working as a team, we and accountability.
This process creates prosperity that is shar hh ed d can ffl ocus our collective efflifforts on where they deliver the best among shareholders, employees, communities, governments and outcome for the Group.
Finally, we work with integrity, treating business partners.
all our stakeholders with fairness, honesty and openness.
Read our report on corporate governance online www.
com annualreport2010 w www ww.. riotint riotinto.
c o. com om 9 9 r e v o G V a l u e s Group strategy Striving for global sector leadership Vision Strategy To become the sector leading global To invest in and operate large, long term, cost competitive mining and metals company.
mines and businesses, driven not by choice of commodity but rather by the quality of each opportunity.
Enabling growth Rio Tintos major iron ore expansion project in the Pilbara, Western Australia will more than double the capacity of the Cape Lambert port.
10 Rio Tinto 2010 Annual review As we work to achieve our vision, we will maximise shareholder return by sustainably finding, developing, mining and processing natural resources.
We will do this through a strategy of investing in and operating large, long term, cost competitive mines and businesses, driven not by choice of commodity but by the quality of each opportunity.
Strategic drivers Key performance indicators Five strategic drivers are helping Achievement of our strategy and goals is measured by a mixture of us deliver our strategy and achieve financial and non financial performance indicators, some of which our vision.
are linked to executive remuneration.
Financial and operational excellence Net debt Underlying earnings 13,987 t Operating large, long term, cost US$ millions US$ millions 45,191 competitive, scaleable assets 38,672 10,303 t Achieving further productivity, efficiency and cost improvements 7,443 7,338 6,298 t Maintaining a strong balance sheet 18,861 t Preserving and creating options 4,284 2,437 t Causing zero harm 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 Licence to operate t Being the partner of choice for 23,530 Operating cash flows Capital expenditure governments, communities and 20,668 US$ millions 22,126 US$ millions other stakeholders 19,195 8,488 t Making sustainable development integral Dividends from equity accounted units 13,834 to everything we do 12,569 Cash flows from consolidated 13,224 10,923 5,356 operations t Maintaining integrity and high standards of 4,968 10,805 4,553 9,196 3,988 corporate governance Growth t Obtain and grow Tier 1 assets 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 t Investing for organic growth t Being constantly aware of customers Total shareholder return GHG emissions intensity changing requirements % Indexed relative 172.8 t Leadership in project development to 2008 111.3 110.9 110.2 100.0 and implementation 96.3 92.5 Including former Alcan 92.8 Globalising the business t Achieving global sector leadership 32.6 7.4 t Maintaining reputation to access people, capital and resources 71.5 t Embracing diversity 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 t Turning challenges and complexity into All injury frequency rate competitive advantage Per 200,000 hours worked Technology and innovation 1.21 1.09 t Achieving productivity gains through Including former Alcan 0.95 innovative technologies 0.81 t Applying technology to sustainable 0.66 development t Finding new ways to do old things better, cheaper and safer 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 t Expanding access to technology www.
com 11 Delivering our strategy Adding value across the cycle Investing Explore and evaluate Develop The orebodies for which we explore are increasingly remote Rio Tinto develops and manages its assets to the highest industry and complex.
We seek large, long term, cost competitive assets standards: we support investment in health, education, jobs and that we select not by choice of commodity, but by the quality other important economic benefits for the communities in which of each opportunity.
In this way we can maximise their value they are located.
We also provide the essential resources that the to shareholders and other stakeholders as well as contribute global economy needs to grow and prosper.
to sustainable development in the wider community.
We also consider growth through other business combinations, for example acquisitions and joint ventures.
Bunder project, diamonds, India Oyu Tolgoi, copper-gold, Mongolia The Bunder project, in the Indian state of Madhya Pradesh, is When Oyu Tolgoi, in Mongolias South Gobi Desert, reaches full Rio Tintos most advanced diamond project.
Rio Tinto discovered production in 2018, it will be a top ten copper producer and a cluster of eight diamondiferous pipes in 2004 as part of one of the worlds biggest gold producers.
Rio Tinto signed an a regional exploration reconnaissance programme which agreement with Ivanhoe Mines in December 2010, under which commenced in 2002.
The Bunder deposit is the most important we have assumed direct management of the project.
In February diamond discovery in India for many decades and one of only 2011, Rio Tinto also increased its ownership of Ivanhoe Mines four new diamond mines likely to become functional globally in to 42.1 per cent.
The transition of management of Oyu Tolgoi to the next ten years.
An Order of Magnitude study was completed Rio Tinto has officially started, with a vision to safely deliver on in 2009 and a sample processing plant constructed the same schedule and on budget, and to be firmly aligned with Rio Tintos year to further evaluate the nature of production.
In 2010 a strategy, values and standards for excellence.
In addition, we will pre-feasibility study began, and the Government of Madhya fully deliver on the commitment to employ approximately 90 Pradesh signed a State Support Agreement with us as further per cent of the projects workforce from Mongolia representing endorsement of the project.
around 3,000 to 4,000 direct jobs, including contractors.
There are currently 6,000 people working at Oyu Tolgoi during its construction phase.
12 Rio Tinto 2010 Annual review We create and preserve value through investing in and operating large scale, long term, cost competitive mines and businesses.
The nature of our business means that an orebody may last for many decades.
Throughout the life of an orebody, from initial exploration to final closure and restoration, we commit to the highest standards of sustainable development.
Operating Operate Close down and restore The first principle for Rio Tinto is zero harm maintaining At the end of the life of a resource Rio Tinto has an imperative to operational excellence in order to keep the workplace safe.
carefully wind down operations, remove our infrastructure, close Operational excellence is also at the heart of our vision to achieve our mines and processes and to monitor sites.
Being a responsible global leadership in our sector investing for growth, optimising employer, neighbour, partner and citizen is integral to what we do productivity, maintaining integrity and high standards of corporate today, contributes to our legacy and helps build our future.
governance so we constantly maintain our licence to operate.
The Pilbara, iron ore, Australia Barneys Canyon, gold, US Rio Tintos operations in the Pilbara region of Western Australia Rio Tinto mined gold at Barneys Canyon until 2001.
The waste make us the leading iron ore supplier close to the worlds rock dumps in Utahs Oquirrh Mountains have since been largest, fastest growing markets.
We have made a series of major successfully rehabilitated into prime habitat for elk and deer, announcements relating to the expansion of the Pilbara rail and thickly covered with grasses, wildflowers and shrubs.
Waste rock port infrastructure to 283 million tonnes per year.
Feasibility dumps spanning nearly 230 hectares have been recontoured into studies into further expansion to 333 million tonnes a year are natural landforms and revegetated.
Secure repositories with thick well under way, as the Group intends to expand capacity here vegetated covers were also created on 16 hectares of restored land by more than 50 per cent over the next five years in what we to contain the five per cent of waste rock that could have posed a believe is the lowest risk, highest return major iron ore project risk to vegetation or water quality because of its sulphide content.
The expansion will more than double capacity at As a result soils, water and vegetation in the area all meet the Cape Lambert port facility.
During 2010, RioTinto announced applicable standards required to support healthy vegetation and US$5.6 billion of investment in the Pilbara expansion programme wildlife.
In 2004, Barneys Canyon received the Earth Day award 100 per cent basis.
from the State of Utah for excellence in mine rehabilitation.
com 13 Sustainable development Central to the way we work Our approach to sustainable development creates competitive advantage.
Ithelps us deliver better returns for our shareholders, manage risk effectively, reduce environmental impacts, cut operating costs, attract high calibre employees and provide more business opportunities.
14 Rio Tinto 2010 Annual review www.
com ourapproach Every year, we report on our sustainable development performance through a number of channels.
In addition to the summary of our performance and sustainable development highlights in our Annual report, we publish sustainable development programme information, progress against our goals and targets and performance data online.
We also report under other voluntary commitments such as the Global Reporting Initiative and the Carbon Disclosure Project.
Our continued licence to operate is subject to metrics with a suite of Group wide goals and Integral to how we operate the ever increasing expectations of society.
Increasingly we are also using leading In 1998, we took a leadership role in the We therefore developed and implemented performance indicators such as significant creation of the Global Mining Initiative, an a structured framework to ensure that we potential incidents to focus our programmes industry programme that, ahead of most sectors, meet our goal of contributing to the global on mitigating the potential impacts of our identified how mining can make a positive transition to sustainable development.
These metrics also form part of contribution to sustainable development.
framework contains the must have building ourremuneration.
Since then our commitment to contributing to blocks, which must all work together to By communicating and raising awareness sustainable development has become integral achieve leading performance and effectively of our approach to our internal and external to delivering our business strategy: it is the manage risk.
stakeholders, we are embedding a sustainable standard on which Rio Tinto is judged by Sound governance and high standards of development culture that touches every part governments, employees and communities.
conduct are sources of competitive advantage of our organisation.
Over the years, the backdrop against which for us.
Our global code of business conduct, In 2010, we initiated a review of our we work has changed.
The industry has been The way we work, reinforces our commitment sustainable development strategy which transformed by strong demand for metals to integrate sustainable development thinking will allow us to reassess the effects of these and minerals from China, India and others.
in the way we make decisions about finding, changes and refresh our approach to ensure it Expanding to meet that public demand acquiring, developing, and operating assets remains focused on the social, environmental, has drawn the spotlight: on our role, our around the world.
economic and governance factors most contribution and our impact.
This approach begins with our corporate relevant to creating shareholder value and The minerals and metals produced at our policies, which are supported by strategies meeting stakeholder needs.
operations contribute to societys needs, and standards that lay down the minimum The steps we have taken in the course of the delivering financial dividends for our acceptable requirements for behaviour or year not only reconfirm our commitment to shareholders, paying wages and salaries for operating conditions, wherever we operate.
They are part of the our employees, and creating wealth to support Our policies are also supported by a range continuing process to renew and maintain the community infrastructure, health care, of leadership tools and accountabilities to leadership that Rio Tinto sees as integral in employment and education.
Our activities also ensure appropriate implementation across moving the Group towards its vision of global provide the means and opportunity to develop the Group.
We monitor and report against our sector leadership.
new approaches to the environmental and performance using established indicators and human development challenges confronting society, such as climate change and poverty.
Sustainable development framework We also recognise that, if not managed appropriately, some aspects of our activities Targets have the ability to detract from sustainable development, such as options for the future Indicators & metrics use of water and land, impacts on local Achieve Effectively communities, and greenhouse gas emissions Monitoring & reporting leading manage risks from our operations and the use of our products.
performance Management systems The extended timeframes associated with the life of our operations from exploration, through Leadership & accountability development and operation to closure provide us with opportunities to plan, implement and Strategies & standards deliver sustainable contributions to social wellbeing, environmental stewardship and Policies economic prosperity, within our strong governance systems.
com 15 Sustainable development continued Key achievements Key priorities t Our all injury frequency rate continued to t Refresh our approach to sustainable development improve, with an 18 per cent reduction achieved to ensure it remains focused on the social, in 2010. environmental, economic and governance risks most relevant to delivering our business strategy.
t Sixty seven per cent of the electricity we used in 2010 was from low carbon sources, mainly t Continue to reduce incident and injury rates hydroelectricity.
t We remained the largest private sector employer t Identify and prioritise management of emerging of indigenous Australians.
t We entered into formal partnerships with the t Improve the diversity of our workforce.
International Union for Conservation of Nature t Maintain our energy use and greenhouse gas and the Danish Institute of Human Rights.
t We retained our listing on the FTSE4Good, t Realise the potential for carbon, water and Dow Jones Sustainability Indexes and Carbon biodiversity offsets on our non operational Disclosure Leadership Index.
Goals and targets Trend Progress to date Our safety goal is zero injuries and zero fatalities.
Progress is measured through our all injury frequency rate AIFR 18 per cent reduction in our all injury frequency rate compared per 200,000 hours worked.
30 per cent reduction in the rate of new cases of occupational 56 per cent reduction in the rate of new cases of occupational illness per 10,000 employees between 2008 and 2013. illness compared with 2008.
Ten per cent reduction in the rate of employees per 10,000 0.3 per cent increase in the rate of employees potentially exposed employees exposed to an eight hour noise dose of more than 85 to an eight hour noise dose of more than 85 decibels compared decibels between 2008 and 2013. with 2008.
Six per cent reduction in total greenhouse gas emissions intensity 3.7 per cent reduction in our total greenhouse gas emissions between 2008 and 2013.
We are also targeting a further four per cent intensity compared with 2008. reduction by 2015, to deliver an overall ten per cent reduction.
Six per cent reduction in our freshwater use per tonne of product 2.3 per cent increase in our freshwater use per tonne of product between 2008 and 2013. compared with 2008.
Our diversity goal is to employ people based on job requirements that represent the diversity of our surrounding communities.
We are targeting: t Women to represent 20 per cent of our senior management t Women represented 14 per cent of our senior management by 2015. in 2010. t Women to represent 40 per cent of our 2015 graduate intake.
t Women represented 27 per cent of our 2010 graduate intake.
t 15 per cent of our 2015 graduate intake to be nationals from t Eight per cent of our 2010 graduate intake were nationals from regions where we are developing new businesses.
regions where we are developing new businesses.
All operations have in place locally appropriate, publicly reported We collected data for the first time in 2010. social performance indicators that demonstrate a positive 20 per cent of our operations had locally appropriate, publicly contribution to the economic development of the communities reported social performance indicators in place in 2010. and regions where we work, consistent with the Millennium Development Goals, by 2013.
Improving performance Declining performance New target 16 Rio Tinto 2010 Annual review Zero harm culture In its determination to achieve zero harm, Rio Tinto is encouraging individual sites to adopt an innovative way to promote a culture of safety.
The Site Safety Acceleration Process SSAP, safety improvements and, crucially, align the Applied at five pilot sites in the course introduced in 2010, aims to speed up the pursuit leadership team to commit to doing what it of the year, SSAP is already promoting of zero harm by helping sites understand and takes to achieve zero harm.
understanding of the leadership, behavioural address barriers to its achievement.
and cultural aspects of safety performance In embracing SSAP, site leaders shortlist and thus becoming part of employees Sites volunteering to implement SSAP are challenges that, if addressed, will underpin day-to-day thinking about zero harm.
supported in their motivation by global safety improvements.
By identifying strategic Health, Safety, Environment and Communities safety themes, SSAP supports development of HSEC.
They design, develop and implement plans to accelerate the journey to zero harm.
Life after death in Death Valley How preserving our history has benefited generations of visitors to a spectacular wilderness Rio Tintos borate business first started mining in Californias Death Valley in the 1880s.
When activity ceased in 1927 after the present mine in Boron was discovered the areas future could have looked as bleak as the surrounding desert.
But in the intervening years, company leaders had set about preserving that wilderness.
In 1916, they helped write the language that was adopted by Congress to establish the National Park Service.
Their successors donated land holdings to the Federal Government and lobbied to have the area protected as a National Monument in 1933, and as a National Park in 1994.
The company not only protected the land, it also played a part in broadening awareness of this singular ecosystem by transforming old mining camps into hotels and developing radio and television shows based on true stories of the region.
Rio Tinto is now giving additional acreage to the Park along with its associated mineral rights, providing the nearly one million people who visit the largest Park in the US every year even more to explore.
com ourapproach for more case studies www.
com 17 Aluminium Transformation, modernisation and expansion Operating highlights Our high quality bauxite mines and alumina 2010 2009 US$ million US$ million refineries, state of the art technologies, clean Revenue 15,206 12,038 and renewable energy assets and low cost Operating cash flow 1,334 549 aluminium smelters make us a global leader Underlying earnings 773 560 Capital expenditure 1,328 1,690 in the aluminium industry.
Net operating assets 38,326 36,340 Jacynthe Ct, chief executive, Rio Tinto Alcan Strategy t The second phase of transformation will target incremental EBITDA improvement of US$1 billion by 2014. t Leverage the groups robust growth pipeline with a priority on modernising and expanding existing Tier 1 assets: lower costs of existing facilities: and progress the development of greenfield options at a pace aligned with market demand.
t Be long in bauxite and alumina, providing strong growth potential, particularly in the Asian region.
Key achievements t Increase of US$1,333 million in underlying earnings from 2009. t Value added aluminium product sales volumes increased to 65 per cent of total sales.
t Bauxite production up by nine per cent over 2009 mainly in response to increased production at Weipa in Australia to meet the demands of the growing Chinese market.
t Alumina production up by three per cent on 2009 due to improved production at Yarwun in Australia, ramp up at Alumar in Brazil, and restarting idled capacity at Vaudreuil in Canada.
t Construction at the Yarwun expansion project has been accelerated and the completed co-generation plant and ship unloader handed over Contribution to Group operating cash flow to operations.
t ISAL aluminium smelter won Rio Tintos top safety award with 4.7 million work hours without a lost time injury as at December 2010.
Key priorities t Proceed with cost efficiencies, capacity creep and step change improvement through strategic capital investment: includes phase one of the AP60 plant in Canada and the ISAL expansion in Iceland.
6% t Continue steps towards optimising the groups asset portfolio: progress with Kitimat aluminium smelter modernisation in Canada and Yarwun refinery expansion.
t Capitalise on our value added product capabilities and optimise our casting portfolio to serve customers in all key regions.
t Prioritise power sources with the lowest carbon footprint and improving energy efficiency.
Underlying earnings contribution 2008 2010 US$ million t Create value from AP Technology via increased technology sales, 1,281 2008 faster operational improvements and lower full economic costs on Prices and exchange 2,243 new projects.
Inflation 4 Volume 41 Outlook 387 Costs t Favourable position to leverage strong demand from emerging Tax and other 60 economies and seize opportunities across the aluminium value chain 2009 560 as the industry continues its recovery.
1,178 Prices and exchange t Alumina pricing mechanisms are developing and as liquidity builds, Inflation 83 the groups strategy of remaining long in bauxite and alumina will Volume 160 Costs allow it to use various pricing alternatives.
77 155 Tax and other t As aluminium markets continue to recover, the group is expected to 2010 773 benefit from stable energy sources, less linked to LME pricing than 0 those of other large producers.
View expanded content online at www.
com annualreport2010 18 Rio Tinto 2010 Annual review Copper Resource, optimise, grow Operating highlights We believe Rio Tintos Copper group is 2010 2009 US$ million US$ million uniquely positioned tosupply growing global Revenue 7,782 6,206 demand for copper, with a diverse, balanced Operating cash flow 4,048 2,223 asset base and industry leading technology Underlying earnings 2,534 1,878 Capital expenditure 958 553 and innovation that allows the Copper group Net operating assets 6,663 5,187 to optimise its resources and grow.
Strategy t Deliver shareholder value with a material increase in production in Andrew Harding, chief executive, Copper the medium term.
t Optimise our operating assets by delivering meaningful improvements in safety and productivity, championing various technologies and remaining a leader in sustainable development.
t Partner with local governments and communities to contribute to sustainable development.
t Develop strong leadership and diverse, high quality talent needed to deliver growth.
Key achievements t Completed Northparkes E48 block cave project.
t Began process of updating environmental permits at Kennecott Utah Coppers Bingham Canyon copper mine and extending its life to 2028 while maintaining additional long term options.
t Launched construction of US$340 million Molybdenum Autoclave Process at Kennecott Utah Copper.
t Progressed a number of underground projects at Grasberg, namely the Grasberg Block Cave and DMLZ Deep Mill Level Zone projects.
t Continued to develop Oyu Tolgoi, one of the most promising Contribution to Group operating cash flow undeveloped copper-gold deposits in the world.
t Became the development and operating manager of Oyu Tolgoi and established a clear pathway to 49 per cent ownership in Ivanhoe Mines Limited.
t Began construction of the Eagle nickel-copper project, which is expected to begin production in late 2013. t Obtained tenure over Sulawesi nickel resources.
t Secured land contracts to advance drilling at the La Granja project.
17% Key priorities t Continue to improve safety performance with an emphasis on process safety and underground safety.
t Leverage industry leading technology and innovation to drive value-generating growth in every operation and shorten development for greenfield projects.
Underlying earnings contribution 2008 2010 US$ million t Proactively advance application of key technologies that will drive value in Rio Tintos copper assets.
1,615 2008 487 Prices and exchange t Manage and provide support to the Oyu Tolgoi copper-gold project, Inflation 40 with a focus on safety, resourcing and sustainable development.
Volume 556 t Keep the growth pipeline full of potential projects and opportunities.
304 Costs t Ensure high quality resources are in place to deliver growth.
70 Tax and other 2009 1,878 Outlook Prices and exchange 1,344 t Solid fundamentals in the near to medium term.
24 Inflation Volume t Growth in emerging economies, led by China and India, will drive 256 Costs 363 increasing demand.
Tax and other 45 t Potential for supply side challenges linked to increased sovereign 2,534 2010 risk, higher operating costs, increasing depths, decreasing grades and 0 project disruption.
t The Copper groups asset base is resilient to volatile prices and has opportunities for development, while its growth pipeline is world class.
com 19 Diamonds & Minerals Differentiation in the marketplace Operating highlights The Diamonds & Minerals group is well 2010 2009 US$ million US$ million positioned to benefit from late cycle demand Revenue 3,035 2,618 growth in mature and emerging markets.
Operating cash flow 510 528 Our businesses occupy strong positions in Underlying earnings 328 800 Capital expenditure 300 519 their respective sectors, combining high Net operating assets 4,580 4,612 quality assets with technical expertise and Strategy a robust understanding of our markets and t To maximise shareholder value by contributing material earnings to Rio Tinto and delivering better than comparable industry returns.
t To benefit from increasing demand for Diamonds & Minerals products by improving the efficiency of the groups existing assets, building the Harry Kenyon-Slaney, chief executive, Diamonds & Minerals growth projects in its pipeline and growing through value accretive acquisitions in existing and new sectors.
t To share best practices in safety and community engagement in order to maintain employer and developer of choice status across the six continents that constitute our operations base.
Key achievements t Lowest all injury frequency rate among Rio Tinto product groups.
t Commenced underground ore production at the Diavik diamond mine.
t Gained approval and funding to complete the Argyle diamond mine underground project in Australia.
t Launched a pre-feasibility study for the Bunder diamond project, India.
t Delivered flexibility and efficiency improvements through a new labour agreement at Rio Tinto Minerals Boron Operations in California.
t Received a binding offer in early 2011 from Imerys to acquire Rio Tintos talc business for an enterprise value of US$340 million.
Contribution to Group operating cash flow t Expanded deposit boundaries and identified additional sodium borate mineralisation at Jadar, a lithium and borates development project in Serbia.
t Rio Tinto Iron & Titanium increased titanium dioxide production by 21 per cent compared to 2009 in response to improved market conditions.
t Achieved the first full year of production of ilmenite ore at QIT Madagascar Minerals QMM.
t Progressed construction of the tailings treatment plant at 2% Richards Bay Minerals ahead of start up in early 2011.
Key priorities t Continue to strive for zero harm to people across all operations.
t Deliver material earnings and cash flow to Rio Tinto, and generate better than comparable industry returns.
t Differentiate Rio Tinto from other suppliers in Diamonds & Minerals US$ million Underlying earnings contribution 2008 2010 markets by providing a reliable supply of high quality products, technical expertise and marketing support programmes.
2008 474 Prices and exchange 298 t Ramp up to full production at QMM.
24 Inflation t Progress development projects to plan.
Volume 245 t Achieve incremental expansions at Rio Tinto Fer et Titane Costs 88 a and Boron through efficiency and technology improvements.
Tax and other 805 800 2009 t Identify and execute opportunities for inorganic growth.
Prices and exchange 169 Outlook Inflation 31 Volume t Following recovery in 2010, the outlook for the product groups 138 42 Costs markets is favourable, driven primarily by increased demand from a Tax and other 706 emerging markets.
2010 328 t The medium to long term fundamentals for the diamond industry 0 are positive.
a Includes US$797 million gain on the sale of potash assets in 2009. t Demand growth offers opportunities across titanium dioxide and borates.
com annualreport2010 20 Rio Tinto 2010 Annual review Energy Portfolio positioned to meet growing demand Operating highlights Rio Tintos Energy group will meet strong 2010 2009 US$ million US$ million future demand for energy and steel, and Revenue 5,652 4,869 maximise shareholder return, through Operating cash flow 2,463 2,069 operating and growing its global coal and Underlying earnings 1,187 1,167 Capital expenditure 685 510 uranium portfolio.
Net operating assets 3,694 2,809 Doug Ritchie, chief executive, Energy Strategy t The Energy group is focused on safely supplying the worlds growing energy needs through the responsible and sustainable development and operation of large scale, long life, cost competitive assets.
t The group aims to be a sector leader in the development and operation of the worlds coal and uranium resources.
t The group seeks to build strong customer relationships and provide superior customer outcomes while earning significant premiums to the market.
t The group is pursuing opportunities for growth to meet expanding global energy demand, while continuing to focus on operational excellence, community engagement and environmental performance to ensure it is the developer of first choice.
Key achievements t Commissioning of the new Clermont mine in Queensland, an open cut thermal coal mine due to reach annual peak production of 12.2 million tonnes in 2013. t Feasibility study started into the open cut thermal coal Mount Pleasant project.
t Australian hard coking coal production increased by 20 per cent in 2010 and set a new record of 2.4 million tonnes in the third quarter.
t A successful heap leach processing trial at Rssing, and finalising work Contribution to Group operating cash flow on a proposed exploration decline at Energy Resources of Australias Ranger mine.
t Completion of a detailed study of global energy demand to support strategic decision making and growth planning.
t Announced a recommended cash offer for Riversdale Mining Limited.
If successful, this acquisition would provide Rio Tinto with a coking coal development pipeline in the emerging Moatize Basin in Mozambique, in line with our established strategy.
10% t Divestment of Rio Tintos remaining 48 per cent equity holding in Cloud Peak Energy Inc. gross proceeds of US$573 million.
Key priorities t Continued focus on operational excellence: in particular safety performance to achieve the groups goal of zero harm.
t Expanding and developing existing assets to meet the strong demand.
t Focusing on exploration and strategic acquisition and or joint Underlying earnings contribution 2008 2010 US$ million venture arrangements.
2008 2,432 Prices and exchange 729 Outlook 31 Inflation t The worlds demand for energy and steel production is expected to Volume 20 grow strongly in coming decades, driven by increasing populations Costs 43 and industrialisation in large developing countries.
Tax and other 528 t The forecast growth in demand for coal over coming decades 1,167 2009 for both energy and steel production presents a significant opportunity Prices and exchange 74 to target expanding export markets, particularly Inflation 28 in the Asia Pacific region.
Volume 58 177 Costs t Global demand for uranium is expected to remain strong due to a Tax and other 241 desire for base load electricity generation with reduced greenhouse 2010 1,187 gases, as well as the need for energy security, diversity of supply and 0 strong growth plans in China.
com 21 Iron Ore Performance, efficiency and robust outlook Operating highlights Following a decade of dramatic expansion, 2010 2009 US$ million US$ million we are well positioned to supply rising Revenue 24,024 12,598 global iron ore demand through further Operating cash flow 15,915 7,389 capacity increases.
We will continue to drive Underlying earnings 10,189 4,126 Capital expenditure 1,716 2,148 performance through leadership in project Net operating assets 11,628 11,263 delivery and operational excellence.
Strategy t Continue to build the Pilbara operations as the leading iron ore Sam Walsh, chief executive, Iron Ore and Australia supplier close to the worlds largest, fastest growing markets.
t Focus on implementing a major expansion programme while maintaining maximum production.
t Continue to develop and benefit from technology innovation to deliver supply chain efficiencies, maximising margins per tonne.
Key achievements t Record global iron ore production of 239 million tonnes Rio Tinto share 184.6 million tonnes, a ten per cent increase on 2009 global production.
t Full ramp up of the Operations Centre in Perth, including transition of ports and new mines.
t Opening of Brockman 4, Mesa A and Western Turner Syncline mines.
Subsequent decision to expand Brockman 4 to 40 Mt a capacity and Western Turner Syncline to 15 Mt a. t Approval to develop the US$1.6 billion Hope Downs 4 mine and linking rail spur Rio Tinto share US$1.2 billion.
t Improving on an already sector leading safety record, in the context of high production levels and the complexities of expansion.
Contribution to Group operating cash flow t The employment of more than 900 Aboriginal people in Western Australia through targeted recruitment and retention strategies.
t Resuming expansion programme at Iron Ore Company of Canada.
t Opening the US$503 million Yurralyi Maya power station Rio Tinto share US$397 million, providing more environmentally efficient power to support Pilbara operations and communities.
Key priorities t Maintaining production and sales at nameplate capacity.
68% t Advancing technological integration into the groups operations through Mine of the Future initiatives.
t Further improving the product groups safety record towards zero harm.
t Emphasis on operational efficiency, removal of bottlenecks and cost control measures.
US$ million Underlying earnings contribution 2008 2010 t Progress studies of total system capacity to 333 million tonnes per year in 2015.
2008 6,017 Prices and exchange 2,920 t Continued emphasis on brownfield developments, to leverage Inflation 22 an unrivalled network of assets close to existing infrastructure.
694 Volume t Advance new project development options outside of the Pilbara.
Costs 352 Tax and other 5 Outlook 2009 4,126 t Market to remain tight for the short to medium term, with delays 5,611 Prices and exchange to new supply and strong demand driving prices.
Inflation 79 t The Iron Ore groups strategy and performance will continue to be Volume 658 driven by the rapid urbanisation and industrialisation in China, and Costs 262 the steady recovery in other major Asian markets.
Tax and other 135 2010 10,189 t India is expected to continue emerging as a major market as it follows 0 Chinas lead in urbanisation.
The group also remains confident in the longer term potential for other markets of South East Asia, Central Asia, the Middle East and Africa.
com annualreport2010 22 Rio Tinto 2010 Annual review Exploration Investing for the future Rio Tinto considers exploration to be one of its core competencies.
Mature Group operations, such as Weipa, the Pilbara and Rssing, were Tier 1 greenfield discoveries by Rio Tinto.
The value of these discoveries is still being realised after more than 40 years.
The purpose of Exploration is to add value to the Group by a multi-decade relationship.
We place a high priority on effective discovering or acquiring resources that can increase future cash community engagement and consider our commitment to sustainable flows.
A fundamental element of the Groups business strategy is development as fundamental to securing our social licence to operate.
a clear focus on finding and mining only the largest, lowest cost At the end of 2010, the Exploration group was actively exploring resources that are profitable at all parts of the natural price cycle in 16 countries, and assessing opportunities in a further seven, for and that deliver sustainable competitive advantage.
These are a broad range of commodities including bauxite, copper, coking described as Tier 1 resources.
coal, iron ore, diamonds, nickel, uranium and potash.
The group will Greenfield exploration, which aims to establish completely new explore for a range of commodities across at least 17 countries in operating business units, involves geographic or commodity 2011 and plans to deliver the Amargosa bauxite Order of Magnitude diversification away from existing Group operations.
Brownfield project to the Rio Tinto Alcan product group at the end of the year.
exploration is directed at sustaining or growing existing Group The next crop of potential discoveries also includes the Sanxai businesses.
Greenfield exploration programmes are prioritised on bauxite deposit in Laos.
Reinvigorating early stage target generation a global basis so that only the most attractive opportunities are will continue to be a priority to drive sustained exploration success.
Investment decisions are driven not by location or choice Divestment of Tier 2 assets will continue where real value can of commodity but rather by the quality of each opportunity.
be realised, with a target of 50 per cent of the annual greenfield exploration budget returned to the Group.
Exploration teams frequently present the first face of Rio Tinto in a community and lay the groundwork for what could become Technology & Innovation Strategic commitment driving competitive advantage Technology & Innovation T&I consists of a central team of technology professionals, the Innovation group, and a number of technology centres that develop leading practice and promote improvements in mining, processing, asset management, strategic production planning, energy use, and project development, execution and evaluation.
T&Is strategy is to: collaborative efforts with operations in the Improving Performance Together initiative.
t Maintain and promote a safe working environment.
t Continue to embed operational excellence in business units.
In 2011 T&I will continue to maintain a culture that places a high priority on safety and safety improvement.
It will work with Group t Maximise the contribution of technology to the Groups vision ofindustry leadership.
businesses to deliver measurable increases in earnings and to assist from a technology viewpoint in the selection of the most attractive t Deploy technology solutions that increase earnings.
It will continue to focus on the safe and t Design and build valuable new investment projects.
efficient implementation of projects and will build systems to support t Position the Group to unlock orebodies that require innovative management of projects across the Group.
The pursuit of the Mine of miningsolutions.
the Future programme and the development of innovative alliances t Lead the Groups response to climate change.
and relationships that will create competitive advantage for the T&I milestones in 2010 included the first flight of the VK1 airborne Group remain a significant focus.
T&I will also focus on delivering gravity instrument: improved copper recovery with the trial of improvements in the Groups energy efficiency, long term business an innovative flotation control system: and higher than planned decarbonisation options, compliance processes and performance, and productivity from the Autonomous Haul System fleet.
T&I will look to significantly increase helped to deliver more than US$1 billion pre-tax cash flow through staff levels as the business environment continues to improve.
com 23 Board of directors and Executive committee Leading Rio Tinto into the future The board comprises the chairman, three executive directors and ten independent non executive directors.
Lord Kerr of Kinlochard Notes a Audit committee b Remuneration committee c Nominations committee d Committee on social and environmental accountability e Chairmans committee f Independent View more about our board of directors and Executive committee at www.
Sam Walsh 24 Rio Tinto 2010 Annual review The Executive committee is responsible, under the leadership of the chief executive, for the management of the business, setting performance targets and implementation of the Groups strategy.
Debra Valentine Board of directors Executive committee 1.
Jan du Plessis c and e Chairman, BCom, 8.
Y ves Fortier c, d and f Non executive 15.
Hugo Bague Group executive, People & LLB, CA SA, age 57 director, CC, OQ, QC, LLD, Av Em, age 75 Organisation, MA Linguistics, age 50 2.
Ann Go dbehere a, c and f Non executive 16.
Preston Chiaro Group executive, Technology BS Mineral Economics, MS Mining director, FCGA, age 55 & Innovation, BSc Hons Environmental Engineering, age 53 Engineering, MEng Environmental 10.
Richar d Goodmanson b, c, d and f Non Engineering, age 57 3.
Robert Brown c, d, and f Non executive executive director, MBA, BEc and BCom, director, BSc, age 66 BEng Civil, age 63 17.
Bret Clayton Group executive, Business Support & Operations, BA Accounting, 4.
Vivienne Cox a, c, d and f Non executive 11.
Andr ew Gould b, c and f Non executive age 49 director, MA Oxon, MBA INSEAD, director, BA, FCA, age 64 Honorary PhD Hull, age 51 18.
Jacynthe Ct Chief executive, Rio Tinto 12.
Lor d Kerr of Kinlochard a, c, d and f Non Alcan, BChem, age 53 5.
Sir Rod Eddington c, d and f Non executive executive director, GCMG, MA, age 69 director, BEng, MEng, DPhil Oxon, age 61 19.
Andrew Harding Chief executive, Copper, 13.
P aul Tellier a, b, c and f Non executive BEng Mining Engineering, MBA, age 44 6.
Guy Elliott e Chief financial officer, director, LL.
age 71 MA Oxon, MBA INSEAD, age 55 20.
Sam Walsh Executive director, AO, BCom Diamonds & Minerals, BSc Hons Geology, 7.
Michael Fitzpatrick a, b, c and f Melbourne, age 61 age 50 Non executive director, BEng, BA Oxon, age 58 21.
Doug Ritchie Chief executive, Energy, LLB, FAusIMM, FAIM, FAICD, age 54 22.
Debra Valentine Group executive, Legal & External Affairs, BA History, JD, age 57 www.
com 25 Summary corporate governance A unified approach Rio Tintos board is ultimately responsible for the success of the Group and upholds the high standards of corporate governance that will enable us to achieve our vision of global sector leadership.
Board balance Board performance Rio Tinto has a diverse board comprising directors drawn from a wide range of professional backgrounds and geographic areas.
The board Key activities during 2010 supports the principle of diversity and its implementation throughout t Monitoring economic developments in order to meet the RioTinto and believes that a board and employee community reflective of challenges of the financial volatility of OECD countries and the the Groups global activities is critical to the success of theorganisation.
opportunities presented by the growing levels of urbanisation and industrialisation in populous parts of the world.
Board effectiveness t Promoting the growth of the business, evidenced in particular The board considers that the executive and non executive directors by: the signature of a joint venture agreement with Chalco for together have the range of skills, knowledge and experience necessary the development and operation of the Simandou iron ore project to enable them to effectively govern the business.
in Guinea: the approval of further funding for expansion of Pilbara iron ore capacity to 283 million tonnes per annum: and New non executive directors undertake formal induction programmes other corporate activity relating to Oyu Tolgoi and Riversdale.
on appointment, and are subsequently provided with training and t Positioning Rio Tinto to meet fiscal and monetary challenges, development opportunities to continue building their knowledge including engagement with the Australian Government in and experience of the Group.
They are also encouraged to make relation to its proposed Resources Super Profits Tax and its site visits to the Groups operations around the world and to meet subsequent replacement with a Minerals Resource Rent Tax.
In 2010, these opportunities included a briefing on t Overseeing the management of the risks facing Rio Tinto, reserves and mineral resource reporting, and directors were also able seeking to influence government and other external to visit the Groups coal operations in Australia.
stakeholders within the mining and natural resource The board has regular discussions with the executives during the sector relating to resource nationalism and socio-economic year on the Groups strategy.
The board also holds an annual two day development.
strategy-setting meeting with the Executive committee which includes t Reviewing each of the product group strategies.
a detailed review of the Groups strategic direction.
The outputs from t Considering and eventually withdrawing from plans to create this annual event help underpin the boards financial planning and the Western Australian iron ore production joint venture with provide direction and focus to the executive team and to the rest of BHP Billiton.
Rio Tintos people through effective allocation of the Groups resources.
t Driving completion of the divestment programme.
The board met regularly in 2010 in order to conduct its business.
Board objectives There were 11 board meetings, of which three were convened at short t Prioritise value adding growth.
The number of meetings is a reflection of the considerable t Support the vision of global sector leadership.
corporate activity considered by the board during the year.
t Regular review and oversight of Group strategy.
How the board members spent their time in 2010 t Review financial and non-financial performance metrics.
Strategy 43% t Oversee succession planning for the board and senior Site visits & familiarisation 25% executives.
Operational & financial t Strive for excellence in the Groups governance processes and performance 22% policies, including risk governance.
Governance 8% t Review and implement actions from board and board committee Board evaluation 2% performance evaluations.
t Deliver year-on-year improvement in safety performance.
Excludes board committee responsibilities and delegated authorities by the board Industry background experience Mining engineering 33% Consumer goods services 21% Business finance 14% General industry 14% Government affairs 14% Law 4% 26 Rio Tinto 2010 Annual review decision making, and is committed to managing all risk in a proactive Board performance evaluation and effective manner through competent risk management.
To Each non executive directors performance is appraised personally support this commitment, risk is analysed in order to inform the by the chairman each year.
The process is managed by the company management decisions taken at all levels within the organisation.
secretary, but overseen by an independent third party in order to promote further transparency and objectivity and to facilitate a The possible risks faced by the Group and the risk management policies challenging and rigorous self-assessment process.
and approach are identified in detail on our website in the Principal risks and uncertainties section of the Annual report and in the Risk A similar process is followed for the board committees, again with the policy and standard in the corporate governance section of the website.
assistance of the external facilitator, agreed with the committee chairman and undertaken by each committee member and regular attendees.
Diversity We believe that diversity improves business outcomes.
We are a global The senior independent director leads a discussion of all the non company, and wherever we operate, and across every part of our executive directors without the chairman in attendance to assess business, we strive to create an inclusive culture in which difference the chairmans performance, taking into consideration the views of is recognised and valued.
By bringing together men and women executive colleagues.
from diverse backgrounds and giving each person the opportunity to Based upon the results of these evaluations, it was concluded that the contribute their skills, experience and perspectives, we believe that we board and its committees are operating effectively and that the individual are best able to develop innovative solutions to challenges and deliver directors performance continues to be effective and demonstrates the sustainable value for Rio Tinto and its stakeholders.
To understand level of commitment expected by Rio Tinto.
what diversity and inclusion means for Rio Tinto, how we are building Risk management an inclusive environment, and what our current focus is, please see the Rio Tintos overriding objective is to maximise the overall long term corporate governance section of the Annual report on our website.
return to shareholders through a strategy of investing in large, long term cost competitive mines and businesses.
The directors recognise that creating shareholder return is the reward for taking and accepting risk.
The board has delegated the oversight of risk management to the Risk management committee and the Executive committee, and reviews and considers the risk profile for the whole business annually.
In addition, the Group fosters a risk aware corporate culture in all Governance structure Board of directors Board of directors Board Audit Nominations Committee on Remuneration Chairmans committee committee social and committee committee committees environmental accountability Chief executive Chief financial officer Disclosure and Investment Executive Management procedures committee committee committee committees Continuous Closure Ore reserves Risk Strategy and disclosure committee steering management finance a committee committee committee committee a The Continuous disclosure committee is an independent management committee.
com 27 Summary remuneration report Executive remuneration policy Rio Tinto operates in global and local markets where it competes for a size and complexity will be an initial comparator group.
Additional limited pool of talented executives.
To support its strategic drivers, the references will be made to a supplementary comparator group, Group needs high quality, committed people.
The executive remuneration composed of a cross section of international industrial organisations strategy, and underlying policy, provides this support by enabling the broadly comparable to Rio Tinto in terms of global reach, revenue, Group to attract and retain talent that will maximise shareholder value.
market capitalisation and complexity for which the Company competes for talent.
Specific comparisons will also be made against other The Remuneration committee has recently conducted a review of international mining companies where appropriate.
the comparator groups which should be used for remuneration benchmarking comparisons.
It has concluded that, for the purposes of Typically, base salaries will be positioned at the median of these assessing the appropriate level of executive remuneration, the FTSE comparator groups, with total remuneration positioned across the 30, excluding financial services companies, and with due regard for full market range according to performance.
A summary of the current remuneration arrangements is set out below: Objective of component Remuneration arrangements Base Salary t Provides the fixed element of the remuneration package t Salary adjustments effective 1 March 2011 fixed t Typically, base salaries will be positioned at the median of t Any increases are determined with reference to underlying Group the identified comparator groups, with total remuneration performance and global economic conditions positioned across the full market range according toperformance Short Term Incentive Plan STIP t Focuses participants on achieving annual performance t Target STIP opportunity 100 per cent for PGCEOs and Group at risk goals, which are based on the Groups KPIs to create executives to 120 per cent of base salary for executive directors sustainable shareholder value t Maximum STIP opportunity of 200 per cent of base salary t 50 per cent of the bonus delivered in cash and 50 per cent t Performance targets include earnings, cash flow, safety and delivered in deferred shares under the Rio Tinto Bonus individual performance objectives Deferral Plan BDP, vests in the December of the third year after the end of performance year to which they relate generally subject to continued employment to ensure ongoing alignment between the executives and shareholders Performance Options Share t Rewards participants for increasing the share price t Market value Performance Options vest based on the TSR Option Plan SOP and delivering superior TSR performance against other performance against the HSBC Global Mining Index at risk companies over a long term horizon t Target and maximum face value of 300 per cent of base salary t Three year performance period to provide long term alignment with shareholders t How performance is generated is as important as what level of performance is delivered.
Therefore, before awards vest, the Committee must also satisfy itself that TSR performance is an appropriate reflection of the underlying performance of the business and can adjust vesting accordingly Performance Shares Performance t Rewards participants for increasing the share price t Conditional share awards vest based on TSR performance relative Share Plan PSP formerly the and delivering superior TSR performance against other to 50 per cent HSBC Global Mining Index: 50 per cent the Mining Companies Comparative Plan companies over a long term horizon Morgan Stanley Capital World Index MSCI at risk t Four year performance period to provide long term t Target award equal to face value of 200 per cent of base salary alignment with shareholders t 1.5 times target award vesting for outperformance of the t As with Performance Options, before vesting the relevant index Committee must also satisfy itself that TSR performance is t Subject to shareholder approval at the 2011 annual general an appropriate reflection of the underlying performance of meeting, from 2011 executives allowed to express a preference the business and can adjust vesting accordingly regarding the mix of the long term incentive opportunity between: t Keeping the current mix of Performance Shares and Performance Options t Receiving their full opportunity in Performance Shares t Overall the expected value of the total compensation opportunity will remain the same.
In order to facilitate this choice it is proposed that the individual grant limits under the PSP be increased Management Share Plan MSP t Enhance the Groups ability to attract and retain key staff t Conditional share awards generally vest based on continued usually time based in an increasingly tight and competitive labour market service with the company until the date of vesting t Members of the Executive committee are not eligible to participate in awards under this plan t Shares to satisfy the awards are purchased in the market and no new shares are issued to satisfy awards Post employment benefits t Provides locally competitive post employment benefits t Post employment benefit arrangements offered fixed for participants in a cost efficient manner 28 Rio Tinto 2010 Annual review Looking ahead Key developments in 2011 Proposed changes to the Performance Share Plan from 2011 The Committee is recommending to shareholders for approval at the 2011 benchmarking comparator groups, namely the FTSE 30, excluding annual general meetings certain technical changes to the PSP rules.
financial services, and additional references to global industrial Those changes ensure that participants are not adversely impacted by the companies that the company competes with for talent.
The conclusion recent change in the tax treatment of options in Australia.
The Committee from this review was that it was considered in the best interests of our currently grants Performance Shares under the PSP with a face value of up shareholders to restore pay to a more competitive market position.
The to 200 per cent of base salary and Performance Options with a face value Committee therefore approved adjustments in base salaries, which take of up to 300 per cent of base salary.
effect on 1March 2011, as shown in the table below.
The Committee believes that Performance Options continue to be The Committee was aware, when making this decision, that these an appropriate incentive tool for senior executives as they create an adjustments were outside the range of a typical annual salary review in alignment with shareholders.
However, following the tax changes in its major markets.
However, it is equally aware that this still leaves the Australia, the Committee intends that, for long term incentive plan remuneration of the majority of executives below market rate within LTIP awards granted from 2011 onwards, executives will be given an a highly competitive global market for talent.
opportunity to indicate their preference regarding the mix of their LTIPs.
The alternative approaches will be to: 2011 2010 2009 Name Base salary Base salary Base salary t retain the current mix of Performance Shares and Performance Executive directors Options, which is determined annually by the Remuneration Tom Albanese 1,030,000 907,500 907,500 committee: or Guy Elliott 720,000 675,500 675,500 t receive their full long term incentive opportunity in Performance Shares.
Sam Walsh A$1,590,000 A$1,475,000 A$1,475,000 To allow Rio Tinto the flexibility to grant participants their full LTIP Other members of executive committee award in the form of Performance Shares where they choose to do so, the Hugo Bague 415,000 360,000 360,000 individual limits under the rules of the PSP will need to be increased to a Preston Chiaro US$770,000 US$725,000 US$725,000 face value award of up to 300 per cent of base salary.
Participants would Bret Clayton US$745,000 US$700,000 US$700,000 have the opportunity to earn up to one and half times this amount based Jacynthe Ct US$885,000 US$825,000 US$825,000 on the extent to which the performance condition is met.
This amount has a been calibrated to be broadly equivalent in expected value terms to the Andrew Harding 420,000 US$650,000 US$650,000 value of the LTIP awards under the current mix of shares and options.
Harry Kenyon-Slaney 420,000 360,000 360,000 Therefore, the increase in face value terms of Performance Shares is not Doug Ritchie A$930,000 A$850,000 A$850,000 on a one-for-one basis to Performance Options.
Debra Valentine US$630,000 US$570,000 US$570,000 The Company will seek shareholder approval at the 2011 annual a Andrew Harding was paid in USD until his relocation to the UK general meetings to increase the individual PSP limits so that annual maximum face value of Performance Shares that may be awarded is increased from 200 per cent to 300 per cent of base salary.
Executives service contracts The executives have service contracts that can be terminated by either Base salary in 2011 party with 12 months notice in writing, or immediately by paying the The Committee has completed a comprehensive review of the base salary only in lieu of any unexpired notice.
Debra Valentines remuneration levels of the chief executive, executive directors, service contract can be terminated by either party with six months Product group chief executives PGCEOs and Group executives notice in writing.
If the termination is a result of a redundancy, the terms of the relevant This review took into account: policy would apply in the same way as for other local employees.
t Rio Tintos strong performance in 2010 and the Groups growth In the case of dismissal for cause, the Company can terminate ambitions for the future: employment without notice and without payment of any salary or t an assessment of individual performance: compensation in lieu of notice.
The annual bonus and outstanding t the motivation of people with critical skills, at a time of a highly awards under the LTIP are forfeited.
STIP and LTIP rules cover any competitive market for talent in the industry: entitlements that participants may have upon termination.
t the retention of individuals within the Groups succession planning Contractual entitlements to severance are not triggered by a change processes who are vital to the creation of long term shareholder of control.
All of the Companys share plans contain provisions value: and relating to a change of control.
Outstanding deferred shares would t that salaries have remained at March 2008 levels for the chief normally vest in full and outstanding performance shares and executive and members of the Executive committee.
performance options would normally vest and become exercisable These factors were viewed in light of the results of a full, on a change of control on a pro rata basis, subject to the satisfaction independent review of base salary and total compensation, which of any performance conditions at that time.
was commissioned by the Committee to enable it to make fully informed decisions around pay.
This made reference to the Companys www.
com 29 Summary remuneration report continued Summary remuneration tables Summary of remuneration received based on theoretical accounting values, most notably LTIP arrangements, and converted to USD please refer to the full Remuneration report for details on the actual remuneration received.
The amounts have been converted using the relevant 2010 average exchange rates of 1 US$1.5459, A$1 US$0.9178, 1 US$1.3262 and C$1 US$0.9704.
The annual cash bonus payable under the STIP has been converted using the relevant 2010 year end exchange rates of 1 US$1.5660, A$1 US$0.9825 and C$1 US$0.9886.
b Cash bonus relates to the cash portion of the STIP.
For Jacynthe Ct, it also includes a special one-off bonus.
c Other cash based benefits include cash in lieu of a car and fuel.
For Hugo Bague, Harry Kenyon-Slaney and Andrew Harding, it includes a cash supplement equal to 20 per cent of the amount by which their Contributory Salary exceeds the Earning Cap as defined in the Rio Tinto Pension Fund.
For Andrew Harding, it also includes a Long Service Leave payment for his service in Australia.
d Non monetary benefits for executives include healthcare, the provision of a car, professional advice and secondment costs comprising housing, tax equalisation and relocation payments made to and on behalf of executives living outside their home country.
e The value of share based awards has been determined in accordance with the recognition and measurement requirements of IFRS2 Share - based Payment.
The fair value of awards granted under the SOP, the Management Share Plan MSP, the BDP and the Share Savings Plan SSP have been calculated at their dates of grant using an independent lattice based option valuation model provided by external consultants, Lane Clark and Peacock LLP.
Some of these awards will be settled in cash, rather than the transfer of shares, and so the fair value of these cash settled awards has been calculated based on Rio Tintos share price at 31 December 2010.
With effect from 2010, the Groups policy for settling awards granted under the Performance Share Plan the PSP changed.
For settlement of all future awards under this plan, participants will be assigned shares and offered a third party facility to realise these shares for cash and or to meet any tax liabilities.
Accordingly, the fair values of the awards granted prior to this change were re-measured at 1 July 2010 and from that date treated as equity-settled awards.
This re-measurement was calculated using a Monte Carlo valuation model based on the market price of shares and their relative TSR performance at 30 June 2010.
The fair value of awards granted after July 2010 is measured at date of grant.
Further details of the valuation methods and assumptions used for these awards are included in note 49 Share Based Payments in the 2010 Full financial statements.
The fair value of other share based awards is measured at the purchase cost of the shares from the market.
The non executive directors do not participate in the long term incentive share schemes.
f The costs shown for defined benefit pension plans and post retirement medical benefits are the service costs attributable to the individual, calculated in accordance with IAS19.
The cost for defined contribution plan is the amount contributed in the year by the Company.
For Andrew Harding, the 2009 cost has been restated to remove US$2,374 which were his own contributions.
For Tom Albanese, the 2009 cost has been restated as an incorrect methodology was used in 2008 and 2009 to value future salary increases to retirement.
The restated figure for 2008 is US$1,702,000.
The figure previously disclosed in 2008 was US$1,443,000.
Non executive directors remuneration Performance graph TSR performance of the Group against the HSBC Global Mining Index Short term benefits Other cash Non and the MSCI over the past five years based monetary Total a b c d Stated in US$000 Fees benefits benefits remuneration TSR US$ Rio Tinto Group vs the HSBC Global Mining and MSCI World indices Chairman Total return basis index 2005 100 Jan du Plessis 2010 1,082 243 1,325 Rio Tinto DLC Non executive directors HSBC Index MSCI World Index Robert Brown 2010 98 44 142 Sir David Clementi 2010 74 5 79 300 Vivienne Cox 2010 144 12 156 Sir Rod Eddington 2010 120 33 153 Micheal Fitzpatrick 2010 145 22 167 200 Yves Fortier 2010 131 41 172 Ann Godbehere 2010 144 23 167 Richard Goodmanson 2010 166 66 232 100 Andrew Gould 2010 197 197 Lord Kerr 2010 178 23 201 David Mayhew 2010 58 6 64 Paul Tellier 2010 158 59 217 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 a The total remuneration is reported in US dollars.
The amounts have been converted using the relevant 2010 average exchange rates of 1 US$1.5459 and A$1 US$0.9178.
b The Other cash based benefits for non executive directors comprise overseas of meeting allowances.
c Non monetary benefits include for Jan du Plessis the value of company provided transport and medical insurance premiums.
For Sir David Clementi and David Mayhew, it includes the value of a retirement gift.
Rio Tinto plc provides accident cover for non executive directors: the total premium paid in 2010 was US$5,092.
d Represents short term benefits total required under the UK Companies Act 2006 and total remuneration under Australian Corporations Act 2001 and applicable accounting standards.
30 Rio Tinto 2010 Annual review Summary financial statements These Summary financial statements have been extracted from the Full financial statements, which have been reported on by the auditors, and which will be filed with the United Kingdom Registrar of Companies and the Australian Securities and Investments Commission.
The auditors report of the Full financial statements is unqualified and does not contain a statement under either S498 2 or S498 3 of the UK Companies Act 2006.
The Summary financial statements do not contain sufficient information to allow as full an understanding of the results and affairs of the Group and parent companies as is provided in the Full financial statements.
Copies of the 2010 Annual report and Full financial statements may be obtained from the addresses shown on the outside back cover.
Summary income statement Years ended 31 December 2010 2009 US$m US$m Gross sales revenue including share of equity accounted units 60,323 44,036 Continuing operations Consolidated sales revenue 56,576 41,825 Net operating costs excluding items shown separately 36,667 33,818 Impairment charges less reversals 982 1,573 Gain on consolidation and on disposal of interests in businesses 839 692 Exploration and evaluation costs 594 514 Profit on disposal of interests in undeveloped projects 522 894 Operating profit 19,694 7,506 Share of profit after tax of equity accounted units 1,101 786 Profit before finance items and taxation 20,795 8,292 Finance items 218 432 Profit before taxation 20,577 7,860 Taxation 5,296 2,076 Profit from continuing operations 15,281 5,784 Loss after tax from discontinued operations 97 449 Profit for the year 15,184 5,335 attributable to non-controlling interests 860 463 attributable to owners of Rio Tinto Net earnings 14,324 4,872 Basic earnings loss per share Profit from continuing operations 735.4c 301.7c Loss from discontinued operations 4.9c 25.5c Profit for the year 730.5c 276.2c Diluted earnings loss per share Profit from continuing operations 731.1c 300.7c Loss from discontinued operations 4.9c 25.4c Profit for the year 726.2c 275.3c Dividends paid during the year US$m 1,754 876 Dividends per share: paid during the year 90.0c 55.6c Dividends per share: declared in respect of the year 108.0c 45.0c www.
com 31 Summary financial statements continued Summary statement of comprehensive income Years ended 31 December 2010 2009 Attributable Attributable to owners of Non-controlling to owners of Non-controlling Rio Tinto interests Rio Tinto interests Total Total US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m Profit after tax for the year 14,324 860 15,184 4,872 463 5,335 Other comprehensive income Currency translation adjustments 1,236 274 1,510 3,719 429 4,148 Cash flow hedge fair value losses gains 25 27 2 194 74 268 Gains on available for sale securities 203 2 205 354 1 355 Actuarial losses on post retirement benefit plans 765 17 782 847 3 844 Share of other comprehensive income of equity accounted units, net of tax 206 206 368 368 Tax relating to components of other comprehensive income 257 4 253 297 24 321 Other comprehensive income for the year, net of tax 1,112 282 1,394 3,697 383 4,080 Total comprehensive income for the year 15,436 1,142 16,578 8,569 846 9,415 Summary cash flow statement Years ended 31 December 2010 2009 US$m US$m Cash flow from consolidated operations 22,126 13,224 Dividends from equity accounted units 1,404 610 Cash flows from operations 23,530 13,834 Net interest paid 696 1,136 Dividends paid to holders of non-controlling interests in subsidiaries 457 410 Tax paid 4,100 3,076 Net cash generated from operating activities 18,277 9,212 Acquisitions of subsidiaries, joint ventures & associates 907 396 Disposals of subsidiaries, joint ventures & associates, and assets held for sale 3,800 2,424 Purchase of property, plant & equipment and intangible assets 4,591 5,388 Other investing activities 13 3 Cash used in investing activities 1,711 3,357 Cash flow before financing activities 16,566 5,855 Equity dividends paid to owners of Rio Tinto 1,754 876 Other financing activities 8,856 1,587 Cash used in financing activities 10,610 2,463 Effects of exchange rates on cash and cash equivalents 139 284 Net increase in cash and cash equivalents 5,817 3,108 Opening cash and cash equivalents less overdrafts 4,142 1,034 Closing cash and cash equivalents less overdrafts 9,959 4,142 32 Rio Tinto 2010 Annual review Summary statement of financial position At 31 December 2010 2009 US$m US$m Non-current assets Goodwill 15,296 14,268 Intangible assets 5,700 5,730 Property, plant and equipment 56,024 45,803 Investments in equity accounted units 6,503 6,735 Loans to equity accounted units 227 170 Inventories 375 284 Trade and other receivables 1,826 1,375 Deferred tax assets 1,863 2,231 Tax recoverable 89 85 Other financial assets 1,334 841 89,237 77,522 Current assets Inventories 4,756 4,889 Trade and other receivables 5,582 4,447 Loans to equity accounted units 110 168 Tax recoverable 542 501 Other financial assets 521 694 Cash and cash equivalents 9,948 4,233 21,459 14,932 Assets of disposal groups held for sale 1,706 4,782 Total assets 112,402 97,236 Current liabilities Bank overdrafts repayable on demand 7 91 Borrowings 1,057 756 Trade and other payables 6,576 5,759 Other financial liabilities 265 412 Tax payable 2,773 1,329 Provisions 1,117 1,182 11,795 9,529 Non-current liabilities Borrowings 13,277 22,155 Trade and other payables 879 591 Other financial liabilities 416 601 Tax payable 417 299 Deferred tax liabilities 5,175 4,304 Provision for post retirement benefits 4,339 4,993 Other provisions 9,023 7,519 33,526 40,462 Liabilities of disposal groups held for sale 1,807 1,320 Total liabilities 47,128 51,311 Net assets 65,274 45,925 Capital and reserves Share capital 5,847 5,170 Reserves 52,486 38,661 Equity attributable to owners of Rio Tinto 58,333 43,831 Attributable to non-controlling interest 6,941 2,094 Total equity 65,274 45,925 www.
com 33 Summary financial information by business unit At 31 December This summary financial information by business unit section has been extracted from the full financial statements contained within the 2010 Annual report.
Generally, business units are allocated to product groups based on their primary product.
The Energy group includes both coal and uranium businesses.
The Diamonds & Minerals product group includes businesses with products such as borates, talc and titanium dioxide feedstock together with diamonds operations.
The Copper group includes certain gold operations in addition to copper.
The Aluminium group excludes Alcan Engineered Products which is included in Other Operations and Alcan Packaging which is included in Net assets held for sale.
a Gross sales revenue includes 100 per cent of subsidiaries sales revenue and the Groups share of the sales revenue of equity accounted units after adjusting for sales to subsidiaries.
b EBITDA of subsidiaries and the Groups share of EBITDA relating to equity accounted units represents profit before: tax, net finance items, depreciation and amortisation.
Underlying EBITDA excludes the same items that are excluded from Underlying earnings.
c Net earnings represent profit after tax for the year attributable to the owners of the Rio Tinto Group.
Earnings of subsidiaries and equity accounted units are stated before finance items but after the amortisation of discount related to provisions.
Earnings attributed to business units do not include amounts that are excluded in arriving at Underlying earnings.
d Capital expenditure comprises the net cash outflow on purchases less disposals of property, plant and equipment, capitalised evaluation costs and purchases less disposals of other intangible assets.
The details provided include 100 per cent of subsidiaries capital expenditure and Rio Tintos share of the capital expenditure of equity accounted units.
Amounts relating to equity accounted units not specifically funded by Rio Tinto are deducted before arriving at total capital expenditure for the Group.
e Operating assets of subsidiaries comprise net assets excluding post retirement assets and liabilities, net of tax, and are before deducting net debt.
Operating assets are less non-controlling interests, which are calculated by reference to the net assets of the relevant companies ie net of such companies debt.
34 Rio Tinto 2010 Annual review Independent auditors statement to the members of Rio Tinto plc and Rio Tinto Limited We have examined the Summary financial statements of the Rio Tinto Group which comprise the Summary income statement, Summary statement of comprehensive income, Summary cash flow statement, Summary statement of financial position, Summary financial information by business unit and the Executives remuneration information on pages 28 to 30, within the accompanying 2010 Annual review the Summary financial information.
Respective responsibilities of directors and auditors The directors are responsible for preparing the 2010 Annual review in accordance with applicable law.
Our responsibility is to report to you our opinion on the consistency of the Summary financial information within the 2010 Annual review with the 2010 Annual report and its compliance with the relevant requirements of Section 428 of the United Kingdom Companies Act 2006 and Section 314 of the Australian Corporations Act 2001 as amended by the Australian Securities and Investments Commission order dated 22 December 2010, and the regulations made thereunder.
We also read the other information contained in the 2010 Annual review and consider the implications for our statement if we become aware of any apparent misstatements or material inconsistencies with the Summary financial information.
The other information comprises the items on pages 1 to 27.
This statement, including the opinion, has been prepared for and only for each companys members as a body in accordance with Section 428 of the United Kingdom Companies Act 2006 in respect of Rio Tinto plc and Section 314 of the Australian Corporations Act 2001 as amended by the Australian Securities and Investments Commission order dated 22 December 2010 in respect of Rio Tinto Limited and for no other purpose.
We do not, in giving this opinion, accept or assume responsibility for any other purpose or to any other person to whom this statement is shown or into whose hands it may come save where expressly agreed by our prior consent in writing.
Basis of opinion We conducted our work in accordance with Bulletin 2008 3 issued by the Auditing Practices Board for use in the United Kingdom.
Our report on the Rio Tinto Groups 2010 Annual report describes the basis of our audit opinions on those financial statements, the Directors report and the Remuneration report.
Opinion In our opinion the Summary financial information is consistent with the 2010 Annual report of the Rio Tinto Group for the year ended 31 December 2010 and comply with the applicable requirements of Section 428 of the United Kingdom Companies Act 2006 and Section 314 of the Australian Corporations Act 2001 as amended by the Australian Securities and Investments Commission order dated 22 December 2010, and the regulations made thereunder.
 LLP  Chartered Accountants and Registered Auditors Chartered Accountants London Robert Hubbard 4 March 2011 Partner In respect of the members of Brisbane Rio Tinto plc 4 March 2011 In respect of the members of Rio Tinto Limited Liability limited by a scheme approved under Professional Standards Legislation www.
com 35 Financial calendar 2011 18 January Fourth quarter 2010 operations review 10 February Announcement of results for 2010 2 March Rio Tinto plc and Rio Tinto Limited shares and Rio Tinto plc ADRs quoted ex-dividend for 2010 final dividend 4 March Record date for 2010 final dividend for Rio Tinto plc shares and ADRs 8 March Record date for 2010 final dividend for Rio Tinto Limited shares 9 March Plan notice date for election under the dividend reinvestment plan for the 2010 final dividend for Rio Tinto Limited shares and dividend currency conversion date Rio Tinto Limited shareholders electing to receive pounds sterling 10 March Plan notice date for election under the dividend reinvestment plan for the 2010 final dividend for Rio Tinto plc shares and dividend currency conversion date Rio Tinto plc shareholders electing to receive Australian dollars 24 March Dividend currency conversion date Rio Tinto plc holders electing to receive Australian dollars and Rio Tinto Limited holders electing to receive pounds sterling 31 March Payment date for 2010 final dividend to holders of ordinary shares and ADRs 13 April First quarter 2011 operations review 14 April Annual general meeting for Rio Tinto plc 5 May Annual general meeting for Rio Tinto Limited 14 July Second quarter 2011 operations review 4 August Announcement of half year results for 2011 10 August Rio Tinto plc and Rio Tinto Limited shares and Rio Tinto plc ADRs quoted ex-dividend for 2011 interim dividend 12 August Record date for 2011 interim dividend for Rio Tinto plc shares and ADRs 16 August Record date for 2011 interim dividend for Rio Tinto Limited shares 17 August Plan notice date for election under the dividend reinvestment plan for the 2011 interim dividend 1 September Dividend currency conversion date Rio Tinto plc holders electing to receive Australian dollars and Rio Tinto Limited holders electing to receive pounds sterling 8 September Payment date for 2011 interim dividend to holders of ordinary shares 9 September Payment date for 2011 interim dividend to holders of Rio Tinto plc ADRs 13 October Third quarter 2011 operations review 2012 January Fourth quarter 2011 operations review February Announcement of results for 2011 Cautionary statement about forward looking statements This document contains certain forward looking statements with respect to the financial condition, results of operations and business of the Rio Tinto Group.
The words intend, aim, project, anticipate, estimate, plan, believes, expects, may, should, will, or similar expressions, commonly identify such forward looking statements.
Examples of forward looking statements in this Annual review include those regarding estimated ore reserves, anticipated production or construction dates, costs, outputs and productive lives of assets or similar factors.
Forward looking statements involve known and unknown risks, uncertainties, assumptions and other factors set forth in this document that are beyond the Groups control.
For example, future ore reserves will be based in part on market prices that may vary significantly from current levels.
These may materially affect the timing and feasibility of particular developments.
Other factors include the ability to produce and transport products profitably, demand for our products, the effect of foreign currency exchange rates on market prices and operating costs, and activities by governmental authorities, such as changes in taxation or regulation, and political uncertainty.
In light of these risks, uncertainties and assumptions, actual results could be materially different from projected future results expressed or implied by these forward looking statements which speak only as to the date of this report.
Except as required by applicable regulations or by law, the Group does not undertake any obligation to publicly update or revise any forward looking statements, whether as a result of new information or future events.
The Group cannot guarantee that its forward looking statements will not differ materially from actual results.
36 Rio Tinto 2010 Annual review Useful information and contacts Registered offices Rio Tinto Limited Rio Tinto plc Computershare Investor Services Pty Limited GPO Box 2975 2 Eastbourne Terrace Melbourne London Victoria 3001 W2 6LG Registered in England No.
com 120 Collins Street Investor Centre Melbourne To find out more about Investor Centre go to www.
com Victoria 3000 ACN 96 004 458 404 Former Alcan Inc. Shareholders Telephone: 61 0 3 9283 3333 Computershare Investor Services Inc. Facsimile: 61 0 3 9283 3707 9th Floor Website: www.
com 100 University Avenue Toronto Rio Tintos agent in the US is Shannon Crompton, Ontario who may be contacted at M5J 2Y1 Rio Tinto Services Inc. Canada 80 State Street Albany Telephone: 1 514 982 7555 New York, 12207-2543 North American residents only, toll free 1 866 624 1341 Shareholders Website: www.
com Please contact the respective registrar if you have any queries about your shareholding.
This document is printed on Amadeus Offset 50, a paper containing ADR administrator 50% post consumer recycled fibre and 50% virgin fibre sourced from JPMorgan Chase & Co well managed, sustainable, FSC certified forests.
The pulp used in PO Box 64504 this product is bleached using an elemental chlorine free ECF St. Paul, MN 55164-0504 process.
100% of the inks used are vegetable oil based, 95% of press Telephone: 1 651 453 2128 chemicals are recycled for further use and on average 99% of any US residents only toll free general: waste associated with this production will be recycled.
800 990 1135 US residents only toll free Global invest direct: Printed by Park Communications.
Park is an EMAS certified 800 428 4237 CarbonNeutral Company and its Environmental Management Website: www.
com shareholder System is certified to ISO14001.
com Design and production by Black Sun Plc www.
com 37 Go online for more information www.
com annualreport2010 What you can find online Find out more about our business and performance online t 2010 Annual report t Webcast of our 2010 results t Full sustainable development reporting t Register for e-communications
