Reconciliation with Australian Accounting Standards The financial statements of Rio Tinto Group the Group have been prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS as adopted by the European Union EU IFRS, which differs in certain respects from the version of IFRS that is applicable in Australia referred to as Australian Accounting Standards AAS.
Prior to 1 January 2004, the Groups financial statements were prepared in accordance with United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice UK GAAP.
Under EU IFRS, goodwill on acquisitions prior to 1998 which was eliminated directly against equity in the Groups UK GAAP financial statements, has not been reinstated.
This was permitted under the rules governing the transition to EU IFRS set out in IFRS 1.
The equivalent Australian Standard, AASB 1, does not provide for the netting of goodwill against equity.
As a consequence, shareholders funds under AAS include the residual of such goodwill, which amounted to US$584 million at 31 December 2010 2009: US$597 million: 2008: US$752 million.
Save for the exception described above, the Groups financial statements drawn up in accordance with EU IFRS are consistent with the requirements of AAS.
Outline of dual listed companies structure and basis of financial statements The Rio Tinto Group These are the financial statements of the Group formed through the merger of economic interests of Rio Tinto plc and Rio Tinto Limited Merger, and presented by both Rio Tinto plc and Rio Tinto Limited as their consolidated accounts in accordance with both United Kingdom and Australian legislation and regulations.
Merger terms On 21 December 1995, Rio Tinto plc and Rio Tinto Limited, which are listed respectively on Stock Exchanges in the United Kingdom and Australia, entered into a dual listed companies DLC merger.
This was effected by contractual arrangements between the companies and amendments to Rio Tinto plcs Memorandum and Articles of Association and Rio Tinto Limiteds constitution.
As a result, Rio Tinto plc and Rio Tinto Limited and their respective groups operate together as a single economic enterprise, with neither assuming a dominant role.
In particular, the arrangements: confer upon the shareholders of Rio Tinto plc and Rio Tinto Limited a common economic interest in both groups: provide for common boards of directors and a unified management structure: provide for equalised dividends and capital distributions: and provide for the shareholders of Rio Tinto plc and Rio Tinto Limited to take key decisions, including the election of directors, through an electoral procedure in which the public shareholders of the two companies effectively vote on a joint basis.
The merger involved no change in the legal ownership of any assets of Rio Tinto plc or Rio Tinto Limited, nor any change in the ownership of any existing shares or securities of Rio Tinto plc or Rio Tinto Limited, nor the issue of any shares, securities or payment by way of consideration, save for the issue by each company of one special voting share to a trustee company which provides the joint electoral procedure for public shareholders.
During 2002, each of the parent companies issued a DLC Dividend Share to facilitate the efficient management of funds within the DLC structure.
Accounting standards The financial statements have been drawn up in accordance with EU IFRS.
The Merger was accounted for as a merger under UK GAAP.
As permitted under the rules governing the transition to EU IFRS, which are set out in IFRS 1, the Group did not restate business combinations that occurred before the transition date of 1 January 2004.
As a result, the DLC merger of economic interests described above continues to be accounted for as a merger under EU IFRS.
The main consequence of adopting merger rather than acquisition accounting is that the statement of financial position of the merged Group includes the assets and liabilities of Rio Tinto plc and Rio Tinto Limited at their carrying values prior to the merger, subject to adjustments to achieve uniformity of accounting policies, rather than at their fair values at the date of the merger.
For accounting purposes, Rio Tinto plc and Rio Tinto Limited are viewed as a single public parent company with their respective public shareholders being the shareholders in that single company.
As a result the amounts attributable to both Rio Tinto plc and Rio Tinto Limited public shareholders are included in the amounts attributed to owners of Rio Tinto on the statement of financial position, income statement and statement of comprehensive income.
Australian Corporations Act The financial statements are drawn up in accordance with an order, under section 340 of the Australian Corporations Act 2001, issued by the Australian Securities and Investments Commission ASIC on 22 December 2010.
The main provisions of the order are that the financial statements are prepared in accordance with IFRS and include a reconciliation from EU IFRS to the Australian Accounting Standards see above.
For further details of the ASIC Class Order relief, see page 254.
